I wish to direct a question to the Postmaster-General. Has the Minister given recent consideration, and, if so, what is his attitude, to the proposal that the Postmaster-General's Department, as a business undertaking, should be placed on a business footing by converting it to a corporation, thereby removing its staff from Public Service Board control, keeping in mind that this would remove also a great deal of the industrial unrest in that Department? 
1 ask a question of the Treasurer. Is it a fact that resident companies of Norfolk Island enjoy lower taxation than do resident companies of Australia? Is it also a fact that resident companies of the mainland of Australia are using this set of circumstances to avoid taxation? If this is so, what action is the Minister contemplating to overcome this situation? 
As this is the first time that I have spoken in this chamber since I returned to the Parliament I would like to pay respect to the person after whom my electorate was named. I refer to the late Ben Chifley who was a Prime Minister of this country. I believe that it is very fitting that a monument should be made by naming the electorate after such a very great Australian and a very great Labor leader. Chif was a man who combined all the very essential human qualities of dignity, warmth, great capacity and great strength with toughness. He forged his way up from the bottom by sheer native ability. He represented a part of the electorate that I now represent. In those days the electorate of Macquarie roamed over the hills which the honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Luchetti)  now represents, down to the areas of Mount Druitt and Rooty Hill which are now parts of the new electorate of Chifley. 
Chif understood the problems of the great mass of ordinary Australian people, the type of people who go to make up my electorate and the people who are the future of this country. I say once again that it is very fitting that the electorate should have been named after him. I am very proud to represent an electorate bearing that name. 
I would like first of all to make a few comments on what was said by the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman).  I think most people are aware that I would not be, by any stretch of the imagination, a friend of the Communists. I have been assistant secretary of the New South Wales Branch of the Australian Labor Party for some years. I think I would know a little more about the subject than the honourable member for Deakin. I can only say that the tendency towards extreme bitterness, the tendency not to have enough balance and to attack this problem in the way the honourable member attacked it can only go to help the very people he says he wishes to defeat. We must remember that Australia has to live on the edge of Asia for many hundreds of years to come. It is very important that we do not set ourselves up too much as the white policemen of Asia, because that is the very type of thing which will play right into the hands of the Communist Party. When honourable members opposite look at the policies which they espouse they should remember that this is not all just black and white. The problem of Communism has to be tackled very carefully, with considerable balance and without too much bitterness, because that would only breed the very thing they are trying to defeat. 
I wish to speak today mainly in support of the underprivileged and disadvantaged sections of our community. These sections are very small in terms of numbers. They have little voting power and accordingly their influence and ability to overcome and rectify the problems with which they are faced are all the harder. We live today in an affluent society but there are many sections of the community which are not enjoying affluence by any stretch of the imagination. I want to refer firstly to the position of the deserted wife. I would like the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  to have a look at some of the policies which are being carried out under his authority as the ministerial head of the Department. First of all there is the fact that before a deserted wife can receive assistance from the Commonwealth she has to be deserted for a period of 6 months. Admittedly, she gets a small allowance because of the good offices of the State governments. Until quite recently the Victorian Government did not give her anything at all. The State governments do give something, but before she can receive any assistance from the Commonwealth Government she must be deserted for a period of 6 months. That is the period, just after she has been deserted, when she is probably going through more turmoil than she will go through for the rest of her life. Surely that problem can be removed. If it is good enough for the State governments to give some assistance immediately - which is much less, admittedly, than the Commonwealth finally gives - then it is good enough for the Commonwealth to do it. 
The same thing applies with maintenance orders. Before a deserted wife can receive a deserted wife's pension she must have taken out a maintenance order against her husband. Why? I know the argument is used that this is to discourage the husband from leaving his wife, but the facts of life are that this has happened before the necessary action to obtain a maintenance order has been carried out. So it does not act in any way as a restraint upon the husband. But it does have the effect that in many instances it removes the last opportunity for the reconciliation of the couple. The chances of reconciliation are there until such time as the wife takes legal action against her husband. From that time on the possibility of bringing them together is completely removed. In any event, let us face reality. The facts are that maintenance orders are not policed effectively. The police departments do very little towards policing maintenance orders. In other words it is purely a matter of form but is insisted upon by the Commonwealth Government. Furthermore, there is no allowance given for children born out of marriage. I think we should look at this position from the point of view that it is not the fault of the children themselves and for that reason they should not be discriminated against. 
I would also like to deal with the question of civilian widows, another section of the community, once again very small and once again with very little influence, but whose plight is all the more difficult as a result of this because there is not the same tendency for governments to correct the injustices which exist. I recall that when I was previously a member of the House, 1 drew attention to the disparity between a war widow's pension and a civilian widow's pension. I am a returned serviceman but I cannot for the life of me understand why there should be these two grades as far as widows are concerned. 
If a woman loses her husband as a result of war injuries or sickness caused by his war service and she has three children she receives $36.40 per week. On the other hand, if a woman's husband dies at 35 or 40 years of age and leaves her with three children she gets $26.50 per week. This is in a society and in an economy where the average weekly earnings as at the September 1969 quarter was $72.80 per week. A civilian widow receives $26.50 when the average weekly earning is $72.80. Why is there this dual basis of assessing the wants and the needs of widows? One, a war widow, still gets too small a pension but she at least gets more than the other widow - $10 per week more compared to what is paid to the civilian widow. 
The same thing, of course, applies in respect of invalid pensioners - people invalided at a time in life when they have responsibilities of bringing up and educating their family. But once again they cannot get anything like the pension, as a result of that invalidity, that they would get if they were invalided as a result of war service. Say we wanted to increase civilian widow's pensions by $10 per week - to bring them up in one go to the pension paid to war widows. There were 38,038 Class A widow pensioners at 30th June last year and accordingly the cost of this increase would be a matter of $20m. Surely something should be done at this stage to try to correct this injustice because by doing so at least we would satisfy a national conscience which is crying out aloud at the problems of the civilion widow, the deserted wife and the invalid pensioner. 
Another issue that offends against the national conscience is housing for aged persons. Today we live in a society where the life expectancy is increasing, where the wife works and the husband works. It is a different type of society from that which existed in the early part of the century where elderly people naturally came to the homes of their children and were looked after. Yet, we find that there is an increasing problem in this changing society. Whilst I realise that this Parliament has started to move in these directions, what has been done is only a drop in the bucket as it were, compared with the problem which does exist. 
In New South Wales alone the number of eligible applications to the New South Wales Housing Commission by elderly single persons for accommodation was 5,256 as at 30th June 1968 and for elderly couples was 1,245 at the same date. The average waiting time for the former was  4i  years and for the latter 3i years. Let us face reality - that is not a true figure. When people who come to my office about this problem are told what the waiting list is, they do not even bother to make an application to the Housing Commission. So the figures I have given are not even realistic ones. Surely the time has come when the Commonwealth must move in to assist people in this category. 
The same problem applies in respect of geriatrics because once again, for exactly the same reasons - because of the changing society, because of the economy we live in and which is proposed, advocated and assisted by this Government - the wife and husband both work and cannot look after their elderly sick parents who require assistance. 
That is correct. Halt the time they are put into places where they live in misery for the rest of their lives. Once again I know that the Parliament has started to realise the position - to have a conscience - and to give some assistance in this respect. But the big requirement today is for more organisations, such as the Governor Phillip Special Hospital at Penrith, to be given assistance. This hospital is run by the State Government and not by a charitable organisation. The provision of such hospitals is a right and they should not be supported by charity; they should not be left to those private organisations which can make a profit out of misery. This is the type of proposal that should be brought forward and in respect of which assistance should be given by this Parliament to the States to enable them to establish geriatric functions and hospitals for our aged people. 
I would like to quote from the Melbourne 'Age' of 6th December 1968 which pointed out that there was a 1,500 bed shortage in Victorian hospitals for aged people and that the waiting list had increased by 300% between 1960 and 1968. The 'Age' of 9th October 1968 pointed out that at 30th June 1968 State homes for the aged had a capacity of 3,780 beds and the waiting list was 4,649 - many more than the number of beds available. The same thing applies in respect of handicapped children, another small section of the community. It does not have much voting power or much influence but it requires help. These things must challenge the conscience of this Parliament. The Government is entering this field once again, but its contribution is only a drop in the bucket. There should be a provision for financial aid to the States to ensure that facilities are made available for our disadvantaged children. 
Another aspect of social services legislation which does need correction - we have another dual type of responsibility here - is the wife's allowance. An aged pensioner is not paid a wife's allowance if she is under the age of 60 unless she and her husband have at least one child under 16 in their care, or the husband is incapacitated or is 70 years of age and not fully employed. Not only does she not receive another pension; she does not even receive a wife's allowance. If the wife of an invalid pensioner is, say, 59 or 55 he receives a pension but she does not. She receives only a wife's allowance. Honourable members should look at the difference. The combined marriage rate pension is $26.50 whereas a pension for one person plus a wife's allowance is $22. In other words, it they receive only a pension plus a wife's allowance they lose $4.50 as compared with the couple who have both reached the pensionable age. 
I quite agree. I suggest that this is one aspect of the social services legislation which today needs review. In the time available I would like to touch on the very important issue of assistance to the perimeter areas of our great cities. The electorate of Chifley is one. These are areas where private development and private investment - and, for that matter, public investment such as Housing Commission projects and the like - are fast outstripping the services available. I would like some honourable members to go to the Mount Druitt housing settlement and have a look at the situation there where there are no playing fields and no facilities for the children. In two of the suburbs the average number of children to each house is four. Young people are growing up into teenagers. There are no halls for dances or enjoyment and there are no playing fields, and this state of affairs is setting up a decided problem for the parents in looking after these children. 
It is very important that this Parliament should allocate funds to the States directly earmarked for the development of the outer perimeter areas of the great cities; for the provision of the extra educational facilities required and the extra forms of education required; for the provision of the necessary local government finance for roads, footpaths, playing fields, public halls and the rest; and for the provision of the necessary transport facilities. The main western line simply will not be able to handle the traffic of people going to and from work from the areas running from Penrith in the electorate of Macquarie into Mount Druitt and St Marys in my area. There is also a need for the provision of sewerage, a very great necessity but sadly deficient in these areas. 
I would like to draw attention also to the dangers of overseas investment and in particular to the question of portfolio investment. Over the last 10 years there has been an induction - this does not include the latest portfolio investment as a result of the mining share rush recently - of portfolio investment of an amount of SI, 560m. As at December 1969 our overseas funds stood at S 1,143m. That figure does not take into account Australian branches and Australian subsidies of overseas companies. This Government is overcoming its balance of payments difficulties by the induction of this capital, this portfolio investment. The main warning I wish to give here is that this could be withdrawn overnight because of some sort of scare or some other set of circumstances, political or economic, and that withdrawal could place this country, as far as our reserves are concerned, virtually in a position of bankruptcy. I think it is well and truly time that the Treasury reconsidered its policies in this matter because they could have a very decisive effect upon the future stability of Australia. 
Finally, I once again make an appeal to this Parliament to have a look at the situation of those underprivileged sections of our community, small in numbers, who have such very great problems; those underprivileged sections of the community which do not have the influence because they do not have the voting power but whose problems nevertheless are far greater than those of most of the rest of the people living in this very affluent society. Until these things are looked at the conscience of this country and the conscience of this Parliament cannot be satisfied. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
As the Government has named the first diesel locomotive for the Indian-Pacific train after the Right Honourable John Grey Gorton, current Prime Minister of Australia, will he ensure that a similar tribute is paid to a former great Prime Minister and also a locomotive engineman, the late Right Honourable Joseph Benedict Chifley. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to deal tonight with 2 issues. The first is the question of the location of an airport to replace Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport. 
I know all honourable members are interested in this matter. 
It will not be in Chifley. I think I may know where it is to be located. It is time that the Government was a little frank with the House and advised us what is happening. I know that there is a Select Committee on Aircraft Noise. I know a lot of investigations are supposed to be taking place. But it so happens that as late as last August a preliminary survey was conducted in the LondonderryRichmond region by the Department of the Interior at the request of the Department of Civil Aviation. It was a preliminary survey for an airfield. There is a Royal Australian Air Force base at Richmond at the present time yet I ask honourable members to keep in mind that the survey was requested not by the RAAF but by the Department of Civil Aviation. 
Those honourable members who know the base at Richmond are aware that it has an east west runway. The proposal, according to these very strong rumours which are floating around, is that another strip will be constructed, a north south strip, running out through the Londonderry area. Even though it was recently stated in another place that no decision had been reached about an aerodrome to replace KingsfordSmith airport, I understand that such a survey has been carried out and that it relates to the next airport to he built in New South Wales. There is a certain amount of logic in this belief. Incidentally, the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  need not 'be worried because this site is not in the Chifley electorate. 
If the rumours are true then the question of airport noise becomes of very great importance to the townships of Richmond and Windsor, irrespective of the electorate in which the airport is built, and also to Penrith and the area running out to Mount Druitt, a very fast developing area in my electorate which houses many workers. I am beginning to wonder whether this Government is adopting the attitude that that area does not matter and that it can construct an airport in an area occupied by workers. Perhaps the Government believes that it does not matter about accidents or aircraft noise or anything else so long as it moves Kingsford-Smith airport to some other area. Therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I pose these questions to the Minister: Does the Department of Civil Aviation propose to construct a north south runway at Richmond? Is it a fact that the Department of the Interior, as late as last August, completed a preliminary survey for such an airstrip? If so, is it proposed that it should be a substitute for Mascot airport, or is it to be an alternative combined RAAF-Department of Civil Aviation airport? If it is ether of those 2 things, what action does the Government intend to take to protect the nearby residents from aircraft noise, etc.? 
I think this is an important issue and 1 raise it tonight hoping that some information will be given to honourable members as to why the survey was conducted. Is it simply a normal survey? Is there a reason behind it? Is there an intent behind it? Is this to be the next airport in New South Wales? 
I should also like to raise a matter relating to the Postmaster-General's Department. Recently I wrote to the PostmasterGeneral  (Mr Hulme)  - I am very happy to have received this reply from him - asking for figures relating to outstanding deferred applications for telephones State by State, as well as the number of connections of telephones State by State. The figures are very interesting indeed. I find that in New South Wales we have 1,018,582 telephones already connected out of a total for the Commonwealth of 2,620,114. In other words, New South Wales has 38.8% of the total telephone connections in the Commonwealth. With regard to long term deferred applications - that is, applications deferred awaiting some kind of equipment be it cables, exchange equipment and the rest - I find that New South Wales has 5,733 deferred applications out of a Commonwealth total of 8,802. In other words, New South Wales has 65% of deferred applications compared with 38.8% of connections in the Commonwealth. The position is simple. If the Postmaster-General ensured that supply kept pace with demand the outstanding applications iti New South Wales would be between 38% and 40% instead of 65%. 
Let us look at the position in the Minister's own State of Queensland. Whilst New South Wales has 5,733 applications outstanding, Queensland has only 469. It would appear that the Minister is looking after his own State of Queensland very well indeed whereas in the State of New South Wales where the greatest sections of commerce, industry and population exist very little is being done to overcome delays. Let me speak of my own electorate. No attempts are being made to repair the large number of public telephones which are out of order. The reason given is that there is a lack of the necessary equipment. 1 know that there is a problem of vandalism, but when will the Department catch up with the problem? What is the reason for the lack of equipment? Is it because the finance and the wherewithal are not being given lo New South Wales? I think the answer lies in the figures supplied to me in this letter bearing the Minister's signature which I hold in my hand. I remind the House that 65% of long term deferred applications exist in New South Wales whereas 38.8% of total telephone connections are in that State. I repeat that if New South Wales was being given a fair go by the Postmaster-General in the matter of finance, equipment and the rest, that State would have only 38.8% of deferred applications instead of 65%. 
I ask the Minister to have a look at this matter. I think it is high time that the problem was overcome in this modern economy, this affluent economy, this economy in which there should not be any problems in respect of the connection of telephones which surely are a normal modern requirement. I leave it at that. I ask the Minister to reply to my questions. I should also like to be informed whether the survey in the Londonderry area is an indication that the next airport in the State will be located there. If it is, what action is being taken to  protect  residents not only in the immediate area but in the surrounding areas in other electorates? 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
Will he agree to the proposal that a National Carnival Day should be held in Canberra each year under the auspices of the Government at which the champion carnival groups of each national group would give a carnival display, keeping in mind that these colourful national groups are giving so much to the culture of our country. 
If so, will he arrange for the first National Carnival Day to be held during Her Majesty's visit to Australia. 

 - Mr Chairman, I do not propose to speak at great length. Like other honourable members in the House the Opposition is very pleased that the barrier at last has been broken down and that some assistance is to be given to one of the most worthy organisations in Australia - the Meals on Wheels organisation. I cannot help but refer to the point made earlier this afternoon by the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly).  He pointed out that this organisation has been promoted for many years mainly by Labor groups - by Labor controlled municipal councils, for example. As a matter of fact, at Blacktown in my electorate there is a very flourishing hard working organisation whose secretary is the wife of a prominent member of the Australian Labor Party. 
Of course, for some time the Government has received requests for assistance for organisations of this type. I am very pleased, like every honourable member, that at last some recognition is being given to the work done by them. However I do think that we should not get over-enthusiastic about this legislation. As was mentioned earlier in this debate, the fact is that the assistance represents only 10c a meal and not, as it appeared from publicity given to this proposal, $1 a meal. The assistance represents 10c a meal for 10 meals, making a total of $1. The total allocation involves a sum of $200,000 and, as the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  said a short time ago, it is part of a total allocation of SI, 450m for social services. The Government proposes, therefore, to provide another $200,000 for the purposes of this Bill out of a total allocation of SI, 450m for social services. As I said, these are the figures of the honourable member for Angas who sits on the Government side of the chamber. When one looks at the matter in this context, $200,000 for this purpose does not really represent a huge amount to assist aged and invalid people. 
I think we should look at this aspect a little more closely, because many Bills being brought forward by the Government deal with proposals made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  in his policy speech for the recent election and upon examination are seen to be only window dressing. For example, legislation is proposed in connection with credit unions and the use of their funds for housing loans. The Government says that home seekers now can use credit union funds in connection with the homes savings grants legislation. But the Government has forgotten, of course, that under the New South Wales credit union legislation, the maximum loan for housing purposes is $4,000 where as under the Government's proposed legislation the minimum loan is to be $7,000. So, to all intents and purposes, the legislation is window dressing and nothing else. 
Let us consider further this present Bill relating to Meals on Wheels. The proposal outlined in the policy speech of the Prime Minister sounded beautiful. He referred to a special allocation for Meals on Wheels. One would have thought that the Government intended to give every pensioner an extra $1 or $2 a week. But when we get down to it there is to be a total allocation of $200,000 out of a total commitment for social services, according to the figures of the honourable member for Angas, of $ 1,450m. This really confuses people and one cannot blame them for being confused. There was the case of the homes savings grants legislation. It was said that every couple who saved a few quid would be eligible for a grant. We find now that all the technicalities in the world exist as to why they cannot receive a grant rather than why they can get it. The same thing applies to the proposed credit union legislation. In the legislation under discussion, we find there is  to  be an allocation of $200,000 out of a total social service bill of $ 1,450m. 
Nevertheless,  Mr Chairman,  it is good to see at last some recognition being given to these organisations. I hope that the Minister for Social Services will put before Cabinet during the coming Budget debates - I was nearly going to say disputes- 
Yes, I agree with the honourable member for Sydney. I hope that the Minister, during debates in the Cabinet room about the next Budget, will give senous consideration to increasing appreciably the amount allocated in this Bill. It is for a very worthy purpose. It will help the dedicated people "who work for these organisations in assisting people who really need help. These workers act in accordance with the highest principles of humanitarian values. 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
Was strong dissatisfaction expressed by delegates at the recent Citizenship Convention on the disparities existing between Australia and overseas social service standards. 
If so, will he, as a first step towards correcting this alleged imbalance, expedite a reciprocal agreement on social services between Australia and Malta. 
asked the  PostmasterGeneral,  upon notice. 
Is it a fact that there is undue delay in installing public telephones. 
If so, is this delay brought about by the destruction of existing units by vandals and material supply problems of contractors supplying the units to his Department. 
What are the details of the contractual arrangements between his Department and the various contractors, including the names of die contractors and the outstanding orders placed with them. 
What action is being taken by his Department to overcome the delays in the fulfilment of contracts. 
It is quite obvious that the Acting Prime Minister  (Mr McEwen)  is still acting. It is quite obvious that he is trying to take every possible political advantage and that he has lost all sense of responsibility as to the provocation he is arousing. We speak of provocation and of what can occur. I think that a few people should read the editorial which appeared in a newspaper tonight. Honourable members on this side of the House are aware that probably I am 1 of the most hated people in the Australian Labor Party in New South Wales so far as the Communist Party is concerned. I was a full time official of my Party in that State and I do not think anybody would suggest that we in New South Wales are pro-Communist. All honourable members on this side of the House are informed on this matter and know that what 1 say is correct. It is obvious from many of the remarks from honourable members on the Government side of the House that they are not informed. I am concerned about this matter. 
The Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes)  is laughing. I wonder whether he knows what a Com looks like. Of course all of us know his uncle. However, I think all honourable members should look at the editorial which appeared tonight in one of the newspapers in Sydney. This is hardly an old radical paper; it is hardly a young radical newspaper. It. is the 'Daily Mirror'. 
Is the honourable member for Hume suggesting that it is proCommunist? 
Not to my knowledge. It has turned round at the last minute in every election that I can remember for some considerable time and has supported the Government parties. The heading for this editorial is: 'A time for cool heads'. That is the lesson I wish to bring out tonight, because of the provocation that is taking place. If in this country something happens similar to what happened at Kent University in the United Stales, many of the people who have been unashamedly using this Moratorium issue for personal political advantage, including the Acting Prime Minister, will have to take a hard look at their consciences in the future. Government members are interjecting. I ask the House to give me a fair go. The Acting Prime Minister was given a fair go. If similar violence occurs in Australia, then honourable members on the Government side will have to look carefully at their consciences because of the provocation they have been using. 
I sincerely hope that that is not so. This editorial in the 'Daily Mirror* states: 
What is involved, primarily, in the Vietnam moratorium is a public demonstration of dissent against Australia's involvement in the war. 
After going on to state that there could be varying points of view on this issue, it concludes: 
And if all sides keep their cool - the moratorium marchers will do no more barm than the Anzac marchers did on April 23. Give them a fair go. They have a right to it. 
J wish to quote from another publication that I have with me. lt is a copy of a speech made about a fortnight ago on the Vietnam Moratorium, lt states: 
Vietnam is a controversial issue, and it is a controversial issue among democrats: among those who value and seek to maintain an 'open' and pluralist society. Men of good will and intelligence are to be found on both sides of (lie debate. Indeed, in view of the complexity of the problems of Vietnam it is better to say that nien of good will and intelligence are lo be found in  every  position in the multi-dimensional continuum of possible views about Vietnam. The facts, including  both  what happened in the past and what is happening now, are difficult to establish. They arc still more  difficult  lo interpret. The likely results of different policies that might bc attempted- 
1 will tell the honourable member for Cowper who it is and it w" give him a bit of a shock. I repeal: 
The likely results of different policies that might bc  attempted:  for instance, leaving substantial US forces in Vietnam for an indefinite period, Vietnamising the war, trying to force a coalition government with the NLF on the South Vietnam government, withdrawing totally and absolutely, are all exceedingly difficult to weigh and assess. 
I ask honourable members to keep in mind the phrase 'are all exceedingly difficult to weigh and assess'. That is what this man says. He continues: 
The moral decisions involved must appear agonisingly difficult to all except those who have very simple-minded views of the nature of man and society. 
This was stated by Professor Armstrong, Professor of Philosophy at the University of Sydney, who authorised the pro-Vietnam war advertisement which appeared today in the 'Australian'. Even that man, who would not agree with the attitude of the Australian 
Labor Party, admits that there must be differing points of view on this very great, very important and very moral issue. 
This morning in this Parliament I witnessed one of the worst things I have seen in connection with this Campaign. The honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  asked what I thought was a most responsible question. I think most people who thought about his question would agree with me. He wanted to know what provocation was going to occur. He asked the Minister for External Affairs  (Mr McMahon)  to make an example by approaching  President  Nixon and protesting about the death of 4 young people at Kent University a day or 2 ago. At the same time, in order to ensure that this could not happen here in Australia and in view of the fact that this Government has done nothing but spend day after day talking about the Moratorium, he asked the Minister to accept the responsibility of approaching the State governments in order to ensure that police used the utmost reticence, the utmost care and the utmost forbearance so that an incident such as happened in the United States will not happen in Australia. What was the answer by the Minister for External Affairs? 
The honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  says it was a shocking answer and I agree. The Minister's reply was that it was a frivolous question to ask- 
I recollect clearly what was said in this House this morning and so does every honourable member who was here. The Minister stated it was a frivolous question. I ask very sincerely and very simply that this Government take the responsibility of approaching all State Governments, the Premiers or the Ministers responsible for the police, realising as I do - and I would not be loved by the Communist Party by any stretch of the imagination- 
I am 1 of those who led the fight in New South Wales and I know their antics. The Government should do some work and should not use this for political capital as it has done steadily for the last few days. I ask the Government to take the necessary action and approach the State Governments and the Ministers responsible for the police. I realise that the police have a difficult job, but they should be asked to use every possible reticence, to take every possible care to see that in the days to come we do not have another Kent University here in Australia. I ask honourable members on the Government side - I appeal to them - to stop the provocation, to stop taking this action which is designed not to keep cool heads but specifically for the 1 purpose of gaining political advantage. Wittingly or unwittingly they are provoking the very set of circumstances that they say they wish to avoid. 
I wish to deal specifically tonight with the question of war service homes and housing. Quite a lot has been said on the other issue. We have been speaking tonight on Supply, on a financial measure to give this Government the necessary finance to carry on until the Budget is accepted. It is time we got down to the serious issues which confront this Government and this Parliament and talked about some of the issues that are important to the people of Australia. I am surprised to hear the comments of honourable members opposite. I thought they supported returned soldiers and I am surprised to hear them scoff when I say I wish to deal with the important issue of housing and war service homes. 
Before I deal with it I would like to touch on 1 other aspect. We heard the Acting Prime Minister deal with the statement of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  on the export of merino rams. I mention this because of the arrogance that has crept into the attitude of Ministers. This arrogance was shown in the reply to the honourable member for Grayndler this morning, which I dealt with a little while ago. This morning the Acting Prime Minister, when asked by the Leader of the Opposition a question in respect of the export of merino rams, said that he adhered to the proposition that this was a matter for the individual to sell his wares, or words to that effect, and to get the best price for them. 
Yes. They were the words he used. Apparently he does not take account of the national interest; the individual can do as he will but the national interest can be ignored. The merino ram has been 1 of Australia's best assets for many years. The ban on the export was implemented by a Labor government and this Government has chosen to lift it. The Minister said the national interest can be ignored because a few people in the country wish to make a few quid out of the sale. We know what happens if a conscientious objector says: 'I do not wish to go to war'. The Acting Prime Minister has a different approach then; he says the needs, the will and best interests of this country must be observed and not the interests of the individual. But when it comes to the finances of one of his supporters, he says the individual's profit must obtain. 1 return to the question of war service homes. An amendment has been moved by the Opposition. It makes the point that the Government should allocate sufficient finance immediately to all successful applicants for war service homes. The purpose of this is to ensure that in the future applicants for war service homes, after they get approval from the Division, do not have to go to the userers, the private banks, the fringe banking organisations or the money lenders to obtain temporary finance for periods of some months. At times it has been up to a year before they can get their loan. The Government has been forcing them into the hands of the userers and this is why we have presented this proposition here tonight. I think in considering this proposition honourable members should keep in mind that in 1963-64 10,573 homes were provided. In 1968-69 the figure had dropped to 7,163. There was not the same demand for housing from returned servicemen. The cost in 1963-64 was $70.02m; repayments plus interest equalled $55. 16m. In 1968-69 the cost was $50. 19m; repayment plus interest equalled $72. 62m. In other words, whilst there was a net outlay by the Government in 1963-64 of $14.89m for war service homes, today there is a net gain by the Government of $22. 43m. Today the Government is making money and its net position from war service homes activities is a credit position. The arguments the Government used in 1964 for the restrictions it placed on war service homes - that is, that there was such a great delay in obtaining finance - no longer exist. The Government is making money from this scheme today. So. all these arguments that it uses against the provision of second loans, the discharge of existing mortgages and the various other proposals are no longer constant today in this year of 1970. 
Let us look at why it is that the Government will not provide second loans. 1 refer to the case of a returned soldier who has a war service home. He leaves his home because, for example, he is transferred in his employment to the country or interstate. He is forced to go. Alternatively, he may have to leave his home because of illness. He may not be able to live in the climate of the area where his home is situated. This Government, except in very exceptional cases, will not provide a second war service home and will not even allow that person to transfer the extent of his outstanding mortgage on his war service home for the purpose of financing another home. 
The Government talks about the portability of superannuation. I believe that superannuation should be able to be transferred. But apparently, when it comes to the question of giving a returned soldier a reasonable go and giving him portability of his mortgage, the Government says no. This cannot be done. I cannot understand why the Government will not allow the discharge of existing mortgages under the present circumstances in which it is obtaining a net receipt from the operation of war service homes. The Government would do this if it was a fair dinkum Government. Do not tell me that the Government does not refuse to do what I have outlined and does not reject cases such as I have mentioned. One case raised by me has been refused in the last few weeks after I personally saw the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin). 
This was the case of a man who at this time is serving in Vietnam. Later, he will be a returned serviceman. He purchased his home 2 months before he received notification of his posting to Vietnam. Surely the proposition that he should be able to transfer his loan for the purchase of his home to the War Service Homes Division now is a reasonable one. Why should he not bc able to do that? If this Government is sincere in its advocacy of the Vietnam war and if it is sincere on all the other attitudes that it has expressed in this House in the last few days, surely the way in which it should be looking at this issue at this time is to say: 'Yes, this man is overseas in Vietnam now. We must be consistent. We must give him a war service homes loan'. As f have indicated, he purchased this home only 2 months before he received notification of his posting to Vietnam. He obtained his loan before he bought his house. Still, the Government will not give a war service homes loan to him after he has been posted to Vietnam. 
I think that these are some examples of the point that I wish to make. The honourable member for Sturt said that the Government is insincere in its approach. I think that it is insincere. If it is insincere it is time that it looked at this matter and corrected the anomaly very quickly. 
Nothing is done still for former members of the Citizen Military Forces who, for instance, served in Darwin during the 1939-45 War. Those persons who joined the Australian Imperial Force, including honourable members in this House who joined the AIF, are eligible for a war service home loan. It does not matter whether members of the AIF served in Sydney, Melbourne, Darwin, anywhere else in Australia or overseas; they receive a war service loan. 
Even a man who was a base wallah in Sydney would be entitled to a war service home, as the honourable member for Sturt interjects. On the other hand, a member of the CMF who, during the war, served in Darwin and had an arm blown off in an air raid there is not entitled to a war service home. I have made inquiries on this subject. If the man is a member of the CMF, he cannot get the loan. He is entitled to it if he was a member of the AIF but not if he was a member of the CMF. 
Yes. This is the situation. Why are not single women who have served in our Forces - nurses and the like who are still single and who still have need of a home because they have depend.dants such as mothers and fathers - eligible for a war service home loan? lt is time also that we looked at the overall question of housing. We must consider the plight of young people today. 1 do not envy any young person or any young married couple who wishes to obtain a home today. 1 do not envy such people because I think that they have a very difficult job today. The mover of the amendment to the motion that this Bill be now read a second time, my colleague the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  pointed out some of the land prices that exist in the outer areas of Sydney. 1 point out to the House that I have one of the youngest electorates in New South Wales. It is 1 of the youngest electorates in the the Commonwealth. 
1 agree. Chifley is a very good name. It is a young electorate with young people. I do not envy those young people who are trying to obtain land in areas where an artificial shortage of land has been created. We should study very seriously and carefully how this artificial shortage of land has been created. 
The position is, if we look at the situation in the outer perimeter areas of Sydney, that the price of land is rising to a very high level. The main reason for this increase in the price of land and the artificial shortage that exists is that the planning authorities such as the State Planning Authority of New South Wales refuse to release sufficient land so that a shortage no longer exists. I think that the Parliament should consider why this Authority refuses to release that land, lt refuses because it cannot provide the necessary services such as gas, electricity, water, sewerage, transport and the like. The authority says that it cannot provide these services and therefore it will not release the land. As the land is not released, so is an artificial shortage of land created. 
Why does this situation occur? The Authority cannot provide these services because it has not received the necessary finance from the State Government. In turn, the State Government has not obtained the necessary finance from the Commonwealth Government so that it can provide money for these necessary services. The situation is reached where we and this Parliament must look at the policy propounded by the Leader of the Opposition in the last Federal election campaign. This proposal was that funds should be earmarked specifically for the perimeter areas of Sydney, these vast developing areas where these necessary services must be provided in order to remove this artificial shortage of land and to give young people the opportunity to buy their own land and to build their own houses. Funds should be provided and earmarked specifically for definite development projects in the outer perimeter areas of Sydney. I refer to areas such as those represented by the honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Luchetti),  myself, and so many other members of this House. These areas are covered particularly by members on our side of the House. 
I ask the Parliament and the Government to consider this policy carefully.  1  think that when we look at the matter of housing, we should consider the most important question of interest rates that was mentioned earlier by the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds).  In answer to an interjection by me, the Treasurer stated this morning: 'There is no restriction on private home building'. Apparently the fact that a higher interest rate is being charged and that a shortage exists of funds available for housing is not considered by the Treasurer to be a restriction on home building. I would ask the Treasurer to assess his policies on this matter carefully to ascertain whether this is correct or not. 

 Mr Speaker, I make this point as I made  it  earlier: I sincerely hope that this Government will look more carefully, more in conscience, wilh some humility and humanity at this issue of providing homes for our younger people so that they may bring up decent young Australian families to live a normal existence in a normal atmosphere. Secondly, I hope that the Government, despite the lack of coolness that has existed in the last few days and despite the obvious attempts to take a political advantage, either wittingly or unwittingly, which is provoking a situation that could result in serious consequences in the next few days, will reconsider these issues. As I have said, I speak as one who would be among the people in New South Wales least liked by the Communist Party. I have some knowledge of its antics. I say to the Government: Be careful in what you are doing because if anything does happen in the next few days those who have taken a political advantage of the situation will have to consider their consciences very carefully. Remember, there are varying views. T have quoted some tonight. I urge members opposite to be a little reticent and to exercise a little care. The most important thing is to see that there is no violence in the demonstrations which will occur in the next few days. [Quorum formed.] 
Has the Prime Minister heard reports that at least some of the State Premiers are concerned at the delay in resuming the talks aimed at negotiating the principles of a new financial relationship between the States and the Commonwealth? Can the right honourable gentleman give an indication as to when these talks will resume? What is his attitude to the proposal that funds should be allocated by the Commonwealth to the States and directly earmarked for developmental projects such as transport, local government works, power, water and sewerage in the fast developing perimeter areas of the great cities? 
The honourable member for Moore  (Mr Maisey)  would appear, as would the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen),  to be returning to the radicalism of his youth. As a matter of fact, there have been suggestions on this side of the House that he might have to be given a swab at this stage because he is so left wing now. I hope in relation to any other forward looking legislation, based on proposals put up by the Opposition, which may come before this House that the honourable member will continue with this train of thought The Opposition is pleased to see this legislation come before the House. It does not go as far as we would like by any stretch of the imagina tion, but it certainly goes part of the way, particularly in respect of the problem of overseas investment. For this reason the Opposition is not opposing the legislation. We feel it would be ridiculous for us to do so and it would certainly be ridiculous, as has been suggested in various quarters, for us to take advantage of a division within the ranks of the Government on this issue and endeavour, by using it, to oppose individual sections of the Bill. We will not be doing this. 
The reason for our approach is that we feel this legislation adopts the principles of policy and outlook of honourable members on this side of the House in setting up a government instrumentality to establish competition in the area of operation - I use the word 'competition' deliberately - and so remove exploitation, establish efficiency within industry, and generally set a pattern for industry. That is how we of the Opposition see this legislation. That is its basic purpose. That is probably the biggest single difference between the organisation we have heard so much about in the last few days - what has been termed the McMahon conception - as compared with this proposition, which is considered to be the McEwen conception. One is a free enterprise organisation which at this point of time is screaming its head off. It does not want any competition. On the other hand, this Corporation is similar to other organisations set up by former Labor governments, such as the Commonwealth Bank and Trans-Australia Airlines. They were set up as government instrumentalities to set the pattern for the industry, to remove exploitation and to improve efficiency. We believe that this is the basis of the present proposal. For this reason we accept it. 
In this instance, of course, the Government is entering into the fringe banking or merchant banking field to compete with what I called a while ago the McMahon conception, the Australian Resources Development Bank. People everywhere are asking: What is the reason for this legislation? It is undoubtedly a distinct departure from the attitudes expressed by this Government in the past. Its attitude is getting closer to that expressed by the Labor Party on this issue. To quote the 'Financial Review', it has been called 'The McEwen Bank'. I think that is a fairly good name for it. One of the articles I have here is headed: 'McEwen's victory over the Treasury.' 
The honourable member for Hindmarsh says it was a victory over the Liberals as well. I think that is pretty right too. The reason this question is being asked is that the job undoubtedly could be done by the Commonwealth Banking Corporation. It could be done by the Reserve Bank. But, of course, this would mean Treasury control. Those organisations are controlled by the Treasury tend not by the Department of Trade and Industry. That is the basic difference. Furthermore, it would mean, of course, that the organisation would come under the banking controls of the Treasury. For that reason it is being removed from that area and brought under the influence of the Department of Trade and Industry. That is the reason why .people are saying that there is a division between the former Treasurer, who is how the Minister for External Affairs  (Mr McMahon),  and the present  Deputy  Prime Minister and Minister for Trade and Industry. 
I thank the honourable member for the interjection. The motives for this legislation, as 1 said, is the basic division between the Minister for Trade and Industry and the Minister for External Affairs, who was formerly the Treasurer. It was the former Treasurer, of course, who fathered the Austral:an Resources Development Bank. There is the need to channel foreign investment into import replacement and essential segments of industry, to cut down the reliance upon foreign investment, to adopt what has been put here by successive members on this side of the House right back over the years to when I first came into this House in 1961. It was then pointed out that the Labor Party did not oppose overseas investment in itself. It maintained that if it brought new know-how and techniques here or import replacement it could be accepted. But this opportunity on overseas investment, taking over existing Australian enterprises, and taking over large segments of Australian industry, has to be stopped. 
We are concerned, and a lot of people are concerned, that this legislation as it is at the moment could be used to assist specific favoured companies because of the power of the Government to appoint the Board. The Government, through its powers, could have some influence upon the Board's policy. It could influence favoured specific companies. It is sincerely hoped that this is not one of the motives here. In other words, there could be a war of the barons between different segments of industry - those favoured by the former Treasurer and those favoured by the Minister for Trade and Industry. I hope it is not occurring. In any event, if this is occurring, these types of things could be corrected by an incoming Labor Government, as there are considerable powers within this leg slation for correcting these problems in regard to the appointment of the Board and the internal policy of the organisation itself. 
I think that there is one aspect which it is a pity this legislation does not touch. It goes into the fringe banking or merchant banking field. It covers a wide and very important range of investment, with particular emphasis on the question of overseas investment and its introduction into Australia, but unfortunately it does not touch that other fringe banking sphere - hire purchase. This would have been an opportunity for the Government to set up a governmental instrumentality to compete in the field of hire purchase as well and thereby set the pattern for that industry, remove anti-social features within it, and remove those aspects in which the interests of the people can be shamelessly, abused. However, once again this is an aspect which can be corrected in the future e'ther by utilisation of this organisation or by the Commonwealth Banking Corporation or some other authority to be set up in the future by a Labor government; or we may hope that this reformation which has suddenly occurred will develop in the future and that the Government will introduce a provision to correct this aspect within the next few months and save us the trouble in  2i  years or less. The thing which I cannot understand is what one can only call the squeals' which are occurring in some sectors of the community. Like other members of Parliament I received a telegram from the Melbourne Chamber of Commerce and it said: 
The Council Melbourne Chamber Commerce deeply concerned possible far reaching adverse effects on private enterprise of Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill. The Bill inconsistent with announced objectives second reading speech. Urgently request you support delay of debate enable Chamber make submissions re amendments alternatively you oppose Bill. 
Melbourne Chamber Commerce 
It might have some connection. I do not think that this would be one of the most radical organisations in Australia. I did think that this organisation advocated free enterprise and competition, but the moment that some competition over which it has not any direct control or influence seems to be likely action is immediately taken to endeavour to take every opportunity to stop it. It is well known that that telegram and the other submissions put to members on the other side of the House caused quite a lot of division within the Liberal Party. I might add that there are rumours floating around the lobby tonight about clause 8 of this Bill, which says:  (6.) The exercise of any powers by the Corporation is not invalid, and shall not be called in question, by reason of any failure of the Corporation to comply with any of its obligations under this section. 
Undoubtedly that clause, when read in conjunction with the previous clauses of the Bill, is an escape hatch. It is one which was referred to here early tonight and a number of us were very surprised at how mild was the speech of the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns).  1 hope the rumours that are floating around the corridor are not true. The extraordinary rumour that is floating around is that the Minister for Trade and Industry has agreed to the withdrawal of that clause from the Bill on the motion of the honourable member for Lilley in the Committee stage. If this occurs, of course this will mean a great deal of the teeth put into this Bill will be withdrawn. In other words, after all the brave words that have been used suddenly things subside. 
We saw in this morning's Press the objections to the legislation by  Mr H.  McE Scambler on behalf of the opposition to this Bill. He represents a private enterprise organisation. We are not opposing that organisation. We are just making the point that we think it is quite reasonable and fair that it should get a little bit of competition. We do not think that this is an unreasonable proposition. It is amazing what effect competition does have. We have not seen many advertisements in the past by the Australian Resources Development Bank Ltd, and yet if we look in the 'Australian' of 13 th May we see that it is suddenly advertising term deposits. This shows the efficiency of competition. It has suddenly got them moving. It has got them into the field. 
There are a number of other clauses in this legislation with which I should like to deal. Clause 8 (1.), deals of course with the policy which is basically very similar to the policy of the Australian Labor Party. It states in part: 
. the Corporation shall pursue a policy directed to securing, to the greatest extent that is practicable, participation by .Australian residents in the ownership of the capital, and in the control, of that company or of the companies engaged or proposing to engage in that industry. 
Clause 8 (3.) (c) states:  shall endeavour, so far as practicable, to avoid becoming or remaining in a position where it is able to control or manage the affairs of a company to which it provides assistance. 
Sub-clause (4.) relates to the conditions under which this organisation may intervene in industry and may become an owner in industry. This means that the Commonwealth, as I said earlier, can intervene in industry, compete against private industry and thereby set the pattern for the efficiency of industry where it is considered there are inefficiencies and there are anti-social features. One can say that clause 5 relates to a constitutional aspect, insofar as it overcomes the constitutional bar against the Commonwealth's operating an industrial organisation. As I mentioned before there is a magnificent escape hatch in sub-clause (6.) of clause 8 which evidently has raised the ire of the honourable member for Lilley. Clause 11(1.) states that the Board shall consist of an executive  chairman  and not less than 5 and not more than 1 1 other directors. This means that there can undoubtedly be considerable influence upon the organisation at governmental level by the appointment of more or fewer directors from time to time. 
The capital of this organisation, which will be initially $25m and later $100m could be invested at the higher interest rates obtaining in Australia. The income derived from that could be used as an interest rate subsidy to compete against other parties overseas, including Australian parties, to pay a higher interest rate than they could afford to pay. This question was raised by the honourable member for Moore a while ago. In other words, it could increase the capital raisings of the organisation overseas. Any profits that accrue from the capital which may be invested in this country could be used, if desired - 1 do not say that this will happen - as an interest rate subsidy for the borrowing of capital overseas. 
I refer now to the overall question of overseas investment, which is an important aspect of the Bill. Like the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  I am pleased to see that the Government has at last taken some cognisance of the warnings issued in this Parliament year after year for many years past. I was previously a member of this House. I can recollect the former member for Scullin, Ted Peters, as was mentioned by the honourable member for Reid, speaking on this issue in this House, lt was the main issue he spoke about. The honourable member for Reid, the honourable member for Laior, other honourable members and I year after year have warned about the dangers of the complete lack of any vetting of the influx of foreign investment bringing about overseas ownership. Only recently in this House I referred to unrepatriated profits - to companies operating in Australia which do not repatriate to the country of origin all or some of their profits. This is a steady build up which is occurring in this country and it is something which cannot be accurately assessed. This is the important thing. Many estimates are being delivered. I shall quote a few of them just to show the differences that are occurring in the estimates that are being sent out day by day. I fail to see how it is possible under the present method of compiling these statistics to get an accurate guide as to the extent of unrepatriated profits remaining here today. 
We must look at what would occur if there was a crisis and a sudden demand for the repatriation of profits which have been capitalised in this country by being allowed to remain here or, alternatively, the repatriation of capital which had previously been borrowed from overseas and sent to this country, lt could be any type of crisis - a political crisis or a severe crisis in Papua and New Guinea. All these things could upset the equilibrium and set up a demand by the overseas owners for the repatriation of capital and profits. If this occurred the Government would say: 'Yes, we have the power under the banking regulations to refuse to repatriate.' What effect would this have upon the international standing of Australia? It would be a dangerous situation and would have been brought about because the Government had taken no notice of the warnings given in this House year after year by such people as the honourable member for Reid, the former honourable member for Scullin and myself. 
To estimate the extent of overseas investment in Australia we have to look at the veracity of the estimates that are given from lime to time. According to the Bureau of Census and Statistics, in its publication of 22nd November .1968, the undistributed direct investment in Australia, in other words undistributed profits, as at 30th June 1968 was $115m. The Bureau issued another publication on 19th May 1969 showing the figure to be $124m. On 19th December 1969 it was shown to be $229m. There is a "variation of $1 14m in the estimates. These figures are taken from 3 separate publications all dealing with the same data. The difference could be accounted for to some extent by the different closing dates of the books of the various companies; but there is no doubt that if a crisis did occur and the Government, irrespective of its political colour, had to make a sudden decision as to how to overcome the crisis, there could not be a ready assessment of the extent and potential in the repatriation of overseas capital and profits. 
I  ask honourable members to compare the figures of  Sir John  Crawford, who stated that the net apparent capital inflow for 1968-69 was $1,1 68m, with the figure  of  $967m contained in .  a  publication of the 
Bureau of Census and Statistics. Which is correct? According to the figures released by  Sir John  Crawford, the balance on current account in 1948-49 was $62m. In 1968-69 it was $1,0 14m minus. The net capital inflow was $1,1 68m and the level of our reserves was $ 1.31 Om. In other words, we are dependent largely upon capital inflow for our overseas reserves. That is a situation that the Oposition warns about. It is the situation that I want to cover here. I believe it is every important that we should be able to asse.-&gt;s accurately the amount of capital investment in Australia and the amount of undistributed profits and unrepatriated profits. Otherwise, in the event of a crisis we could be placed in a very difficult position. 
In conclusion I repeat that the Opposition is rather pleased that this legislation has been brought before the House. It does not quite cover everything we want; it goes part of the way. It is of some assistance. It helps to overcome to some extent the great problem of overseas investment in Australia and the overseas control of Australian industry. We are very pleased to see that the Minister for Trade and Industry has returned to some of the radicalism of his youth at this late stage. We hope this is only one of the many things to come in the future when other segments of Labor policy will be adopted. For these reasons it is not our intention to oppose the legislation. 
 I ask the Treasurer whether he considers that the employment figures recently released by the Department of Labour and National Service indicate that the inflationary pressures on the Australian economy appear to be levelling out. If he does, will he initiate the necessary action to reduce high interest rates and the consequent restrictions on home building? 
I wish to refer tonight to an area near Sydney which is probably growing faster than any area of similar size in the country. To many honourable members this will be a remote area and many will not have heard of it. I refer to the tremendous development taking place around Mount Druitt. Much of this development has been brought about by the activities of the New South Wales Housing Commission. The State Planning Authority estimates that by the time the Housing Commission's activities are over 80,000 people will be living in the area. This is the largest Housing Commission development in New South Wales and perhaps, for that matter, in Australia. The present population of the area is about the same as that of Wagga Wagga. But if you go to Mount Druitt you will not find a policeman or a police station there. You will not find a baby health centre. 
 That is right. There is no baby health centre notwithstanding that there are probably more children in the area than in any other similar area in Australia. A local parson told me recently that in one of the small suburbs of Mount Druitt there are. on average, 4 children to a house. As 1 have said, there is no police station at Mount Druitt although its population is as large as that of Wagga Wagga. There is no baby health centre and no dentist. The transport service is inadequate. If ever an area needed careful consideration and assistance this is it. I realise that the responsibility for these matters rests largely with the State, but in the view of the Australian Labor Party the Commonwealth cannot ignore the expansion taking place in areas such as this on the perimeters of our great cities. In the last 3 years the suburbs of Whalan, Tregear, Lethbridge Park, Emerton and Dharruk have been established in Mount Druitt. Recently the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  visited one of the schools in Tregear. About 1,700 children attend the Whalan public school. More than 1,700 children attend the Tregear public school. More than 1 ,200 children attend Lethbridge Park public school. There are SOO students at Mount Druitt High School. Already there are 150 pupils from Whalan public school attending Mount Druitt High School. These are described as 'boarders'; they are primary school children attending the high school because the primary school which they should attend does not have the facilities to cope with them. There are 70 pupils from Lethbridge Park Primary School attending Mount Druitt High School in a similar capacity. 
The position is becoming completely chaotic, notwithstanding that the Housing Commission planned in co-operation with the New South Wales Department of Education to build schools which it thought would cope with the school populations of those suburbs. But the schools cannot cope with the number of children seeking to attend them. One of the major reasons for the overcrowding in public schools is the fact that there are no denominational schools in the Mount Druitt area. In some Stale schools only recently built the playgrounds are already studded with temporary buildings. The provision of school facilities is only one of the problems in this area. The transport system will not be able to cope with the huge population moving into the area month by month. The railway system will not be able to carry the people going east to Parramatta and west to Penrith and beyond. 
In all the circumstances the Commonwealth must do something to assist this area, particularly with regard to transport and the provision of playgrounds for the children. Here is an area with probably more children than any similar area in Australia. You could go through the area and not find a playground for the kiddies. 1 sympathise with the local council in the colossal problem it faces in finding the necessary funds to carry out its work in the area. I hope that the House will consider this matter in a commonsense way. 
I appeal to the Minister for Education and Science to co-operate with his counterpart in the New South Wales Government, firstly on the provision of educational facilities in the area. Let us start with that. After all, it is possibly the most important aspect of government outside health. I think, if he could co-operate with and meet the local State member,  Mr Southee,  the member for Blacktown, at the moment - a redistribution of boundaries has just occurred - the Minister for Education in the State Parliament as well as myself as the local Federal member, we could sit down and try to work out some ways and means of overcoming what will become a very serious problem. This is not just a simple social problem; it is one which can have very serious effects in the years to come for a lot of children who are not being given reasonable opportunities today. I hope the Minister will heed this request. If we can arrange for some type of conference on this problem both on the spot and elsewhere, if we can start on this basis, 1 believe we can get somewhere. 
I also ask the Min:ster while he is about it to give consideration to this question of the necessity to establish  a  university in the western areas. I know he represents a western electorate, as I do. There will be  a  very great need in the future for a university and I sincerely hope he will give consideration to this proposal. Education is only one of the problems of this area. There are others in regard to transport, local government finance, the great need for adequate baby health centres, health facilities and the like. However, as a first step to overcoming the great problems of this area I ask the Minister to give an undertaking that we can set to with the local State member and the Minister's counterpart in the State Parliament to overcome the serious problems in regard to the educational facilities in this very important area. As I sai d, it has more children in it and more future young Australians who will build this country than probably any other area in Australia. 
asked the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
What was the amount of child endowment payable for each child at the time endowment was introduced by the Commonwealth Government. 
What was the minimum wage rate at that time. 
What is the amount of child endowment payable for each child today. 
What is the minimum wage rate today. 
Is the Government giving any consideration to increasing child endowment. 
 I do not propose to speak for much longer but there are still one or two points 1 want to mention. I think consideration should be given by all parties concerned with handicapped children to the proposal that children should be placed in schools far earlier than they are now. They should go to school when they attain 4 years of age. Much of the damage is done to these children because they do not go to special schools early enough and naturally their parents lend to spoil them. I heard of a child who could not feed himself even though he was 6 years of age. He was sent to  3  school and the teachers simply refused to feed him. In no time he had learned to feed himself. That child's treatment would have been so much better if he had received assistance at an earlier age. The point is that it is not only a question of reaching the child but teaching the parent as well. 
For the reasons I have given I support the proposal that there should be a special committee of inquiry into the problem of handicapped children, as proposed in the amendment moved bv the Opposition. I think that committee of inquiry should investigate al) aspects to ascertain how many such children there, are. what types there are and what types of handicap exist, ft should determine and establish lines of research into causes, treatment and teaching methods, ft should ascertain the best way to assist governments and organisations looking after these children. Until this problem is tackled in this way the Parliament will not be dealing with it effectively and efficiently. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Labour and National Service. Bearing in mind the considerable industrial unrest which exists today and in order to show a conciliatory attitude to this problem, will the Minister revoke his decision insisting upon the payment of outstanding fines by a number of trade unions'? If he will not. can he indicate why he chose to provoke further unrest by his decision? 
-On Wednesday, 18th March 1970, I mentioned to the House that I had received information that preliminary land surveys had been carried out by the Department of the Interior for a north-south runway as an adjunct lo the existing east-west runway at Richmond air base. I referred also to rumours that were circulating lo the effect that this new runway would be used for civil aviation purposes as part, possibly, of the next major airport to be built in New South Wales. Those were the rumours that were circulating. The following morning, 19th March, the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin)  directed a question to the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  who in this place represents the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton).  He referred to the statement that I had made the night before about the Richmond air base. In his reply the Minister stated: 
No ground surveys for an additional major commercial 
Note the word 'commercial' -  airport in the Richmond area have been carried out by the Department of Civil Aviation, although in the first quarter of last year the House of Representatives Select Committee on Aircraft Noise new over that region and examined the noise level there. 
I do no; know  how  one examines from the air the noise levels on the ground. I still have noi worked out the Minister's logic there. However the point is that he said that there had been no ground surveys for an additional major commercial airport. Unless one looked at that answer very carefully one would gain the impression that no ground surveys had been carried out for any type of airport. That night the honourable member for Mitchell took part in the adjournment debate and referred to the Minister's reply to the question that he had directed to him that morning. On this occasion he was more specific because I think it will be realised that the Minister's reply had been couched very carefully. As I have said, unless one looked at it very carefully  one  could be misled. That night the honourable member for Mitchell said: 
A survey was made last year. I was brought into it because many of the property owners involved got in touch with mc and wanted to know what was going on. lt was simply a survey by the Department of Air in relation to the identification of blocks of land that the air base at Richmond had controlled for many years. There was nothing in the suggestion about the establishment of an aerodrome in the area. 
I was not satisfied because I had quite definite information that a survey had been carried out. Because I was not satisfied I wrote :o a number of departments all of which had representatives on the interdepartmental committee to investigate where the next major airport should be. I had in mind that Richmond had been one of the 5 sites mentioned in evidence before the House of Representatives Select Committee on Aircraft Noise. Accordingly most of these departments that 1 had written to should have been aware whether or not Richmond was being considered. I started to get the run-around when I wrote to these various departments. This is where the evasion came in. I wrote to the Department of Supply and 1 was told to go to the Department of Civil Aviation. I went to the Department of Civil Aviation and it said that nothing had been initiated by  that  Department, lt suggested 1 go to the Department of Air. I went to the Department of the Interior with 6 questions and it said that some surveys had been conducted. When I wrote again and asked what sort of surveys were conducted the Department  would not elucidate. In each instance it referred me to the Department of Air who would know what these surveys were all about. 
I wrote to the Department of Works and that is where 1 got the break-through. This Department was specific that a survey had been carried out. 1 received this answer from the Department of Works only on 27th May, just over a week ago, after  2i  months of going from department to department, of ringing up departments and asking when I would receive a reply. There was evasion. As I have said, 1 went lo the Department of Works and it eventually replied and said: Yes, a survey had been conducted. The Department gave full details of the survey, pointing out  that  it is an 11,500-feet runway with 1,000 feet overruns at each end, making 13,500 feet in all. This is a very big runway indeed, able to take any of the really large planes that land in this country. Only yesterday I received a reply from the Department of Air to all the questions I had directed to that Department. The Department answered my individual questions as well as the various letters that had been referred to it. In its letter dated 3rd June the Department stated: 
The survey- 
The Department admits again that a survey was conducted. Now the cat is out of the bag. The letter continued:  relating to a northsouth runway was for the purpose of locating boundaries of all properties which would be affected if a runway of 11.500 feel length, running from about 400 feet south of the western end of the existing eastwest runway and on a magnetic bearing of 197 degrees, was to be developed. 
The Department went on to give all the details of this runway, lt made the point that it does not intend to develop it at this stage; it is part of an overall survey that is being carried out in respect of all air bases throughout Australia. The letter from the Minister for Air is rather lengthy, but I think it is quite an important one. With the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate it in Hansard. 
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA MINISTER FOR AIR 
Parliament Mouse, 3 June 1970 
Dear  Mr Armitage. 
I refer lo your letter of 24th April 1970 concerning preliminary land surveys carried out by the Department of  the  Interior in respect of runways associated with the existing airport at Richmond and lo my reply of 4th May 1970. 
I also refer to your letter to  my  colleague the Minister for the Interior about  the  surveys carried out at Richmond during 1.969  and  to his letter dated 13th May 1970 which advised you tha your letter  had  been referred to  me  for advice lo you direct. 
My colleague the Minister for Civil Aviation has also forwarded to  me  a copy of your letter dated the 1st May 1970 on  the  same subject together with  a  copy of his reply to you dated 2 1st May 1970. 
The matters raised in the above letters are of a similar nature and 1 propose that this reply will provide an answer to all three letters. 
Surveys were carried out al Royal Australian Air Force Base Richmond by the Department of the interior  at  the request of  my  Department. These were  a  survey  at  each end of the existing east-west runway to determine obstructions to  a  1 in 50 approach clearance plane and the other in connection with the feasibility of siting a runway in a north-south direction. These surveys did not cover  any  proposal for an east-west runway parallel to the existing runway 
The survey relating lo a north-south runway was for the purpose of locating boundaries of all properties which would be affected if a runway of 11,500 feet length, running from about 400 feet south of the western end of the existing eastwest runway and  on  a magnetic bearing of 197 degrees, was lo be developed. Such a run wa would involve 1,000 feel over-runs  at  each end and 750 feet clearances from the end of the overrun to the property boundary, over a total width of 1,500 feci. The Department of the Interior  was  also asked lo determine obstructions to a I in 50 approach clearance plane at the ends of this possible runway. 
There is al present no proposal to construct a new runway al R.A.A.F. Base Richmond or  lo  expand the present runway. These surveys were carried nui in connection wilh R.A.A.F. future planning for R.A.A.F. Base Richmond and lo allow consideration of the feasibility of a runway of 11,500 feel being conducted at that base if this were decided at some future dale. This is in accordance wilh the practice of the R.A.A.F. in relation  lo  all major R.A.A.F. Bases in case there should be an operational requirement in Hie fi  t s s re for new  or  extended runways. 
There arc no proposals at this lime for the R.A.A.F. Base al Richmond  lo  be transferred lo the Department of Civil Aviation. This base has been d' eloped specifically for the use  of  the R.A.A.F. and if any proposal  lo  transfer the base to Civil Aviation was made, il must necessarily lake into account the considerable expense in providing the R.A.A.F. wilh another base from which lo conduct the operations now carried out al Richmond. Consideration would al-o need to bc given to the loss of R.A.A.F. operational efficiency which would follow such a move having in mind the transport rule of the Richmond Base in the overall concept of  iiic  air defence of the Newcastle/Sydney/ Wollongong industrial complex. 
Yours sincerely 
TOM DRAKE-BROCKMAN 
The Sydney 'Daily Telegraph' is said to be the official organ of the Liberal Party and the paper you can trust. Yesterday it published some details of this matterand pointed out that 2 approaches were made bv that newspaper to the Department of Air. On each occasion the Department denied that any surveys had been carried out or that it had requested them. I again emphasise the extent of this evasion andI cannot help but suspect that we have not yet heard the whole story. I ask honourable members to note that the letter from the Department of Air does not exclude the possibility of the transfer of the base finally to the Department of Civil Aviation. 
I have not the slightest doubt that the honourable member for Mitchell believed what he said in the House that night. He was categorical in his denial andI am quite satisfied that he believed what he said. But I believe that he was misled by the Government. Had a Labor government been in office and hadI made approaches as the local member on an issue like this I would have expected to be taken into the confidence of the Government. I think the honourable member for Mitchell should have been taken into the confidence of the Government. I do not think it matters whether the airport is to be used for civil aviation or by the RAAF. It can take very large planes on a runway of 13,500 feet. 
The basic issue is that which I raised the first time I mentioned the subject and that is the question of aircraft noise. Largeareas of my electorate can be affected - Mount Druitt, a huge housing area, Cambridge Park, Werrington and St Mary's, not to mention Windsor, Richmond, Penrith in other electorates. A great many homes are located in this area and obviously there is a very great need for a standing committee to be appointed to select sites and to inquire into this matter so that there will be proper planning. It would ensure that any future air base is not built in a position where it will affect existing homes and the residents. In view of the evasion which has taken place I cannot help but think we still have not heard the whole story and that it could be used as an airport in the future. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
House adjourned at 12.58 a.m.  (f  riday) 
In view of the lateness of the hour and the importance of the subject which is not receiving consideration, I move: 
That the debate be now adjourned. 
Do we not get a  speaker  on this side? On a point of order, I wish to say that I rose to speak. The last  speaker  in the debate was from the other side of the House. You,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  did. not call me; you called another  speaker  from the other side of the House. 
I seek an explanation of some matters from the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  representing the Minister for Civil 
Aviation  (Senator Cotton).  I refer to a matter I have raised in this House before concerning the possibility of a runway for civil planes or alternatively RAAF planes in the Londonderry-Richmond area. At that time I pointed out that I had heard that a preliminary land survey had been carried out in the region, and strong rumours were floating around the district that the survey could relate to future civil aircraft requirements for Sydney. The following morning, in reply to a question asked by the member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin),  the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  said: 
No ground surveys for an additional major commercial airport in the Richmond area have been carried out by the Department of Civil Aviation. 
That night the honourable member for Mitchell, being more specific in referring to that question said, as reported in Hansard: 
There is nothing in the suggestion about the establishment of an aerodrome in the area. 
He was quite specific. After that, as I was not satisfied and as I mentioned here early last Friday morning, I wrote to all the various departments and found, of course, that each one of them passed the buck to the other. Finally, after  2i  months, I received an admission from the Department of Works and from the Department of Air that a preliminary ground survey had been carried out in the area, but they said that this referred to Royal Australian Air Force requirements and not to those of civil aviation. I make that point. 
Once again I wish to emphasise that the local rumours were at all times that the survey did relate to a proposal to put in a runway for civil requirements. Also, I wish to make the point that the runway was to join at one end of the existing east-west runway at Richmond and to run generally in a southerly direction for 13,500 feet, which is a very long runway capable of taking the biggest aeroplanes likely to arrive in this country. That runway would not only pass through parts of Richmond, including the agricultural college grounds, but it would also run through Londonderry. The approach to the runway would run into an area called Cranebrook, which is within a couple of miles of Penrith. Let us not kid ourselves about this: The aircraft noise in areas such as Werrington, Cambridge Park, St Marys, and Mount Druitt, which are in my electorate, and in the areas of Richmond, Windsor and Penrith in other electorates would be very considerable indeed. 
When I spoke in the adjournment debate early last Friday morning, I made the point that there had been considerable evasion in relation to the matter and that I was endeavouring to obtain as much information as I could. I also said that I had found it most difficult to obtain the information because of the evasion. I emphasised that I thought that perhaps we had not heard the last of the matter and that further information could eventually become available. Having made that speech last Friday morning, I received only last Monday, strange to say, a letter from the Penrith City Council asking me to take action in regard to civil aircraft runway requirements in this area. The Council had written to the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  on 1st December stating: 
Advice has been received through the Department of Lands in connection with a proposed extractive industry portions 145, 146, and part 324 Londonderry Road, Londonderry - 
And this is in the Penrith municipality - 
Pointing out that the Department of Civil Aviation has advised the Department of Lands that the area covered by the proposed mineral lease is within an area currently being investigated in relation to Sydney's future aviation, and the Department of Civil Aviation - 
I ask honourable members to note the reference to that Department - has requested that any action on the application be deferred until the investigations are completed. 
Honourable members should keep in mind that the Minister for Civil Aviation had written to me as follows in a letter dated 21st May: lt is again confirmed that no such land survey has been initiated by my Department. 
When sending me that correspondence, the Penrith City Council attached a letter from the Minister for Civil Aviation to the Council stating: 
The Federal Government has set up an interdepartmental committee to examine and report to it on the necessity for and suggested location of any additional airport which may be required to supplement Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport when the aircraft traffic there reaches saturation point. This Committee is investigating a number of possible sites within a reasonable distance of Sydney and the Penrith area is included in these. 
Evasiveness has taken place, and misleading statements have been made. I realise that suggestions made have not been direct statements, different interpretations on the suggestions being possible. However, in the first instance, the suggestion was made that nothing had been done in regard to any large airport. Later there were suggestions that this particular area had been considered only for RAAF requirements. Now correspondence from the Minister to the Penrith City Council has come to light that definitely indicates that an interdepartmental committee has been looking at the Penrith area - the Londonderry area comes within the Penrith municipality - in relation to a future runway to service civil aviation requirements. 
I ask the Minister to explain this evasiveness and the misleading statements. I ask that the Penrith City Council, which has made this request, be allowed to submit evidence to the interdepartmental committee before any decisions are made on future aerodromes in the Sydney area. I also ask for a definite statement as to the Government's intentions in regard to a civil airport in the Sydney region. Too much evasiveness has occurred; it is time the Minister came forward and was a little bit frank with this Parliament and with the people as a whole. 
Finally, I point to the need to establish a Parliamentary select committee to assist in the selection of a site for the next airport in the Sydney region. Until that is done, I think this secrecy and the great problems associated with not giving full facts to the Parliament and the people will create many problems for this Parliament and for the Government, and will also raise grave doubts in the minds of many people throughout the length and breadth of the Sydney area and beyond. 
askedthe Treasurer, upon  notice: 
Was approval given for the banks to impose charges for the keeping of cheque accounts for social clubs, P. &amp; C. organisations, etc. 
If so, why was the approval given. 
Was consideration given to the recent decision of the New South Wales State Government to impose stamp duty on the cheque accounts of societies and similar type of organisations, thereby increasing the costs of these organisations. 
asked the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
In view of his advice that it has been decided, upon completion of a Department survey, to extend the network of regional offices of his Department to various locations in both the Sydney suburban and country areas of New South Wales, can he now state the intended locations of these offices, apart from Blacktown. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that if a doctor prescribes the drug Intal to a patient and that patient wishes to obtain that drug for a 50c charge, the doctor has to complete Form PB10a 4/70. 
Is it also a fact that this form requires the doctor to answer 34 questions on this 4-page, printed quarto form . 
If the position is as stated, will he give consideration to varying this procedure so as to make it easier for doctors to assist their patients in claiming the benefits of this drug. 
asked the Minister rep  resenting the Minister for Housing, upon notice: 
Can the Minister say whether the maximum loan fixed by the New South Wales Credit Union Act for credit unions is $4,000 whereas the Government's proposed legislation extending Home Savings Grants to credit unions stipulates that at least15 per cent of total lending by credit unions should be in housing loans of not less than $7,000. 
If so, does this show that the Government's proposed legislation may be impracticable. 
If it is impracticable, what action does the Minister contemplate to meet the position. 
asked the Minister for the 
Interior, upon notice: 
Did Officers of his Department carry out a survey in the Londonderry area of New South Wales in August 1969. 
If so, was this survey made at the request of the Department of Civil Aviation. 
Wasthe survey made in connection with a proposal that a north-south runway should be constructed as an addition to the Richmond airport. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the recent adVice forwarded by the New South Wales Department of Local Government to local government authorities in New South Wales, following the announced increase in the Commonwealth Bond rate, of an increase in the maximum interest rates which the Loan Council is prepared to approve in respect of loan raisings by councils and other semi-governmental bodies. 
If so, does this increase in interest rates place an undue burden upon local government authorities a'nd. consequently, the ratepayers at a time when these local government authorities are struggling to meet the demands of development in their areas, particularly in the outer, perimeter areas of the great cities. 
ls it a fact that there is a need to increase public investment in these local government areas, particularly in the outer, perimeter areas. 
Will this increase in interest rates act as  a  deterrent to such public investment. 
If so, will he review the whole question of loan raisings with the object of relieving local government bodies of this increase in interest rates. 
asked the Minister  for Health,  upon  notice: 
Can he say whether discussions arc currently taking place between the Prime Minister and the 
Premier of New South Wales on ways of releasing land at the North Head Quarantine Station for a harbour side park. 
If so, as Minister in control of the Station, has he been brought into the discussions. 
I oppose the proposition. I should like to deal with a few of the points that were raised earlier this evening. The honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  stated that there was a very great need for the reform of the procedures of this House. I do not think that too many honourable members would disagree with that. He referred to committees and said that the day would come when the committee system would be instituted, but when I asked him by interjection whether he would support the committee system and would vote for it - he will get the opportunity pretty soon now - be did not answer. I do not think he is being fair dinkum in his remarks. Either he believes that this is a reform or he is trying to make it out to be a reform. 
Let us look at the proposition. The most important thing is for this House to sit for as many months of the year as is possible as a forum and as a watch dog to ensure that the Executive does not have unbridled rein and unbridled opportunity to govern for the greater part of the year. I think we must look at the history of recent events. As the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  said tonight, the Government tried to be too rigid in its method of handling the House during the last sessional period and it was faced with revolt. Accordingly it lost control and the House sat for 4 days a week instead of the traditional 3 days. The Government has suddenly realised that if it can continue the 4-day week sitting cycle the House, in normal circumstances, will meet for fewer months of the year than it has been meeting in the past, given the same amount of legislation to handle. The proposal is to concertina the sittings of the House so that the period in which we will be able to act as a watch dog on the Executive and determine the government of this country will be reduced. That is the motive behind it. lt is true that we would sit for the same number of days in a 12 weeks cycle if we sat for 4 days a week for 2 weeks on and I week off as we would if we sat for 4 days a week for 3 weeks on and t week off. But the important thing is that 4 sitting days a week would become a permanent arrangement to enable the Government to concertina the business of the House and to sit for fewer months of the year, thus depriving the public, the Press and this Parliament of the opportunity to act as a watch dog on the Executive. That is the base motive behind this proposal before the House. That is why the Ministry is so keen to see it implemented. 
Without doubt there are other aspects to be considered. If the House met on Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday of the first week and Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday of the second week difficulties would be created such as those mentioned by the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope)  and other honourable members who have set days for interviewing constituents and for meeting the normal commitments that a member of Parliament has to meet. If the proposal were adopted it would be far better to sit for the same days on each week and for us to have the same day off, whether it be a Monday or a Friday, so that we would be able to make long term commitments. However, I repeat that the most important thing to look at is the way in which this proposal for a 4-day sitting week arose and the motive behind it. It will mean that overall the House will be in session for a shorter period and will be in recess for a longer period. The Government wants to concertina the sittings by meeting for 4 days a week instead of 3 days a week. The Executive has suddenly realised, as a result of the circumstances which arose during the last sessional period, that it has an opportunity to govern for longer periods by virtue of the fact that the Parliament will be in recess for longer periods. For those reasons I oppose the proposition. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
ls it a fact that, because of amendments made to the Copyright Act last year, recording companies are now demanding from radio stations cash payments of royalties in respect of records played on the air with the result that radio stations are now refusing the play Australian and most English records. 
Is he able to say whether this is having  a  detrimental effect on Australian composers and musicians. 
Should Australian musicians and composers receive every assistance from Government legislation instead of being placed at a disadvantage by it. 
ls action urgently needed to promote these composers and musicians keeping in mind that the Broadcasting and Television Act provides for a minimum of only 5% of the time to be spent by broadcasting stations in the broadcasting of music by Australian composers. 
Will he take whatever steps he can to overcome this situation. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker- 

I accept the apology. I also will be quite brief on this matter. I think that the question the House has to look at is whether this proposal is a reform or a retrograde step. We have heard a lot to the effect that this report which has been brought in covers proposals for reform of the Standing Orders and reform of all the conditions under which this House meets to consider the important legislation and proposals which come before it Any proposal which tends to encourage fewer members to be present in the House at any time during any debate cannot on any interpretation be considered to be a reform. If it were a reform, the proposal brought before us for an amendment ot 
Standing Orders would be designed to encourage more members to be in the House at any particular time. For this reason one cannot help wondering whether this proposal has been introduced for the convenience of individuals so that they may spend as little time as possible in '.he House. 
One of the best ways to illustrate what 1 am saying is to refer to something which happened in the latter part of the last session when we had very late sittings into the early hours of the morning. On one occasion in the last couple of weeks of the session it was freely rumoured that had a quorum been called at 2 o'clock in the morning there would not have been enough members present in the House to form a quorum. Whether that was correct or not, it was freely rumoured about the House at that time. So the situation was tested, but the test came fairly early in the evening - at about 11.45 p.m. or 12 o'clock - because it was known that once again we were going to have an all-nighter. I speak subject to correction as to the number of members who were present on that occasion, but my recollection is that 48 members were present. All others had gone home. If there had been fewer than the 42 members required for a quorum the House would have been counted out. 
If we reduce a quorum to 21 members we will encourage honourable members to take French leave and to arrange unauthorised pairs. I suggest that it would be a retrograde step which would encourage fewer members to be present in the chamber at any one time. For these reasons I cannot help wondering whether the proposal now before us has been introduced to suit the convenience of some honourable members. Will it be a reform if it encourages fewer members to be ^resent? Although 1 doubt that we would have more members present if we maintained the present quorum. I am certain that with a smaller quorum fewer members would be present at a particular time. I think it could be argued that this proposal could be considered to be an excuse for more Executive control of this House and the workings of government and to provide less opportunity for the Parliament to act as a watchdog over Government and the Executive. If carried it would certainly reduce the capacity and importance of the Parliament. 
If we carry this proposition tonight we will leave the people with the impression that from now on we will need only half the number of members for the Parliament to function according to law and in accordance with the Standing Orders. Is this a good image for the Parliament to project when we have been stressing the authority and importance of Parliament and deploring the tendency for the Executive to take more control of the functions of Parliament? Every day in the week we hear honourable members saying that this is happening. Yet at the same time there is an endeavour to reduce the quorum to half its present number and to encourage members to stay away from sittings of this House. For these reasons I must oppose the proposition. I hope the Parliament will ensure that the proposal does not become a reality. 
Question put: 
That sub-paragraph (c) of paragraph (1.) relating to a reduction in the quorum, being part of the motion moved by the Leader of the House, be endorsed in principle. 
Is the Treasurer aware of reports that the Japanese Ministry of Finance is now likely to approve of the Fuji Bank's plan to join with the Commercial Bank of Australia and 5 overseas banks to set up a Melbourne-based Euro-Pacific Corporation- and that the Bank of Tokyo will take a 20.4 per cent interest in the Adelaide-based Beneficial Finance Corporation? Is he also aware that other Japanese banks, including Mitsui, Mitsubishi and Sumitomo are also considering a financial invasion of Australia? Will the Treasurer indicate whether he has discussed this matter with the Reserve Bank and also what steps he intends to take to maintain Australian - influence in the banking and fringe banking systems of Australia? 
asked the Minister  representing the  Minister for Civil  Aviation,  upon notice: 
When is the report of. the Inter-Departmental Committee which is inquiring into the question of a second airport for Sydney area likely to be released. 
I want to touch on 3 aspects of the Treasury estimates. I think the first and foremost matter which I wish to bring before the Committee is the need for a new approach by the Treasury to the question of Treasury finance so far as the expanding perimeter areas of the great cities are concerned. I think if we look around at the rest of the world today and at the activities of federal governments such as those in the United States of America, Canada and West Germany we will find that they have a dramatically different approach to urban development and city development and particularly to the developing areas on the perimeters of the cities from the approach in 
Australia today. For some considerable time now the Opposition in this House has been pressing the need for the Government to reassess this matter and to have another look at it. 1 make this appeal here tonight. 1 think there is a far greater need than is generally realised in the Government ranks for co-operation amongst the 3 fields of government - the Commonwealth, the States and local government. I believe there is a great need for the Commonwealth to assume as much responsibility as has been accepted by other federal governments in the United States, Canada and West Germany. I believe that grants should be made to the States specifically earmarked for the developing perimeter areas to overcome the very great problems that exist. I shall outline in detail some specific examples in a few minutes. 1 believe that the Grants Commission should be reconstituted to do this and I believe that there should be a new approach on the question of interest rates, particularly on local government finance. 
Interest rates have increased recently. Let us look at the way the general banking rate has gone up. 1 recall that just after World War II the general rate was  4i  per cent or 41 per cent. Today it is at the 8 per cent mark. Needless to say this is creating a very great strain upon our local government and State bodies, but particularly does this strain occur in those new areas where there is so much to be done and where there is such rapid and dramatic expansion occurring. I ask the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  to come out with me and some of the other authorities - we could bring other members such as the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin)  on his own side of the House - and look at just some of the problems that exist in these new developing areas. 
For example, we could visit the new Housing Commission development at Mount Druitt. Already between 4,000 and 5,000 Housing Commission houses have been built there and over 8,000 are proposed to be built. The charter of the Housing Commission stops virtually when it builds those houses and puts the people in them. It is then up to the local government bodies to provide the facilities. The State has to provide the necessary transport, develop ovals and playing areas for the children and meet the needs of education and the other very, great needs of an area which is developing at such an extraordinarily rapid rate. In 1966, only 4 years ago, this area did not exist as a residential area. The Minister for Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  stated in this House that he understood the average age of all people, including grown-ups, in the area was 8 years of age. The number of children, young Australians growing up, is extraordinary there. I ask the Treasurer today to come and look at the problems of that area as they exist - for instance, the lack of any sporting facilities. It is an area as big as Wagga and it is only now getting a police station with police allocated to it. Only now are the authorities considering building a public health centre. It is not there yet. An ambulance station has just been completed and a fire station is being built. 
No public halls, no community centres, nowhere for the children to play. The social problems that can come from this state of affairs are extraordinary. I make a special appeal for the Treasurer to move away from the Treasury building, move away from the theories of Treasury finance, move away from the issues on which he formed his belief, as disclosed in letters written to me, that the increase in local government interest rates is not having a detrimental effect on public investment, particularly in these new fringe developing areas, and for one day come out with me and have a look at the human problems in these areas, because they are very, very great indeed, and unless something is done to solve them there will be very serious social and economic problems there in the future. 
As I said, the charter of the Housing Commission which builds the houses virtually stops when the houses are completed and the people are put in them. It is then up to the people to look after themselves. The local government and State bodies are not in the financial position to cope adequately with these tremendous problems. So I ask the Treasurer once again to pick his own team and spend one day with me in those areas alone to have a personal look at the problems that exist, because I think it would change his attitude on these important issues of the reconstitution of the Grants Commission, the problem of local government interest rates, the need for grants to the States specifically earmarked for these problems of local government finance, the questions of education, health facilities and all the rest that is needed in these areas. I ask him to come and have a look at the problems. I feel sure that his humanity will be touched by them. As I said, Mount Druitt is an area almost as big as Wagga, yet it has not got the ordinary everyday facilities which exist in virtually all other areas. Incidentally, another matter of vital importance right throughout that area is the provision of sewerage which is vital for health reasons alone. The moment that diseases such as hepatitis spread, a very serious problem is created. Only last week I went out with a senator to look at some of the pollution problems in the south Mount Druitt area, where there is a completely flat area without sewerage. There, once again, the health hazard to the public is very decisive indeed. 
While I have the opportunity I would like to touch briefly upon what I would call a sleight of hand Budget insofar as the so-called tax concessions of this Government are concerned. I have taken out a few figures. The Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  undertook in the last election campaign to reduce taxation for the middle and lower income groups. In hard dollars and cents the only people who will benefit in any real way are those in the very high upper middle income bracket. Had taxation rates remained at their present level this year there would have been an increase in revenue of $408m, on the Treasurer's own figures. He has given back to the public $23 Om of that $408m, so he will still collect in income tax approximately $178m additional. He has added on to that $666m from 3 taxes alone - excise duty, customs duty and sales tax. We can add on to that postal charges and telephone charges, which have also been increased. In other words, all this will be passed on either directly or indirectly to the public so that the public, particularly the lower and middle income brackets and especially the lower middle income brackets, will pay considerably more in taxation, be it direct or indirect, than they did last year. The Government has obviously deliberately abrogated the undertaking it gave in the last election campaign. Those sections of the community with families, those bringing up the young Australians, will be particularly affected by this decision and this abrogation of policy. 
The final matter I want to deal with is the tendency these days for overseas banking institutions to come to this country. The Labor Party's approach to the question of overseas capital is not one that could be described as outright opposition. We believe that if capital brought to this country brings us new know-how and techniques or gives something to this country for its industry and development, it is beneficial. But when capital is brought here purely for the takeover of existing Australian enterprises and does not bring extra know-how and techniques, we are opposed to it. The week before last I asked the Treasurer a question about Japanese banks. I want to make it clear that there are no racial aspects in this. I was dealing with the whole question of the movements not only into the takeover of industrial organisations, not only into the real estate field but into the banking field, and particularly the merchant and fringe banking fields, by overseas concerns. These are fields over which this Parliament, whilst it has controls over the conventional banking system, has no controls. The Parliament has no controls over the fringe and merchant banking field. In my question to the Treasurer, I pointed out that the Fuji Bank intended to join with the Commercial Bank of Australia and 5 overseas banks to set up a Melbourne-based Euro-Pacific Corporation and that the Bank of Tokyo would take a 20.4 per cent interest in the Adelaide-based Beneficial Finance Corporation. I also pointed out that other banks including Mitsui, Mitsubishi and Sumitomo were all considering at this time a financial invasion of Australia. 1 asked the Treasurer: 
Will the Treasurer indicate whether he has discussed this matter with the Reserve Bank and also what steps he intends to take to maintain Australian influence in the banking and fringe banking systems of Australia? 
The Treasurer gave me a very evasive reply. It was obvious from his reply that he showed no great concern for the fact that this was occurring. We know that quite a number of overseas organisations have entered into the fringe and merchant banking fields in Australia. This is something which we should not accept in such a laissez-faire way. It is a problem which ought to be watched carefully. I raised it on Tuesday, 1st September, hoping that the Treasurer would show some concern and indicate some intention to keep a careful watch on the problem. 
Yes, where is the Treasurer? He is not in the House tonight when the estimates of his Department are being discussed. 
So, the Treasurer is overseas when the estimates of his Department are being discussed. Might I make this point: I am not criticising one country. This is a general problem. I am not opposing simply the introduction of capital from overseas for the sake of opposing it. Overseas capital can be beneficial to this country in some instances. But this movement at the present time to achieve an undue influence in our banking system and particularly upon the merchant and the fringe banking systems over which this Parliament has no direct legislative control, should be watched and should be treated with a far more careful approach than has been done up to date. I would ask the Committee to give consideration to these 3 issues but particularly to the first issue which I raised which was the question of the need for a new approach to financing fringe areas. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Below what height does aircraft noise become a nuisance in respect of large jets such as the 707 and 727. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, having listened to the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  for the last half hour, one would believe that this Government has been the most generous government that we have seen for all time so far as this increase of pensions - a mere SOc per week - is concerned. From what I can see, he has adopted an approach which is similar to the extreme conservative approach and the reactionary approach that he has taken on the Rhodesian problem. He has spent most of the last half hour arguing that there should not be any further increase beyond this 50c per week for pensioners. 
If the honourable member thinks that the general public agrees with him, I can say only that he is whistling in the dark. One of the best examples of this was given to me just a few minutes ago by the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby),  when he walked into the House. He had received a phone call from a  Mr Ron  Hathaway, a representative of the Riverina Anglican Synod.  Mr Hathaway  had been listening to the debate and rang to say that the Synod had voted to tell the Parliament that it regarded the 50c increase as inadequate and called for an appropriate increase to keep pace at least with the cost of living. This is an example of action by the Riverina Anglican Synod. As I said, if the honourable member for Boothby believes in his conservative approach to this problem that his argument, which he has put forward during the last half hour, against any further increase in pensions has any public support he should reflect on what I have quoted as a result of a phone call from the Riverina and also he should get out amongst the public to see what the public reaction is. As I have said, the honourable member adopted an approach to this problem similar to the approach of extreme conservatism that he adopted in relation to the Rhodesian problem. 
The honourable member for Boothby criticised at great length - I sat here staggered to hear this criticism - the fact that the Australian Labor Party is advocating that the pension rate should be tied to average weekly earnings and that a pensioner should have some base on which to say: 'All right, if prices and earnings are to increase, I at least should get a proportion of that increase'. I did not think that that was a dramatic suggestion- 
I agree; 1 think that it is a reasonable proposition - but not so the honourable member for Boothby. Honestly, I cannot work out what the basis of his criticism is. We have spoken of average weekly earnings. By the way, he spoke of some sort of - what was it? - a base wage- 
A most common wage, I am informed. This is a new one. We have not heard of it before. It would be very difficult to find and to assess such a common wage. The statistics presented by the honourable member's government on average weekly earnings show that, during the last quarter, average weekly earnings were $81 per week. If we were to tie pensioners to 30 per cent of average weekly earnings, the pension rate currently would be $24.30 per week. 
Let us consider average weekly earnings as a percentage of the pension. When Labor went out of office in 1949, the pension represented 21.9 per cent of average weekly earnings. Now, it is down to 19.1 per cent. That is the lowest percentage in the whole of the period since 1949. Surely that shows that there is some logic in the Opposition's criticism of the paucity of the increase. Do not forget, this is in a period when we are advocating a further increase in pensions, when prices and wages are increasing at a very rapid rate, when the Government tells us day after day that there is an inflationary movement ahead and when the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  speaks of an overheated economy. Apparently everyone is to be overheated except the pensioners. We of the Australian Labor Party make no excuse for supporting the proposal mentioned by the honourable member for Boothby that there should be a tie between the pension and the average weekly earnings. 
I did not say 30 per cent. I said 'if 30 per cent were accepted'. lt is common justice that there should be that tie. That is why  speaker  after  speaker  on the Opposition side has said that this is the time for a complete reassessment of the whole social services framework. I know that the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  is a kindly man and I am certain that he would have liked to come before the House with a higher increase than is proposed. I am certain also that within the Cabinet he would have objected to the fact that the Treasury, led by the Treasurer, made sure that the increase would not be any greater than it is. 
The Opposition has proposed the following amendment: 
Thai all words after 'that' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: whilst not opposing the provisions of the Bill this House is of opinion that - 
the increases proposed are inadequate, 
social service payments generally are inadequate to maintain an acceptable standard of living, 
steps should be taken immediately to eliminate poverty, and 
a contributory national superannuation system should be established and the means test eliminated. 
That is the proposition that we ask the House to support. Is there anyone here who, in real conscience, could argue against it? 
One aspect with which I wish to deal specifically is the Government's refusal to give any worthwhile assistance to the family within the framework of social  services  Child endowment is one of the best ways in which to assist the family because it is paid irrespective of the income earned by that family. Furthermore, it is not taxable. The information that I am about to cite was given to me by the Minister for Social Services in reply to a question. When child endowment was introduced in 1941 it was 50c for each child after the first child. In 1941 a man with a wife and 3 children received child endowment of $1 a week. That same couple with 3 children today would receive S3 a week. Tn 1941 the minimum wage - of course it was then known as the basic wage - was S8.60 a week. Today this Government has made sure there is no basic wage. It has eliminated it. The basic wage was one of the best protections that the average wage and salary earner had. 1 should correct that. It was eliminated by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, but the Government supported the elimination. In his answer to me the Minister pointed out that in June 1967 the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission decided to eliminate the basic wage and margins from its awards and to introduce total wages as from July 1967. The Minister stated: 
The current weekly rates of minimum wage prescribed in Commonwealth awards for capital cities are- 
Then the answer went on to quote the figures. This answer was given last session. Broadly speaking, the average is about $42 per week. So that in 1941 the basic wage was $8.60 a week and in 1970 the minimum wage is approximately $42 a week. That means that there has been an increase of nearly $34 a week. It has increased by over 4 times. Yet child endowment has only increased from Si to $3. On the basis of no child endowment for the first child and child endowment for the second and third children, a person with 3 children should receive $4 a week today if (he rate had been kept up to a commensurate sum, plus further child endowment for the first child. This is indicative of how the family has been completely forgotten. The Government apparently thinks that child endowment and the family today are old hat, and yet the family is the very basis of our community and these are the people whom we should be looking after. 
There should be an increase of at least $1 a week for the second and third children plus a further increase to take account of the first child if child endowment is to be commensurate to when it was first introduced in this Parliament in 1941. I therefore submit that this Government is not interested in promoting young Australian families and in removing the necessity for wives to go to work. In this new economy we live in, forced upon this country by this Government, to cam enough to live adequately there must be 2 incomes in the house. People say this is because of economic circumstances. It is because of the economic policy of this Government. It has consistently promoted the situation in which families have to have 2 wages or salaries. 
Another matter I wish to deal with is the question of civilian widows. They are a very small section of our community and do not have a great deal of voting power. Accordingly, as tends to happen, unless people are in a strong pressure group they do not get justice. Civilian widows, particularly those with young children, are not part of a strong pressure group: they are a small minority, a small section of underprivileged people who do not have the voting power. Consequently they do not get the necessary justice. Nothing is worse than for a woman with a young family to be suddenly deprived of her husband, lt is a dreadful thing emotionally and economically.  Her  responsibilities are immediately doubled. She has to bring up the family, and she no longer has her partner to assist her. 
Yet for some reason the Government has chosen to use 2 different values. I speak here as a relumed soldier. There are 2 different classes - the civilian widow who has lost her husband and the war widow who has lost her husband as a result of sickness or injury incurred during war service. I submit very sincerely to the Minister that these 2 classes should not exist. They are both basically the same. As a returned soldier with full cognisance of the position, 1 cannot see why a war widow  with 3 children should receive $39.50 a week whilst a civilian widow with 3 children receives only $29 a week, and an extra $2 if 1 of the children is under the age of 6 years. In other words, a war widow receives $10.50 a week more than a civilian widow, unless the latter has a child under the age of 6 years, in which case the difference is $8.50. 1 submit that there is no moral or social basis for that difference. Both women have to look after their families. Both have lost their husbands, breadwinners or partners in helping them to bring up the children. So, the war widow and the civilian widow have common responsibilities. For that reason I believe that they should receive common pensions. I certainly do not believe that the pension should be reduced to the level of that of the civilian widow, because that is far too low. The war widow's pension is far more adequate. The pension for civilian widows, and also that  tor  invalid pensioners, should be increased to the level of the pension for war widows. 1 must say that I am very pleased to hear the announcement about the widows rehabilitation scheme. This is a new proposal and a very human one. It will go a long way towards training women to return to work and to earn money to keep their families. But I make the point that this should not be necessary. If a woman desires to stay at home with her children and help to bring them up, she should be able to do so; she should not be forced to go to work because of the inadequacy of the pension. Nevertheless, I am pleased to see that something is being done which will be of great assistance to civilian widows. 
I refer now to the question of deserted wives. I have mentioned it before in this House, but I do not think it hurts to keep on referring to it. I still cannot understand the logic, the common sense or the humanity of the requirement that a deserted wife must be deserted for 6 months before she can obtain a deserted wife's pension or a widow's pension, as it Ls commonly called. I know that most States now give some assistance in the form of State social welfare payments. But let us keep in mind that those States are simply taking over the responsibility of the Commonwealth which refuses to acknowledge its own responsibility. As I said, I feel that this is an inhuman approach. Once again there is enough complete degradation and despair for a woman when her husband does desert her without making it all the worse by saying that she cannot obtain a pension from the Commonwealth until she has been deserted for 6 months. 
Then there is the other requirement, that she needs to have sued for maintenance from her husband. Even after a period of 6 months she must have sued for maintenance before she can obtain a pension. This can have only one effect. In many instances suing for maintenance in order to obtain a pension to live on can be the very action which destroys all future chances of reconciliation. On occasions the woman has said to me: '1 do not wish to sue for maintenance because if I do I can forget that he will ever come back to the home again.' For this reason I ask the Minister please to examine these proposals carefully. The first point is that to obtain a pension a deserted wife has to wait for a period of 6 months; and the second is that to obtain a pension she must sue for maintenance from her husband. I ask him in the cause of humanity to look at these things because there are some very real human issues involved in these 2 requirements of the Commonwealth. I know that he will. 
There is also, of course, the question of the elimination of the means test. This is mentioned in the amendment moved by the Opposition. We all know that there is a great deal of agitation for this and that it is, 1 think, agreed within the House that it is a very reasonable proposition. This is called for in the amendment which I read out to the House a little while ago. The Labor Party's proposal is that a contributory superannuation system should be established and the means test eliminated. I believe that it is essential that a committee of inquiry should be set up as soon as possible to initiate these very essential and necessary inquiries to bring about this situation I stress one other thing. The elimination of the means test should not be used as an excuse to refuse to look after those underprivileged sections of our community who have not been able to look after themselves. I know it is always argued that it should not be forgotten that they could have saved money during their working lives. Some can and some cannot. It depends so often upon economic circumstances, upon the health of the individual and upon so many other factors, such as the marriage concerned, the money earned and the number of children they had to bring up. Many different issues are involved, and to try to lay down one standard for the whole community is utterly impossible, and immoral. I believe that this should never at any stage be used as an excuse to refuse or to forget to look after those sections of the community which have not been able, because of the various economic, social and family circumstances involved, to look after themselves. 
Finally I once again emphasise that there is a need today for a complete reappraisal of the whole of our social services framework. 1. ask that the Parliament give immediate consideration to this reappraisal of the social services programme. Unless this is done and unless justice is given to all these segments of the community about which I have spoken today - those with families, the civilian widow who has so much to look after, the deserted wife, the invalid and age pensioner and these various other sections of our community who need assistance - this Parliament will stand damned. Unless something is done to give justice to these segments of our community this Parliament will stand damned as not having removed underprivilege, poverty and human degradation. It will stand damned because it has deliberately disadvantaged a large section of our community, forcing those people to continue to live in poverty and, in many instances, in despair. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Trade and Industry. Having noted that the United Kingdom Minister responsible for negotiations with the European Economic Community arrived at Canberra on Tuesday for 2 days of talks with the Government on EEC problems I ask: Can the Minister advise the House whether the Government obtained from that Minister any assurances in respect of the protection of markets for Australian products? 

 - Mr Chairman, I wish to raise two or three aspects of the matter of civil aviation. I was very interested to hear the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  tonight offer to put the next airport for the Sydney area into the electorate of the honourable member for Mitchel  (Mr Irwin).  The honourable member for Grayndler suggested that that would be very nice because aircraft then would fly over my electorate. I can appreciate the great interest shown by my friend in getting the airport away from the Grayndler electorate. But I do not wish to see anybody suffer discomfort in the areas represented by the honourable member for Mitchel or by myself. For this reason, I rise tonight to deal with this issue and to indicate to the Committee quite a number of items of corespondence that I have received and what is in these items of corespondence. 
As honourable members will know, I have been writing to the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman),  the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  and various other Ministers since I first raised this matter in the Parliament earlier this year. I first raised the issue on 18th 
March. The following day the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz),  who represents the Minister for Civil Aviation in this place, answered a question asked by the honourable member for Mitchell on this subject. That night, the honourable member for Mitchel spoke on the motion for the adjournment of the House. The reason for this action was that I had heard that a land survey had been carried out in the Richmond-Londondery area. This was what was called a 'preliminary land survey*. At the time, the only inference that could be drawn from what either the Minister or the honourable member for Mitchell or any other member on the Government side had said was that no such land survey had occurred. 
In fact, the honourable member for Mitchell when speaking on that matter on 20th March 1970, at 12.2 a.m. - very early in the morning - said: 
A survey was made last year. I was brought into it because many of the property owners involved got in touch with me and wanted to know what was going on. It was simply a survey by the Department of Air in relation to the identification of blocks of land that the air base at Richmond had controlled for many years. There is nothing in the suggestion about the establishment of an aerodrome in the area. Many locations are under consideration at present but I say without fear of contradiction that there has never been a survey of this area for that purpose. 
Subsequently, we found that the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  and later the Minister for Air admitted that a land survey had been carried out in the area. It was important to know that a survey had occurred. But that was not the only point, because that information raised the question whether there were any suggestions that an airport would be established there. Varying rumours were floating around the area at the time and we wanted to know whether this was a proposal by the Department of Civil Aviation or by the Department of Air. The Department of Air said that it was looking at it from the point of view of a long term proposal. It said that, in the event of the Royal Australian Air Force acquiring larger planes in the future, the Department might wish to put a new airstrip in the Richmond-Londonderry area. Let us look at some of the statements the Minister for Civil Aviation has made to me in reply to various items of correspondence. 
I refer first to a letter from the Minister for Civil Aviation dated 21st July 1970. The Minister said: 
The area in the general vicinity of Richmond is one of the suitable locations from a purely aviation point of view. 
The Minister was talking about the possibility of a second airport in the area. The Minister for Air in his letter dated 8th August said: 
As you will be aware, the Department of Civil Aviation has shown some interest in the Richmond area in connection with possible civil aviation requirements. 
I refer next to a telegram from the Minister for Civil Aviation dated 18th August 1970 which said: 
I have already advised you that the area in the general vicinity of Richmond is one of a small number of locations near Sydney which are suitable for a civil airport. 
I come now to a letter dated 3rd September - that is, it was written this month - from the Minister for Civil Aviation. The Minister states: 
Insofar as the Richmond area is concerned it, is one of the locations which I am expecting the Committee to comment upon- 
The Minister refers there to the interdepartmental committee set up to recommend to the Government, first, whether there should be a second airport and, secondly, if so, where it should be sited:  . . but I am sure that a great deal of survey and engineering work will be necessary before any proposal could be developed with the tentative lay-out of runways. Such a lay-out would govern the flight paths of aircraft and their height above the ground at particular points. 
Having read such correspondence, I ask honourable members: Is it any wonder that the people and the municipal councils of this area are concerned as to whether or not the Government is interested in this area for civil aviation requirements and whether the interdepartmental committee itself is interested in the area. 
It te most important ,1, 9 this interde partmental committee should bring down its report as quickly as it possibly can. I believe that this is absolutely vital because a great deal of conjecture is going on in all sorts of circles about this matter. For instance, the New South Wales State Planning Authority, a State instrumentality, has advised the Penrith City Council that it will refuse - and it actually has refused - applications in the Londonderry area for the development of an extractive industry. The reason given for the refusal was that that area possibly could be considered as the site for a civil aviation airport. The State Planning Authority went further than that finally and offered to enter into negotiations for the purchase of the said land because it possibly could be so affected. When a situation such as this arises, is it any wonder that members like me come to this Parliament and say: 'Surely it is time for the interdepartmental committee to present its report'. I would say that it was approximately 3 weeks ago when the Minister told me that the report would be out within the month. But what I cannot find out so far is whether that report will be tabled and made public after the Minister receives it. In other words, when the Minister receives it approximately within the next week or so, will the report be made public? 
The honourable member for McMillan says: 'Of course not'. The very issue which we on this side of the Committee are complaining about is the extreme secrecy of this whole inquiry, not by a committee of this Parliament - keep that in mind - of members from the Opposition and Government sides of the Committee. When we requested that the House of Representatives Select Committee on Aircraft Noise should be given the power and the right to inquire into whether Sydney should have a second airport and where that second airport should be sited so that the people's representatives in this Parliament could make a decision or a recommendation on the matter, our request was refused by the Government. Instead of doing that, the Government has handed this matter over to a committee which meets in secret. The Government also refused appeals made by myself and other honourable members on this side of the Committee, including the honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Luchetti)  and the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman),  asking that the Penrith City Council which had made the request should be allowed to appear before the interdepartmental committee and give evidence as to its considered view of and the way in which this area would be affected by any such proposal. In other words, this committee insists as a departmental com mittee of the Public Service - not of this Parliament - that it should meet in secret and make its decisions in secret. 
When I rose in this Committee tonight and said that I hoped that the report of this Committee would not be kept secret after it was given to the Minister and when I asked whether the report would be released to the House, the honourable member for McMillan from the Government side called: 'Of course not'. This is a ridiculous situation. I sincerely hope that when the Minister receives the report he will make it available immediately not only to members of this Parliament but also to the various organisations which have expressed concern about this matter. Surely the honourable member for KingsfordSmith  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  the honourable member for Grayndler and the honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison)  have a right to see the report. 
Only today the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith suggested that it might be proposed to construct extra runways at Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport. Surely he and the residents in his electorate have a right to know what has been proposed by this committee which has been meeting in secret, even though the honourable member for McMillan says that its report will not be made public. Surely the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith, the honourable member for Mitchell and I have a right to find out what conclusions the committee has reached. 
The important point is that this committee has been meeting in secret. It has not been taking evidence and it has not given an opportunity to outside organisations to ascertain what course its deliberations have been following. The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith suggested that the Government obviously has a fairly clear idea where the next airport for Sydney will be. I cannot help but agree with him. From what the Minister said in the various letters to which I have referred, I think that he has some understanding of the sites at which the interdepartmental committee is looking. The Minister says that he cannot give a definite decision on where the next airport for Sydney will be but, nevertheless, he believes that Richmond will be one of the areas to which the committee will direct its attention. He stated that. The 
Department of Air also said that that is one of the areas in which the Department of Civil Aviation is interested. 
As the honourable member for KingsfordSmith said, perhaps the Government already has an idea where the next airport for Sydney will be. This means that one cannot help but wonder whether the setting up of the interdepartmental committee was merely a blind to detract attention away from what is the real issue, and that is where the next airport for Sydney will be. I have adopted a very simple approach to this matter. I want to see my electorate protected against aircraft noise. Large areas of the electorate and large areas near the electorate could be affected by aircraft noise. As I say, I have adopted the very simple approach of not burying my head in the sand and hoping that the aircraft noise problem will not arise. I have adopted the approach that it is best to kick up as much noise as I can at this stage in order to make sure that the public is aware of what is happening and what is likely to happen in the area. The 5 municipal councils in the Blue Mountains - Windsor, Blacktown, Penrith and Colo areas - have joined together to protest against the possible siting of a second airport for Sydney in their area. I make the final point: Should a second airport be planned for Sydney, I believe that it must be well removed from developed areas, particularly housing areas. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
I just cannot understand what the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin)  means. This is the first time I knew that a member from this side of the House could prevent a member from the other side of the House from speaking. I did not know this could occur. I thought that if the honourable member for Mitchell had wanted to speak yesterday there would have been ample time. There were 2i hours for the debate. 
Reverting to photographs, I direct a question to the Prime Minister. No doubt his attention has been drawn to photographs appearing in the September issue of 'Vogue' - a fashion magazine - depicting 2 of his Ministers, namely the Attorney-General and the Minister for the Army, acting as male models surrounded by a bevy of beautiful female mannequins. I ask him: Does he consider this is action befitting Ministers of State? What action has he taken to censure the 2 Ministers and to ensure a similar exhibition does not occur in future? Were they paid for their labours and if so are they members of the appropriate union covering the calling of a model? If not, was it a labour of love? 
1 have a great deal of personal liking and respect for the honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer)  but i believe that he is getting out of touch when he. makes a statement, as he did earlier this afternoon, that there is no shortage of housing in Australia. I would suggest that he needs to go around and mix with the younger people more. If he does he will find out that a large percentage of younger people cannot even endeavour to build a home today because of the cost of land and the cost of building. Accordingly they are forced into the situation of living with in-laws or living in some rented room, lt is not that there is not a demand for housing; it is simply that many young people are unable to get to the first base of finding the wherewithal to acquire a home, i think he also made a statement that Labor tried to prevent home ownership when it was in power. But having made that statement he then made the conflicting statement that Labor had killed the incentive to invest in rental properties. He cannot have it both ways. Either we killed the incentive to invest for rent and promoted home ownership or vice versa. 
The facts of the matter are that the Labor Party in office, both Federal and State, did everything it could to promote home ownership. I think one can see that in the various spheres, in its banking policies and its encouragement to lending institutions such as the banks and insurance companies to allocate funds to the building societies. One can see it in the housing agreements with the States, to encourage the building of homes and the acquisition of land by the States for the building of homes. The honourable member also said that although interest rates have increased everything else has gone up. What he omitted to point out is that this is a 2-tier system. First of all, the cost of housing in the last 10 years alone has at least trebled, according to the statistics of one of the Government's own instrumentalities, the War Service Homes Division. Following this the cost of the money which has to be borrowed to build a home has gone up. as the honourable member said, and interest rates have doubled as well. So on the one hand the cost in dollars that one pays for the money to build a home as at least trebled and then the interest rate has doubled to increase the price twice again. So his argument that because everything has gone up it does not matter just does not hold water. 
The Opposition has proposed an amendment that expenditure by the Department of Housing be reduced by Si as an instruction to the Government that a national inquiry be initiated to ascertain the nation's housing needs in the future, to identify the shortcomings of the building industry so that they may be quickly removed, to establish beyond doubt the priorities which should be observed in the provision of funds for housing to overcome interest and deposit problems and to provide land and housing at low cost by means of appropriate agreement between the Commonwealth, the States and local government authorities. I support that proposal very strongly. One of the first matters I wish to submit to the Commitee this afternoon relates to the artificial shortage of land which has now arisen. We find today that land is being tied up by big companies and is not being immediately released for sale. We find that there is a lack of public investment owing to the laissez-faire economic policies of this Government and a lack of finance available for public investment in the necessary services such as sewerage, roads, electricity supply and water supply. 
We find that in New South Wales today although there is a State Planning Authority it is not the body charged with the planning of the State. In reality it is the Metropolitan Water Sewerage and Drainage Board which determines which areas will be developed, lt is commonsense that until such time as the Board releases the necessary finance for the development of water reticulation and sewerage the State Planning Authority does not and cannot release the land for home development. This in itself is creating an artificial shortage of land and forcing land prices up. 
Only today I was reading the latest statement made by the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin)  titled 'Housing Aims in the Seventies'. She called for greater stability in the flow of finance for housing in the 1070s. She said: 
This is a matter of great concern to the Government, and especially to my Department, because unnecessary fluctuations in the availability of housing finance cause unnecessary fluctuations in home building. 
She has found out at last. The Opposition has been trying to tell her this for many years past. I would like to quote now from an editorial in the 'Daily Mirror' written after one of her statements not so long ago. ft was made this year and the editorial said: 
Dame Annabelle Rankin is no Walt Disney Tinker Bell, but as the Federal Minister for Housing she is certainly living in a fantasyland. 
Her airy-fairy talk about getting housing finance at 6 per cent interest- 
I would like to know where one can get it at 6 per cent. The bank rates are up around 8 per cent. 1 know of one person who bought a house recently. He settled for the house within the last week and paid 15 per cent flat. The editorial continued:  and a house and land for $10,000 shows that she is so far out of touch that she might as well be on the moon. Without a radio. 
The average cost of a block of land alone in Sydney is $6,800. Who, after paying that, could put up a house for $10,000.  lt would have to be an igloo. The editorial goes on to say: 
If ever there was a time for the Whitlam plan for a 2 per cent subsidy to all young married couples who buy a home in the first 10 years of their marriage this is it. On a $13,000 home- 
That should read $15,000, by the way-  this would save them $204 a year if they pay oil the loan in IS years. Little enough, but certainly a help. 
We even have another editorial in the Daily Mirror' released as late as today commenting upon the statement issued by the Minister for Housing which 1 read just a few moments ago. lt stated: 
Would someone please explain the facts of life to  Senator Dame  Annabelle Rankin, the Commonwealth Minister for Housing? 
This is an editorial in the 'Daily Mirror' today. It continued: 
Every time she opens her mouth she demonstrates her utter inability to grasp the fact that, because of scandalously high prices, a home might as well be a castle. 
Dame Annabelle says: 'All those home seekers who can afford to save to own their own home should save.' 
That is remarkable. The editorial went on: 
Just how many people does the lady senator from Queensland think can afford to save money for a home deposit while paying ridiculously high rents? 
Dame Annabelle ; and some of her ministerial colleagues who insist on talking pie in the sky- 
They are still up in the air -  should listen carefully to  Mr Whitlam,  the Opposition leader. 
He is making a great deal more sense on the housing issue because he is treating it as  a  crisis - with every justification. 
That is the reply by a newspaper, which could not be said to be a friend of the Labor Party, to the statement issued by the 
Minister within the last 24 hours. Every statement she issues calls for another outcry. 
If we take a look at the statistics we find that a house and land costs - if we take the 'Daily Mirror's' price for Sydney - on the average $6,800. If we take the figure given by the War Service Homes Division the cost of the average home it builds - this would be a very conservative figure - would be $10,464. That is the 1969-70 figure. That gives a total of $17,264. With a 15 per cent deposit, if a person can get a house on such low deposit and not many can, he would have to find $2,600 deposit. He would then have to borrow $14,664, as well as paying legal fees, the cost of plans and all the other costs involved. What young couple today on an average income can possibly afford to put themselves $14,664 in debt when the lowest rate of interest they will pay is 8 per cent? As I said, I know of one case where the people had to pay 15 per cent flat. Today far too much of the available finance is going into the commercial building field. 
An article in the 'Australian' on 28th July was headed: 'Boom in Office Building. Credit Squeeze Hits only Finance for Homes'. An article in the Sydney Morning Herald' on 28th July was headed: 'Fewer Homes for more Skyscrapers'. These are the facts of the situation today. Far too much of the finance available is going into purely commercial buildings. There is a need for selective policies to transfer labour and materials and the finance that is available from the excessive concentration on commercial buildings to housing. Unfortunately, time is very limited today. I put to the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  in June this year that at least 1 per cent of the Statutory Reserve Deposits deposited by the trading banks with the Reserve Bank should be allocated, by direction of the Reserve Bank through the trading banks to building societies or other avenues of home finance lending. This would immediately relieve the tremendous dearth in home finance lending that exists today. Although the Treasurer sent me a long letter of gobbledegook as to why he did not think this was a good time to do this, the facts are that there is a severe dearth of home building finance. This is the only method by which the Government can take direct action to overcome the problem. 
I seem to be destined to always speak after the honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer).  I must say once again, as I did last time I spoke after the honourable gentleman, that whilst I have a great deal of personal regard and consideration for him I must take him to task for some of the statements he made. For example, the honourable member stated that there is not any real housing shortage. He also said that the figures of the New South Wales Housing Commission over-estimate the housing shortage. The contrary is the case. I do not think there is any doubt that many people who know that the wail for a Housing Commission home will be 4 or 5 years do not bother to go along to the Commission and put their names down. Therefore, the figures quoted by previous speakers on this side of the House in regard to Housing Commission statistics underestimate the housing shortage in New South Wales. I suggest that the honourable member for Bennelong should get a little bit up to date. I believe he is losing touch. The honourable member should mix around. In particular he should mix with the younger people in our community who are trying to obtain housing or trying, as the honourable member said, to become little capitalists and own their own home. The honourable member should find out how impossible the situation is today for a young married couple, unless they are very fortunate in regard to their economic circumstances, to own a home. These people have a great problem because of the deposit gap which they have to meet if they can get finance. A great body of these people have found finance virtually impossible to obtain from building societies, banks and the like. Far too many of them are being forced into the hands of private money lenders who are charging extortionate rates of interest. 
I know of a young couple who recently purchased a home with temporary finance which was obtained at a 15 per cent flat rate of interest. That is a ridiculous position. I suggest to the honourable member that he should get more in touch with those young people and mix around with them. 
The honourable member for Bennelong should come out to my area and have a look at Blacktown, Seven Hills and places like that. This is one of the youngest areas that one could possibly find. The honourable member for Reid, who just interjected was correct when he made the point that the 2 honourable members from the other side of the House who have spoken on this matter are both over 70 years of age. Therefore, they would find it difficult to understand the problems which face the younger people today. 
I believe we must look at the cause of the downturn in home building, particularly over the last year or so. Honourable members will recollect that the Reserve Bank of Australia recently, in 2 lots of i per cent, called in from the trading banks a total of 1 per cent of their deposits. The money called in was put into the statutory reserve deposits of the Reserve Bank. This was done at a time when the liquidity of the trading banks was being pressed because of the downturn in the rural sector of the economy. In other words, there was a demand upon the trading banks to assist rural industry because of a depression in our rural areas. Therefore, the Government, through its organisation the Reserve Bank, called in deposits of 1 per cent to be placed into the statutory reserve deposits and this happened at the very time when there was a depression in the rural sector of the economy. As I have said before, a demand was made on the trading banks to assist in this regard. As a result, the trading banks had to make a choice and the easiest sector of the economy to hit and to refuse advances to was the housing sector which included building societies which required finance. Also, individual customers who required finance were refused advances. 
For this reason I wrote to the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  on 18th June of this year and I pointed out to him the facts that I have just stated. By the way, the Treasurer did hot question those facts. In my letter I asked: 
I would like to have your comments as to whether this would be a good time to release a proportion of the statutory reserve deposits and, at the same time, issue a Reserve Bank directive to trading banks on lending policy, which would ensure that the housing industry received a reasonable proportion of this release. 
This is the way to overcome some of the dearth of housing finance. I received a rather long-winded reply from the Treasurer. He did not argue against the proposal that I had put up. Not for one moment did he argue that it would not help housing. He argued only whether June was the right time to do what I suggested. Most of us have read in the Press only today that a downturn is now taking place in the inflationary movement. We know also that there has been a downturn in housing. 
Surely this is the time for the Government to act and to release a proportion of the statutory reserve deposits held by the Reserve Bank and at the same time to give a Reserve Bank directive to the banks that that release should be channelled into the housing sector, not the building sector as a whole. As pointed out in the 'Australian* of 28th July, today there is a boom in commercial building and building of that type, but the depression exists in the housing sector. In an article in the 'Australian' of 28th July headed 'Boom in Office Building; Credit Squeeze Hits only Finance for Homes' it is stated: 
The number of new houses and flats approved in May and June is down 23 per cent on the first 4 months of 1970, after seasonal adjustment. 
At the same time the value of commercial and industrial building approvals is up 35 per cent in the June quarter compared with the same period last year. 
In the year to 30th June the value of approvals for hotels, hostels, etc., jumped 94 per cent to $97m, while office approvals rose 80 per cent to $231m. 
This sector of the building industry appears to have been hardly affected at all by the credit squeeze, and will tend to take up some of the resources of labour and capital released by the decline in the home building sector. 
I think it is obvious that there is a need to shift the emphasis away from commercial building and industrial building and to use in home building the men and resources available. The use of the statutory reserve deposits held by the Reserve Bank is one of the most effective methods that could be employed. I do not think very many people would deny that there is an extraordinary lack of finance available from building societies. Yet it is only through the banks and the building societies that we can help our younger people to obtain homes instead of forcing them into the hands of private money lenders, as is happening today. 
I think there is also a need to review completely the homes savings grant legislation. This legislation should be used to overcome the deposit gap and to save young people to some extent from the second mortgages of the money lenders I have already mentioned, who charge extortionately high interest rates. But unfortunately there is a jungle of technicalities in the legislation which one cannot help but suspect is deliberately designed to prevent applicants from qualifying for a homes savings grant. There is a lack of discretionary power for the Minister to act in respect of those technicalities, and there is little doubt that a large proportion of people who should qualify, if the intention of the legislation as announced on the eve of an election campaign were implemented, cannot qualify simply because of those technicalities. 
I would like to deal now with a very important issue, and that is the fact that the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement comes up for re-negotiation with the States in the coming year. As the Minister mentioned in his second reading speech, the allocation that is being made to the States under this Bill will be the last under the present Housing Agreement. 1 would like to deal first of all with the question of Housing Commission areas. I believe that the time has arrived - and I ask that the Government consider these issues - for a .complete re-appraisal of the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement, particularly as it affects Housing Commission areas. 
I believe it is time that, when there is an allocation of funds to build a housing area, a package deal should be given. That package deal should cover not only the acquisition of land and the building of the houses but also should go on to help build a community with a decent quality of life. I believe that it should provide for the allocation of local government finance for ovals, community centres and the like. It should provide for the essential finance for education so that the needs of education in these Housing Commission areas can be met. I can quote as an example Mount Druitt where classes in the schools are overloaded and where schools that are only months old or a year old already have temporary buildings. There is a decisive lack of the necessary educational opportunities in- those areas. 
The package deal should provide also for improved transport services. I give as an example here the Western Suburbs railway line in Sydney. Because of the Mount Druitt, Marayong, Seven Hills and Lalor Park Housing Commission areas the western line is reaching complete saturation, and the time is very close when governments will just have to look at the problem of people being left on the stations in the mornings because the trains simply cannot carry them. There is chaos on the Western Suburbs railway line. The issue has to be faced up to by governments. Therefore the package deal should cover not only local government finance and finance for education but also finance for improved transport services. 
The package deal should provide also for financial incentives to industry to move into these areas. Industries could be attracted to these areas if they were offered cheap money by way of interest rebates, cheaper land and freight rebates for limited periods on the understanding that they would set up in the new developing areas. This in itself would overcome 2 basic problems. It would help to overcome the problem of transport which I have just mentioned, because local employment would be available, and at the same time it would also make sure that local employment was available for the people in these areas. Constituents of mine have to go from Mount Druitt right into the city in the very early hours of the morning to their places of employment, and they get back home very late at night. We must keep in mind that both husband and wife have to do this in these areas because, under the economic set-up of this Government, there have to be two breadwinners instead of one in a family. 
I also think that the renegotiated housing agreement should also provide for far more emphasis upon housing for the aged. One can quote all the statistics one likes, but the fact is that the statistics of the New South Wales Housing Commission show - 1 could be subject to correction as to the exact time - that there is a waiting period of approximately 5 years for entry into an aged person's home. But these statistics do not take into account the great mass of elderly people who are living in degrading conditions today and who simply do not apply for admission to homes for the aged because they know that it could happen that by the time their date of allocation comes up they will not be alive. The statistics therefore completely underestimate the number of people who are waiting. I think that there should not be such large mass Housing Commission areas but that these areas should be integrated into other private housing areas. For example, persons entering most of the new housing commission areas in New South Wales today are subject to a means test, and therefore the people in them are on largely similar incomes, instead of being integrated into communities of varying income groups. 
This is .not a good social base upon which Commission areas should be set up, and although it would be far more expensive to do what I suggest I nevertheless think we should revert to the methods used in the earlier years under Labor government, when the Housing Agreement first came into effect, and when the Housing Commission areas were integrated into private housing districts. I think this would mean the integration of communities and although it would be more expensive it would be a far more socially acceptable proposition. So  1  call for a consideration of these various requirements and needs in the renegotiation of the Housing Agreement with the States. I think that all these things are necessary. The Housing Commission should not simply buy land and build houses. There is a need for package deals providing for transport, industry and employment, local government finance, finance for education and finance for transport. All these facilities are needed to build a community and not just a number of stark homes without the necessary community services around them. This is a very rich country. We have great mineral, rural and industrial wealth and yet we have this extraordinary situation in which a great body of our people, particularly the younger people, in our community are unable to own their own homes,, have to live with in-laws or. in flats and therefore cannot enjoy a real quality of life. 
I wish to bring to the notice of the House tonight the extraordinary secrecy that surrounds the report of the interdepartmental committee that was set up by the Government to inquire into whether there should be a second airport for Sydney and, if so, where that airport should be sited. I have been carrying on quite a lot of correspondence with the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  and mentioning the matter in this House for some considerable time. In every instance the implication in what the Minister has said has been: When the time comes and the interdepartmental committee's report is delivered to the Government, we will be able to discuss the matter with you*. 
We hear now that the report has been delivered, although the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz),  who represents the Minister for Civil Aviation in this House, did not seem even to know yesterday, when answering a question, that the report had actually been submitted. In answer to a question asked by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  he said: 
I indicated at the time that my understanding was that the committee had concluded its work in relation to the survey it was undertaking and that a report could be expected to be submitted to the Minister for Civil Aviation in the near future. 
When I interjected and said: 'He says he has it', the Minister said: 
If he says he has received it I will stand corrected . . . 
That is an extraordinary statement to be made by the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation in this House. He did not even know whether the report had been received. That is a vital issue. I have asked the Minister for Civil Aviation in the corridors of the Parliament when this report will be tabled and will this report be made public. He now says: 'Oh no. We cannot do that. It has to be referred to the Government It is purely a Public Service committee report and it is not for publication*. People throughout the country and those in the various areas who expect they could be affected by the recommendations in this report, have been awaiting the report avidly yet the Minister implied that when he received the report it would be made public. What is the reason for the extraordinary secrecy which now exists in respect of this committee's report. Is it because we have a Senate election coming on? Is that the reason? It would appear that that could have some basis bearing on it and be part of the motive of the Government in suddenly pigeonholing the report and not letting us know where we stand or what is going on. 
A lot of rumours are circulating and we are concerned about this matter. The Minister in correspondence to me said, in effect: 'I cannot say for sure what this Committee will recommend but I expect it will recommend more than one site. It will recommend a number of sites. It will comment upon them and give the reasons for and against them'. Those are the inferences he cast. He said: 'Then it will come forward and we will refer the matter to the State governments' - in other words, pass the buck to them - 'and see what they think about it'. But the rumours are now circulating that the committee is interested in Richmond as one of the areas for a second airport for Sydney. Even in his- correspondence to me the Minister said that he expected Richmond to be commented upon in the committee's report as one of the areas for a possible second airport. It is also suggested that the Wyong area and Holsworthy are commented upon in the committee's report. These are the rumours that are circulating. Then there is another suggestion, and it is a very good reason for the Government's holding up the announcement until after the Senate election. It is suggested that the committee might even be interested in National Park. That would get all the conservationists up in arms, not to mention the people in the Richmond, Londonderry and Penrith areas which cover the districts Of Penrith, Si Marys, Cambridge Park, Mount Druitt, Richmond, Windsor and the like. All of those people would be affected if, as the Minister said, it was expected that those areas would be commented upon in die report. The municipal councils of Blacktown, Penrith, Windsor and the Blue Mountains and the shire council of Colo have formed a committee to protect the areas against the possibility of a second airport being constructed. The committee has asked the Minister for Civil Aviation and the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  to receive a deputation. I have here the Minister's reply. In a telegram to me on 23rd August after I had asked him to receive the deputation he said: 
 I feel that until the Government receives the report of the interdepartmental committee which I expect to be completed within a month it would serve little purpose to discuss the possibility of an airport for civil use in the Richmond area. 
The report has been received. Surely this is the time for him to receive that deputation. My friend  .Senator Fitzgerald  asked the Minister in another place yesterday whether there is a possibility there could be a second airport at Richmond. The Minister said in answer: 
How Sydney can avoid having an international airport and a domestic airport in a situation like this, I do not know. There is no problem about my seeing the people of Penright, Richmond and Windsor. 
I am glad to hear that. He went on: 
It is purely a matter of finding the time. As soon as the Senate rises for the next recess I intend to make arrangements to meet them. 
I can tell honourable members now that the representatives of those councils are quite happy to come here to Canberra to see the Minister. There is no question of time involved; they do not want to have to wait until he goes to Sydney. The sooner they get to see him, the better it will be. I wrote to the Minister on 6th October and asked him whether Richmond had been mentioned in the interdepartmental report, and if so, the text of the reference. Despite 3 telephone calls to the Minister's office I still have not received an acknowledgment of my letter, let alone a reply. 
I raise this question very definitely and sincerely. What is the reason for the Government's secrecy in this matter? The implication of the Government's behaviour over the past months was that when it received the report  it  would make it available to the public and members of this Parliament. But suddenly the report has been pigeonholed. It is not to be made available. What is the reason for the secrecy? Obviously it is because a Senate election is imminent and the report contains information and comment which would react to the detriment of Government on the eve of that election. Some of the areas which could be affected, including Richmond, may have been commented upon. There may also be comment on the rumour concerning the area of a National Park. 
That would react to the detriment of the Government in its election campaign. So it is to be kept secret until the election is over. Then the cat will be let loose. The Government will throw the matter over to the State Government and say: 'Here is the buck. You cop it and make the decision.' 1 call upon the Government to release the report now and let us know where we stand. Advice should be given to the areas which are concerned that they could have a second airport placed there, with the consequence of aircraft noise. Let them know where they stand so that the people concerned can make representations to the Government as ' quickly as possible and before the Senate election is held. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
How many applications were lodged for telephone services in each State during the vear 1969-70. 
How many long-term deferred applications for telephones were there in each State as al 30 June 1970. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Housing: 
Why does the War Service Homes Division insist that, before it will grant a loan, the proprietors of the relative certificate of title must be registered as joint tenants and not tenants in common. 
I preface my question to the Postmaster-General by referring to the Minister's answer to my question No. 2078 which indicated that 54 per cent of the long term deferred telephone applications are in New South Wales whereas only 39 per cent of the total number of applications for telephone services during the year 1969-70 were from that State. Incidentally there are only 792 long term deferrals in the Minister's own State compared with 4,098 in New South Wales. I therefore ask: Why has this discrimination against New South Wales in respect of telephone services been allowed to continue? Will the Minister immediately initiate the necessary action, including the allocation of the required finance, staff and resources, to restore justice to that State keeping in mind that this discrimination has been a continuing feature as exemplified by the fact that it existed when I first entered this Parliament in 1961? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has consideration been given to the submission made to the Senate Select Committee on Medical and Hospital Costs on behalf of the National Tuberculosis and Chest Association on 14th September 1970 that oxygen bc supplied as a pharmaceutical benefit in certain cases where its use in the home is recommended by a specialist physician. 
In particular, will he give urgent consideration to the supply of oxygen free of charge in cases which involve pensioners. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice. 
Will the report of the inter-departmental committee concerning the establishment of a second airport for Sydney be tabled in the House or released publicly  so  that its findings may be scrutinised. 
asked  the  Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
How many elderly people have migrated from England on assisted passages in the last 3 years. 
How many have returned to England in that period. 
Are English migrants the only migrants who have to reimburse the Australian Government if they return to England within 2 years. 
asked the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
Did he receive a deputation from a representative group of Maltese earlier this year and at the time state that he hoped to introduce some aspects of a reciprocal agreement on social services with Malta. 
If so. did he inform the deputation that he hoped to be able to make some announcement on the matter about the lime of the 1970 Federal Budget. 
Has a decision yet been made; if not, when may it be-expected. 
1  would like to deal first with those items in the statement under the heading 'Commonwealth Scholarships Schemes of the Department of Education and Science'. I wish to refer specifically to how they have been utilised in the past. A lot of parents and teachers in the western and far western suburbs of Sydney have been carefully considering the statistics which are available. I have written to the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  asking for specific details of the number of Commonwealth secondary school scholarships granted to students in the western areas of the metropolitan district of Sydney, as well as the number of Commonwealth university scholarships issued. One finds that those children who are fortunate enough to live in the privileged areas, such as the northern suburbs, some of the southern suburbs and the Illawarra area, are receiving a far greater proportion of these Commonwealth secondary school scholarships as well as those for tertiary training than children who live in the western areas of Sydney. 
One cannot compare the income brackets of the people living in the Hornsby area, or the north shore area generally, and those who live in the western suburbs. The children in the western suburbs come from families whose income level is very much lower than that of those in the other areas, yet they are receiving far fewer of these Commonwealth secondary andteritary scholarships than do children in the northern suburbs. For this reason one cannot help but feel that the question of need ought to be looked at in the allocation of these scholarships. The Commonwealth uses its own method of determining who will receive scholarships. It does not award them on the basis of the examinations under the State school system. The Commonwealth has its own system of allocation. One cannot help but wonder whether this should not be looked at as well. 
I can quote  1  school in the Blacktown area whose pupils received a larger number of  6A  passes in the fourth year examinations than those in any of the other schools in the area; yet they did not receive one secondary school scholarship. The answer given is that the  6  advanced level passes were under the State system of examination. The Commonwealth scholarships issued were under the Federal system of examination, and they are two quite different things. For that reason I feel that we need to have a look at this matter to find out whether there is equity between the two systems of examination, because obviously something is wrong if more children in  1  school can attain  6  advanced levels than in any other school in the area, yet that school receives fewer Commonwealth scholarships than any other school in the area, or even none. Surely the system has to be looked at. 
This is a very vital issue. Perhaps we need to look at whether or not some form of means test should be applied. Admittedly, it would have to be a very liberal means test. But surely the children who need financial assistance most are those who should receive it. The teachers tell us of cases where children have been told by their parents: 'If you receive a Commonwealth scholarship I will give it to you as pocket money.' That is not the purpose of these scholarships. Their purpose is to see that children who have natural capacities and abilities are given the opportunity to utilise and fully develop those natural capacities and abilities. For this reason I say once again that the allocation of funds needs to be looked at carefully, first as to the differences between the examination for Commonwealth secondary and tertiary scholarships and the method of examination adopted by the State schools, to see whether there is equity between the two. It will be very interesting to see the statistics that finally come to me from the Minister for Education and Science. I have asked for the actual number of scholarships issued to a number of schools right throughout the metropolitan area of Sydney. When that information is obtained- 
With respect, I am referring to  2  amounts under the heading 
Department of Education and Science Commonwealth Scholarships Schemes'. These are funds which, as you have pointed out,  Mr Chairman,  have been expended already. They have been expended on Commonwealth scholarships for both secondary and tertiary education. 1 am referring to the manner and the conditions under which those funds have been expended. 1 think that this is surely my right, otherwise why do we bother to bring this statement before the House if the debate is to be so restricted that we cannot even discuss whether these funds have been expended or on what basis they have been expended. Otherwise this Parliament may not discuss this matter- 
Thank you,  Sir. With  respect, evidently I was correct, I gather, in the first instance. I will once again summarise the matter purely on the basis that I believe there must be a reassessment of this expenditure and the methods of examination as between the Commonwealth and the States and as to whether or not these scholarships are being used for the best possible purposes. What is the intent behind the scholarships? They are intended to assist those who need financial assistance and not those who do not need it. Therefore some form of means test should be placed on secondary scholarships. 
Very well. I am pleased to note that the Commonwealth is not dealing with the expenditure in the same manner as the New South Wales Education Department did, when it apparently allocated funds for the recent State election campaign for political broadcasts on television. That was a most extraordinary happening and one which ought not to have been allowed to take place. I hope that many members of the State Parliament in New South Wales will take up this misuse of State government funds, when those funds were used deliberately and intentionally- 
Finally, I note also on page 25 the salaries for the Department of Trade and Industry. I have no doubt that the figures given there include expenditure on salaries for the Tariff Board. I believe this is of importance because of the policy which exists today and which goes back before the days of the major parties and before this Parliament was formed, to the days of free trade versus protection. 1 believe it is important that we keep in mind at all times that Australian industry and Australian conditions of employment were built originally on protection. It is important always to keep in mind that even though a revision may have to occur from time to time those conditions must be maintained. 
The  CHAIRMAN (Mr Lucock)  Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I would like to refer to page  9  relating to the Department of Education and Science and to the allocation of an amount of Si  4,339  for pre-school education and training. I ask the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  exactly how this money has been used. I must compliment the Government upon the standards of pre-school education which obtain in the Australian Capital Territory. I assume that a great deal of this sum would be related to that system.  I  ask the Treasurer whether it also involves any necessary research or inquiry into extending the system of pre-school education which obtains in the Australian Capital Territory to the rest of Australia. This is of very great importance. When all is said and done, Australia has a great area and I do not think that this facility should be available only in the Australian Capital Territory. I think it is common sense that if it is good enough for the Australian Capital Territory it should be good enough for the rest of Australia and the system should be extended further. 
Thank you,  Mr Chairman.  lt would have been better had the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  waited a little, while because I had almost finished my remarks and it would have saved you.  Mr Chairman,  the difficulty of having to explain the situation. I should like to ask this question of the Treasurer: Are these funds being used solely for the pre-school education system in the Australian Capital Territory or do they include some provision for research, inquiry and organisation whereby this magnificent system can be expanded throughout Australia so that other people, such as those who reside in my electorate, can also enjoy it? I think this is a simple question because what is good enough for the Australian Capital Territory should be good enough for the rest of Australia. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of State education services has established serious deficiencies in education. 
That these can be summarised as lack of classroom accommodation, desperate teacher shortage, oversized classes and inadequate teaching aids. 
That the additional sum of one thousand million dollars is required over the next five years by the States for these needs. 
That without massive additional Federal finance the State school system will disintegrate. 
That the provisions of the Handicapped Children's Assistance Act 1970 should be amended to include all the country's physically and mentally handicapped children. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to - 
Ensure that emergency finance from the Commonwealth will be given to the States for their public education services which provide schooling for seventy-eight per cent of Australia's children. And your Petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
When this Bill was introduced in 1962 I was the member for Mitchell and at that time it was opposed by the Opposition. It was painted out at that time and has been pointed out consistently over the years that this is not an instrument which one could call anything but a blunt instrument. It is not one which portrays a method of economic planning with any finer edges to it. It. is no wonder, that the Government, now it has the opportunity, is endeavouring to get out from its commitment to this legislation with grace because of the realisation that the criticisms levelled at the legislation when it was originally introduced were basically sound. For this reason I think that it is important to endeavour to make some assessment of why it has been opposed in the past and to find some proposal whereby the lessons learned might be put into practice and we could have a far greater element of economic planning and so utilise the funds which will now be collected in taxation as a result of the abolition or suspension of this investment allowance. These will amount to something in the region of $60m a year. 
This is a great deal of finance which could be used as a very effective economic instrument especially if it is used in a selective manner. For example, there is no doubt that it could be used selectively to assist country industries and the decentralisation of industry. I notice, for example, that in his second reading speech the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  said: 
I emphasise, however, that the suspension docs not affect the investment allowance for plant and equipment used in primary production which is allowable under separate provisions of the income lax law that were enacted in 1963. 
One cannot help but ask: Why only for plant and equipment which is used in primary production? Why should this allowance not be extended at this time to those areas where it would be of assistance? It would be a sound economic instrument if it was used selectively and applied to plant and equipment used by country industry and the saving in income tax would assist in the development of industry in country regions. 
We support the Bill. We criticised the original legislation because it was a very blunt type of economic instrument. The funds derived from it could quite easily be used to promote the decentralisation of industry in other ways. For example, the Commonwealth could assist by a reduction in the cost of trunk line charges to country industry. These are the important points. We will only get country industries if, firstly, we give them cheap capital; secondly, if we allow them cheap trunk line calls; thirdly, if we allow them cheap land and buildings; and, fourthly, if we allow them definite taxation concessions in respect of the plant and equipment which they have to buy. I realise that this is, of course, one of the short term instruments - if I can put it that way - being used by the Government at the present time in its so called anti-inflationary measures. What are the short term instruments that it is using? First of all, it says: 'We want wage restraints', lt should be noted that it is not profit restraints that are asked.. for but wage restraints. . , 
There was a most extraordinary stalement made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  in which he virtually gave an instruction to the courts of this country. He said that in future he does not want to see any more general increases .in the wage structure. On the other hand, he has made no definite statement that he will limit excessive profiteering in any sector of industry. Another instrument which he is using is, of course, this taxation investment allowance but, as I said, one cannot help but have the suspicion that the Government which introduced this measure in great haste in 1962 has now realised that the widespread criticism of it, not, only from this side of the House, but also quite generally in the community, was valid and it is now utilising this opportunity as a way of getting out with grace from the implementation of this policy.. 
Another short term instrument which the Government is using- is the appeals - I make the point that they are appeals md not instructions - to overseas investors not to invest in commercial buildings. The Government has suddenly realised that the criticism which has come from this side of the House for a long while- I . have raised it; innumerable members have raised it - is valid as regards the fact that the problem in the building industry has not been caused by home building! The fact is that the full utilisation and possibly over utilisation of men and resources in the building industry has been brought about by the excessive boom in commercial building. It should be kept in mind that restrictions were placed on home building last year and yet no action was taken at that time to restrict commercial building. These restrictions made it all the more difficult for young people to obtain homes, and despite numerous warnings that, .this situation existed and something would have to be done about commercial buildings no such action was taken. But today, qf course, we have appeals. It has suddenly been found that a great deal of the capital from overseas is going into commercial buildings and this is causing, as the Government says, the over-utilisation of men and resources within the building industry. But the Government will not take any action and will not use any of the powers which it has at present. On the contrary, appeals will be made to the overseas investors. 1 can recall hearing the Prime Minister's speech on the radio.- He asked the foreign investors to go along -and have a talk to the Treasury before they invested. I do not think there is a great deal of logic in this because experience has shown that the overseas investor wm invest in that sector of our industry in which he thinks the greatest margin of profit lies and today the commercial building industry is one of those sectors. So I do not think that that will be a very effective anti-inflationary measure, nor do I think it will be very effective in overcoming the imbalance which exists between the commercial building and domestic building sectors. Finally, we have an appeal for a reduction in public investment. Surely this is the very sector which experts - if one can call them that - the various authorities, members on this side of the House and people throughout the country have been pointing out for some time is most in need of more public investment, not less. There is a great need for schools, for local government works and for hospital works. 
One could go on and on into the various fields which are in need of public investment. Yet this is the very time when the Government - admittedly it has made out quite a good case - says: 'Save as much as you can' and 'Cut out any waste'. This will take us to the point where public investment will be reduced and the imbalance which already exists between public and private investment will become even greater in the future. As I say, this Bill is one of the Government's short term instruments. I cannot help but wonder whether the Government also has a long term instrument in the form of tariff revision. The argument about tariffs goes back to the 19th century when the free traders opposed protection. The issue has raised its head at various times since then. The issue was raised at the turn of the century when some people claimed that Australia should be a free trade country; that we should settle clown to being a rural nation and to having a rural economy. Some countries followed advice of that kind but fortunately Australia, helped by the impetus provided by the trade union movement and the Australian Labor Party, adopted policies of protection. 
I cannot help but feel a little sorry for the way in which  Sir John  McEwen left politics. I do not think any honourable member would deny that  Sir John  McEwen was highly respected. No matter what opinions others expressed, he always pursued what he believed to be the correct course. But today those who once applauded him are howling like jackals. Now that he has gone those in this place who were once apparently his greatest supporters are criticising the policies that he advocated.  Sir John  was regarded as a protectionist. Let us not forget that our employment record and our living conditions have been built on a policy of protecting our industries and encouraging their growth. These days one hears disquieting stories of lobbies developing outside the Parliament - of endeavours to influence people in a position to be influenced - with a view to bringing about a complete revision of our tariff policy. I read with interest recently a leading article in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' which suggested that the first sector of industry from which tariff protection might be lifted could be the metal trades industries. If this were to happen the bargaining power of the trade union movement to obtain wage increases for its members would be reduced. The inference is clear: There will be a move against a sector of industry as a result of which many industries will go to the wall. If this happens serious unemployment will ensue. If you reduce the bargaining power of the Labor movement you create a pool of unemployed, which is the very thing we have been so concerned to avoid in this country for the last 2 decades. 
Let mc make it clear that 1 do not advocate that a tariff should remain indefinitely and not be reviewed. Tariffs must at all times be subject to revision. That is commonsense. If an industry is not economic it should be forced to become a more efficient instrument of the economy. I think the machinery to do this exists already, but I am concerned at the sudden moves by his erstwhile friends to attack  Sir John  McEwen with a view to having a complete revision of our tariff structure. From what I have read in various newspapers I am led to the view that those who have an interest in restraining wages and creating a pool of unemployed are lobbying with a view to obtaining a freer importation of goods from countries such as Japan. I do not want to mention names, but I would not be surprised if some honourable members knew the names of the people to whom I have referred. So I give this warning: We must be very careful. By all means continually review our tariff structure. Ample machinery exists to do this and to make sure that our industries are maintained as efficient industries. It is a much different proposition completely to alter the existing tariff machinery so that Australia is no longer a country of protection, enabling our industries to prosper, but becomes instead a free trade country into which goods may be imported cheaply and, incidentally, very profitably for those involved with their importation, at the same time reducing the bargaining power of the trade union movement. When the trade union movement fully appreciates what is occurring I believe there will be a great deal  i  f unrest in this country. 
I touch upon that issue because I think it is a pity Jo see a man as great as  Sir John  McEwen leave this place only to be attacked by some of his former colleagues in the Country Party. They once looked upon him as a very great man, but now they attack him like jackals. 
Some members of the Country Party have stated that the policies pursued by the former Minister for Trade and Industry should be reviewed. 
The amount of tax now to be collected as a result of the withdrawal of the investment allowance will be about S60m. That amount could be a very effective economic instrument if applied in a selective manner to assist those sections of industry which need assistance. I refer particularly to rural industry. If members of the Country Party are sincere in their claims that they wish to see rural industry developed, they should press for the provision of special allowances and bounties to rural industry, because these are ways in which rural industry may be assisted. In my electorate is a company called Transavia Corp. Pty Ltd. It is building a crop dusting aircraft. It is the only aircraft of its type being built in this country. The company has been seeking a bounty to enable it to improve its efficiency. Even using what might be termed crude methods . of production the company has already reached a high state of efficiency and is fully competitive with overseas companies producing these aircraft. Surely we want  industries of this kind in Australia. If the company was paid a bounty to enable it to produce a crop dusting aircraft cheaper than the imported article, the inflationary pressures in this country would be reduced and at the same time we would be helping to develop industry in this country. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I  rise because I can recollect that you, the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Jeff Bate),  the honourable member for Richmond  (Mr Anthony)  who is now the  Deputy  Prime Minister  -  I agree with the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  on that point - the honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Luchetti),  the former honourable member for Cowper and  1  were the  6  members of this Parliament who travelled as a parliamentary delegation, to the areas devastated by flood waters in  1963.  As a result of that visit and subsequent report, the first legislation to assist in flood mitigation works on various rivers in the northern part of New South Wales was introduced.  1  think that any fair person - and I am afraid that the honourable member for Mallee was not noted for his impartiality in the past - would agree that the original concept of legislation to enable the Commonwealth to provide assistance for flood mitigation was put forward by Frank McGuren who, in  1963,  was the member for Cowper and that subsequent flood mitigation legislation will always stand as a monument to him. The present honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Robinson)  was not a member of this House at that time. To my knowledge he was not even known at that time as a candidate for the electorate and he did not play any prominent part in the consideration of the legislation which came before this House. The fact is that it was  Mr Frank  McGuren who proposed this scheme. I state this explicitly because I have known Frank for many years. I shared an office with him in this House.  1  worked with him in his area. As an official of the Australian Labor Party in later years I knew him very well indeed. 
 The honourable member should be careful. We might do that. 
 Without any doubt whatever the first person to formulate the principle that the Commonwealth should assist with flood mitigation was Frank McGuren. Because the  1963  election was in the offing - it was held some months later - and the Government had an overwhelming desire to regain the seat that because its loss was like a thorn in the side of the Country Party, the Government finally adopted the policy that Frank McGuren has espoused over the years. This was an effort to use the proposal as a political gimmick to win that electorate. I spoke on that Bill in this House at that time. [ spoke also on the various matters of public importance that were proposed for discussion when we advocated this scheme before the Government adopted what was the policy of the Australian Labor Party or Frank McGuren on it. 
I state quite explicitly now as I said at that time that the legislation does not  go  far enough. For instance, it did not touch on the Hawkesbury River itself.  1  am pleased to see that in  1971, 8  years later, the Government has decided to give something to the Hawkesbury area. 
I was here in  1961.  You see, you have a lot to learn. 
 I am speaking from memory, and I can be checked on this. This 
Bill was introduced in 1963. The honourable member for Cowper,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  does not even know when this legislation was first introduced to assist his electorate. That is how much he knows about when this matter first came before the Parliament. He does not even know the date. I can give from the top of my head the date when it first came before the Parliament. I am glad to see that the matter has now been brought before this Parliament and that assistance is to be given to the Hawkesbury River area to the extent of $2,060,000. I think this is important because the Hawkesbury River is admired as being one of the most beautiful rivers in Australia and indeed one of the most beautiful rivers in the world. This area is the main supplier of vegetables to Sydney. When one sees the damage that has been done to the Hawkesbury River through flood it becomes obvious that the time has come for something to be done to overcome this problem. Apparently the honourable member for Cowper does not even know when the legislation was introduced, although he accuses me of not knowing the history of the legislation. I do not think he can know much about it if he does not even know when it came into being. 
It is a pity that some notice was not taken of the attitude of the Opposition ranks or of the policies of the Austraiian Labor Party in those days. Assistance was not given to the Hawkesbury area at that time. Of course, it is equally a great pity that people like the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  cannot go back - I will not say to his electorate - to the electorate he represents and say to the people that he represents: 'Well, the Government has now at last decided to give assistance in my electorate as well. We will not touch just the rivers of New South Wales; we will look at the rivers of Queensland, Victoria and South Australia.' Evidently quite a good job has been done. Of course, this legislation basically deals only with the rivers of New South Wales. Despite the bluster of the honourable member for Mallee I think there is no doubt that he will be very pleased indeed that he can go at last to his electorate, or should I say the electorate that he represents- 
No. I speak of the electorate 1 represent. The honourable member for Mallee can go back to the electorate which he represents and say to his people: T have at last managed to do the right thing by you.' I can say now that the Government which of course we have to say he represents - of which he is a partner - has now decided to give assistance in the electorate which he represents. 
For that reason the Australian Labor Party has moved the following amendment: 
Whilst welcoming the proposal for the purpose of flood mitigation works in New South Wales, this House is of opinion that the assistance offered is inadequate and should form part of a larger scheme to deal with national disaster and that, accordingly, a joint select committee of the Parliament should be appointed to inquire into the practicability of the establishment of a national disaster organisation. 
I suggest to the honourable member for Mallee that he ought to support that amendment. I think it is an admirable proposition which would assist the electorate he represents. Quite obviously, if the honourable member has a conscience, he should give the amendment his complete support. My main point is that I welcome the fact that something is at last being done for the Hawkesbury River area. I think it is a pity that this was not done 8 years ago when we asked this Parliament to do something about this area. I believe that the great damage and devastation which has been done to one of the most beautiful rivers, if not the most beautiful river, in Australia because of the floods which have occurred since that time would not have occurred if the proposals of the Australian Labor Party had been agreed to. I believe that a great loss of property and of crops which the area supplies to the Sydney metropolitan area, together with economic damage, would not have occurred had the Government taken steps 8 years ago to implement the policy advocated by the Labor Party. 
I believe also that the Bill does not go far enough. I strongly agree with the amendment. The honourable member for Mallee may recollect that in 1962 and 1963 I was  a  strong advocate of a national disaster fund and of other proposals. I asked for an inquiry into this matter by way of question to the then Prime Minister and by question to the responsible Minister. I dealt with this matter in debates in this House  and  during the adjournment debates It ls obvious that sooner or later we must face up to the issue that floods, bushfires and various other national disasters must become a national responsibility. The Commonwealth Parliament must fact up to that responsibility. Finally, I would like to say again, even though I may have hurt the feelings of the honourable member for Cowper, that I shared an office with Frank McGuren who was the member for Cowper in 1963. I have known Frank McGuren for many many years. The honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Luchetti)  and I sat and discussed all of the problems with him. Together with the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock),  who is at present in the Chair, the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Jeff Bate)  and the present  Deputy  Prime Minister (Mt Anthony), who was then a private member. 1 went  to  a parliamentary delegation to the flood affected areas of that time. We landed  m  Grafton. The Labor Party members of that delegation had already spoken  on  the matter a number of times. Frank McGuren in particular had issued warnings on the issue. We were able to come back  to  this Parliament and enunciate a policy, from memory, in the last couple of months before the election. Because the Government had a snap election on its hands is decided that it wanted to use our policy as a political gimmick. Whether Government supporters like it  or  not, that was the wedge; that was when the breakthrough occurred. That  was  the time when the principle was adopted even though the amount was  faT  too small. At that time the legislation  did  not go far enough. As I have said, it did not touch the Hawkesbury River or other rivers. The legislation did not go beyond the State of New South Wales. However, at least the breakthrough occurred and the principle was adopted This is why I say that the principle of Commonwealth assistance for flood mitiga tion will always, whether Frank McGuren returns to this House or not, be a monument to Frank McGuren, the member for Cowper between 1961 and 1963. 
I direct a question to the Prime Minister. It is supplementary to those asked by the honourable member for Warringah and the honourable member for Eden-Monaro concerning the fining of 5 unions yesterday for penal clauses breaches. If this is persevered with, it undoubtedly will result in one of the most serious industrial upheavals for many years. 
 I support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden;. In doing so I wish to deal first with the extraordinary proposed increase of 50c a week in pensions. That amount is little more than the price of a bottle of beer or a  packet of cigarettes. 
 That is so. However, the major point is the manner in which the increase has come about. The fact is that the Opposition has been calling for a considerable time for an increase over the whole range of pensions and for a review of the social service structure, particularly in respect of age, invalid and widow pensions. It became a very big issue. It has been said fairly widely around the lobbies that the present Prime Minister  (Mr  McMahon), before he attained that office, was opposed in Cabinet to any pension increases at this time. When he became Prime Minister, in his first address to the House in that office, he suddenly became a fervent advocate of pension increases, to the extent of 50c a week. In the light of that sudden change of attitude one cannot help but feel that the increase is being granted in a cynical manner, as a blatant political gimmick. The increase is far too small. It is a case of too little too late. It is hoped that it will provide a facelift for the Government's image at this time. It was felt that something had to be done to divert attention from the dissension within the ranks of the Government parties. I repeat that it is far too little and far too late. 
The honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman),  who preceded me in this debate, referred to a former Labor Prime Minister, the late Ben Chifley. I am very pleased to remind honourable members that my electorate is named after Ben Chifley. I agree that he was always a responsible person. He was a very responsible Treasurer and a very responsible Prime Minister. It is very interesting and enlightening to hear today, so many years after Ben Chifley's death, Government supporters beginning to shout his praises. 1 wish they had done it earlier. 
That is a good point. We can remember some extraordinary statements being made about him at that time by Government supporters. We can remember some extraordinary reports in the Press, which supported the Opposition of that day, the present Government. The notable achievement of the Labor Government in office from 1941 to 1949 was its steady improvement of the lot of pensioners. When it achieved office in 1941 one of its first actions was to increase pensions appreciably. During its period of office it took every opportunity to increase social service payments, even during the difficult days of the war and postwar periods. The reforms in the area of social welfare introduced by that Labor Government make a long list. I refer, for example, to Commonwealth university scholarships, and so on. right through the range. 
The honourable member for Deakin referred to the 1948-49 period. At that time the average weekly earnings for each employed male were $17.7. The pension payable to single age and invalid pensioners at that time represented 24 per cent of average weekly earnings. I understand that the increase now proposed by the Government will be implemented on 8th April. Estimating average weekly earnings for the current year as  $81  a week - for the last quarter ended December they were $84, but Christmas payments and so on were included in that calculation - when the increase is paid pensioners will be receiving only 19.75 per cent of average weekly earnings. In other words, age and invalid pensions for single pensioners as a proportion of average weekly earnings have been reduced since 1948-49 from 24 per cent to 19.75 per cent. Surely those figures answer the claims of the honourable member for Deakin. Surely they vindicate the attitude of the Chifley Government when compared to that of the present Government. 
However, I do not wish to dwell on the past. The important point to consider is what is to be done for pensioners now and in in the future. I wish to refer to a few particular problems. I repeat that it is amazing that with the. present Prime Minister's elevation to that office, from being opposed to pension increases he has decided to grant an increase almost overnight. It is remarkable, and I think most unfortunate, that a pension increase is being granted in such a cynical manner, for blatant political propaganda purposes. It is. an attempt to give a facelift to the Government's image. I invite honourable members to consider the plight of single pensioners today. Still nothing of a major: nature has been done to improve the situation of the single pensioners. In New South Wales rentals have become very high and the single pension has still not been adequately improved. 
Let us turn now to the civilian widow pensioner. I want to make it clear that 1 am not in any way trying to denigrate the war widow's pension. I believe that, if anything, the war widow's pension is still not sufficiently high to account for the loss which she has suffered. But in the type of society in which we live today there is no doubt that a far greater number of husbands, breadwinners and. family men, are dying younger. Quite regularly we hear of men who have passed away in their thirties from such things as coronary occlusions. In those circumstances where the man dies of injuries or illness which cannot be proved to be the result of his war service then his wife does not receive a war widow's pension. Furthermore, his wife is subjected to a means test. On the other hand, if the man were to die as a result of injuries or illness suffered during his war service his wife would receive a far greater pension than the civilian widow and the pension would not be subjected to a means test. As I said. I am not in any way attempting to denigrate the war widow's pension. lt is time that we had a look at the civilian widow's pension to see whether it is adequate and whether or not it should be subject to a means test. A woman came into my office quite recently.  Her  husband had deserted her, and she has  4  children all under the age of  16  years, including twins  22  months of age. She receives a pension of  $34.50  a week to look after those  4  children. The twins have to have special diets because they are not particularly healthy. As a result of the worry she has incurred the woman is suffering from ulcers. This did not happen before she was deserted. The pension for a deserted wife is the same as that for a civilian widow. In a case such as this I cannot do other than to make a special appeal for this Parliament to look very carefully at the civilian widow's pensions. I do not think they are adequate. 
A woman, whether she is a deserted wife or a widow, faces a very great problem when she suddenly finds her responsibilities not doubled but -more than doubled. She has to take care of the children. She has to fill the dual role of both mother and father. She has to do it under very difficult circumstances. She should not be forced to go out to work but should be encouraged to stay home so that she might be able to fulfil that dual role and that far greater responsibility which has been thrust upon her. For that reason I ask very sincerely that the issue of the adequacy of the pension paid to the civilian widow and the deserted wife be looked at by this Parliament. Also this Parliament should give consideration in the very near future to removing the means test from the civilian widow's pension as is the case with the war widow's pension. I do not think that is an unreasonable proposition, lt should not be objected to by any section of this House. 
When I mentioned this matter previously in the Parliament I can remember that the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  nodded his head. T had hoped that in this Bill some amendments would have been brought before the Parliament to implement these proposals. I cannot understand why it is that a woman has to wait  6  months before she can receive a deserted wife's pension. She has to be deserted for  6  months and she has to have applied for a maintenance order against her husband. That maintenance order could be the very thing which, once the action is taken, removes all chance of reconciliation between the two parties in the future. Yet this is being forced upon the woman by the decisions of this Parliament. I know that the Minister understands this. He nodded agreement to it when I last spoke in the Parliament. I would have thought that this would have been a golden opportunity to bring in- 
No, he was not asleep at the time. This would have been a first class opportunity for amendments to have been brought before the Parliament lo implement reforms on those two issues - the elimination of the  6  months waiting period before a deserted wife can receive a pension and the elimination of the need for her to take maintenance proceedings against her husband before that can be done. 
The other aspect I want to deal with is child endowment. For some reason or other child endowment has been forgotten by this Parliament for some years.  1  mean no disrespect to migrants from overseas when I say that the best migrants we can have in this country are the natural born ones. Yet for some reason or other child endowment has been completely forgotten and is being completely ignored by the Government. 
Taking the average weekly earnings as a basis and applying child endowment for  3  children as a percentage of average weekly earnings one finds that in  1950  a mother with  3  children received child endowment of  12.9  per cent of average weekly earnings. Based on the October  1970  figure for average weekly earnings, today she would receive  3.8  per cent. Surely this is an indictment of any government which says that it advocates and supports assistance for our younger people and for families. My electorate is one of the youngest, if not the youngest, electorate in this country. 
It would contain more young people and more large families, particularly in areas such as Mount Druitt, than any other electorate in this country. I am very proud of this. But I feel that those people should be given encouragement to have families and they should receive help to give them a reasonable opportunity in life in the future. 
One of the most effective methods of doing this would be by increasing child endowment. One could touch on many other areas, such as the inadequacy of the present pension, as I have mentioned; the inadequacy of the increase in pensions; the inadequacy of invalid, widows and deserted wives pensions; the inadequacy of child endowment; the inadequacy of maternity allowances and the inadequacy of units for age pensioners. Today, the waiting time for such a unit is about 5 years. This is a ridiculous situation. Of course, it is not really a. fair dinkum list because a large number of eligible people simply will not apply for these benefits. This is the situation in regard to pensions at present, and it is for this reason that the honourable member for Oxley moved his amendment, paragraph (6) of which states that the subject of social services should be referred to a select committee of this House. If this is accepted the whole of the social services framework of this country may be fully reviewed, so that all the people who are recipients of social services may be able to put their case as to what reforms are required. I say emphatically, and all members of the Opposition agree, that the day has come when these piecemeal alterations and piecemeal variations have to go by the board. The day has come when there must be a full revision of social services so that all sections of our community, the aged, the sick, the widowed and all the rest, receive justice from this Parliament. 
I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the moving of a motion to amend the Standing Orders to provide for question lime to extend for 45 clear minutes. 
I do this because ever since the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  became Prime Minister there has been a steady erosion of the time allowed for questions. I can recollect, of course, the practice when  Sir Robert  Menzies was Prime Minister and when  Mr Gorton  was Prime Minister. I cannot speak from personal experience about what occurred when  Mr Harold  Holt was Prime Minister, but other honourable members advise me that the same conditions applied as when the other two gentlemen were Prime Minister. They all allowed 45 clear minutes for question time. I have checked out the times allowed for question time. On the first day when there was a question time under the present Prime Minister we were given 44 minutes. Since then we have been given 42, 401, 34, 38 and 41 minutes. In other words, the time has been reduced instead of allowing the usual 45 minutes for what is undoubtedly one of the most important periods in this Parliament. It is the time when the whole of the Ministry, including the Prime Minister, comes under scrutiny. It is an opportunity for all members to ask some questions without notice and without preparation. Yet honourable members on this side of the House have to wait for up to 2 to 3 weeks to get in one single question. 
The Prime Minister is deliberately reducing the time allowed for honourable members to ask these questions.  Mr Speaker,  you will recall that  took a point of order on this matter yesterday. You will also recall that the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  look a point of order and was ruled out of order. The only remedy we have is to use the form of the House that I am using now. This is the only method by which we can ask the House to deal with the matter. Surely honourable members on the Government back benches have the same interest as Opposition members to sec that they have the opportunity to utilise this most democratic and most important period of the day in this House. They should join with us on this issue. Do they not wish to have the Ministry under scrutiny, or do they wish to give the Prime Minister the opportunity, which he obviously wants, to get away and to see the House does not meet for too long? He wants to make sure that question time does not continue for too long and accordingly is allowing question time to be eroded as compared with the time allowed under previous Prime Ministers. For that reason I move the suspension of Standing Orders. 
I preface my question to the Prime Minister by referring lo the economic measures which were announced by the former Prime Minister,  Mr Gorton,  cutting back public expenditure and refusing help to pensioners and the States. These were stated to be measures directed towards arresting the alarming inflationary movement. I ask the Prime Minister: In view of the Government's decision to increase pensions by 50c a week and to grant the States S43m in special revenue assistance grants - both of which measures I agree with - does this mean that the Government is now satisfied that the menace of inflation is over and that other deserving projects previously refused assistance by the Government may look forward to such assistance, or is it just that there has been a change of Prime Ministers? 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to bring to the notice of the House a case with which I have been dealing. It involves discrimination against children as a result of the existence of an anomaly in the Social Services Act. As honourable members will see from the information I shall give, it is common sense that I should not mention the name of the person involved. The Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  knows the name of the person concerned because I have already spoken to him and told him the name, and I have also written to him about the case. So I will call the lady  Mrs X. 
The background of the case is as follows:  Mrs X  is separated from her husband, there being one child of that marriage.  Her  husband has custody of that child by an agreement reached out of court. The parents are not divorced.  Mrs X  lived with a de facto husband for 5 years, until he was placed in a psychiatric centre in May 1969. She has not lived with him since, nor has she since lived with any other man in a de facto relationship. She had 2 children by her de facto husband, one of whom is now aged 5 years and the other 10 months. After her de facto husband was discharged from the psychiatric centre in September 1969 he was convicted on a charge of embezzlement and served 6 months in gaol. When he was released from gaol in June 1970 he was re-admitted to the psychiatric centre where he remained until a few months ago. 
The lady concerned applied for a deserted wife's pension in April 1970, but this was refused. As late as November 1970 I also made an application, as her local member, on her behalf. As you will see, Mir Deputy Speaker, this was refused. She had taken maintenance proceedings against her de facto husband and appeared in court with a solicitor in September 1970. But the application was refused as the de facto husband was then in the psychiatric centre. The last I heard was that a new hearing had been set down for December 1970. 
I wrote to the Minister for Social Services asking that the deserted wife's pension be granted in this instance. I did this not because I stand as a judge. I do not believe it is for the House to consider the background of the matter. I think the most important thing for us to consider is the fact that she has very young children. Those children have to be given some opportunity in life. The Minister replied to me, and I would like to read out certain paragraphs of that reply. He makes the point: 
In order to qualify for a widow's pension as a deserted wife, a woman must have been deserted by her husband without just cause for at least 6 months. Further, a claimant who has left her husband must show that her withdrawal from the matrimonial relationship was justified. In other words it is necessary to establish constructive desertion. 
The Minister goes on: 
A widow's pension is payable to a woman, as  a  dependent female, only if she has lived- with  a man to whom she is not legally married, on a bona fide and permanent domestic basis for a period of at least 3 years immediately prior to his death. 
The points I wish to make are that under the current policy of the Department of Social Services  Mrs X  cannot be granted a deserted wife's pension as she was the guilty party; she left her husband to take up the de facto relationship. However, if she was to live with her de facto husband for a period of 3 years and he was to die while she was living with him, she would be entitled to a widow's pension, which is equal to a deserted wife's pension. I do not see any logic in that. Also, if the woman suffered bad health at this point of time and was 80 per cent incapacitated for work she could be granted an invalid pension which would include allowances for the children even though she had been deserted by her de facto husband in the same circumstances as have already occurred. On the one hand she could receive an invalid pension and on the other hand she could receive a widow's pension even though these circumstances exist. 
Furthermore, as I see it, the Department of Social Services is setting itself up as an illogical judge of the morals of the case with a resultant discrimination against the lady's 2 children because of her de facto relationship. I do not, and I believe this House should not, excuse, condone or stand in judgment of the mother's background. My concern is not for the mother, but for her children and their future. Because of this illogical anomaly in the Social Services Act the children are being deprived of the benefits which would accrue to the family if the mother were granted a deserted wife's pension. This anomaly in the Act discriminates, as I said, against the children, who are the innocents in the case, by making a moral judgment on the background of the mother. I believe that I have shown how illogical it is, because in some sets of circumstances, despite that background, the mother can be given a widow's pension or an invalid pension. If her de facto husband died while she was living with him she could receive a widow's pension. But because he deserted her, because he is in a psychiatric centre and because he has been gaoled she cannot obtain the benefit of that pension. For this reason, I ask the Minister to consider recommending to the Parliament the early amendment of the Social Services Act to allow for the granting of the deserted wife's pension in cases such as this, and thereby remove this extraordinary anomaly. 
I wish to raise the question of the report of an inter-departmental committee which was set up by the Government to inquire into the siting of the second airport for Sydney. 1 do this because together with the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin)  1 took to the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  on 17th November last year a deputation of representatives of constituent councils which were concerned about the possibility that the airport would be established in the Richmond area. I want to make this clear: There has been a lot of double talk on this issue. It is not a matter of whether it is to be the Richmond Royal Australian Air Force Base. Reports have been drifting around that an airport could be established in the Londonderry-Richmond area - in other words an airport quite separate from the Richmond RAAF base. This is the proposal which everybody is concerned about, not a question of the transfer of the RAAF base to the Department of Civil Aviation. 
The Minister received the deputation at the request of myself and other honourable members representing areas which would be affected by aircraft noise if such an airport were established. The councils concerned were the Colo Shire Council, the Blue Mountains City Council, the Windsor Municipal Council, the Blacktown Municipal Council and the Penrith City Council. Later the Minister sent me a precis of the meeting at my request. In opening the deputation he said: 'Yes, it is so that the Richmond area has been considered by the Committee. I will say only this, that it has been considered by the Committee but it is amongst approximately 40 sites.' He said: We have now reached the stage where we have cut the number of sites down very considerably. I hope to be in a position by early January to refer the recommendation of the Department of Civil Aviation to Cabinet for a decision and for consultation with the various State governments.' Later during the course of the meeting with the Minister I said: 'You have already stated that Richmond is on the long list. Now you state that a short list has been drawn up. Is Richmond on that short list?' He said: 'I refuse to answer.' The great majority of members of the deputation left that meeting with the impression that Richmond was on the short list. I should men tion that the Minister said that when he referred the matter to Cabinet he hoped that he would have it down to a smaller list - what I call the short short list. The Minister said that by the time the matter got through to Cabinet it could possibly be down to 2 sites. 
Ever since then people have been pressing the Minister to have the matter dealt with by Cabinet. They want to know when it will be referred to the State governments and also the reason for the extreme secrecy surrounding this whole matter. The Minister gives the excuse that this was a departmental committee set up to advise the Government. But the inference - not the statement - in the early stages when the committee was set up was that the report would be made public as far as this House is concerned. This is a very important issue which will affect many areas. If Richmond is chosen as the site, that area and such areas as Penrith, St Mary's Mount Druitt, Cambridge Park and Windsor will all suffer from severe aircraft noise. 
This has nothing to do with increasing the size of Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport. The Minister made it clear in a statement he issued in late March that Sydney needs 2 airports and that any proposal for a second airport was not connected in any way with proposals to increase the size of the existing airport. I wrote to the Minister for Civil Aviation on 11th February as follows: 
It would be appreciated if you could give me an early advice as to whether the report of the Inter-Departmental Committee on Siting of the Second Airport for Sydney has now been referred to Cabinet. 
Not only have I not received a reply to that letter, I have not even received an acknowledgment. The extraordinary secrecy surrounding the Government's intentions still exists. It has existed right through, and it is obvious that the Government intends to maintain secrecy on an issue which will affect vitally whatever are' in which the airport is placed. Recently the Windsor Municipal Council criticised the fact that the decision was to go to Cabinet, according to the Minister at that deputation on 17th November, early in January. A question was put to the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation in this House one day. He said, only within the last 6 weeks, that the matter had not as yet been brought to Cabinet. In other words, the undertaking given by the Minister to that deputation has not been fulfilled. 
Apparently there is still a refusal even to give any answer on when we can expect a decision on this very important issue. I think that most honourable members will agree that a second airport will be a necessity for the future of the Sydney region, and that the sooner a decision is given the sooner the speculation will stop. There is speculation not only in the minds of people but also in real estate. I recollect that the Minister, during the course of the meeting, referred to the fact that this could increase the price of land. This is when he was speaking in front of a number of aldermen. For these reasons I am concerned that this speculation should end as quickly as possible. I am deeply concerned that the second airport should not be placed near- 
It is not my electorale or anywhere near it. If the honourable member wants it in his electorate he can have it. I want to make sure that it is not put near any built-up area where its only effect will be to transfer the aircraft noise problem from the area surrounding Mascot into the new area, wherever it may be. 1 am particularly concerned that the Minister stated that the Richmond area was on the long list. I am concerned that, having admitted that, he refused to give an answer to a question as to whether it was on the short list, let alone the short short list. For these reasons I ask the Minister who represents the Minister for Civil Aviation in this House to give honourable members an indication tonight as to when a decision will be made by Cabinet, when the State Government will be consulted, and when we can expect further consultation of the municipal councils in the area which are vitally affected by this very important problem. 

 - Mr Speaker, 1 was interested to hear the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  make his statement to the House on the question of rural industries and tariffs.  His  speech contained some considerable logic, and this is quite unusual. I could not help wondering whether he had received any letters from Jack McEwen, the former Leader of the Australian Country Party- 
. . . because there seemed to be some similarity in the phraseology of the statement with statements by that gentleman. I must say that I fully agree with many of the sentiments that the honourable member expressed on tariff policy. He does not believe in any wholesale reduction in tariffs because this would mean dislocation of industry and of jobs. This loss of employment and other factors then could have a detrimental effect upon country areas as well as city areas. I am glad to hear that the honourable member has perceived this logic because, unfortunately, many of his confreres on the Country Party benches do not see the same sort of logic. Admittedly, Jack McEwen did. lt is quite obvious from some of the statements emanating from the Country Party recently that this logic is not appreciated. Accordingly, it was a welcome relief to hear that attitude expressed tonight by a member of the Country Party. 
1 would not like to accuse him of that. I would not like to do it that way. I just say that there is similarity n the phaseology. I was glad to hear the honourable member for Mallee give us tonight the first lesson in economics, that is, that a market place is where goods are bought and sold. I fully agree with him. That is quite correct. However, I do not wish to refer further to these matters. I wish to deal with a number of other questions during this debate. 
First, I refer to the status of this chamber. I believe that a steady deterioration has occurrd in the importance of this chamber and in its influence on policy and on events. I believe that, more and more, honourable members are becoming ombudsmen and are dealing purely with the problems of constituents. Undoubtedly, our best work is done outside this chamber and no doubt we get a great kick when we win an important case. But the fact is that sufficient time is not available and because of the way in which this House operates we have not the opportunity to ensure that we obtain a full understanding of current events and policies as they affect this country. 
I believe that far too often we must even go down on our knees before members of the public service and the bureaucracy in dealing with problems of constituents because we find that it is often better to approach public servants than to approach the Minister responsible. If we approach the Minister, we put our submission in writing. If we can chat with the public servant concerned, we - the lesser persons - may convince the public servant that our case contains wisdom. Although sometimes we do win a case at ministerial level, I think that most honourable members will agree that if we go to a Minister with a tough case the odds are against us. Far too often the lesser influence is the Minister or the parliamentarian. Far too often the greater influence is the public servant and the bureaucracy. 
For these reasons, I say that certain reforms arc required in this chamber. We have seen what has happened in the Senate. Admittedly, the Senate committee system is suffering teething problems but it is beginning to achieve something, to the extent that apparently it is causing a deal of embarrassment to some people in authority. As an example I mention the recent inquiries into some of the share dealings that have occurred in this country. I believe that a great need exists for the introduction of such a committee system in the House of Representatives even if the committees established are joint Senate and House committees. At the same time I believe a great necessity is presented for the position of the ordinary member of the Parliament to be uplifted instead of denigrated. One of the best ways that this could be achieved would be for the parliamentarian to be given a research officer who would make inquiries on such subjects as the important conduct of various Commonwealth departments and who would feed material to the parliamentarian so that the parliamentarian himself could be a watchdog on the administration or Cabinet on the one hand and on the public service or the bureaucracy on the other hand. 
We would find great opposition to such a proposal because the adoption of such a system would mean that life would be made a little more difficult in the future for the administration, Cabinet, the public service or the bureaucracy. These bodies would need to watch their step far more carefully in the future. I believe that, at the same time, the member of Parliament should receive more assistance in the way of staff in order to deal with problems of constituents. In other words, the situation should not be as it is at the moment where the position of the member of Parliament is being denigrated. The member of Parliament should not be subservient to the bureaucracy or to the administration. 
In this respect I quote an example from the United States of America. I may stand correction as to actual numbers, but I do recollect hearing some time ago that a Congressman in the United States has IS people on his staff. These people handle his electoral problems and research needs. These people present submissions to him so that he may put a more concise case to the body to which he has been elected. I believe that if we had similar advantages members of this Parliament would be far better equipped to serve this country. I can see public servants who are in this chamber tonight smiling at that suggestion. I know that we would be opposed if we put forward any proposition which would lift the standard of this Parliament. I realise there would be strong opposition to any proposal which would mean that those public servants would have to watch their recommendations to the administration and to this Parliament, and I do not think it befits them to wear great big grins when this is suggested. In any case I believe the adoption of such a proposal would be of great benefit to the workings of this Parliament and in particular of this chamber. 
I also wish to deal with the question of assistance to the perimeter areas of the great cities. I believe we should look at the problems of these new areas which are developing at such a great rate on the perimeters of our cities. One of their problems is a lack of local government finance. One can see the results of this in areas such as Mount Druitt, Green Valley, Liverpool, Blacktown and so on. 
Of course, Redfern is a very respected and well developed area which the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope)  represents. However, I believe that we should look at the problem of the lack of local government finance for such works as roads, footpaths, guttering, playing fields, swimming pools and community centres. I think one of the best examples of this lack of services is Mount Druitt where the State Government has already built approximately  5,000  homes. The average age of people in this area is 8 years which is, I believe, the lowest average of all areas of this country. There is a complete dearth of facilities available to these people. The houses and people have been put there and yet the industrial areas do not even have sewerage services so that industry may provide local employment. There are no adequate playing fields, swimming pools, community centres or the necessary transport and education services. As I said, there is not even any sewerage in the industrial areas, the provision of which would enable the building of factories which would provide local employment. As a result people have to leave home early in the morning and arrive home very late at night because of the distance involved in getting to their place of employment. The residents have to pay comparatively high rents and the wives have to work as well as the husbands. It is probable that there are proportionately more children in these areas than in any other part of this country. So for this reason I suggest, as I suggested before, that, special grants should be provided to these new and developing perimeter areas. At the same time, I suggest that one of the best ways to start to alleviate the position of local government would be to abolish pay-roll tax so far as it affects the councils of these perimeter areas. This would give some relief to these councils and enable them to finance these very important works. 
Another matter with which I wish to deal tonight once again concerns these perimeter areas and it relates to the great shortage of doctors in these areas. I can quote the situation in my electorate and the areas surrounding it. 
Yes, we have a few here. Tt is practically impossible, sometimes, to get a doctor to attend one's home at night or over the week-end. The doctors are now starting emergency services. They are staffed mainly by young men doing their training at the hospitals and wanting to earn a little bit extra. As I said, there is great difficulty in getting a doctor to visit homes in the western suburbs at night or on the week-end. One of the reasons for this is that the doctors are grossly overworked because of the shortage of doctors in these areas and consequently, of course, they cannot give enough time to their patients. I believe that one of the things required today is more competition amongst the doctors themselves, and accordingly we need to train more doctors. 
I have here some figures which I took from the 'Medical Journal of Australia' of 13th May 1967. In the period of 1947-54 the annual average number of medical graduates was 478. The projected figure for the period 1971-76 was 930. But honourable members should keep in mind the fact that although the average for 1947-54 was 478 the average for the period 1961-66 was only 603, and this does not take into account the fact that more and more doctors are going into the service of drug companies and into the public service. We have been training doctors for overseas countries such as the Asian countries and we have now reacted the stage where, if we removed the Asian doctors from hospitals, in much of the metropolitan areas of Sydney the hospital system would collapse. I can quote the case of hospitals in my own area which are now essentially dependent upon Asian doctors and if these Asian doctors were sent home then the hospital system would collapse. Many of them are, of course, kept here for that reason. 
For this reason I believe that the time has come when far greater emphasis should be given to the training of doctors in this country. I can show very clearly that one has to be in the top bracket of those who receive Commonwealth university scholarships to get into a faculty of medicine. I think my colleague the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  would agree with me on that point. I think one of the best ways to train more doctors would be to establish tie much required and much publicised university in the western suburbs of Sydney, and I think that one of the first faculties to be established in that university should be a medical faculty. I think this would help to overcome the shortage and we should keep in mind that the Commonwealth is already giving financial assistance for teaching services in hospitals. Grants are given for this purpose. I think the Commonwealth should set the example and take the first step in assisting in the training of more doctors by making a specific grant to New South Wales for the establishment of a university in the western suburbs with the stipulation that that university should have within it a medical school. 
I believe that these issues which 1 have raised are the important ones which face our country today. I believe that it is important that we should see that the authority, the influence and the reputation of this Parliament is not denigrated as it is today but is uplifted. I believe that this can be done, as I said earlier, by equipping members of Parliament so that they are not purely ombudsmen dealing with constituent problems but are equipped with the wherewithall in the way of staff to enable them to inquire into the matters which greatly affect this country, and thus act as a watchdog upon the bureaucracy, the administration and the Cabinet itself. These are vital and important matters. Let us face reality: When we get out into the lobbies many of us speak of the frustrations that we feel. I believe for this reason that the committee system must be introduced. Honourable members should be given the staff to make these inquiries so that they can then act as the watchdogs that 1 feel they should be. I also realise that there will be strong opposition, both from Cabinet and from the bureaucracy, to any proposal such as this because they realise that life will be far more difficult for them in the future. I am not as big an idiot as the honourable member opposite who is interjecting. I am trying to draw some logic. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I intend to deal with the matters set out in the Bill. The previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street),  dealt mainly with the theories of protection versus free trade. This seems to be a particular ability of the Government forces at the moment. Government members are having the first class argument on this matter. They are saying: The day of Jack McEwen is finished. We are going to go our own way now. Jack McEwen no longer runs us. We will have our policies implemented'. 1 gathered from the honourable member that his policy in terms of the attitude of the Government on this issue of protection versus free trade is one of free trade. 
I only hope that the honourable member has not too many industries in his electorate because he may find that, if the ultimate policy that he advocates is implemented, considerable unemployment will occur within those industries in his electorate. For that reason, I feel that the honourable member may be taking a dangerous course. If the ultimate policy that he proposes is introduced it could bring about considerable unemployment in many electorates. This might happen even in his electorate, in which case he may need to revise some of the policies that he has advocated. I will watch this matter with interest in the future. However, I wish to deal with the Bill itself. 
The Bill increases tariffs in many cases and decreases them in other cases. Broadly speaking, the Bill increases tariffs in respect of the chemical industry. The effect of the Bill in relation to vulcanised rubber sheet actually is a plus and a minus - a little bit of both. In the case of footwear - and considerable competition to the Australian industry comes from Japan, among other countries - the Bill very decisively decreases the tariff; in other words, it will allow competition from Japan in the future. 
I turn now to the steel industry. Here the Tariff Board has carried out a sitting on the fence job - a 50-50 approach - with some increases and some decreases. Next, I mention screws. Here we get into the metal trades industry. Summarising the document which explains the purposes of this Bill, we can say that, broadly speaking, the tariff is reduced with respect to the metal trades industry; in other words, protection of the industry is reduced decisively. 
The decision in relation to pencils, crayons and chalks again is a fence sitting job with a few pluses and a few minuses. In some instances protection is increased but mainly it is reduced. Again, in the fertiliser industry, the tariff protection has been largely reduced. The same can not be said with regard to artificial Christmas trees. We are going to protect artificial Christmas trees. The Tariff Board is not worried about the metal trades industry but it thinks that we should protect artificial Christmas trees. Protection with respect to agricultural industries will be reduced. The honourable . member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  will be glad to hear that! With the exception of a few items such as cherries and orange juice, protection to Australian industries definitely has been reduced. 
Quite irresponsibly. I agree. I will give an example of this. I can see,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you are chuckling. I can recollect once receiving many, many telegrams from the Australian citrus industry opposing an increase in imports of citrus juice. I can recollect seeing you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  as the member representing the Redfern district, reading out those telegrams. I can recollect saying at that time that you,  Sir, represented  the most unique constituency in Australia; you had citrus orchards in Redfern. 1 wish to deal with, some of the increases that have occurred in imports of. cherries and citrus juices. This will interest the honourable member for Riverina just as it interests people in areas close to my own electorate, for example, in the area of Mitchell. In 1967-68, 17,137 gallons of orange juice was imported into Australia. Today, orange juice imports stand at 48,328 gallons. These figures show an appreciable increase. Despite the fact that the citrus industry in Australia is an area which deserves protection and assistance, as is the case with cherries, the protection necessary by way of tariffs to help the industry is not provided. Looking at the overall picture of tariffs I gather from the way Government supporters are acting tonight that the discussion of tariff policy is the in thing. It is the old story of the protectionist versus the free trader. As I said before, the honourable member for Corangamite is obviously a free trader. Of course, this argument is not new. It happened 30 or 40 years ago. The question of protection versus free trade has been discussed in the universities for many years. For many years people were discussing whether Australian industry was efficient enough to compete against imports and I cannot help but feel that I am living in days gone by. This has all happened before. 
It is a very good thing that the free traders did not have their way 40 or 50 years ago because if they had we would still have a rural economy. We would not have an industrial-cum-rural economy as we have today. We would not have been able to overcome the problems of the postwar years when we had to employ hundreds of thousands of returned servicemen. We would have had to settle them in the wool and wheat industries and in the rural industries generally. 
As the honourable member for Riverina says, it would have been impossible. But fortunately we had in those days a few people who looked a little ahead and they said: 'An industrial economy for this country is more likely to provide employment, earn the necessary overseas currency, give us a healthy balance of payments and enable us to produce our own motor cars and things like that*. I can remember as a child that a box of matches similar to the one I hold in my hand was imported. We did not make matches. 
I did not know you were a smoker,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  After this 1 will know where to borrow a cigarette. But the facts are that a box of matches had to be imported only a matter of 40 years ago. We had no motor car industry, no chemical industry - we had very little secondary industry - but fortunately some people felt that we should give Australian industry a go in the belief that this country could make anything if it was given the opportunity. 
The honourable member says: 'Such as what?' That is how much confidence he has in his own country. 
That it what he said. I still say that the important issue is whether or not we give industry in this country a go. As I said earlier the main section of industry being attacked here is the metal trades industry. Honourable members must remember that the metal trades industry is the section of industry which determines our conditions, wages and terms of employment. There is a great deal to be said for the points made by our shadow Minister for Trade and Industry. He said that the trade union movement had not been consulted in regard to these tariff policies. Earlier today while dealing with that innocuous statement made by the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  the shadow Minister said that the Minister had sat on the fence and had not said anything new. He had made no commitment as to what he intended to do in the future. He had said, in effect: 'Yes, the old man has gone. I would like to knock his policies. I have a lot of pressure groups working on me bu I do not know whether I should do it, so I will sit on the fence'. Our shadow Minister said that surely he should consult the trade union movement on these issues because there are various pressure groups today, including some elements of the Press gallery and some lobbyists - I do noi think I need to mention names - which are very strongly advocating a reduction of tariffs to allow cheap imports, apparently because they have some interest in this. The former Minister for Trade and Industry, Jack McEwen, was quite explicit both outside this House and inside it as to who these people were. He was also quite explicit as to who the lobbyists for these overseas interests were. In fact, I can recollect a time when he barred the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and prevented his becoming Prime Minister because he considered that the Prime Minister was advocating the cause of one of the major lobbyists. 
Our shadow Minister for Trade and Industry said today that we should properly equip the Tariff Board to enable it to make these inquiries because it is obvious from the inadequate information contained in this report and in the reports that have preceded it that no member of this House could possibly honestly decide whether or not this Bill should be passed. We have inadequate information. The information has not been given to us. We have not the basic information from which these reports were compiled and that is the reason why the Opposition has decided to oppose every item contained in this Bill. How can we possibly pass this legislation when we have not been given the necessary information upon which to determine whether or not it should be passed. There is a great deal of logic in this and it is a pity that Government supporters were not as honest because they are accepting the decision of their Minister without adequate information being placed before them. 
In his statement earlier today the Minister made the point that if there is a general review of tariffs the first section of industry to be looked at will be the metal trades industry. We know that if that section of the industry is attacked there will be a reduction in wage standards because it is used as a yardstick for the whole of industry. Of course, we know how the former Prime Minister made that point. The headline in the Sydney Morning Herald' of 3rd March this year stated: 
Gorton  pledges  tariff  check  on inflation. 
In other words, he was going to use the instrument of a reduction in tariffs, particularly in the metal trades sector, as a way of cutting down the power of the trade union movement. He was going to do this by reducing the bargaining power of the trade union movement and so reduce wages and employment in that sector of industry. 
A member of the Government forces has just said it would be a damned good thing. He said it would be a damned good thing to reduce wages; he said it would be a damned good thing to reduce employment in the metal trades section of industry. 
May I continue,  Mr Deputy  Speaker? I have been very truthful. The honourable member said it would be a damned good thing to use tariffs to reduce employment. 
I said there are moves in the Government ranks, initiated by the former Prime Minister, adopted by the present Prime Minister, and adopted by the present Minister for Trade and Industry to reduce employment in the metal trades sector of industry and to reduce wages in that sector. The honourable member said it would be a damned good thing. That indicates the motives behind this Government's policy. So far as this Bill is concerned- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Cope)Interjections are completely out of order in any case. 
I think the honourable member is getting worried. The Australian Labor Party commits itself to full employment in this country. It is disturbed by reports that the Federal Government proposes to use a reduction of tariffs in key sectors of industry as an instrument to weaken some Australian industries, particularly those in the metal trades sector, thereby bringing about substantial unemployment in those industries with a consequent reduction in the bargaining power of salary and wage earners. That is the matter in relation to which the honourable member interjected. At the same time the Opposition is not opposed to any measure designed to reallocate capital, manpower and materials to improve national prosperity. It believes it is against the interests of workers in industry and consumers to maintain excess prices and profits behind a barrier of monopolies and other restrictive trade practices, as well as excessive tariffs. The Opposition will not support a reduction in tariffs unless such a reduction is supported by adequate guarantees that the reduction will not weaken the bargaining power of salary and wage earners and will not reduce their living standards. 

 - Mr Speaker, this is a remarkable Bill. If we study it carefully we see that essentially it is an indictment of the Government. All that the provisions of this Bill do is act as a stop gap. The Government, which has had 5 years to negotiate a new housing agreement with the States, has not done so. Because the Government has not achieved this in 5 years, this Bill has been introduced as a stop gap measure to continue the agreement into the coming financial year, until such time as a new agreement can be completed. This action follows 5 years of deliberation on the Commonwealth-State 
Housing Agreement and the housing arrangements between the Commonwealth and the States. 
There is no doubt about that. The extraordinary thing is that a new Commonwealth department was created, among other things, to complete this agreement. Previously new agreements were entered into readily. The first agreement came under the Chifley Labor Government. As I understand it, the Government had managed to complete negotiations on this Agreement in the past. But in 1963 a new department was created to improve efficiency. What has happened? That Department has not been able to complete its investigations, present its findings and make arrangements with the States so that the Government may lay before this House at the appropriate time a new CommonwealthState Housing Agreement. That is why I say that this Bill is an indictment against the Government and surely represents an admission of defeat for that lovely, bright, new glossy Department that was formed in 1963. 
We have a further example offered to us of the remarkable achievements of this Department. I refer to the homes savings grants scheme under which young people can receive up to $500 as a housing grant. This remarkable achievement of the Department of Housing is so full of technicalities that no young person possibly can know what it is all about without getting expert assistance in regard to it. Far too often we find that young people go to the banks and other places for expert explanation of the scheme and are advised wrongly. This occurs because not enough people know what are the provisions of the legislation. I see that the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin)  is nodding his head in agreement. This scheme is so tied up with technicalities that many people - and I do not think that there is a member of this House who has not had- 
Thank you. I did think that there was some relevance because I was dealing with the efficiency of the Department of Housing as illustrated by its lateness in finalising the new CommonwealthState Housing Agreement. I was instancing the inefficiency of the Department and the Government - - 
... and was referring specifically to this brassy new department that was set up. However, if you are upset about it and a little sensitive to it, I will let it go. 
No. I meant that the Government was sensitive. 
I am sure,  Mr Speaker,  that you would be most fair at all times. I would not suggest for one moment that you would be sensitive. I think that there may be other people on the Government side of the House who would be sensitive. 
Leaving that topic, I wish to deal with some other matters which are within the province of this Bill and the amendment. I think that we should be looking at the moment at the point of view which provides for a new look, particularly in regard to housing schemes and to the provision of assistance to enable young people to obtain their own homes. I do feel that high interest rates are having a decisive effect in this respect. That subject is within the province of this Bill. The very expensive interest rates which are charged today means that people in housing commission areas, including the people in my electorate in the new area of 
Mount Druitt, are being placed in a position where they must meet far higher repayments or rents than otherwise they would be required to pay. This means also that young people who are buying homes by other methods, including through building societies and the like, must bear a greatly increased burden. 
This problem can be blamed on the Government and its dear money policies. When one looks at this problem one cannot help but consider also that, with the lack of planning of the economy as a whole, the result is that today the deposit gap between the amount that a young person can borrow and the price that must be paid to purchase a home is growing every day. I have heard quite a few people who are well experienced in the economic banking and financial fields put a proposal which I personally strongly agree with. It is this: When a release of Statutory Reserve Deposits is made by the Reserve Bank to the trading banks, a directive should be issued at the same time to the banks under the powers of the Reserve Bank to require that the deposits so released be channelled into the housing industry. We should keep in mind that under this proposal the money would not go into other sectors of the building industry or into commercial building fields but would go specifically into the housing field. I believe that, in this way, lending authorities would be able to provide far more than they can today; accordingly, the deposit gap would be reduced. The honourable member for Mitchell spoke of concrete jungles. I hope that he was not referring to the Mount Druitt area or to housing commission areas - 
I agree. There is no concrete there. In fact, in some places there is not enough. No doubt exists that, as far as the Mount Druitt area is concerned, the houses are modern, well built and aesthetically appealing. It would do some honourable members a great deal of good - I refer to those honourable members who seem to think that the housing commission areas contain houses of a similar design and style without any aesthetic taste in the areas whatsoever - to visit Mount Druitt and to look at these homes. I believe that a good job has been done and that, furthermore, the people there are extremely community conscious. They work very hard, indeed far harder, for their local organisations than do the great majority of people who live in other so-called better areas. I can only say that the esprit de corps amongst these people is very high indeed despite the fact, with which I will deal in a moment, that they must travel large distances to and from work. The area certainly is not a depressed area. I would object to anyone suggesting that under any circumstances. 
I do say this: There has been a lack of judgment, a lack of planning and a lack of common sense on the part of the Government in the housing field. We see 8,000 housing commission homes being built in these areas. In Mount Druitt, there are more young people per home than probably any other area in the whole of the country. It is estimated that there are 4 to 5 young children in each house. Yet, whilst the housing areas are sewered the industrial area is not. As a result, industry does not move into such areas until they are sewered. The necessary industrial expansion needed to provide local employment does not occur. Honourable members should keep in mind that in most homes in these areas both the mother and father are forced to work and have to travel long distances to and from their employment. They leave early in the morning and come home very late at night. No-one can tell me that that is socially good sense, even though the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  thinks it is a bit of a joke. I believe that is one of the most important things. 
Undoubtedly those houses are dumped there. They are nice homes and they are good people, with a high esprit de corps. But when those houses were built and the people came to the area there was a complete lack of playing fields, swimming pools, community centres, footpaths and shopping facilities. People had to travel miles for the normal shopping facilities. There was a complete' lack of transport services. The transport services are in chaos. The State Government, a LiberalCountry Party Government, is not putting enough into the capital expansion of those services to move those people to and from their places of employment. Accordingly, every night the trains are crowded and people are left on the stations waiting for the next train. I believe the dme has come when special grants have to be given by  the Commonwealth and such a proposal is embodied in the amendments moved by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren). 
Special grants must be given to assist these outer perimeter areas of the great cities, particularly those areas to which the great mass of the new population is moving. These areas hold the young people bringing up the future generation in this country. I also believe, as is mentioned in the amendment moved by the honourable member for Reid, that assistance must be given by this Government towards local government interest payments because the burden on local government in these areas is far too great altogether. In other words, we cannot take people from all over the country and just put them in an area with nice homes and good hard-working communityconscious people, without giving them the necessary package deal with  all  the necessary services and industrial development that go to make a complete community. Those are the reasons why I strongly support this amendment. The new agreement to be negotiated between the Commonwealth and the States has taken this Government 5 years to achieve. The new Department of Housing still cannot settle down and do the job in reasonable time. 
When the new Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement comes before the House, I hope during the next session of the Parliament, I would like it to provide for these matters I have mentioned. I hope it will have a little heart and do something far greater than is being done today for aged persons' units. At present if people register with the Housing Commission of New South Wales for an aged person's unit they have to wait 4 or 5 years, such is the length of the waiting list. That is a different 4 or 5 years from 4 or 5 years in the life of a young person. Many of these old people do not bother to register. The honourable member for Mitchell will understand that. They wonder whether they will still be alive when a house is allocated to them. When this new agreement is negotiated I think the essentials to be considered are the proposals set out in the amendment moved by the honourable member for Reid on behalf of the Opposition as a whole, particularly the package deals to assist in the capital development of these areas, to provide the necessary facilities, to provide the necessary local employment and to provide the essential assistance for aged persons' units. If this is done this House will have demonstrated that it has a conscience. Until it is done this House does not have a conscience. 
I preface my question to the Minister for Customs and Excise by referring to the dramatic increase in drug consumption among young people over the last 2 to 3 years and the fact that drug peddling is no longer symptomatic of the inner city areas but now also occurs in the outer fringe districts. I ask the Minister: Is it true that a dope pedlar can buy hashish in the East for $12 a kilo and sell it in Australia for $1,200 a kilo? If so, does the Government consider the sentence imposed last Friday by the New South Wales Court of Criminal Appeal on a  Mr C.  J. Peel of 3 years gaol with possible parole after only 9 months as adequate, as the person sentenced could be released to continue his trading after a period of only 9 months, keeping in mind that he was convicted of importing hashish valued at between $7,000 and $9,000 on the Australian illicit market? Can the Minister indicate how the judiciary can be made to realise that much stronger sentences should be given in order to discourage dope pedlars of this type? Also, can the Government approach the States to influence them to increase the number of personel in the respective drug squads or their equivalents so that they will be properly equipped to tackle this problem? 
I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the moving of a motion to refer to the Standing Orders Committee the question of the tune to be allowed for questions without notice. 
This matter was brought before the House on 1st April and at that time was fully discussed by honourable members. Shortly I will quote the speech made in this House by the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  during that debate. The Opposition pointed out then that since the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  assumed that office honourable members had been allowed 421, 401, 34i, 38 and 41 minutes for question time. For some time after the Opposition moved that motion on 1st April, during the discussion of which the honourable member for Bradfield made his remarks in the House in effect agreeing with the motion - I will quote his remarks from Hansard in a minute - the Prime Minister reformed for a period. It has been obvious in the last week or so that he has become recalcitrant again. 
On 6th April we received for question time 43i minutes, on 7th April 49 minutes, on 20th April 441 minutes, on 21st April 42 minutes, on 22nd April 45* minutes, on 23rd April  52i  minutes - this was actually only 30 minutes because that was the occasion on which the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  was ousted - on 27th April 41 minutes, on 28th April 44 minutes, on 29th April 39 minutes, yesterday, 3rd May . 37 minutes and today the Prime Minister took approximately 8 minutes off our question time. I will quote now what the honourable member for Bradfield said on this matter when it was before the House on 1st April. He said: 
The Prime Minister would 'be wise to pay regard to the sentiments that have been expressed during this debate. I will not vote for 'the Opposition motion  at  this point of time but if the Prime Minister does not pay regard to what has been said I shall have to reconsider my position oh another occasion However, I believe he ' is wise enough and sensible enough to - pay regard to what has- been said here today; 
Quite obviously the Prime Minister has not been wise enough to pay heed to what was said in this chamber. Even now, when a resolution has been moved in this chamber , which affects directly his decision to cut down the time allowed for questions, the' Prime Minister has left the chamber. That shows the respect that he has for the forms and traditions of this Parliament. It is vital that the back benchers have the right to question the Cabinet, to raise issues on a day to day basis on the administration of the Government, and to be able to ask questions without notice so that the Ministry is kept under the scrutiny of this chamber and of the public. 
Now the Prime Minister has got up and walked out of the House, even though one of the members from his own side of the House, the honourable member for Bradfield, warned him last time the matter was before the House that he may have to reconsider his position if the Prime Minister did not show more common sense in the future. I ask that this matter be referred to the Standing Orders Committee. We cannot go on indefinitely having question time whittled down, as it has been steadily ever since  Mr McMahon  became the Prime Minister of this country. I have here figures showing the average time for questions without notice, going back over the years.These figures do not take into account minor points of order taken during question time but they do take into account such items as the suspension of Standing Orders. In 1970 we had a different Prime Minister of this country. 
Sometimes we look back on him almost with nostalgia. He at least paid some respect to the forms and traditions of this Parliament and saw the need to. stop using the devices that are being used today. Let us look at the legislation which is coming before the House at. this point of time. Recently 2 important Bills were introduced into the House, at 2.30 in the morning. 
I wish to support the motion because I think we have reached the stage when consideration must be given to a few of the humanities. I think it must be remembered that members of the staff are being kept here at these ridiculous hours by the ridiculous decisions of the Government, which is endeavouring to force through legislation. I understand that never have so many Bills been guillotined through the House in these circumstances in the past. The staff of the House who assist us and upon whom we are so dependent every day of the week will have to come back here before the members of Parliament turn up. Keep that in mind. 
I rise to order,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  Has the Prime Minister been given a pair tonight? 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! It is not within the competence of the Chair to answer that question. There is no substance in the point of order. 
As a matter of fact, the guillotine of the French Revolution could not possibly have been as ridiculous and as sharp as the one being used by this Government. If honourable members opposite had observed the gallaries tonight they would have seen an unusual thing. There  have been more people sitting in the galleries until a very late stage - they are not there now - than there have been at any other late night sitting. It is remarkable that at this time of night there are 2 people sitting in the gallery. In other words, this extraordinary set of circumstances which has arisen has been observed and noted by the public. As we saw, the galleries were crowded till very late in the evening. Surely the Government, for its own sake, should note this fact. As I said, we' are in an extraordinary position. The Parliament is being made into a circus by the Government. All the parliamentary principles have been thrown overboard. The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  who together with the Leader of the House  (Mr Swartz)  is responsible for this set of circumstances, gave up very early tonight and went home. In other words, he leaves it to all of us. As I said I did not speak earlier tonight. I have given very serious consideration to the issues placed before this House tonight and I finally find myself in a position- -  - 
Motion (by  Mr. N.  H. Bowen) put: ' 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
To which countries may merino rams be exported under the existing approval. 
Howmany of these ramshave been approved for Export to each of these' countries. 
Is he able to state the names of the . buyers  of  the rams in each of these, countries. 
What are . 'the names of the exporters of- the rams. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What investments were made by the Superannuation Board during the last 10 years. 
To whom were loans made, and what was the (a) date, (b) amount and (c) rate of interest of each loan during the same period. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
What revenue was received from public telephones in New South Wales over the last 12 months. 
What was the cost of the upkeep of public telephones in New South Wales over the last 12 months. 
I support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant).  I have examined the proposal suggested by the Standing Orders Committee and I am glad to note that much progress has been made. However, the amendment goes even further and removes some of the faults under which the Parliament is working at present. I am pleased to note that the interest of the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth),  who was the main advocate of the earlier system, is waning. I did not think it was a practicable proposition and I spoke against it at the time of its introduction. Time has proved me right. Far too often we see honourable members returning to their homes early on a Friday and the number of members who have remained in the House on a Friday afternoon is no credit to the Parliament. I think that the proposition put forward by the Standing Orders Committee - in effect that we revert to the system operating prior to the introduction of the present system - is an improvement. 
But, as I said earlier, it does not go far enough. I think the amendment moved by the honourable member for Wills takes the proposition a step further and will remove some of the disabilities under which honourable members now work. For example, the system proposed by the Standing Orders Committee, to which the honourable member for Wills has moved an amendment, will mean that honourable members will be able better to organise their work in their electorates. This is very important. Far too many people, such as the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham),  seem to adopt the attitude that the work of a member of Parliament is done solely in this House. Of course, nothing is further from the truth. A member of Parliament who does his job probably spends far more working hours outside the Parliament than he does inside the Parliament. Tt would be a very nice life indeed if we could look ahead and say: Right, when we finish here our job is finished. We can go home and enjoy life'. It is when honourable members return to their electorates that the work has to be done. Under the system presently operating, that is, sitting Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday of one week and Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday of the next week, it is obvious that honourable members cannot sit down and make a long term arrangement for meeting constituents and conducting interviews in their electorate. Our job is here in the Parliament, and also outside in the electorate so that we can meet our constituents and do the right thing by them. This proposal advanced by the Standing Orders Committee will give us an opportunity once again to plan our itineraries so that we do our work here in the Parliament as well as outside in the electorate. 
The amendment moved by the honourable member for Wills goes a step further. It foreshadows that the Parliament will sit on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday and also that the time of sitting will be limited at night. I think this is a sensible proposal, not only for the more elderly members of the Parliament - I think most of us sitting here today are very young men - but also for the staff and for the effective working of the Parliament. For example, the Hansard staff has to work many hours after honourable members leave the Parliament. The attendants will not leave the Parliament until an hour after its rising, and have to start work an hour before Parliament commences. I also instance the case of the kitchen staff and all the various other people who have to do their jobs throughout this building. Sometimes I feel ashamed of the conditions under which we ask members of the staff in this Parliament to work. The conditions under which we ask the staff to work are a disgrace. If we were to limit the sitting times insofar as they affect the hour at which this House rises at night, we would be doing a belter job by the staff. 
Possibly far more important than that, the proposal of the honourable member for Wills would mean the end of the proverbial legislation by exhaustion. It would mean that members of the Parliament do not enter the chamber early in the morning worn out. It would mean that they would come here alert and able to settle down to give serious and proper consideration to the legislation placed before them. It would also mean in the ultimate that this Parliament would sit on more days in the year. That is very important indeed, because one of the objectives of this Government and one of the motives behind the present system, as far as the Government is concerned, is to get this House into recess as quickly as it possibly can. I pointed this out in a debate on the introduction of the system under which we are now working. In other words, the longer we meet during the night and into the early hours of the morning, the less the executive and this Parliament is under the scrutiny of the general public and the Press. If the adjournment was moved at 10 p.m., the overall number of sitting days on which this House met would be extended. That would be a good thing, because it would ensure that the Parliament was under the scrutiny of the public and the Press for far longer periods. That is very important. During the last session of the Parliament we saw the Prime Minister cutting question time to a minimum. We saw him guillotine 17 Bills and gag 3 others. We saw him run off into recess as quickly as he possibly could. If the Prime Minister now introduces a system of sittings whereby he can have honourable members working throughout the night he can once again hurry legislation through and get this House into recess as quickly as he possibly can. If the time of sitting is limited to 10 p.m.. when the adjournment will be moved and followed by the adjournment debate, the House will meet for more sitting days. 1 think this will be of benefit to the public and to the Parliamentary system. Those are the reasons why I support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Wills. 
-- I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. 
The serious decline in social services has intensified the hardships faced by pensioners and families on lower incomes. 
Therefore as a matter of urgency the Commonwealth Government should immediately allocate extra finances to social services. 
The petition of the undersigned urges your Government to increase immediately 
Pensions - by $5.00 per week 
Child Endowment - to $3.60 per week per child Maternity Allowance - to at least $117 for each child born. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I rise tonight to deal with a matter which I have unfortunately had to deal with previously in this House; it relates to the proposed second airport for Sydney. I wish to make it clear in the initial stage of my speech that I am far from opposed to a proposal for a second airport, lt is obvious that one has to be brought into being and it is equally obvious that it is something which will have to last New South Wales for the next 50 years. The way it is going it will not even be built until the 1980s so we are talking in terms of 60 years or more. It is equally important to realise that we do not even know the types of aeroplanes which will be flying during that period or the problems of aircraft noise, pollution and all the rest that will arise. It is very important to see that the job is done properly. We should think big. We should not just think of getting something which will overcome the problems of the moment. We should think in terms of something which will last New South Wales and Australia as a whole as an international airport for 60 years. For this reason we must think big and we must be prepared to invest real capital in the proposal. 
I have expressed concern to the House before, and 1 still do, at proposals that the second airport might be placed in the area of Richmond, Londonderry, and Berkshire Park which is just to the west of Sydney. If it were to be built in that area it would mean severe aircraft noise problems for areas such as Windsor, Richmond, the huge Mount Druitt housing commission estate in the western part of my electorate, Cambridge Park, Penrith and St Mary's. Areas which are heavily built up and populated by young families would be vitally affected by the very great problems of aircraft noise. In other words, we would only be transferring the aircraft noise problem partially from around Mascot and putting it out into those areas where the great majority of the population are young people bringing up families and I do not think that this is just. 
Yes, it will be in a part of the electorate of Mitchell. I know that the State Planning Authority of New South Wales has been acquiring land at both Londonderry and Berkshire Park. It has made offers to acquire land and I even have copies of correspondence here in which it states unequivocally that in some instances it is prepared to purchase land because the land might be affected by a second airport proposal. I have a letter here in which the Authority states that it is prepared to exchange the land for land at North Plumpton because the land concerned might be affected by a second airport proposal. This is in black and white from the State Planning Authority itself. I wrote to the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  on 15th July. I outlined the attitude of the Authority and its latest offer which, as I mentioned, was to exchange land at Berkshire Park for land it owns at North Plumpton because it might be affected by the second airport proposal. 
I also referred to a deputation to him last November - which I accompanied - by representatives of 5 municipal and shire councils, namely, the municipal councils of Blacktown, Penrith, Windsor, Blue Mountains and the Colo Shire Council. The Minister agreed that an early decision was esential in respect of the siting of the second airport and that he hoped to have the matter before Cabinet last January. He also said he would have early discussions with the New South Wales Government. I asked him, in view of the latest developments in respect of the State Planning Authority wishing to acquire land for a possible second airport at Berkshire Park, firstly, whether the Berkshire Park area was on the list of sites being considered for the second airport. Secondly, I asked whether the report of the inter-departmental committee which inquired into the site of a second airport had been considered by Cabinet, and if so, at what stage that consideration rested. Thirdly, I asked whether in view of previous advice from him that some discussion had been held with the State Government concerning the question had any further discussion been held of a determining nature, and if so, where this discussion rested. Fourthly, I asked when it was anticipated that a final decision on the siting of the airport would be reached. 
That letter was written on 15th July. All he has done is acknowledge it in a letter on 19th July. I have not received another reply from him since. Packer's Press came out last weekend and called for an early decision on this matter. The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  came forward yesterday and in answer to a question from the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds)  - keep in mind that it was not until the 'Daily Telegraph' had demanded that something be done about this - acquiesced to Packer's power and said:  1 discussed this problem last Thursday with my colleague, the Minister for Civil Aviation. He has submitted certain proposals to me. Those proposals will be submitted to Cabinet, and shortly afterwards the Minister for Civil Aviation will make an announcement in the Senate. 
I have heard of one area - I think it is called Warnervale - which is about 6 miles away from any living area and the people there would be quite happy, from what I have heard, for the airport to toe built there. 
Yes. If this proposal which is to be submitted to Cabinet by the Minister in any way suggests that the airport should be placed near any living areas, whether out in the far western suburbs or in any other area which will be affected by aircraft noise, the matter should be placed before the people affected and a referendum held. I think they should be able to make known their attitudes to the proposal. I know some people argue: 'Oh, yes, but it will mean more factories, more building and more wealth for the landowners.' But on the other hand there are a lot of other people who wish to enjoy a little quality of life and who would have rigid objections to such a proposal. I would be quite happy to rest on the decision of the people. If the second airport for Sydney is to be situated in the far western suburbs of that city or, for that matter, in any other area, the people living in the area affected should have the right to express by way of a referendum their attitude to the proposal. I call upon the Government to adopt this approach. 1 hope it will do so as soon as possible after making known its proposal. As the Minister for Civil Aviation admitted to the deputation to him last November, the area about which I am concerned is on the list of sites being considered. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. In order to protect ministerial reputations, is the Prime Minister prepared to initiate an inquiry and report to the House on the allegations in yesterday's and today's 'Canberra Times' which imply that Ministers are being allocated houses in Canberra out of priority and at bargain rates, keeping in mind that today's editorial in that newspaper refers to 'a corrupting influence' and 'ingredients for scandal'? 
 Mr Speaker,  I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent this House considering a motion at this time to establish a select committee to inquire into and report on the allocation of land to Ministers of the Crown on which is built houses at Government expense and which enables them to make undisclosed profits. 
I am raising this matter today because I was unsuccessful in my endeavour to bring the matter to the attention of the House last night.  Mr Speaker,  you will recall that I asked you if I could speak in the adjournment debate and if my name could be placed on the list of speakers. It was placed on the list. You will recall that 5 minutes before the debate was gagged I checked with you and you believed it would be quite OK and that the matter could be raised. Prior to that, I had personally seen a member of the staff of the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  and pointed out to him that this matter would be raised. I also pointed out to the Minister himself that the matter would be raised. He was in the chamber- For some extraordinary reason just as I rose to speak the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  gagged the debate. This matter has some considerable urgency about it. I have mentioned that the debate on the motion for the adjournment of the House was gagged before midnight. It was not that the House sat beyond midnight. The debate was gagged before that time. One cannot help but wonder what was the motive of the honourable member for Angas in gagging debate on this matter. Was he trying to prevent it being raised? I now have to use this method as the only alternative to raise this matter which I believe is one of urgency. It should be dealt with in an urgent manner. Honourable members will recall that on 26th August I raised this matter in the House. I asked the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon): 
In order to protect ministerial reputations, is the Prime Minister prepared to initiate an inquiry and report to the House on the allegations in yesterday's and today's Canberra 'Times' - 
That was 25th and 26th August -  which imply that Ministers are being allocated houses in Canberra out of priority and at bargain rates, keeping in mind that today's editorial - 
That was 26th August - 
In that newspaper refers to 'a corrupting influence' and 'ingredients for scandal'? 
I make it clear that I am not making this a personal attack on the Minister for the Interior. Personally I have a regard for him. But it so happens that he has become a Minister at a later period. He has gone on handling the matter in much the same way as did those Ministers before him. This is not the first instance of this occurrence by any means. There have been a number of cases where Ministers have obtained houses in this way. 
At the outset I would like to correct the misinterpretation and distortion of the policy of the Australian Labor Party on immigration as given by the Minister for 
Immigration  (Dr Forbes)  a few minutes ago. The policy of the Labor Party as enunciated by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  is not that relatives of people already in Australia should automatically be admitted to this country, as was implied by the Minister, to the contrary. Our policy is that priority should be given to relatives of people already here. Surely this is a sound social and humane policy. I am very sorry that the Minister has taken it upon himself - I do not know whether it was deliberate - to misinterpret our policy. 
I support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition in respect of this Budget as I believe the strategy of the Budget is completely out of step with the economic trends in Australia today. Here we have a Budget which provides for a surplus of $630m and plans to dampen down economic activity and employment at a time when business and economic authorities, such as the survey by the Bank of New South Wales and the Associated Chambers of Manufactures of Australia, released only last week, have warned that the current turn-down in employment and industrial and commercial activity could be expected to continue at an increasing rate. We also have the employment figures released by the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  only yesterday which show that unemployment is growing at a monthly rate of 6.6 per cent after allowing for seasonal factors. 
This Budget also does not take into account the world currency crisis brought about by the announcements by the United States Government 2 days before the Budget was introduced, which could have a dramatic effect on this country's trade and capital transactions. It is extraordinary that this question was not even mentioned by the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  in his Budget Speech, and is indicative that the Budget was already out of date before it was introduced into this Parliament. Once again we have an example of complete lack of long-term planning such as occurs in other countries and there is no doubt that revision of Budget strategy will have to be introduced in the next few months if a rapid growth of unemployment and reduction in industrial and commercial activity is to be avoided. 
One of the reforms missing from this Budget which is a vital necessity to Australia is the allocation of special grants to the States specifically earmarked to assist in development in the perimeter areas of the great cities where the growth in population is fast outstripping the capacity of the States and local government to meet the developmental needs of those areas. I instance, as an example, the far western suburbs of the metropolitan area such as Blacktown, Mount Druitt, St Mary's and surrounding areas where there is a drastic need for new schools and other educational facilities in both the primary, secondary, pre-school and university areas, including the establishment of a university in the western suburbs. These districts also need special assistance for transport to remove the chaos which exists on the rails, local government finance for the provision of roads, footpaths, kerbing as well as community centres and playing fields in an area which has probably the youngest population in the whole of Australia and where our future generation is being brought up. I submit that an immediate revision of this Budget should be instituted and that part of the $630m surplus should be used to provide special grants specifically earmarked to the perimeter areas for the projects I have just mentioned. 
I now touch on that section of the Budget dealing with allocations to the Joint Defence Space Research Facility at Pine Gap. as I believe its implications are of very great importance to Australia and that members of the Australian Parliament and the public should be taken into confidence and told just what this facility means to this country. No doubt honourable members will have seen recent articles in the Press indicating that it has now been revealed by an American scientist named Phillip Klass, that the Pine Gap establishment is a top security United States base which is one of two vital links in a satellite system protecting the United States against a nuclear attack. As far as I can find out, these articles have not been denied and accordingly it would seem this base now places Australia in the forefront of a possible nuclear attack. I raise this issue as I am one of the few members of this Parliament who applied for permission to enter the research block at Pine Gap and was refused. This is difficult to understand as I have no doubt I would have been screened and the screening would have shown that, prior to entering this Parliament, I was Assistant General Secretary of the New South Wales Branch of the Australian Labor Party and could hardly be called a security risk. In fact, over the years I have been a particular target of the Communist Party because of the positions I have held in the Labor Movement. 
I will tell the House the story' of how this refusal came about. On 18th May this year I was in Alice Springs and I called in at the office of the Joint Defence Space Research Facility as it is called as it was common talk around Alice Springs that the facility was along the lines now revealed by Phillip Klass. I introduced myself to the American who was manning the office and told him 1 wanted to be shown over Pine Gap and briefed on its purpose. He immediately rang through to the base, which is about 18 miles from Alice Springs, and in quick succession we were transferred to three different officers. Obviously, my request had caused quite a panic. Finally, ( found myself speaking to  Mr Lindsay  Snooker, who was the Australian representative in charge at the facility, the American being  Mr Lou  Bonham.  Mr Snooker  told me he could not grant permission for me to enter the base and that I would have to obtain it from Canberra. T pointed out to him that I was going out to visit an Aboriginal reserve that afternoon and asked him to contact Canberra on my behalf. He undertook to do this. On calling back that afternoon,  Mr Snooker  told me that an officer in Canberra had said I had to apply in person to the Minister for Defence, and that his personal request to the Minister would not suffice. 
Yes, they were fully aware of it. In other words, every possible barrier was being put in my way. 
Fortunately, I had my FMA card with me, so I asked if the Minister was at his office, 1 was told he was and accordingly I immediately rang through to the office of the then Minister for Defence in Canberra. He was not there, but I spoke to a member of his staff who told me that she would make contact with the Minister and ring me back later that night at my hotel. 
No, there would not have been. It would have been much different, but I will touch on that in a few moments. Within 10 minutes a call came through from  Mr Snooker  saying that the Minister had now given approval for me to visit the base but on the restricted basis that I could not enter the research block. I asked him what this meant and what could I see and he said: "Well, we have the messing facilities, the accommodation blocks and the offices etc' I do not recall whether he mentioned the toilets and showers. I asked whether this meant 1 could not find out the purpose of the facility and see how it operated. He agreed that this was the case and asked me whether I still wanted to go. I told him that I did, as I was not going to be placed in a position where it could be said that I had refused to visit the facility. 
Yes, that is correct. That is what they wanted. 1 was picked up the next morning by  Mr Snooker  and taken out to Pine Gap. Both he and  Mr Bonham  treated me very well but in answer to continual questions as to the purpose of the facility and what type of research or activity was going on, I was told their orders were that they could not tell me. The only thing they would say was that it was 'electronic research into outer space.' I was also told that the facility had no relationship whatsoever to nuclear research or defence and, of course, that is contrary to what has now been revealed by Phillip (Class. I saw the messing facilities, the office, the showers, the accommodation and so on but I was not allowed inside that so-called research block which had a very high wire fence around it. 
I believe that the time has come for the Australian Government to cease being so secretive and to be completely honest as to the purpose of this installation and other installations around Australia which involve joint activity with another power. I believe that Australian Parliamentarians and the Australian public have a right to be told its purpose and the dangers, if any, to Australia of an atomic attack. I also believe it is a ridiculous situation that we have to learn of the purpose of this facility from scientific writers in the United States and not from our own Government in Australia, and it also should be remembered that United States Congressmen are given the right to visit any defence or research establishment associated with their country's defence, including bases in another country. In other words, they can do it, but apparently members of the Australian Parliament cannot do it. This project was entered into by this Government during the period of Harold Holt's betrothal of LBJ when, as we all know, he went all the way with LBJ. It is indeed serious for Australia that a foreign base should be placed in our country which could bring about an atomic attack on this country, and I call upon the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  immediately to give a statement to the House outlining the purpose of this facility and the impact it can have on Australia's future. 
Another issue which must be tackled by this Government is the provision of tax deductions in respect of education expenses for students in employment. At present, an employed student cannot obtain any taxation relief in respect of all the fees and books he or she has to provide to further his or her education. This places an undue economic strain upon a person who, because of that person's economic circumstances, has to improve his or her educational standard on a part-time basis. The refusal to grant such individuals taxation concessions discourages them from undertaking tertiary education, whereas we should be giving them every possible encouragement as they are educating themselves under very difficult circumstances. This is another item which surely could be assisted by the extraordinary $630m Budget surplus, which obviously must be revised in the near future. 
I wish now to deal with the increase in prescription costs under the pharmaceutical benefits scheme from 50c to $1 as this is another strike at the family - the very section of our community whom we should be helping and not hindering. Some pharmacists have brought to my attention the fact that this increase in respect of many prescriptions will mean free medicines to the Government and not to the patient. I will give some examples of this. The price to the Government of paediatric suspension, a penicillin preparation, is $1.71 and therefore the Government will now pay only 71c of that cost. Forty tablets of 300 mg sulphadiazine cost SI. 09, or a cost of 9c to the Government, whereas 100 amytal tablets of 15, 50 and 50 mgs cost 80c 95c and and $1.07 respectively, the first two involving a profit to the Government, Die Government will also make a profit out of 40 tablets of 500 mg sulphadiazine at a cost of 96c as well as out of 100, 15 mg and 30 mg phenobarbitone tablets at a cost of 59c and 68c. 
I have checked these with pharmacists and I have rechecked them through the research service of this Parliament. The same applies, incidentally, to other types of phenobarbitone tablets. In other words, it is free medicine for the Government and not for the patient. 
The honourable member for Prospect has just said that it applies to 800 different items. As I said, this is another assault upon the family which will particularly affect my electorate which, as I mentioned earlier, probably has the youngest average population in Australia and has more couples bringing up the future generation of this country than most other areas, and I submit that a part of this Budget surplus should be used to reduce the cost of prescriptions to the patient. The point made by the honourable member for Prospect, that it covers 800 different prescriptions is a point made by a doctor. 
With regard to the currency crisis it seems to me that the Australian Government is confused as to what action it should take in regard to Australian exchange rates. Australia's bailee of payments at this point are very high and despite assurances to the contrary, one cannot but suspect that there is a considerable amount of hot money within those balances and that there is likely to be a lot more hot money entering this country in the months to come in anticipation of an appreciation of Australian currency. Therefore, the anticipation of appreciation must bring about considerable speculation in respect of our currency and, at the same time, such an appreciation would place our exports, particularly our primary exports, at a decided disadvantage on world markets. 
In fact - the Country Party should be interested in this - as we now have surpluses in wheat and wool, there is a strong argument for depreciation of the Australian dollar so that these commodities which are generally invoiced in Sterling or United States dollars, would be able to sell more cheaply overseas when invoiced in a foreign currency. In other words, devaluation would mean that our exports would be placed in a better bargaining position on world markets vis a vis the exports of other countries. It would therefore seem that we are in an invidious position in that, if we allow our exchange rate to appreciate we will be encouraging speculation in our currency and on the other hand we will find our surpluses in wheat and wool more and more difficult to sell overseas unless we depreciate. We therefore cannot help but have a look at the exchange system being operated by Belgium, that is, a 2-tier rate. I believe this issue has to be given greater study by the Australian authorities and the Australian Government - the proposal being that we depreciate in respect of our trading transactions and hold our rate in respect of our capital transactions. This would mean dearer imports, but this could be overcome by tariff adjustments. It should also be remembered that, whilst it is difficult for France to maintain a 2-tier rate because of the nature of her settling arrangements, it would be very much easier for Australia where we have a sophisticated exchange control. 
Finally, I wish to make a particular appeal for the invalid and widow pensioner with a family. I think most people will appreciate that any person who is bringing up a family in circumstances where, for example, in the case of a widow pensioner the husband has died possibly at an early age because of a heart attack or something of that nature, the widow is placed in a most invidious and difficult position.  Her  responsibilities are not doubled; they are more likely trebled. Yet under the social service framework instituted by this Government the woman is almost invariably forced to go out to work to keep her family at a time when her responsibilities within the home and her need to be in the home are greater than they ever were before. I think the time has come when, in the interests of humanity and in the interests of those young children who have to be brought up with the attendant requirements of education and the rest, the pension for a civilian widow with a family should be immediately reviewed by the Government. This is equally applicable to the invalid pensioner who has a family to bring up. It applies also to the age pensioner and the widow who does not have a family but it applies particularly to the civilian widow with a family and the invalid pensioner with a family. I appeal to the Government to have a good look at the humanity of the case for those 2 sections of our community when this review of the $630m surplus in the Budget - which must come - is made. 
I wish to address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, but I cannot see him in the House. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a persona] explanation. 
I do. The honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin)  stated in the House last night, in my absence, that leaks in respect of the siting of the second international airport came from me. That is not the case. It is obvious from recent articles which have appeared in major Sydney newspapers that confidential information was leaked from Government sources, but this certainly did not come from me, obviously. On 18 March last year I indicated to the House that I had heard that a preliminary land survey for an airport had been made in the Richmond area and that the rumour was that it related to the second airport for Sydney. This was denied by the honourable member for Mitchell, as reported in Hansard of 19th March. He said: 
. 1 say without fear of contradiction that there has never been a survey of this area for that purpose. 
Earlier, he had said: 
There is nothing in the suggestion about the establishment of an aerodrome in the area. 
It is so that I heard that there had been a survey in the Richmond area for the purpose outlined. But this was common talk around the Richmond, Windsor and surrounding districts at the time. I find it hard to comprehend that the honourable member for Mitchell, who represents the area, had not heard it either there or from his own Government. 
Very good,  Mr Speaker.  This information did not come from any senior public servants, as stated by the honourable member for Mitchell. 
I will quote from Hansard what the honourable member for Mitchell said last night. 
All right. I only wish that the honourable member for Mitchell would put party politics out of this matter and help me prevent the airport from being built in that area. 
asked the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
What would it cost the Commonwealth to abolish the means test. 
Like the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds)  I support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  which reads: 
That all words  after  'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: 'whilst not declining to give the Bill  a  second reading the House is of opinion that  a  joint select committee should be established to investigate and report upon accidents involving international aircraft and the serious problems of Qantas and the South Pacific route'. 
I believe that this is an issue which goes far beyond the question of Party politics. It is an issue which should be taken up by the Government. I find it incomprehensible that members from the Government side should not have supported the amendment. Only one member from the Government side has spoken during this debate and he immediately attacked the amendment. 
That is quite correct. He left the House immediately afterwards. That was the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin).  I believe that these 2 issues - the establishment of a committee to investigate and report upon accidents involving international aircraft, particularly here in Australia, and the serious problems of Qantas and the South Pacific route - should be non-party issues. The honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  and the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds)  have both dealt very extensively with the issue of Qantas Airways Ltd. It is hard to add very much more except to say this: We find that our great and friendly ally, the United States of America, when it comes down to commerce and profit is no longer the wonderful friend that we have had in the past, even though, as the honourable member for Newcastle has mentioned, Ansett Airlines of Australia, Trans-Australia Airlines and Qantas Airways Ltd have all purchased or ordered between them over the last 10 years $560m worth of aircraft from that country. Surely this represents a wonderful boon to the economy of the United States. Yet, when it comes to that country giving a little reciprocal assistance, helping Qantas - its own customer - to be at least an effective financial and commercial organisation, the United States, that great and friendly ally, turns around and, in spite of the recent agreement reached, tries to grind Qantas straight into the ground. I do not think that is very fair. 
I am not antiAmerican. I think America is a wonderful country. All I can say to the honourable member for Sydney is that I just wish that this Government would do a little more to stand up for its own commercial organisations and not bow down to the might and the will of the United States in its commercial transactions. As one of my colleagues points out, only 2 Government supporters are in the House. 
I wish to refer to article 44 of the Air Navigation Act 1920-1966. I wish to deal particularly with section (c) of Article 44 and section (h). Section (c) states: 
Encourage the development of airways, airports, and air navigation facilities for international civil aviation. 
Section (h) states: 
Promote safety of flight in international air navigation. 
In dealing with these 2 items, I think we must look very carefully at the question of international safety and the development of airports. I refer particularly to the proposal that there should be a second international 24-hour a day airport for the Sydney region. In relation to this question, I draw particular attention to the issue df safety. The Government has already recommended that Richmond or Somersby should be the site of the next international 24-hour a day airport. We notice that the report of the interdepartmental committee refers to the fact that the airport should be as close as possible to Sydney. It is well known that Richmond is closer to Sydney than is Somersby. For that reason, the people right out through the far western suburbs no matter what suburb they come from, whether it be Windsor, Richmond, St Marys, Penrith going right through to Blacktown, Mt Druitt, Wentworthville, etc., and even up into Castle Hill and Baulkham Hills in the electorate of Mitchell, a key electorate, are very deeply concerned that this airport could be established in that region. If honourable members read the statement of the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  carefully and the remarks of the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  when that statement was debated in the House, they will see that the Minister for Social Services stated that he believed Richmond was the most suitable site for the airport. If we take that into account, together with the Minister's own statement that the airport should be as near as possible to Sydney - he recommended 2 sites, Richmond or Somersby, and Richmond is the nearer - then we must realise that the Government in actual fact prefers Richmond as the site for the second international 24-hour a day airport for the Sydney region. What is the motive of the Government deciding this, after 3 years of interdepartmental committee inquiry into this matter, 3 years of full inquiry in which a recommendation for one of 4 sites was brought down, 2 of which have been rejected by the Government without any reason being given? Wattamolla is in National Park; I think we can understand the reason for rejecting that. Also, there is 
Duffy's Forest up in French's Forest. What is the reason for that site being rejected? If honourable' members look carefully into the position, they will find, of course, that Duffy's Forest and French's Forest are bounded by the electorate of Mackellar which is the electorate of the Minister for Social Services, the electorate of the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner),  a long term member on the other side of the House, the electorate of the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Hughes),  a former Attorney-General of this country, the honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer),  a former Minister for the Army, and the electorate of the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar).  They are 5 solid Liberal electorates. It is obvious that the intention of the Government is that, even though Duffy's Forest may be recommended by the interdepartmental committee on technical and commonsense grounds, nevertheless it is going to knock that back for purely political purposes. 
The honourable member for Newcastle makes a very good point. At least the people from the north shore who live in these electorates would be nearer to the airport if it were at Duffy's Forest. Forty per cent of the loading on our aircraft comes from those areas. But that is beside the point. I think the issue is that the Minister for Social Services and those 4 other honourable members in that area should look carefully at playing political football in this way. They should remember that the electorate of Mitchell is also a key seat and could determine the future of this Government. I can assure you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that the people of Windsor and Richmond, the people in the suburbs of Wentworthville, Castle Hill, Baulkham Hills, as well as the areas in my electorate such as Mt Druitt, St Mary's, Werrington,  Cambridge  Park, and areas in the electorates of other honourable members such as Penrith are all up in arms about this issue. They are talking now about public meetings to protest against the decision. I received a letter in my office today saying that a pensioners' organisation - it is not in my electorate - is prepared to assist in taking up a petition to protest against this airport. I think the Government should look carefully at this issue. 
However, I believe we should also look at the issue of safety. Article 44 of the Schedule to the Air Navigation Act deals with the question of safety. When it is considered that the Blue Mountains rise immediately behind Richmond, does the Government believe in all honesty that this is the safest place to build the second international 24-hour a day airport. This is quite apart from the tremendous damage to the environment and the aircraft noise issue in all those suburbs I have mentioned before with their huge mass population. Keep in mind also the fact that the planning authorities believe that this is the best area to develop housing. The area where housing development is occurring naturally today is in a segment running from Richmond south to Campbelltown and Camden. Yet, if honourable members read the report and take notice of the remarks of the Minister for Social Services, they will see that the Government is deliberately proposing that the second airport should be placed in the middle of what will become one of the most congested housing areas in the whole of the metropolitan area of Sydney. I believe it is time the Government had a look at a few other proposals. I believe that it is time that we were given the opportunity to have a look at the report of the interdepartmental committee to see what its technical recommendations were. Further, I believe it is time that the Government, instead of evading the issue, told this House and the other place the reasons why Duffy's Forest was deliberately rejected despite the recommendations of the inter-departmental committee. 
I ask the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  who represents the Minister for Civil Aviation in this place, to tell us the reasons why it was rejected. T want him to tell us the technical reasons. When I asked the Minister a question on this matter the day after the statement made by the Minister for Civil Aviation was brought into this House last Thursday week I was given an evasive reply.  Senator Mulvihill  in the other place asked the Minister for Civil Aviation himself why it was rejected and what the technical reasons were. He also was met with evasion. It is pretty obvious that the Minister for Social Services has had a very great impact upon this decision. I think it is time that we looked at the report of the interdepartmental committee. It is time that the secrecy surrounding the report was dispelled. We should be able to find out what the committee thinks about the proposals which are being developed in other parts of the world today. For example, seadromes are being considered in the United States of America. We should be able to find out whether 'dromes placed out to sea are a practical proposition. I can only assume that if the inter-departmental committee conducted its inquiry in a proper way it would have inquired into that aspect. 
There is a lot in what was said by the Leader of the Opposition in the New South Wales Parliament. He said that the day will come when an aircraft will crash into one of the residential areas surrounding a great airport such as Sydney (KingsfordSmith) Airport and that when that day comes the whole world will experience a feeling of revulsion and will agree that some action has to be taken. That is why the Leader of the Opposition advocates that airports should be located out in the country. An airport placed in the country could be serviced by feeder aircraft from a capital city. This is a proposal that should be looked at. 
I cannot but wonder why there has been such tremendous secrecy about this issue. Despite the fact that I mentioned that there had been a preliminary land survey at Richmond on 18th March last year and that the rumours were that this survey was for a possible second airport, I cannot but wonder why it was that the Government has clouded this matter with secrecy and evasion. Why has the Minister, when I have asked questions, deliberately evaded the issue and denied it. One cannot help wondering whether the Government or the Minister in actual fact misled the House at that time. It is time for us to be honest with one another. It is important that we reach a quick decision on this issue. It is important that we make sure that an airport, irrespective of where it is, is not located near a large residential area, be it Richmond, the far western suburbs of Sydney or any other part of the area surrounding the metropolitan districts of Sydney. 
I wrote to the Minister for Civil Aviation on 17th September of this year and asked him the following question: 
When will the Joint Federal/State Committees be set up and start considering where the Airport should be sited; that is, whether it is to be at Richmond, Somersby or some other point? 
I also asked: 
When will the Committee mentioned . . . be likely to make a final decision and recommendation? 
I interpose to say that this is important because it is obvious that a quick decision must be reached. I went on to ask: 
Is there any proposal for the early use of Richmond aerodrome for freight and commercial flights- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Corbett)Order! I think the honourable member for Chifley's remarks are getting very wide of the Bill. I have allowed him some latitude but I think his remarks are somewhat irrelevant to the Bill. 
I am dealing with such matters as air safety, international airports and the development of international airports in accordance with Article 44 of the First Schedule of the Act. I believe that safety and the development of international airports are issues of vital importance. I hope that no attempt will be made to stifle me. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and the Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth - 
The Red Kangaroo and many other marsupials, through the shooting for commercial purposes, have been reduced to a numerical level where their survival is in jeopardy. 
None ofthe Australian States have sufficient Wardens to detect and apprehend people breaking the laws in existence in each State and in such a vast Country only uniform laws and a complete cessation of commercialisation cart ensure the survival of our national emblem. 
It is an indisputable fact that no natural resources can withstand hunting on such a concentrated scale, unless some provision is made for its future. 
We, your petitioners, therefore humbly pray that: 
The Management of Australia's Wildlife be controlled by the Commonwealth Government and sufficient Wardens appointed to enforce the Laws. 
The shooting of kangaroos for commercial purposes be stopped immediately. 
The export of all kangaroo products from Australia be banned. 
The Commonwealth Government establish large national parks of good quality land as major tourist attractions. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever, pray. 
Petition received. 
-I do not intend to reply to the personal invective and criticism of the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull).  On the contrary, I hope to make some constructive and, as far as I am concerned, sincere criticism of the procedures of this Parliament. I believe that if ever there was a time when it was necessary for us to try to build up the image of the Parliament amongst the public, today is that time. No doubt Press criticism of the Parliament is degrading and it is having a serious impact upon the confidence of the public in the democratic procedures of this Parliament. For that reason I believe the time has arrived for some form of committee of inquiry to be established to determine the future procedures of this Parliament. I say this as, like many other parliamentarians, I am deeply concerned at the growing inability of the Parliament itself adequately to cope with the mass of legislative and administrative detail which comes before it. Unless something is done to correct this situation I believe that the government of this country will fall more and more into the hands of the bureaucracy, as happened in France between the 2 World Wars and just after the Second World War. We had the spectacle in this House during the dying hours of the last session of 17 Bills being guillotined through and the debate on a further 3 being gagged, with only the barest minimum of discussion. I am open to correction, but as I recollect it was stated that one Minister had only 2 minutes to explain his Bill in the debate on the motion for the second reading. 
Amongst those Bills which were rushed through were very important items of legislation such as industrial legislation and amendments to the Trade Practices Act. Is it any wonder that these items of legislation are not as effective as they should be. and would anybody claim that the legislation concerned had received the full and careful consideration of this Parliament as required in a parliamentary democracy? Of course not. What really happened was that the Executive and the bureaucracy made the decisions without involving the great body of this Parliament. 
The fact is that this Parliament is still working under much the same procedures in 1971 as it worked under in 1901, the time of federation. Let us have a look at the responsibilities of this Parliament in 1901 as compared with 1971. In 1901 there were 9 Ministers, including the Prime Minister, the other ministries being External Affairs, Home Affairs, Trade and Customs, Defence, PostmasterGeneral, the VicePresident of the Executive Council, and 2 Ministers without portfolios. Today there are 27 Ministers. In 1901 we had no Department of Civil Aviation, no Navy that was established in 1911 by a Labor Government no Royal Australian Air Force, no Repatriation Department, no Department of Social Services, no organised Commonwealth marketing schemes in primary industry, no medical and hospital benefits legislation, no Commonwealth education and science legislation, no uniform taxation, no restrictive trade practices legislation, no uniform marriage or divorce laws, no Commonwealth Department of Housing no external territories responsibilities, no industrial legislation, no national service, no national development responsibilities, no departments covering Aboriginal affairs, the environment and the arts, no tourist activity responsibilities, no shipping and transport responsibilities including Commonwealth ships, and no organisation relating to trade and industry. In addition the massive tariff legislation which was introduced in the late 1920s to develop a semi-industrialised economy was not in being at that time; nor were the Commonwealth and Reserve banks, TransAustralia Airways and Commonwealth control over the note issue. 
These are just some of the responsibilities which this Parliament has today and which it did not have in 1901, and there would be more. Is it any wonder that we are clogged down in masses of legislation which is not being properly considered by this Parliament. Are not all members of the Parliament concerned that we have to wait up to 4 weeks on the Opposition side of the House, as mentioned by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson),  before we can level a question without notice at a Minister? Would anyone oppose the proposal that question time be extended to allow the Ministry, the Executive and the bureaucracy to come under the scrutiny of the Parliament, the public and the Press? Surely these are matters which should be considered urgently by some form of committee of inquiry. 
I believe also that the provision of a research assistant with the necessary stenographic staff and office accommodation for each parliamentarian would be a good way to commence correcting the steady growth of the superiority of the bureacracy of the Parliament and would enable parliamentarians to call upon research assistants to conduct research into various phases of government and thereby equip them to level constructive criticism in respect of the day to day administration of government as well as government policy. This would make far more effective parliamentarians, a far more effective Parliament and, much sounder government of Australia and would help towards increasing the power of the Parliament over the bureaucracy - surely a vital necessity for the future of Australia. 1 can recollect the honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson)  saying at this time last year that he believed that some of the best work that a parliamentarian does is outside this chamber when he is dealing with electors and the day to day electoral representations that they put up to him. 1 believe that this is the case because the machinery being used in this Parliament is completely out of date. It is not a matter of attacking the traditions; it is simply common sense that the machinery being used in this Parliament is completely out of date in this year of 1971. We are still using the procedures that applied in 1901. Surely the time has arrived when this Parliament should look seriously at this matter. It is a very great issue affecting the future of democracy in Australia, and unless we are prepared to grapple with it, unless we are prepared to set up some form of committee of inquiry so that this matter can be researched fully and common sense decisions arrived at, it augers very badly indeed for the future of this Parliament and it augers very badly indeed for the respect that the public has for the forms, traditions, and activities of the Parliament. 
This afternoon I wish to deal with a few issues and particularly with the controversy which is spreading right throughout the community these days relating to protection versus free trade for Australian industry. I am not going to over-emphasise protection because I think that most of us realise that we must endeavour to use our. resources as effectively and as efficiently as we possibly can.. .If any industry hides behind a very high tariff wall which allows it to increase costs and prices then it. should be reviewed. There is little doubt that there is insufficient steady review of the protection afforded to the various areas of industry. The machinery must be set up to endeavour to increase or to make those reviews far more regular so that we can plan our economy in a more effective manner. At the same time there are some people in the community today who could bc described only as almost complete free traders. We have in this place a modest parliamentarian who writes for the 'Australian Financial Review' at regular intervals and he always puts this case very effectively. One could say it is a lobby viewpoint. 
I feel that many people are taking an over academic view of this matter because they are ignoring the lessons of history in Australia. I am surprised at the attitude taken by members of the Australian Country Party on this issue. When  Sir John  McEwen was Minister for Trade and Industry he prosecuted a very strong programme to build up Australian secondary industries. I sincerely hope that it is not suggested by honourable members on the Country Party benches that this was not a sound policy for the development of this country because had we not developed secondary industries and become a mixed rural-cum-industrialised economy we would have had a great deal to worry about today with the plummeting returns to the rural sector. For this reason I think it is very important for us to look at the lessons of history and I believe we should do so whenever this argument comes up once a decade. Fortunately ever since the late 1930s Australia has gone ahead with a strong policy of developing our industries and affording them the protection the same as other countries have afforded to their industries which are our competitors. Japan is the best example of this. 
This policy of development must be continued to enable this country to develop industrially at the rate warranted. This policy should continue on 2 grounds: Firstly, with the maintenance of Australian industry and the development of Australian industry and employment and secondly, with the maintenance of our overseas reserves. Far too often this latter ground is overlooked because of the very fat reserves which we have at the present time and which undoubtedly were made far by a great deal of 'hot' money coming into Australia. This controversy which has been going on for the last 12 months will shortly be illustrated when we debate the proposed tariff revision for woven shirts, knitted shirts and outer garments, and also for construction equipment manufacturers. There is a very big factory in Seven Hills in my electorate which is producing industrial tractors, loaders and back hoes. 
This industry does not enjoy very heavy tariff protection although it does have protection of up to 50 per cent on loaders and back hoes. If Australia imported this equipment it would result in a very heavy expenditure of foreign exchange. In my electorate the firm of Whitmont and Sons Pty Ltd has a factory which produces shins. This firm will be greatly affected by the proposed tariff review. If that firm or the firm of construction equipment manufacturers I referred to is put out of business there would be a very decisive down- . turn in employment throughout the western suburbs of Sydney. I have only mentioned 2 companies. This policy which has been suggested would have a tremendous impact in these industrialised areas. Furthermore it would prevent the further development of industry throughout the western surburbs. 
I point out that from the point of view . of import replacement it is important for us to maintain these industries. I do not know how many honourable members have read the pamphlet put out by the Australian Industries Development Association on arguments for and against appreciation of the Australian dollar but I think it is one of the clearest expositions on this issue which I have seen to date. That document makes the point that although we have very big reserves at this point of time they only represent returns on imports for a period of 6 months. If honourable members cast their minds back they will recall that in 1950-51 when there was tremendous pressure for an appreciation of the Australian pound we had at that time very big reserves, but again representing only imports over 6 months, and within a matter of a year we had to impose import licensing. For this reason I think that one must issue the warning that the maintenance of our reserves is crucial. The maintenance of our secondary industry is crucial, for employment as well as import replacement so as to maintain our reserves. 
Of course some industries will have to acclimatise themselves gradually to the new conditions and 1 think that we would all appreciate this. I think we realise that it will not be as easy to export in the future as it has been in the past. We had a warning only last week from the Japanese Ministry of International Trade and Industry which pointed out that countries are unlikely to stand for Japan taking too much of their mineral resources. The Ministry said that for this reason Japan should look for other sources from which it could obtain minerals. The Ministry pointed out that a few overseas corporations control most of Australia's mineral extracting industries and that these corporations could by agreement halt the supply of minerals to Japan. For this reason the Ministry has said that it has to look for other areas of supply. With this sort of situation the maintenance of our reserves is crucial. I believe it is time that we had a little more economic planning in this country. Perhaps we could look at the system which Japan itself used so effectively over the years. Japan set up her industries in various segments and' she laid down the amount of development permitted for each segment. One segment may have . had to increase production by a certain percentage or another segment may have had to reduce production. Japan's industries were given fair warning over a period of 5 years. Accordingly industry accommodated itself to this overall plan because it knew that if it did not do so action would be taken to correct the position. 
I think it is time Australia had a look at such a proposal for economic planning for this country. I think it could do a great deal of good for this nation, lt would allow those sections of our industry which may have to accommodate themselves to new lines, possibly reducing production in some fields or increasing production in others, to have ample warning in regard to their future. I think it is very important in view of the possible over academic approach to remember the lessons of history in that Australia built secondary industry as other countries did by the protection of their industry but if we go too far with the theorists Australia may suffer in the future. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Cope)  - Order! The honourable gentleman's time has expired. 
 I wish to raise a couple of matters tonight on the reorganisation of the PostmasterGeneral's Department. The first issue that I wish to mention is the question of the decision by the Department to close down a number of non-official Post Offices and to reduce other official Post Offices to non-official status. This matter relates not only to particular areas in my electorate; it also covers areas which border on my electorate. I will touch also on the way in which these proposals affect the electorates of Country Party members who, I think, should be very vitally concerned with the 2 issues that I will mention because one thing which the country requires is service from the Postmaster-General's Department. 
I regret that the tendency today seems to be to forget that the Post Office provides a service to the public and that this is its first responsibility. The question should not always be one of where a few dollars and cents can be saved. In the early part of last month, I received information that the Department was considering reducing the status of the Doonside Post Office. It was to be reduced from an official Post Office to a non-official Post Office. So I wrote to the Director of Posts and Telegraphs in Sydney and pointed out that I had information to this effect. I asked whether he would confirm it. I stressed that I was very strongly opposed to the proposal. Part of his reply states:  . . plans to reduce some small official offices to non-official conditions are in the interests of economy. 
In other words, he admitted that these proposals were being considered. He stated that it was in the interests of economy. He continued: 
. but by and large, service to the public will not be adversely affected. 
I cannot conceive how service to the public will not suffer if such action is taken. Economy seems to be the guiding factor. Service to the public does not seem to be of very great importance. 
I was made aware also of moves to close altogether a number of non-official post offices. For example, I understand that 6 in the Hawkesbury Valley are to be closed. I have been advised by police that the 80 miles from Windsor up the Putty Road towards Singleton will have no post office facilities. I think we must remember that these post offices provide a service to people who live in remote areas. Furthermore they give assistance to organisations such as civil defence organisations and the police force. It is important to have a non-official post office to provide various facilities in a remote area. The saving of a few dollars and cents - a matter of economy - has apparently entered into the subject. I have been advised by a friend of mine,  Mr Ashley  Brown, the Australian Labor Party candidate for the Mitchell electorate at the next Federal election, that he attended a meeting of residents who protested against the possible closure of non-official post offices in the Hawkesbury Valley. An officer of the Department,  Mr Lane,  whom I know - he is quite a nice fellow and quite an effective officer but he can only carry out orders coming from the Federal Government whose members sit opposite - made the point that the whole move is being made in the interests of economy. Official and non-official offices are public utilities. They are supposed to serve the interests of the public by providing postal facilities. 
The reason why I am speaking tonight is to object to this proposal. I sincerely hope that the Government will reconsider this matter and realise that it must ensure that this public utility provides the service that it is supposed to provide. It is ridiculous that a place such as Doonside, which is a quite heavily populated area, will have its post office reduced from official status to non-official status. It is equally ridiculous that a place such as Mount Druitt, which has the biggest Housing Commission development in New South Wales  -  8,000 houses are being built there - will have no official facilities but only non-official facilities provided. In the past I have written to the Department and asked why it is taking this step. In those areas mail men are not handling the mail; mail contractors are handling it. I repeat that this is in the biggest Housing Commission development area in New South Wales. 
That is so. Altogether 8,000 houses are to be built there. Of those 1,500 are Housing Commission homes. Before I finish I shall touch on another matter. It is one in which the Australian Country Party should be vitally interested. I refer to the re-organisation of the Post Office announced by the Minister approximately 3 weeks ago. I think that the whole issue of decentralisation is involved here. I understood that members of the Australian Country Party were prophets of decentralisation. I thought that they were always advocating- 
asked the Minister for the 
Interior, upon notice: 
How many electors were enrolled in each Electoral Division (a) at the time of the last redistribution in 1968 and (b) at the latest date for which figures are available. 
1 also wish to say a few words on the appropriation for the Department of External Territories, particularly as it affects Papua New Guinea. I do not wish to make it a political football in the way that the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Pettitt)  has done but I am unfortunately put in a position where I must answer one criticism which he made. If my recollection is correct, he said that the Pangu Party does not want self government. 
1 should like to quote from an article in the 'Post-Courier' of Thursday, 21st October. The article is headed 'Urgency Theme for 1972 Policy' and states: 
Urgent preparations for early self-government will be the main theme of the Pangu Party's campaign for the 1972 House of Assembly elections. The Party leader,  Mr Michael  Somare . . . revealed this in the Pangu election manifesto he released in Wewak. 
I think that answers the statement of the honourable member for Hume. Having recently visited Papua New Guinea after an absence of 8 years I expected to see great change. However, unfortunately my impression of the greatest change was the dramatic growth in racialism and I left the Territory very concerned about Australia's future relations with it, as I believe it is of paramount importance, not only to this generation but also to the future generations of Australians that a sound and friendly relationship and understanding of the problems of the people of Papua New Guinea and Australia should be forged. I am sorry to say that my impression is that a great deal of the blame for the growth of racialism rests with the attitudes of the great majority of the Europeans in the country, particularly those in commerce and industry, who have only their own self-gain in mind and who are not concerned with the problems of the indigenous people or with Australia's relationship with them in the future. I do not suggest that this statement covers all the European people in the Territory as there are many, particularly in the Public Service, who are very dedicated and who are a good advertisement for Australia. But I believe that at least 75 per cent - to quote some old-time Australians who have been there for many years and who have made it their life's work to help to develop the country- of the Australians there are not a good advertisement for our country and it is a pity that some way has not been found to cull them out and send them back to Australia in an endeavour to reduce the growing racial tensions. 
I visited remote areas as well as the more sophisticated districts in both the coastal regions and the highlands, including Rabaul. I arrived at Rabaul just as the civil disturbance was occurring at the airport, which honourable members will recall hearing of last July. Three hundred police were marching up and down the airport in accordance with the old gunboat technique and my impression was that there was an almost complete lack of dialogue between the Administration and the more radical indigenous organisations such as the Mataungans. I found it almost impossible to make contact through the Administration with Mataungan leaders. I also obtained the impression that a great deal of the responsibility for the serious situation which exists there rests with the Secretary of the Department of the Administrator,  Mr T.  Ellis, who, I was advised by some of the small band of dedicated and sincere kiaps which exist in the Territory - unfortunately this is by no means all the kiaps - has continually insisted upon a hard line being taken towards the Tolai people, with a resultant difficulty in obtaining or maintaining a worthwhile dialogue with them. I impress that this information was only given privately as no-one seemed to be game to give it in front of a third person. 
Honourable members will recall the incident in the House of Assembly last November which involved  Mr Ellis  and, to refresh their memory, I quote from an article in the 'Australian'. The article states: 
The head of the Papua New Guinea Administrator's Department,  Mr T.  W. Ellis, was crawling around the House of Assembly floor on all fours. For the second time on the last day of the November sitting  Mr Ellis  was expressing his rage at the honourable member for Kokope  on the Gazelle Peninsula of New Britain,  Mr Oscar  Tammur.  Mr Ellis  had suggested that  Mr Tammur  wanted the Administration to crawl like a dog and dropped down to mime out his precise meaning, as stunned members - who are often told that a Parliament must have dignity - looked on. 
Surely this display of arrogant racialism by the most senior Public Servant in the Territory can only do irreparable harm and I believe that the sooner the policies, which this man is helping to frame, are completely reviewed, the better it will be for Australia, the people of the Territory and our relations with them. 
 On the question of education, I believe there has been a complete misuse of resources. There is a dearth of students with secondary education to fill th positions required by the necessary step-up in localisation in commerce, industry, the public service and the teaching profession, not to mention the need for undergraduates at both the University of Papua New Guinea and the Technological Institute at Lae. For example, the Technological Institute has not been able to find sufficient students to fill their classes in some faculties, even though they know that there will be a demand in the Territory for more graduates than they are teaching. Therefore, the localisation campaign is being seriously impaired by this shortage of persons with secondary education. 
On the other hand, with regard to primary education, the great mass of the students who leave primary school - say, after completing second to sixth class primary education - have no job to go to. If they try to go back to the village, they are considered 'big-heads' by the older men and so a great body of them simply wander around the towns such as Port Moresby, Rabaul, Lae and Hagen with nothing to do. In other words, they simply cannot fit into either their old or the new culture. To put it another way, there is a massive unemployment problem in the Territory; and is it any wonder that the result is stoninga of Europeans, crime, vandalism and great discontent? 
Whilst there is some secondary industry developing in centres such as Lae, nevertheless the Administration does not appear to have adequately tackled the problem of providing industries which will give employment to this huge, unskilled work force which is at present unemployed. Perhaps honourable members can see what I mean when I say there has been a misuse of resources. 
On the question - a very vexed question - of land, I believe action must be taken by the Administration to help overcome the great land shortage of the indigenous population before independence is granted. I say before. For example, the Administration should acquire plantations in and around Rabaul from Europeans as quickly as possible and cut them up into smaller blocks for the indigenous people. I cannot understand why action has not already been taken on this question as I met one plantation owner who has been trying to get the Administration to enter into negotiations to buy his property for some considerable time, without avail, and he assured me he is only one of many. They know that the days of plenty are past and that their days of being white plantation owners amongst an indigenous population are numbered. Furthermore, the very vexed problem of the land title system is also so great that I believe that, if some demagogue arises in the country and undertakes to overcome the land title and land shortage problems, he could unite the country under a dictatorship. This would not be in the interests of that country or Australia. 
I also believe this Federal Government should have an early look at the question of the border of Australia and Papua New Guinea, because it should be remembered that the nearest island owned by Queensland is only approximately 2 miles from Papua. Why cannot honourable members see the problems that this could raise after independence? 
On the question of self government and independence, the Territory now virtually has self-government as Canberra is not using its right of veto. So far as indepen dence is concerned, I cannot help but subscribe to the proposition that it is far better to get out too early than too late, as if we wait too long we will see an ever increasing demand by the indigenous people for local autonomy. If we insist on staying as a policeman, we will see great damage to our chances of influencing the policies and development of the country after independence, plus bloodshed, growth of racialism and hostile country as our nearest neighbour. It is better to take chances on an early independence than face these inevitable happenings. 

 Mr Deputy Chairman, 1 suggest that the Government should look very carefully at the problems at present being encountered in the Territory. I believe that we have made serious errors in the past and I think it is essential that there should be a complete review of policy to see that those errors are corrected in the future. 
 I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members  of  the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully sheweth: 
That death from mass starvation and disease is occurring among Pakistan's refugees on a scale unprecedented in modern history. 
That, as a part of the world community, the Australian Government has an immediate responsibility for concerted action. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray: 
That, the Government go beyond the plea  of  the Prime Minister for magnanimity and compassion in the trial of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman on charges of treason, and insist on the liberty  of  this openly and democratically elected leader. Your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I do. I was misrepresented by the Minister for External Territories last night. When replying in the debate on the estimates for the Department of External Territories the Minister distorted a remark which I had made. He had this to say and I quote from Hansard: 
The honourable member for Chifley made a most extraordinary statement. He said that he went up there-  referring to New Guinea -  recently for the first time in 8 years and the only change he noticed was a change in the racial problem. 
If the Minister had listened more carefully, and I would suggest that he check with Hansard, he would know that what I actually said was this 
Having recently visited Papua New Guinea after an absence of 8 years I expected to see great change. However, unfortunately my impression of the greatest change was the dramatic growth in racialism and I left the Territory very concerned. . . 
That is quite a different thing. I referred, for example, in my speech, to the Technological Institute, but the Minister thought there was something wrong with my eyesight and I had not seen it. I want to make it quite clear that a change in the racial problem was one of the changes I saw, and it was one of the greatest changes. 
I compliment the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  for referring particulary to the extraordinary spiralling of housing costs. I believe that anybody who has a social conscience today and who is looking at what will happen to the next generation of Australians should give serious and full consideration to this problem. The young couples who married a decade or two ago received a far better go from the various finance authorities and from the various people selling land than do young couples today. They could get a house at a far cheaper cost than married couples can possibly get a house today. The cost of a house in comparison with gross income today is far greater than was the cost of a house in comparison with gross income 10 or 20 years ago. I think the honourable member for Hughes has dealt with that aspect of the position. I do not think that anybody with a social conscience today would be other than very sorry for the younger people who have to obtain a home in today's circumstances. 
I support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren).  I will quote the clauses of it and deal with them as I proceed. The amendment seeks to reduce the proposed expenditure by SI as an instruction to the Government to assist State public housing authorities to provide low cost housing and to reduce housing costs by certain means. The clauses of the amendment set out those means. Clause (a) states:  enabling public land development commissions to be set up in co-operation with the States to acquire necessary land, hold it in public ownership, develop it and make it available on reasonable terms on a leasehold basis similar to Canberra; 
I believe that that proposal would help young couples, in particular, to obtain land and nouses in newly developing areas such as the western suburbs of Sydney - areas in my electorate such as Blacktown, Mount Druitt, St Mary's and the surrounding areas. I think anybody who looks at those areas would realise that there are large tracts of land today controlled by a small number pf developers - very wealthy developers. The honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin)  is laughing. I hope he is not associated with it. 
For example, behind my own home ohe developer has 2,000 blocks which could have been released approximately 2 years ago but which are held up from being released to the public because of interminable arguments with the State Planning Authority, with the local council, and I assume with the Water Board, etc, while the organisation develops its other project, which of course is the Winston Hills project. In other words I do not believe we will see that project properly developed until such time as the developer's previous project has been fully developed. In other words, that land will be held on ice so that young couples will not be able to purchase it. I think that the sooner action is taken by the Government to force these large organisations to release this land so that young couples get the opportunity to buy, and to remove what could only be called a false shortage of land which is being created by these people, the sooner our young couples will have an opportunity to buy their block of land and build their home. 
When we look at this matter we must also have a very good look at what happens in Canberra, as the amendment mentions. 1 would surely say that Canberra, as the honourable member for Hughes has mentioned, is an example for the rest of Australia. If we can have proper development in this city of Canberra, surely what is good enough for Canberra is good enough for the rest of Australia. If it can be done in this area it can be done also in other parts of Australia. I would particularly like to see the land tenure system and the housing arrangements which exist here in the city of Canberra extended into other areas also such as the western suburbs of Sydney where the great body of young people of the metropolitan area of Sydney are today settled. 
Now I wish to deal with item (b) of the amendment, which refers to reducing interest rates. I think most honourable members would agree that interest rates are a very heavy burden upon the great mass of the young people of this country. I still say: When it comes to interest rates why can we not give the same opportunities as were given to the young people of the last decade and the decade before, for example, persons such as myself who came back from the Second World War? I can finance my home on 3i per cent interest. Tell me of any young person today who could go to a building society or a private finance organisation and obtain a home loan at an interest rate of 3f per cent reducible. I make that point - reducible. If this could be done then, I see no basic reason why it should not be done now. But of course the Government will tell you that the reason it is not done now is that there has been a steady increase in interest rates throughout Australia over the years, and this has been a deliberate policy followed by this Government ever since its inception. The normal bank rate was 4) per cent when this Government took over. Today the normal bank rate is 8i per cent. If we watch very carefully we see that there is not a corresponding decrease in interest rates when a deflationary situation occurs along the lines of the increase in interest rates we see when an inflationary situation occurs. 
In other words by a deliberate policy  -  I accuse the Government of this - there has been a steady increase in interest rates over the years, and then the Government speaks of the problems of inflation and of costs. Surely it should realise the extent of the effect on costs that this increase in interest rates has had. I would ask for the provision of reasonable conditions for our young people in the way of cheaper housing finance and in providing them with land at reasonable cost. I believe that the artificial shortage of land which has occurred over the years and which is occurring throughout this country today must be removed. I believe that the best approach is to adopt the system at present obtaining here in Canberra. If it is good enough for Canberra, as far as I am concerned it is good enough for the rest of Australia. 
-! present the following petition: 
To (he Honourable (he Speaker and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of (he Commonwealth respectfully sheweth: Whereas - - (a) the Commonwealth Parliament has acted to remove some inadequacies in the Australian Education system. 
a major inadequacy at present in Australian education is the lack of equal education opportunity for all. 
200,000 students from universities, colleges of advanced education and other tertiary institutions, and their parents suffer severe penalty from inadequacies in the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936-1968. 
Australia cannot afford to hinder the education of these 200,000 Australians. 
Your petitioners request that your honourable House make legal provision for - 
The allowance of personal education expenses as a deduction from income for tax purposes. 
Removal of the present age limit in respect of the deduction for education expenses and the maintenance allowance for students. 
Increase in the amount of deduction allowable for tertiary education expenses. 
Increase in the maintenance allowance for students. 
Exemption of non-bonded scholarships, for part-time students from income tax. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I direct my question to the Acting Prime Minister who no doubt is aware of a report that the Prime Minister has implied in the United States of America that he believes the Australian currency should appreciate against sterling and the United States dollar - a so-called good neighbour policy - and a conflicting report that the Acting Prime Minister yesterday told the National Press Club that the Australian Country Party favoured devaluation of the Australian dollar. I therefore ask the right honourable gentleman: Will not such conflicting statements cause undue speculation in Australian currency and a tendency to dislocate Australian trade? Secondly, what is the extent of the difference of opinion between the Prime Minister and him on this vital issue? Thirdly, will he get together with the Prime Minister on a hot line in an endeavour to bring about a much needed unity in their views. 
I will not take up too much of the time of the House but there are a couple of points upon which I wish to touch. I refer in particular to the evasion of taxation through a system used by a number of companies under which sham organisations are set up on Norfolk Island to avoid taxation on the mainland. I refer also to a report of proceedings in the Bankruptcy Court earlier this year which indicated that Australian residents had used a sham company setup on Norfolk Island to avoid Australian taxation. On 11th March 1970 I asked the then Treasurer a question, pointing out to him that taxation was being avoided in this way. In reply he agreed that this was the case and said: 
The Commissioner of Taxation himself has been inquiring closely into these matters and an investigation is being made. 
That was in March 1970; it is now November 1971. It would be very interesting indeed to know how much taxation has been avoided in this way since that date and how much this has cost the Australian taxpayer. It is well and truly time that this investigation which was in train in March 1970 was completed and amending legislation brought before this Parliament to close this loophole. 
There is another matter which I wish to deal with very quickly, and in dealing with it quickly I do not wish to detract from its importance. It concerns the treating of education expenses incurred by employed students as taxation deductions. This is a very important issue. People who are receiving tertiary education, particularly on a part time basis, should be given these taxation concessions. A person obtaining tertiary education in this manner is doing so under very difficult conditions, and any student who has any experience of these conditions knows it is one thing to receive full time tertiary education and a very different thing to take a degree course part time. For some reason or other, whilst it is recognised that I can receive the benefit of taxation deductions for educational expenses incurred through my child being at university, the student who is bearing his own costs of education cannot receive that necessary taxation deduction. I ask the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  to look at this issue closely because a great deal of hardship is being created. The present system is certainly not an encouragement to students or young people to undertake part time tertiary education. 
I must also mention very briefly a question that has arisen many times in my mind. Why is it that deductions for dependants, the education of children, insurance, superannuation, medical expenses and so on are of far greater benefit to the person on a high income than they are to a person on a low income? Sooner or later in this 
Parliament we must come to the conclusion that there should be a fixed amount for these items which can be claimed as a deduction. There should be a fixed amount of deduction for a wife and a family, for education, for medical expenses and the like, because it is not fair that the person on a low income should not receive the same benefit as a person on a higher income. Is it that his wife and his children are not of the same value as the wife and children of a person on a much higher income? These are issues which should be faced. 
In conclusion, I revert to the matter I first raised and draw the attention of the Treasurer to the fact that one of his predecessors did say in this Parliament in March 1970 that an investigation was being made into the practice of avoiding taxation by setting up companies on Norfolk Island. That was in March 1970, and that investigation should have been finished long before now. There would have been a great deal of taxation avoided in the meantime and this is a burden on the rest of the Australian community. A report should be brought forward as soon as possible and amending legislation introduced into this House. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr Crean's amendment)  stand part of the question. 
I present the follow ing petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth - 
That a migrant who has been a member of the Australian workforce for many years, has paid taxes and acquired Australian citizenship, and seeks to live the last years of his life in his native land or, if an invalid, wishes to see his relatives, is denied pension transferability. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray - 
That the House of Representatives, in Parliament assembled, seek to have Australia adopt the principle followed by Britain, Italy, Greece, Malta, The Netherlands, France, Germany, Turkey, Canada and the United States of America, who already transfer the social entitlement of their citizens wherever they may choose to live. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
asked the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
What funds were allocated by the Commonwealth to each of the States for drug research and prevention. 
In what manner are the funds being used by each State. 
ls he satisfied that each State is using the funds to the maximum advantage. 
I wish to bring to the attention of the House the fact that in New South Wales the Hospitals Contribution Fund of Australia is very considerably behind in its refunds to various hospitals - I gather right throughout the State. From snippets I have seen in the Press in recent times possibly the Fund is behind in its refunds to contributors as well. I shall give an example of what I heard quite recently. I received information that most hospitals in the western suburbs of the metropolitan area of Sydney were owed large sums of money by the Hospitals Contribution Fund. The reason for this was that the Fund was having trouble with its computer and also because of lax administration. 1 heard of one hospital, amongst others, which was owed well in excess of $100,000. That is quite a large sum for a comparatively small hospital as this one is. 
I received information also that, as a result of this large sum of money being owed by the HCF, the hospital was having trouble in meeting its commitments. In fact it reached crisis point last Monday. Not only hospitals in the western suburbs of Sydney - I will take that matter up in a few minutes - but hospitals throughout New South Wales are owed large sums of money, apparently because of a falling down in the capacity of the computer of the HCF and because of an incapacity in administration. This means that the hospitals must carry also the interest charges, which are very considerable. In other words, not only can they not meet their commitments but also they have to pay the interest involved. Of course, the party that gains from this is the HCF. I sincerely hope that this is not a deliberate action on the part of the HCF. 
As I said, I first heard of this problem on Monday. I rang the Registrar of the New South Wales Hospitals Commission for the western suburbs. He said that he did not know anything about the matter. He said that he had not received his returns at that time, so I asked him to check the other hospitals in his area. I did not mention any particular hospital; I asked him to check all the hospitals in his area, from Auburn to Liverpool, Nepean and Camden. He said that he would check with his head office, and on my pressing him to the point he said that he would check with the hospitals also. 
Later that day he said that he had checked with his head office, which had checked with the HCF, that he had checked with a few of the hospitals also - he said that it was a test check in the area - and that the HCF had admitted that it was well behind. The HCF told him that, it had given an advance for 1 month of average refunds, but it was 2 months behind in its refunds; therefore the net position was that it was approximately 1 month behind. In other words, the HCF had given an advance as an emergency measure to cover refunds for 1 month, but as it was 2 months behind in the first instance it was still at least 1 month behind in refunds to the various hospitals. As a result of my inquiries, the HCF stated that cheques would be in the mail that day. In some instances I do not think they went into the mail that day. In fact, special couriers were sent out as late as yesterday to provide refunds for very large and appreciable amounts. 
Only today in one of the Sydney daily newspapers we saw that  Mr I.  W. Armstrong,  Chairman  of the District Hospital at Bourke, was complaining very forcibly about the amounts owed to his hospital. They were small amounts compared with the amount of well in excess of $100,000 and approaching $200,000 owed to a hospital in the western suburbs.  Mr Armstrong  talked of amounts of $2,554, $4,561 and $3,827 being unpaid by the Hospitals Contribution Fund of New South Wales. I think the important point is that, by taking action on Monday, I probably overcame a problem for a number of hospitals in the western suburbs of Sydney. It has meant that they do not now have to bear excessive interest burdens and they do not have to face the prospect of not being able to meet their creditors. It is a bit of a robbing Peter to pay Paul approach because it is very obvious that there is a large number of hospitals throughout the State of New South Wales which are owed large sums of money, as instanced by the position of the hospital in Bourke, because of the break down in the computer of the HCF and possibly also because of inefficiency in the administration of that organisation. It is, of course, one of the first organisations to cry out when any suggestion is made by the Australian Labor Party that action should be taken to give a better deal to the public in respect of hospital and medical benefits. 
I know that the Minister for Immigration  (Dr Forbes),  who usually represents in this chamber the Minister for Health  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson),  is away at the present time. It is hard to keep track of all the comings and goings, as was mentioned earlier. But I would request the Minister who is at present representing in this chamber the Minister for Health to let the House know as soon as possible - early next week if it is at all possible - the precise amount owed at the beginning of this month, let us say the 1st of this month, by the Hospital Contributions Fund to the various hospitals throughout New South Wales; how far behind these refunds are; and when it is anticipated that these refunds will be made. 
I shall repeat the points on which 1 seek information. Firstly, how much was owed by the HCF to the various public hospitals throughout the State of New South Wales at the beginning of this month? Secondly, when is it anticipated that these refunds will be made to the various hospitals? Thirdly, why has such a situation been allowed to develop? Fourthly, what is the extent of it? Fifthly, how far behind are these refunds? I believe that unless this situation is examined it will not be corrected. Evidently, the complaints which have been made have had some effect in the far western suburbs of Sydney. The Press cutting I have from the 'Sydney Morning Herald' of this morning is only one example of the many complaints which have been made throughout the State of New South Wales about an organisation which is always crying efficiency. It should be able to set an example to the rest of the community. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
In dealing with -the Estimates for the Department of Social Services and the Repatriaton Department I wish first of all to deal with an individual case, because I think it exemplifies the lack of justice which has been provided in this current Budget. I referred this case to the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  on 21st September and I have received only an acknowledgement from him. He undertook to inquire into the matter. 1 referred this case to the Prime Minister because it involves a review of policy. The only way to correct this injustice is to review policy fully right across the board in respect of social services, as I shall explain. 
The background of the case of the individual concerned - I shall call him  Mr X  - is that he was in receipt of State superannuation of $23.65 a week which, as a result of action by the New South Wales State Government, was increased to $28.45 a week and back-dated to 1st January this year. 
As the honourable member said, as it turned out it was bad luck for him. He received advice of this increase from the Superannuation Board on 14th May 1971. The Committee will appreciate that this action . by the New South Wales Government was taken to restore the purchasing power of State pensions but, as a result of this increase, my constituent's social service pension was reduced from $16.20 a fortnight to $10.80 a fortnight, together with a loss of fringe benefits, including the telephone rental concession, the pensioner medical service and the reduced radio and television licence fees. He was advised of the loss of these fringe benefits by the Department of Social Services on 8th September this year. 
That covers transport as well. The Committee therefore will see that for a net increase, including State pension and social services pension, of $2.10 a week he has lost all fringe benefits which, at his stage of life, would be far more valuable than the $2.10. Furthermore, this loss of income has resulted from Commonwealth action, whilst the State pension was originally increased to compensate the recipient in respect of rising costs. I also pointed out to the Prime Minister that this would mean not only that he did not receive the special 50c increase that was given earlier this year but also that he will not receive the $1.25 increase provided in the current Budget. Surely this is a case which should be considered? Therefore, I ask the Prime Minister for a complete review of policy right across the board. It is obvious that unless there is an urgent review of policy, people in this category will be done a severe injustice. While the State government increases their superannuation to account for rising costs, the Commonwealth Government grabs more than the increase - that is the effect of it - which was provided by the State government. 
There is another matter to which I wish to refer. I quote from the 'Daily Mirror' of 26th August where it is stated: 
An estimated 154,000 aged, invalid and widow pensioners will not receive a cent from latest pension increases. They will be excluded because the Government has decided to tighten the means test. 
The Government has decided not to alleviate the means test but to tighten it. The article continues: 
It is understood the tapered means test introduced by the former Prime Minister,  Mr Gorton,  will not be available to thousands of pensioners this year,  Mr Gorton  decided that, instead of a  pension being reduced by, the amount -by which a pensioner's means exceeded the permissible limit, only half the excess was cut from the pension. But when introducing this year's Budget the Treasurer  Mr Snedden,  said full increases would be given only to those pensioners receiving the current maximum rate. 
I think this is exemplified clearly in a table to which I shall now refer. This table shows that the total number of age pensioners who will not benefit from the current increase is 148,000. The number of invalid pensioners who will not benefit is 17,000 and the number of widow pensioners who will not benefit is 16,000, giving  a  total of 181,000 which, expressed as a percentage of the total number of pensioners, is 17 per cent. In other words, 17 per cent of pensioners who, when they first  read  the paper the morning after the Budget was presented believed that they were to receive an increase of $1.25 a week, have now found to their sorrow, just as the constituent to whom I referred earlier found, that they will not receive any increase whatsoever. If I recall the position correctly, the same situation applied with regard to the 50c increase earlier this year. So, is there any justice in the proposals which are being brought forward? 
While on this subject, I refer the Committee to the position of the single age pensioner. In 1949, when the Australian Labor Party went out of office, he received 24 per cent of the average weekly earnings as estimated for June 1972. In 1967 the percentage had dropped to 21.4 per cent, in 1971 the figure was 18.9 per cent and in 1972 it will be 18.7 per cent. Taking similar figures, based once again on the estimate for the year ended June 1972, in 1950 the amount paid in child endowment for one child under 16 years of age was 2.6 per cent of the average weekly earnings; in 1967 the figure was .8 per cent; in 1971 it was .6 per cent; and in 1972 it will be .5 per cent. The same thing applies in respect of child endowment for 3 children under 16 years of age. In 1950 the figure was 12.9 per cent; in 1967 it was 4.9 per cent; in 1971 it was 3.5 per cent; and in 1972 it will be 3.8 per cent. 
As I said, surely this is indicative that there is no justice in the proposals being submitted by this Government in respect of the whole range of social services. Surely it is indicative that this situation applies not only to the pensioners but also to the average family grouping, the most important grouping in our society and the basis for the future generations of this country. My electorate has the youngest average age of any electorate in New South Wales. There are more young people in my electorate that in any other electorate in New South Wales. These people will be vitally affected and are being vitally affected by the refusal of this Government to give justice to the young family groupings. Of course, the Government also refuses to give justice to the older people, the invalids and the civilian widows, in my electorate. 
Finally I should like to deal with another matter. There have been petitions brought before this House recently along the line that any person who is eligible for a social service pension may receive or should be able to receive it without any limitation outside the Commonwealth of Australia. Of course, this affects a large number of migrant people - people who come to this country to settle. If in their very old age they wish to return home, they will not be able to benefit from the social service benefits which would be available to them if they stayed in Australia. For some years now, the Maltese people - the Minister knows about this; 1 have been to him on a deputation- have asked for reciprocal rights. They are British citizens. They have asked for reciprocal rights in respect of social services which other British citizens, such as those in the United Kingdom, receive. The Government undertook in the 1969-70 Budget that there would probably be a decision before the 1970-71 Budget. No such decision has been forthcoming. Of course, I think that limited assistance has been given. However, the basic requirement of those people has not been implemented by the Government. I think it is very important that justice should be given to them. I think that justice should be given not only to Maltese people but to all other people who have come from Europe to make their home here and help build this country. 
On the estimates for the Department of Civil Aviation, I wish to speak specifically on the question of the proposed second international 24-hour airport for the. Sydney region. I impress upon the Committee that this will be a 24-hour airport without any curfew. I refer also to a joint statement dated 5th November 1971 issued by the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  and the New South Wales Minister for Local Government and Highways,  Mr Morton.  In this joint statement the Ministers say that the first meeting of the joint Commonwealth-State committee to investigate the matter of the location of this second airport will be within the next couple of weeks. 
An interesting point is that the Ministers refer to only 4 of the sites mentioned in the statement made by the Minister for Civil Aviation last September on Sydney Airport proposals. Those 4 sites are Wattamolla, Richmond, Somersby and Duffy's Forest. The Ministers point out that the Commonwealth recommends specifically Somersby and Richmond. No reference is made to the other sites which were mentioned in the statement made by the Minister last September. 
No reference is made in this joint statement to the fact that, in his statement last September, the Minister for Civil Aviation said that the Committee would also be empowered to inquire into any other sites. This is something which has been left out of the joint statement. It is rather extraordinary. It is something which must be clarified. One cannot help wondering whether this may be an attempt by the 2 Ministers concerned,  Mr Morton  and  Senator Cotton,  to stampede the committee into a decision on this issue and to achieve that decision before the natural opposition which is now arising in these areas - particularly in the areas of Somersby and Richmond - gathers force. 
On 19th October a meeting of representatives of 5 councils involved' in these proposals took place. These are the municipalities of Windsor, Penrith, Blacktown, Blue Mountains and Colo Shire. Those councils resolved unanimously that a deputation should wait on the Minister for Civil Aviation and the State Planning Authority and requested that local government representatives be placed upon this CommonwealthState committee of inquiry. On 28th October I sent a telegram to the Minister - a covering letter was forwarded on 2nd November - asking that arrangements to meet this deputation be made and pointing out that the deputation was prepared to meet the Minister a at any place, no matter where. It was prepared to come here, to meet him in Sydney or anywhere else. The councils will meet the cost of the deputation because they realise how urgent it is that deputation should get to the Minister as quickly as it possibly can. 
For this reason, one cannot help feeling that this is an attempt to cut the number of sites to be considered to two, although 4 have been mentioned, forgetting the fact that the Committee was supposed to be empowered to inquire into other sites additional to those mentioned, and that this therefore is an attempt to stampede the Committee into a decision before the deputation can meet the Minister and before it has an opportunity to mount the campaign of opposition which surely will come. 
I think that this Committee should give very careful consideration to the various sites proposed, including the original 11 mentioned, which covered such areas as 
Warnervale and Duffy's Forest. We still do not know what were the technical reasons why Duffy's Forest was rejected as a site for this second international airport. The Minister said in a letter answering a question from me that it was rejected because it was not suitable for international traffic. Three years ago, an inter-departmental committee was set up to inquire into and report upon sites suitable for a second international airport in Sydney. If Duffy's Forest is unsuitable as a site for an international airport, why did that interdepartmental committee recommend it for that purpose? It is obvious that members such as the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth),  who is asleep over there- 
I am sorry. The Minister realised that this was within his electorate and he very strongly opposed, as did other Liberal members who have electorates in the Duffy's Forest area, the second international airport being sited anywhere near Duffy's Forest. They made sure that, for political and not technical reasons, this site was struck from the list. 
This Committee must look most closely at all other proposals including developments overseas. It should particularly consider also a sea airport. Having read some articles on this, and being aware of the fact that it was the subject of a careful investigation in the United States of America, I made an approach to the Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation, Washington, asking what were the latest developments with respect to offshore airports. I received a reply to my inquiry only the day before yesterday. I wish to quote some sections from it. Reference is made to my interest in offshore airport centre planning. The letter states: 
The Administrator has referred your inquiry to this office for reply. 
The Federal Aviation Administration of the United States Department of Transportation has published a two-volume report on offshore airport planning and construction methods. These volumes, which discuss concepts and advantages and disadvantages of offshore airport development, are intended as guides to airport authorities and planners concerned wilh developing and evaluating proposals for building airports on offshore sites. A copy has been ordered and will be forwarded by separate letter. 
If the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz),  who is at the table, wants a copy of this report, 1 will let him have one. The letter continues: 
At this writing, the FAA also has a contract with the New York firm of Saphier, Lerner, Schindler . . . Environmetics, a division of 
Litton Industries for a proposed two-phase study of a close-in, offshore jetport to serve metropolitan New York City. 
The first phase, expected to be completed on 25th November 1971, will focus on the technical, social and economic feasibility of an offshore jetport in either Long Island Sound or the Atlantic Ocean, south of Long Island. If the feasibility of building such an airport is not established during the first phase, the study will be discontinued. 
A second phase, if required, would involve the selection of the preferred site and development of a functional design for an offshore airport. Cost estimates and evaluations will be included in the final report. It is expected the entire study will take 12 to 15 months to complete. 
We believe it premature to judge the feasibility of the New York Offshore Jetport Study, pending the consulting engineers' first phase study findings. This study may, however, succinctly identify the key problems and give directions for future work on this subject. Accordingly, we will be most pleased to provide you with a copy of the study as soon as it is available to the FAA. 
I will be happy to let the Minister have this information if he has not caught up with these developments. The letter continues: 
There are also a number of other sites in the United States and Canada where offshore airports are being explored. Although specific proposals or technology for such sites have not yet been furnished to this office, there is considerable local civic interest in such airports at Cleveland, Ohio (Lake Erie); Chicago, Illinois (Lake Michigan); San Diego, California; and Toronto, Canada. 
I think that these proposals should be considered carefully by the joint CommonwealthState committee which has been established. 
We should realise that a natural development will occur in the land triangle formed by Parramatta, Richmond and Camden. This is flat land available for development, lt is the best for housing, industrial and commercial purposes. It is obvious that a future satellite city will be established in that area. I find it incomprehensible that the mistakes so evident at Mascot will be repeated by placing an international 24-hour airport in this housing development area ignoring the noise and other environmental problems involved. 
I warn the Government that there will be strong opposition - I give no details at this point - to any proposals for the siting of the second international 24-hour airport in the western suburbs of Sydney. No attempts to stampede a decision on the issue will avoid that opposition or its consequences, nor will evasion and refusal to answer any specific questions such as those that I have directed to the Minister assist the situation. The Minister has refused to answer questions as to the actual site of the airport, the plans of the airport, if it is to be at Richmond, what flight paths will be adopted and so on. Any attempt to avoid those issues will not stop the opposition which is going to grow. I believe that the Richmond proposal will be very detrimental to all the householders in the far western suburbs of Sydney. For this reason I ask the Government to see that it is opposed and that a more suitable site is found away from the built up areas. 
I address a question to the Prime Minister. In view of the many indicators of storms ahead for the Australian economy, such as the United Kingdom's entry into the European Common Market, the wool industry crisis, both rural and general unemployment in the basic industries, the currency crisis and obvious speculation about a possible appreciation of Australian currency as indicated by the dramatic increase in Australia's overseas reserves, which now stand at over $2,600m- 
As I mentioned earlier, I second the amendment moved by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren).  This Bill allocates to the States a $2. 75m cumulative grant over a period of 5 years. That $2. 75m in the first year is in lieu of the allocation of $1.29m under the previous agreement which was in the form of a 1 per cent interest rebate on the bond rate. On the face of it this would appear to be very beneficial to the States. When one has a careful look at the second reading speech of the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  and at the Bill one cannot help but wonder why the whole system has suddenly been changed and why the interest rebate proposals have been dropped, particularly when this apparent camouflage makes the proposal appear on the surface to be very beneficial to the States. But if we look at it carefully it would appear - I understand that the $2.75m is cumulative over the first 5 years after which the legislation will come up for review - that over the S year period the extra amount above the $ 1.29m, which represents the 1 per cent interest rate rebate, will take account of increased costs and demand, and that over the whole period the States would be getting much the same benefit as they have received in the past. However, this is extremely doubtful - I think this is where the crunch of the issue is - as costs are now spiralling as they have never spiralled since the end of the war. 
Furthermore, the demand for housing from the State authorities is also likely to increase at a very great rate for the simple reason that young people today cannot possibly afford to meet the excessive costs of land - I will go into that aspect in more detail shortly - which are spiralling way out of control, as well as the costs of home building which are also spiralling dramatically. For this reason, if we look carefully and deeper under the surface here I think it will be found that this apparently very beneficial attitude as far as the States are concerned, as this has been based on what happened on the last 5 years and it is estimated, therefore, that the conditions of the last 5 years will more or less remain constant and continue on into the next 5 years, does not take into account this excessive spiralling of costs. Accordingly I think that in the long term the States will not be as well off as they were even under the 1 per cent interest rebate system. I believe that the interest rebate should have been retained and, in fact, increased along the lines mentioned by the honourable member for Reid, that is, to a 2 per cent rebate. 
On the present bond rate of 7 per cent this would provide housing loans at an interest rate of 5 per cent. This would be a much fairer system and would ensure that the States under all circumstances, instead of just being given an allocation or a grant estimated to keep up with increases in costs and demand, would receive a grant which would keep in line with estimated costs and demand in the future. I cannot help feeling that this is the reason why the Government has changed this system. When it comes down to the rental rebate - incidentally, this was in the agreement originally entered into by the States and the Chifley Labor Government and was dropped by this Government in the past - it is not cumulative at all; it is constant at $ 1.25m a year over a period of 5 years. For this reason it takes no account of increased costs of land and building nor of increased demand. In other words, the actual value of this rental rebate, will steadily reduce. 
I would like to deal with a couple of points in the amendment moved by the honourable member for Reid. He dealt very adequately with the fact that it is the responsibility of government to meet the housing needs of those sections of our community which are so disadvantaged. He referred to low income earners, pensioners, migrants, Aborigines, deserted wives and similarly disadvantaged people. There is no doubt that under the existing framework there is insufficient capacity for the States to meet the demands of these disadvantaged sections of our community. Clause 2 of the amendment states:  acquire existing dwellings for restoration and allocation by rental or sale. 
I think this is one of the most important proposals which has ever come before this House in respect of the allocation of funds to the States for Housing. I think this would be most important, for example, in the acquisition of tenement houses in some suburbs. Some people, not only southern Europeans but also a large number of our younger people, like to live in these types of bornes. This would also help to overcome the great problem which I have mentioned before in this Parliament which is created by concentrating on very large housing developments and bringing in people from similar income groups. This occurs because entry to these housing commission areas in New South Wales is subject to a means test. For that reason most of the people in those areas are of a similar income group and are being forced to live together in the same environment. 1 think this has been criticised not only by myself but also by other members of this House. 
Not for one moment do i have any complaint whatsoever about the types of homes being built. For example, in the Mount Druitt housing commission area the type of home being built is excellent. 1 could not call this one of the concrete jungles which have been referred to in the past. Furthermore, community leadership there is excellent. People are working with local community organisations in order to improve living' and environmental conditions and particularly to assist the young children in these areas. The community spirit is very good and nobody could criticise it, but 1. think most people agree that it would be far better if the housing commission acquired some sites in large private housing estates. For example, at the present time behind where I live at Seven H ills ' some 2,000 home sites are being released and  i  believe that some of those home sites should have been set aside for housing commission development so that people from different income groups and environments could live together. 
Let me refer to the case of a young chap I know who is doing a very important job for this country today. He immigrated from England as a boy.  His  parents were fortunate enough to get a housing commission house in Normanhurst. He went to the Normanhurst Boys High School and obtained a Commonwealth university scholarship. He said to me: 'If I had nol had to compete against all those other boys in that school, boys whose parents had the wherewithall to give them every opportunity, and if I had not been forced to do as well as they did I do not know that I would have ever obtained that Commonwealth university scholarship or been equipped in the way I am today to do. the job I am doing.' That is just one human example which is well worth looking at because I believe we must not have one massive housing commission development. We should consider interspersing them with private developments. I think that some of the land in these estates being developed by the large developers should be acquired by the State housing authorities for housing commission homes. In this way we could intermix people and we would not set up a group of people who are within a certain range of income or of any one environment because this cannot bc to the advantage of the lot. I say this although 1 represent large sections of the community including the Mt Druitt and Seven Hills area in which community organisations have been set up. The work these people do in these organisations is extraordinary in an effort to uplift the standards, the environment and opportunities of the children of the people in those districts. The achievements would be far greater if the proposal which I have suggested were to be implemented. 
For that reason I think that the motion to acquire existing dwellings for the purpose of restoration and allocation by way of rental or sale would not only help to overcome a demand by southern Europeans and some young people for older types of dwellings such as the tenement dwellings mentioned by the honourable member for Reid, but would also ensure that we could start once again to have people of different income groups and different environments intermingling so far as housing commission housing is concerned. 
I am deeply concerned at the incapacity of State housing authorities to meet the demand for housing. For this reason I believe that a great problem is being created for the young people of Australia with the excessive interest rates now being charged for housing loans and also the high land prices. As an example I refer to the very large estate which is now being opened up in Seven Hills, in the western suburbs of Sydney. Land in this areas was purchased at $3,300 a block less than 3 years ago. Now with the new estate which is being developed - work upon it is about to proceed - 1 understand that the land is to be sold for $10,000 to $12,000 a block. Surely a rise from $3,300 to $10,000 or $12,000 in a matter of 3 years is a very excessive increase. That is the type of spiralling  n(  land costs which is occurring today. For this reason young people simply cannot possibly afford to meet this excessive cost of land, the excessive increases in building costs and the excessive increase in interest charges. 
When the Chifley Government went out of office the average bank rate was 4 per cent interest. Today it is  8i  per cent. In (hose days the main sources of supply of housing finance were the banks and building societies and also a few insurance companies. Today all the fringe banking organisations are making loans on second mortgages, etc. at very excessive rates. The result is that today more and more young people are renting half a house or a flat. This type of accommodation is not conducive to having young families at a time when they ought to have them. In addition to this we have today a false shortage of land. The Sydney Metropolitan Water, Sewerage and Drainage Board is acting in the capacity of a planning agency because the New South Wales State Planning Authority will not release land until such lime as that Board agrees to provide sewerage. Therefore it is not the State Planning Authority which is the planning organisation but the Water Board. 
The Water Board is unable to keep up with the demand for sewerage services right throughout the Sydney metropolitan area. This in turn is creating a false shortage of land. In addition to this false shortage of land there are large tracts of land tied up right throughout the western suburbs of Sydney by a few large developers who are not prepared to release this land until such time as the price of the land appreciates so that their profits will increase very considerably. This, of course, in turn also creates a false shortage of land. In order to assist in the housing finance field and to assist the young people of Australia the Government and the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  in particular should have a discussion with the Reserve Bank of Australia with a view to obtaining the release of 1 per cent of the statutory reserve deposits and at the same time the Reserve Bank could issue a directive to banks in general to plough this released finance into the housing sector. 1 think there is far too much concentration on the construction of commercial buildings particularly office buildings. We have seen instances of this for some time now. It has been said that we will have a complete glut of office accommodation in years to come because so much of the overseas funds which are pouring into this country today is being ploughed into the construction of office accommodation. We are not using the existing powers of the Reserve Bank to channel this investment into other forms of construction. We have existing powers under the foreign banking exchange regulations. These overseas investments should be channelled into other fields such as housing. We should be using the power that we have. The Government has great financial capacities and great financial controls which it can use if it &gt;:o wishes but it is not prepared to do so. 
The Government could direct that some of the funds which are now coming into this country be channelled away from the construction of commercial buildings thereby bringing about a transfer of nien and materials into the housing sector. At the same time to provide the necessary finance 1 per cent of the statutory reserve deposits should be released. The Reserve Bank could issue a directive to the banks that the funds concerned be ploughed back into the housing sector. In this way we would ensure that the younger people in our community who today are very badly off and who are finding it virtually impossible to obtain housing would be given more opportunities. No longer do we see many young couples purchasing their own home or a block of land on which to build a home at the time of their marriage. Today young people get married and live in some poky little flat hoping that in the years to come they will be better abie to look after themselves. For those reasons I commend the amendment moved by the honourable member for Reid and I hope that the House will agree to it. 
on 9th November I spoke, during the debate on the estimates for the Department of Social Services, on what is obviously the policy of the Government steadily to remove the tapered means test by means of activities which were introduced during the term of the Prime Ministership of the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton).  I quoted a case in relation to which I had written to the present Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  on 21st September. I referred to the case of a constituent of mine who had received State superannuation at the rate of $23.65 a week. This was increased by a decision of the New South Wales Government to $28.45, an increase of $4.80 per week, for the purpose of helping him to overcome the increase in the cost of living which has risen dramatically in recent times. He received also at that time a social services pension of $16.20 per fortnight. As a result of the increase of $4.80 per week in his State superannuation, his social services pension was reduced to $10.80 per fortnight. So his net position is that he receives only $2.10 per week more than he received before his State superannuation was increased by $4.80 per week. In other words, he received on the one hand an increase in superannuation of $4.80 per week but on the other hand it was taken back from him by the Department of Social Services, resulting in a net increase of only $2.10 per week in his total income. 
That is not all. He also lost all fringe benefits, which included medical and transport concessions. He lost all his fringe benefits which, of course, to a man of his age are worth well in excess of $2.10 per week.In other words, as a result of the increase in his State superannuation to overcome the increased cost of living, this man is worse off than ever because of the action of the Commonwealth Government. AsI have said, I wrote to the Prime Minister on 21st September last. I spoke in this House on this matter on 9th November last. On that occasion I said that I still had not received a reply from the Prime Minister to my appeal for the restoration of the tapered means test which was introduced under the Prime Ministership of the right honourable member for Higgins. On 1 1th November, 2 days after I spoke in this House, I received a letter from the Prime Minister, and I wish to quote a section of it. He stated: 
A review of the whole field of social services was completed prior to the preparation of the 1971-72 Budget with the aim of making whatever improvements were possible within the limits of available finance. As a result of this review the Government pursued its policy of assisting those most in need and increased the rates of pensions for those wholly or substantially dependent on their pensions. 
The improvements carried out in the social services area represent the maximum possible at the present time, bearing in mind the limited finance available 
We must remember that there is a record surplus of$630m in the present Budget -  and the many demands for assistance in other areas. 
Because eligibility is related to means it is of course inevitable that some pensioners will be disqualified from the Pensioner Medical Service and other 'fringe' benefits by very narrow margins, and from the information you have provided,  Mr Hanson  appears to fall into this category. 
In other words, bad luck for him - 
While I appreciate his position you will understand that whenever a line is drawn, there will always be some persons who are, or become, narrowly excluded from benefits. 
This man has not been narrowly excluded from benefits; he has been deprived of benefits. He is worse off today than he was prior to receiving an increase in his State superannuation. 
Now I refer to another case which came to my attention only last week. In this instance the individual concerned receives superannuation from the Commonwealth Government. Once again there was an increase in the superannuation, I gather, to overcome the increased cost of living. This man's superannuation payments were increased from $30.33 a fortnight to $38.40 a fortnight. Up to the time of the increase in superannuation he had been receiving a service pension of $30.02 a fortnight, and his wife had been receiving an age pension of $30.50 a fortnight. As a result of the increase in Commonwealth superannuation this man's wife's pension was reduced by $5 a fortnight and his service pension was reduced by $5 a fortnight. In other words, he and his wife have suffered a reduction in pensions of $10 a fortnight, although the increase in his superannuation was$8 a fortnight. As a result of the increase of $8 a fortnight in his Commonwealth superannuation, this man and his wife loses $10 a fortnight, so he is $2  worse  off than he was before he received the increase in his Commonwealth superannuation. How ridiculous can we get? 
We know how when the Budget was introduced there was an attempt, by sleight of hand, to suggest that there was to be an increase of $1.25 a week for all pensioners. Afterwards we found that 148,000 pensioners would not receive the increase of $1.25 a week because they were affected by the tapered means test. Furthermore, we know that a similar number of pensioners did not receive the 50c a week increase in pensions earlier this year. So altogether they are down $1.75 a week. Surely it is time that these anomalies were corrected. It is time that this Government stopped making these attempts by stealth to which was introduced under the Prime Ministership of the right honourable member for Higgins. It is time the Prime Minister took the matter in hand and tried to honour the undertakings given during the last Federal election campaign by his predecessor. Until this is done people such as those to whose cases I have referred, who have their superannuation pensions increased to overcome the increased cost of living, will be worse off than they were before their pensions were increased. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
House adjourned at 12.3.1 a.m. (Thursday) 
 I support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren).  I shall deal with a few other matters and in particular with paragraph 2 of the amendment which seeks to increase from $9,000 to $15,000 the amount which an eligible person may borrow. I believe that this is common sense. Anybody with any practical knowledge must appreciate that the amount of $9,000 is not nearly enough to cover a reasonable borrowing to purchase or to build a home under today's cost, structure. Immediately after the war the amount which a person could borrow went a very long way towards covering the cost of purchasing or building a house, including the cost of the land. To say today that the proportion of the cost of a house and land, or a secondhand house, has to be reduced is ridiculous and quite unreal. AH it does is to force people on to the second mortgage market. 
Although people can borrow at  4)  per cent interest on a war service home they are nevertheless forced into the situation of borrowing at very excessive rates on what one could call the black market. This is the second mortgage market in which interest rates are excessive. Admittedly, the War Service Homes Division must give approval to any such borrowings. Nevertheless it is illogical that a person should be placed in the position of having to pay excessive interest rates on the black market. To avoid having to do that, people need an appreciable amount of capital behind them, which the great majority of those who apply for war service loans do not have. 
I wish to deal also with the matter of second loans. This is an issue which has been raised in this chamber for many years by honourable members from both sides of the House. I have dealt with many cases, as other honourable members have, in which people have to sell their present war service home for such very valid reasons as health or transfer in employment or because their family has multiplied and the home they are living in is no longer adequate. Except in very exceptional circumstances approval for a second war service loan is decline. In all my experience of the cases which have come to me 1 have not gained from the present Minister or from the Minister when I previously served in this Parliament one single approval of a second loan, even though in some instances extreme hardship was created by forced transfer of employment from State to State in the Public Service. Other cases of extreme hardship were brought about by bad health - in asthma cases, for instance - necessitating a move to another place. Yet the approval has always been declined. 
If a person has a reasonable case approval should be given. It is logical that if a person has to move because of his employment, for health reasons or because his home is no longer adequate for his family he should not be placed in a position of having to renounce his war service loan and borrow at very much greater rates. When all is said and done, the amount of interest charged for a war service loan is simply what should be charged in respect of all housing loans whether they be from the War Service Homes Division, insurance companies, banks or building societies, not to mention all the fringe organisations which are reaping far too great a benefit for themselves at the expense of the ordinary home buyer. 
It seems logical to me that we grant repatriation benefits to any person who served in the Second World War, irrespective of whether or not he served in a theatre of war and irrespective of whether or not he served in the Australian Imperial Forces, the Royal Australian Air Force, the Royal Australian Navy or the Citizen Military Forces. In other words, a person who served during the period of the Second World War can receive repatriation benefits if he served in the CMF, but for some reason we do not adopt the same approach when it comes to a war service loan. I cannot understand the logic of this attitude. I am fortunate enough to have a war service loan because I was in the AIF. and served in a theatre of war. There were plenty of people in the A IP who never served in a theatre of war and there were plenty of people in the CMF who did so serve because they were directed into a theatre of war. Yet I find that many CMF personnel come to me asking for assistance. If they did not serve in a theatre of war they are not entitled to a war service loan. Yet if that same person during his period of service in the Second World War received some injury as a result of his service, or contracted some disease or illness which is permanent, irrespective of whether it was sustained inside or outside a theatre of war, he would be entitled to repatriation benefits. As I said, the logic of this attitude on the part of the Government and the Department is just beyond my comprehension. 
I come back again finally to the matter which I first mentioned, and that is that the amount of loan which has been increased from $8,000 to $9,000 does not allow for the excessive increases in building and land costs that have occurred since the previous increase of the loan. By limiting the loan to $9,000 a person must either have a large amount of capital behind him in order to purchase or build the home or. alternatively, that person will be forced on to the market for a second loan at very high interest rates. I do not think this is doing the right thing by the ex-serviceman because, when all is said and done, this legislation was first introduced to assist ex-servicemen lo obtain homes and to meet from 80 to 90 per cent of the cost of those homes. That is simply not possible under this Bill unless the person concerned is to buy a hovel somewhere. 
I agree with the honourable member for Macquarie that this is an injustice. It is a complete contravention of the original intention of the Act. The Act has not kept pace with the passage of time or with the excessive increases that have occurred since the war in the costs of building, and land in particular, and I believe for this reason that it wold be far more logical and far more real if the Government were to accept the amendment proposed by the Opposition. 
asked the Postmaster- 
General, upon notice: 
How many district postal managers in Aus tralia have previously been postmasters before their appointment as manager? 
Why are so few postmasters selected as district postal managers when experience as  a  postmaster would seem to be a prerequisite for such an appointment? 
[ wish 'o bring lo the attention of the House the inequality of opportunity for students from the far western suburbs of Sydney, as compared with those from the more affluent areas, in obtaining Commonwealth secondary school scholarships. I have compiled a table from information obtained from the New South Wales Minister for Education and Science on the one hand in respect of State bursaries, which are subject to a means test, and from the former Commonwealth Minis er for Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  in respect of Commonwealth secondary school scholarships. The table deals with 7 schools from the far western area of Sydney and 7 schools from the more affluent areas of metropolitan Sydney. It shows candidates who have obtained 6 A passes in the 1970 School Certificate examination, which is a very high pass and a good yardstick. 
The table shows candidates who obtained State senior secondary bursaries and candidates who obtained Commonwealth secondary school scholarships. It can be seen that there is a big disparity. For example, under the State bursaries where there is a means test, a high percentage of candidates who obtained 6 A passes received a bursary, but where there is no means test, as in the case of secondary school scholarships, a very low percentage of candidates obtained such scholarships.I seek the leave of the House to incorporate the table in Hansard. 

<graphic href="075131197112020_33_0.jpg"></graphic>

In considering this table; the following points should be borne in mind. Firstly, State senior secondary bursaries are subject to a means test whereas Commonwealth secondary scholarships are not; hence the wide divergence in percentages outlined in columns C and E of that table. Where a means test applies, a far higher proportion of students from far western area schools with 6 A passes obtain a scholarship than in the case where a means test does not apply. By the same token, in the more affluent areas a far lower proportion of students with 6 A passes obtain a scholardhip where a means test applied and a far greater proportion obtain one where a means test does not apply- 
Secondly, without doubt, a much smaller number of students obtain 6 A passes in the far western areas as compared with the more affluent areas. The reason for this is that a big proportion of the students in the far western areas leave school after third year and before completion of the fourth year of their secondary school course of 6 years. These include many bright students who would be capable of obtaining 6 As. The opposite applies in the case of pupils from the more affluent areas. The reasons for those pupils leaving the western area schools early are manifold - such as lack of encouragement by their parents to continue at school, a lack of desire on the part of pupils to continue,but particularly because of the economic incapacity of the parents to allow their sons and daughters to stay at school. 
Another reason is the large shortage of teachers. Most western area secondary schools were grossly short of teachers at the beginning of the 1971 school year. Also, the standard of teachers is lower as compared with those in the more affluent areas because of a higher proportion of inexperienced and casual teachers, the higher tur nover rate of teachers serving in this area and the fact that a large proportion of the teachers themselves live in the more affluent areas and. accordingly, those with the greatest capacity are able to demand transfers nearer to home because of a threat or inference that they may leave the Department of Education if they do not obtain those transfers. 
It should also be borne in mind that State bursaries are determined on the result of the State School Certificate examination whereas Commonwealth scholarships are determined on the basis of a separate examination set by the Commonwealth in 4 subjects, together with the State School Certificate examination assessments which are adjusted on the school's overall performance in the School Certificate examination. The Commonwealth examination is of such a nature that it is biased towards those students whose parents have the time to sit around the dinner table at night discussing current affairs issues or where the mother does not work and accordingly can talk to her sons or daughters about such subjects or, again, w,here there is tertiary education in the household. Naturally, such an examination is to the advantage of students living in the more affluent areas as compared with those living in the far western areas where most mothers have to work and where, in a big proportion of cases, parents have to travel long distances to work and arrive home late because of a lack of local employment - hence tired parents who have not the time to discuss such matters with their sons and daughters. It is difficult to understand why Commonwealth scholarships should be assessed to a large extent on an examination different from the State School Certificate examination, as obviously this must act to the detriment of the pupils in the less affluent districts. 1 make the point that the purpose of a scholarship is to help those in financial need and not those in affluent circumstances. Accordingly I cannot understand why, under the present system, there is no means test applied to Commonwealth scholarships until such time as Labor's policy of granting scholarships to all capable of completing secondary school comes into force. Such a policy can do nothing other than assist and give scholarships to those people in the affluent areas to the detriment of those who need them in the less affluent districts. There is a need for a means test for Commonwealth secondary school scholarships until such time as 
Labor's policy of scholarships for all those capable of completing secondary schooling comes into force. There is a very great need for financial assistance -by the Commonwealth in the form of a grant under section 96 of the Constitution to provide for incentives for teachers' to serve in defined areas of extreme teacher shortage as this is the only way in which we can ensure that the less advantaged areas have the benefit not only of quantity of teachers but also of quality of teachers. This is really the only way to give what could be soundly and sincerely called equality of opportunity in education to all children. 
I preface my question to the Treasurer with a reference to a report of proceedings in the Bankruptcy Court earlier this year revealing that Australian residents used a sham company set up in Norfolk Island to avoid taxation, and also to my quests of 11th March last year to his predecessor suggesting that taxation was being avoided in this . way, with which his predecessor agreed. 
I address a question to the Treasurer. Is it a fact that the Commonwealth Financial Transactions Statement issued by the Treasury reveals that Commonwealth Government expenditure for the first 6 months of this financial year was 19.5 per cent higher than for the corresponding period of last year even though the Budget planned for a rate of growth in expenditure of only 12.4 per cent? Can the Minister tell the House whether the Government intends to continue spending at this present high rate, which would result in an overall Budget deficit of almost $700m instead of the budgeted overall deficit of$11m? If such a major departure from Budget strategy is being planned, why has the Minister not informed Parliament of this and will he make a statement to the House on this matter? 
asked the Minister for 
Supply, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that instructions have been issued that Commonwealth cars and hire cars should be used by his Department on a 60:40 ratio? 
What is the mileage ratio of Commonwealth cars to hire can used by his Department? 
What is the ratio of dead or non-paying mileage as opposed to paying mileage in respect of Commonwealth cars. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition from certain residents of the western suburbs of the Sydney metropolitan area and surrounding districts respectfully showeth: That due to an expanding passenger air travel business together with larger and more powerful jet aircraft, aircraft noise has already become  a  serious problem for people living in the vicinity of airports. 
That jet aircraft operations have a detrimental effect by way of air and noise pollution on the environment and airports should be situated so as to preserve the environment of populated areas. 
That protest should be made against the proposal to establish an international airport at Richmond owing to the detrimental effect it would have for the environment there and in surrounding districts. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that this House take appropriate steps to ensure that the Government does nol proceed with the proposal to site the second, twenty four hour international airport for Sydney at Richmond or anywhere else in the far western suburbs of the metropolitan area. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 

 - Mr Speaker, it was quite remarkable to hear the honourable member for Mallee  (Sir Winton Turnbull)  denigrating decentralisation. I do not know whether he realised it, but by supporting this piece of legislation he was denigrating decentralisation. Among industries affected is the woven shirts industry which employs some 85,000 women throughout Australia, and quite a proportion of those women are engaged in decentralised industry. So by supporting this legislation the honourable member is doing harm to some segments of decentralised industry. Naturally I can understand members of the Liberal Party in this Parliament adopting that approach, because they are tied up with commercial interests, and some of those commercial interests would be importing interests. But it is very difficult to understand why members of the Australian Country Party support legislation which involves knocking the woven shirts industry about, that industry being, as I have said, one of the few decentralised secondary industries in Australia. 
The honourable member for Mallee also stated that he had never heard anything from this side of the House about tariff assistance being given to primary industries. This is not the case. In past years 1 can remember many occasions on which I supported the introduction of tariff protection for citrus juices and other fruit juices. This occurred at times when there were large imports of these juices coming into Australia from other countries and we had surpluses in Australia. I can even remember the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope),  who occupied the Chair prior to the suspension of the sitting for dinner, coming into this House one day when he was then the honourable member for Watson, standing up in his place and reading out a sheaf of telegrams which I had received, all objecting to the import of citrus juices into Australia. I can remember thinking that he was in the most unique position of ail honourable members; he owned a citrus orchard in  the  middle of Redfern. He supported me on that occasion, and I have no doubt that we received support from some members  of  the Country Party. 
However, I think that the important issues before us tonight are the provisions contained in this Bill. I should like to support the attitudes taken in this1 matter by the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  and the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  who spoke this afternoon. Of course, the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  has been accused of being a free trader, although tonight he has denied it. Some people have even suggested - I do not know whether it is right - that he is the modest parliamentarian who writes in a certain journal. But, nevertheless, he has always advocated a drastic review of tariff policy. It depends upon what sort of review he is referring to. We on this side of the House, have never suggested that the tariff machinery, as it presently stands, is by any means perfect, that it does not need overhaul, and drastic overhaul. We believe that Australia should regularly review tariffs. But we also believe that foremost in our thinking should be the protection of Australian industry, Australian employment and Australia's balance of payments position. I know that we have a very healthy balance of payments position at the present time, but do not let us delude ourselves. Most of our capital comes from the induction  of  overseas capital into Australia, and if there were to be any widespread withdrawal1 of that capital, this country in a period of 6 months - just as it was back in the early 1950s - could be faced with a very serious balance of payments position, and we would then be very much dependent upon industries, such as the woven shirts industry which some people think should be phased out. 
I think that we should do as other countries do. When all is said and done, we can be very altruistic about this issue, but do not countries such as Japan, Hong Kong, Korea and Taiwan make sure at all times that they give every possible incentive and protection to .their home industries? Why should we adopt the approach, which is different from the approach adopted by other countries, that our industries can go overboard, be phased out? In this regard I need refer only to the headline of an article in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' of Wednesday, 28th April 1971. It read: 'Japan Hits at High Tariffs - ''Excessively Protectionist" - Minister'. It referred to Japan's Minister for International Trade and Industry. He criticised very strongly Australia's policy on this question of tariff protection. I believe that there should be a reconstruction of the Tariff Board. I believe that the long delays which occur in making final decisions on tariff policy for particular industries and the lack of protection from Japanese imports which is created by these long delays cause a great deal of harm at different times to industries such as the woven shirts industry, as I shall point out later tonight. 
I believe that the Tariff Board lacks the necessary staff to carry out the regular reviews of all tariffs which should be undertaken. The Board must be given the necessary qualified staff if it is to do its job adequately. As the honourable member for Lalor mentioned earlier, it is basically a planning agency, an agency to assist in the planning of our economy. Accordingly, it must have the wherewithal to do its job effectively. It is not doing that job today. For this reason I think it is extraordinary - once again as pointed out earlier by the honourable member for Lalor - that tariffs have existed in some industries from as far back as the 1929-30 period and they have never been reviewed. It is ridiculous to adopt the attitude that the conditions which obtained in those industries at that time exist in the industries today. So we should have a planning agency which regularly reviews the whole range of tariff policy in respect of all industries, and that agency must be equipped with adequate qualified staff to do the job. 
Turning to the woven shirts industry to which I wish to address myself tonight, I think we must remember that some people believe that if we were to phase out this industry it would mean that the costs of the products manufactured by that industry would be lower in Australia; in other words, if we were to remove tariff protection, put the industry to the wall and allow shirts to be imported from overseas without any tariff protection being given to the local product, it would mean cheaper imports. What would really occur is that the exporters from the overseas countries and the importers in Australia would know that the Australian community would accept a certain level of prices. If they did not have competition from the Australian product the overseas exporters and the Australian importers would lift their margins to bring the prices into line with the prices being paid for the product today. This point is usually forgotten. In other words, the Australian industry acts as an adequate brake - a very efficient brake, as I will show later - against the introduction at high prices of the overseas products. It sets the pattern for the industry and for the prices which can be obtained here in Australia by the overseas producers. People tend to forget that circumstances would change if the Australian industry was sent to the wall altogether. In other words, it acts as an insurance policy and a guarantee to the Australian consumer. 
We know that the problems of the woven shirt industry are being reviewed by the Tariff Board. An outside opinion was obtained from various academic circles; not a full time opinion but a part time opinion. Great objection was raised in public, in the Press and in this Parliament. I believe that this is very sound criticism because once again people are being brought in, no matter how highly qualified they may be academically, who have no practical experience within the industry, or in commerce and industry. I therefore submit that they are not in a position capably to assess the requirements of the industry. I have had a look at this industry. I have toured some of the factories because statements were being made that it was not only uneconomic but also inefficient. I defy any member of this House to visit one of those industrial establishments, see how it works and the equipment that is used, and then come back here and say that the industry is inefficient. The manufacturers are working on such fine margins that they have to be efficient and must use highly technical equipment. Otherwise they would not survive. 
Let us face reality. The Australian manufacturers are far more efficient than their overseas counterparts who depend for survival on cheap labour, as I will demonstrate with the exact figures. As I said earlier, about 85,000 women are employed in the industry. I would stand correction on these figures because I have accepted them from the industry. I am told that about 60 per cent of those women are migrants. Certainly a large proportion of them would find it very difficult to work in other sectors of industry. A large proportion also work in decentralised establishments in the country. In my electorate alone Whitmonts employ 700 women. If that industry goes to the wall 700 women will be out of work in one town. How would it get on? Do not worry about the large manufacturers. If the Australian industry goes to the wall they will became importers. 
Possibly they will go to Hong Kong, manufacture there and import the products into this country; or they might go to another country, set up their industrial establishments there, manufacture and export to Australia. They would use cheap labour. Alternatively they could purchase overseas and export to Australia. The power behind the big organisations ensures that they will not suffer. It will be the workers here in Aus tralia who suffer, and the people who buy the products, because the brake will be removed that has set the pattern for the whole industry and its price structure. I am glad that the honourable member for McMillan is agreeing with me. 
In the time left to me I would like to cite some figures to show what is happening in the industry. They have been supplied by the Commonwealth Statistician and I hope they will not be queried in any respect. The term 'other shirts' refers to shirts that are not wholly cotton. In 1966, 9,000 dozen other shirts were imported from Hong Kong; in 1967, 13,000 dozen; in 1968, 64,000 dozen; in 1969, 85,000 dozen; in 1970, there was a drop to 42,000 dozen, the reason for which does not come to mind at the moment but could be easily obtained; in 1971, 87,200 dozen; and for the first 5 months of this financial year, 75,000 dozen. The figures relate to shirts other than those which are wholly cotton. I emphasise that for the year ended 30th June 1971 imports were 87,200 dozen and for the first 5 months of this financial year imports amounted to 75,000 dozen. Those figures will give honourable members an idea of what is happening. In 1968, 10,000 dozen other shirts were imported from Korea; in 1969, 4,000 dozen; in 1970, 7,000 dozen; and in 1971, 38,200 dozen. I do not have the latest figures. Imports increased dramatically from 7,000 dozen in 1970 to 38,200 dozen in the year ended 30th June 1971. 
I will now give the total Australian share of the market. In 1968 it was 94.4 per cent; in 1969, 91.7 per cent; in 1970, 93 per cent; in 1971, 86.9 per cent; and in the first 5 months of this financial year, 79.3 per cent. Between June 1970 and June 1971 Australia's share of the market dropped by 6.1 per cent and in the first 5 months of this financial year it has dropped a further 7.6 per cent. If the trend continues the drop for this year will be IS per cent. Information I have obtained in the trade shows that it is likely that the drop will become greater in the following 7 months. 
I turn now to consider the wage rates paid overseas as compared with those paid in Australia. In Singapore it is 24c an hour including fringe benefits; in Hong Kong, 20c an hour including fringe benefits; in South Korea, 8c an hour including fringe benefits; in Taiwan, 13c an hour including fringe benefits; and in Australia $1.33 an hour plus 21 per cent fringe benefits. 
Yes. In my electorate a 4-day working week has just been introduced and both employees and employers are very satisfied with it. In Singapore there is a 44-hour working week. In Hong Kong people work SO hours, in South Korea 48 hours, in Taiwan 60 hours and in Australia 40 hours. Is it any wonder that people are saying: 'For heavens sake let us look after Australian conditions and Australian industry.'? Why must we be so altruistic in our attitudes? The fact is that if this industry is wiped out, ultimately we will pay more for our shirts even though we import them from these cheap labour countries. The importer will not have that watchdog over his activities that he has in Australia today. I ask that this question be very closely considered by the Government and the Parliament. I believe that at all times we must consider the protection of Australian employment, particularly in this time of rising unemployment, and the protection of Australian industry. I particularly ask that the Government give very serious consideration to the great distress that will occur in this industry if these policies of the Tariff Board are pursued 
Firstly, I should like to correct what the honourable member for Mallee  (Sir Winton Turnbull)  said when he suggested that the Australian Labor Party does not believe in a review of tariffs. This was the only point I could get out of his speech. He would not believe that any member of the Labor Party would suggest a review of tariffs in any industry. On the contrary, our main criticism of the tariff structure is that there is insufficient opportunity for debating tariffs. This point was made by the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  last Thursday. A number of other honourable members, including myself, contended that the tariff structure does not allow for regular reviews of tariffs throughout various sectors of industry, lt is ridiculous that some tariffs have been maintained since 1929 and have not been reviewed. What we believe in and what is our intent are entirely different from what the honourable member for Mallee suggested. He. of course, basically is suggesting a free trade policy. He maintains that Australian industry is over-protected and that protection should be removed. Naturally we do nol agree with him. I agree with what the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  said, namely, that the removal of protection would result in unemployment greater than the Government already has brought to this country. 
I support also what the honourable member for Lalor said earlier this afternoon when he referred to the silence of the Press on this most important issue of tariffs as extraordinary to say the least. One of the reports brought before us for partial ratification in this Bill will cause the destruction of an industry through Government inaction, yet there has been absolutely no reporting of last Thursday's debate on this matter - a debate vital to an important section of Australian industry. Far greater attention should be given by the Press to the whole question of tariff policy, which is vital to the future welfare of Australia. Last Thursday both the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  and I mentioned that we knew of 9,000 dozen shirts being imported into the country in the near future. I said then that I would see what I could do to get the exact details and I now have the details which I obtained from the industry itself. It is not one lot of 9.000 dozen shirts but 9,000 dozen shirts a month, as I understand it. These shirts are to come from Singapore. I will not name here the importer or the companies who will be supplied but I will be very happy the moment I sit down to give these details to the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp). 
He has them too. There are 9,000 dozen shirts a month to come from Singapore. They are being brought in by an importer and will be supplied to at least 3 large retail houses. Furthermore, they are being landed at a cost of between $1.50 and S2.50 to $2.60 a unit. Probably there will be a 100 per cent retail mark-up on each shirt, lt is not necessarily the price one should have to worry about as much as the massive volume which is coming in. When one looks at the figures in respect of the import of shirts other than wholly cotton shirts one finds that in the 12 months ended June 1971, 1,200 dozen came into this country. In the first 5 months of this financial year imports had lifted from 1,200 dozen to 5,000 dozen shirts. Now we learn that a further 9,000 dozen are to come in each month from Singapore. This will give the House some idea of the mass movement of shirts, other than wholly cotton shirts, into this country for the rest of this financial year and ad infinitum after that. The same situation applies, of course, to Hong Kong where we find that 87,200 dozen shirts were imported in the year ended June 1971 whereas for the first 5 months of this current year already 75,000 dozen have come in. In other words, for 5 months of this year there have been 75,000 dozen but for the whole of last year there were 87,200 dozen. 
These figures need to be looked at. They show that there is a very great crisis within this industry today, and it is not one which can be shrugged off. Unless action is taken it will affect an industry in which, as I mentioned last Thursday, the larger manufacturers - not all the apparel manufacturers - employ some 10,000 people. Of those 10,000 people a very big proportion is migrant women many of whom have trouble with the English language. It would be very hard indeed to employ them in other sections of industry. Furthermore, a large proportion of the industry represents decentralised industry; that is, industries which are operating in country areas. The honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  would know of these industries in the various country areas he visits. This aspect must be looked at, particularly by honourable members such as the honourable member for Mallee, who is supporting this legislation, opposing any action to protect these industries and is supposed to be representing country interests and the decentralisation of industry. I cannot see the logic in the attitude he takes. For this reason action must be taken as soon as we possibly can to look after this section of industry. 
I repeat what I said on Thursday. In Singapore the rate of pay is 24c an hour, including fringe benefits; in Hong Kong it is 20c an hour, including fringe benefits; in South Korea it is 8c an hour, including fringe benefits; in Taiwan it is 13c an hour, including fringe benefits; and in Australia it is $1.33 an hour plus 21 per cent fringe benefits. In Singapore the working week is 44 hours; in Hong Kong it is 50 hours; in South Korea it is 48 hours; in Taiwan it is 60 hours; and in Australia it is 40 hours. If the shirt industry in Australia, which employs something like 10,000 people, is phased out it will not necessarily mean cheaper shirts to the Aus tralian public because it will remove essential competition to the imported product. The imported product then most likely will be as dear as, and probably dearer than, it is now because the importer will be able to charge a greater margin, as will the retailer. The importer will not have any competition from a locally manufactured product and, accordingly, the Australian public will be charged what it is believed it will pay. So we will not get cheaper shirts by wiping out the Australian industry; we will probably end up with dearer shirts. 
The abolition of the Australian industry will not affect the big companies. The big companies here will be the very people who, if the industry is forced out of Australia, will go to Hong Kong or Singapore and set up manufacturing establishments there, manufacturing under cheap labour conditions and then exporting the shirts to Australia. Consequently the people we deprive will not be those who have the very large organisations today but the 10,000 Australian workers whom I mentioned earlier. In my own area there are 2 very large establishments; one in Blacktown alone employs 700 employees. Many migrant people will be vitally affected. It is now that the Government should act. The Minister wanted to know last Thursday where (he 9,000 dozen shirts were coming from. They are coming in each month and he is being supplied with the details. Surely this is indicative of the flood of imports coming into Australia from those cheap labour countries today. It is for this reason that the Government should here, today, take immediate action to protect a very vital part of Australian industry. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that tha House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and  all  details of alteration to the standards of service to the Public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to National Development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
In supporting the motion of dissent - 
Motion (by  Mr Swartz)  agreed to. 
That the question be now put. 
Original question put. 
I wish to raise a question which I have raised before concerning the siting of the second international 24-hour airport for the Sydney region. The Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  stated to a recent deputation of an inter-council committee which was formed about a year ago to oppose the siting of the airport at Richmond or anywhere else in the far western suburbs of Sydney that the choice is now between 2 alternative sites, Richmond and Somersby which is near Gosford. The inter-council committee originally started when one Council requested 2 other councils to form a committee. Two other councils asked to join and now a sixth council has asked to become part of that committee. The committee is now representative of the councils of the Blue Mountains, Penrith, Windsor, Blacktown, Colo and Baulkham Hills. In other words, it covers a very large area and many federal electorates including Mitchell, a key electorate in the coming election. 
It also covers the electorate of Chifley as well as part of the electorate of Prospect and part of the electorate of Macquarie. The fact is that this inter-council committee asked for a deputation to meet the Minister for Civil Aviation and, after many months, the Minister finally attended at the Windsor council chambers and met that deputation. He informed the deputation, as I have said, that the choice was now down to 2 alternative sites. Despite the statement in his report to this House and to the Senate last September that the Committee would have the ability and the capacity to investigate other sites, and despite the fact that I asked him at his meeting with the deputation about the seaport complex which he and the Secretary of the CommonwealthState Committee had stated in correspondence to me was being investigated as they were most interested in it, he said, in effect, at the meeting with the deputation: Oh, I have forgotten about that'. He turned to his secretary and said: 'We had better go and investigate that. See when the  Chairman  is going to give us an answer'. He made this statement minutes after he had said that the choice had been narrowed down to 2 alternative sites. 
In other words, the Minister for Civil Aviation was not being fair dinkum. He had made a political decision. This airport is to be put in an area in which it will not have any effect on strong Liberal Party areas, such as the Duffy's Forest district. The Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  was at the table a moment ago. 
I think it is fairly well known that when Cabinet had 4 sites before it - Wattamolla, Duffy's Forest, Richmond and Somersby - 2 of them were crossed off the list by Cabinet. I think it is fairly well conceded that the main reason why Duffy's Forest was crossed off the list was because it is in the electorate of the Minister for Social Services. In other words, it was a political decision. Yet 45 per cent of the air traffic out of Sydney comes from the northern suburbs area of Sydney to which I am referring. Surely it is an extraordinary decision to place it at either Gosford or Richmond when those areas hardly provide any of the present air traffic. 
As 1 said before, I do not think the Minister for Civil Aviation was being fair dinkum when he said in his report to the Senate and to this House that an investigation would be made of other sites as well and that an investigation would be made of a seaport complex such as the one which is being seriously studied in the 
United States of America at this point of time as a possible jetport to serve New York City. It is expected that at any time now the first economic and feasibility survey will be made available. The Minister said he is very interested in the idea of such a project and the Secretary of the Committee said he is very interested in it. Yet the Minister now says the choice of a site is down to 2 alternatives. What is the position? Is he investigating other sites? Is he investigating the seaport complex? If that is the case, why has it been narrowed down to 2 alternative sites? 
The inter-council committee in the western suburbs, which is comprised of 6 municipal and shire councils, has once again since it interviewed the Minister reiterated its outright and strong opposition to any airport being sited at Richmond or anywhere else in the far western suburbs and it is at present enlisting the services of a firm of publicity consultants to help it in waging a full scale campaign against such a proposal. Furthermore, I will be assisting in that campaign, and I am also organising my own campaign in strong opposition to the airport being sited anywhere in those areas. 
Indicative of public opinion in those areas is the result of a survey recently conducted by the Windsor and Richmond 'Gazette' in the area concerned. It is one area where you might find a few people who think that they might make a few quid out of it; it is one area in the whole district where you would expect to find some people who support the proposition to site the airport there. The vast majority of people in the Baulkham Hills, Blue Mountains, Penrith and Blacktown areas do not want the airport sited in their areas at any cost. Yet in the one area where you might think there would be a little support for the proposal, the survey showed that 82 per cent of the people were opposed to the airport being sited in that area and, of course, I am referring to the area around Windsor and Richmond which is in the Mitchell electorate. 
For that reason I say that it is time we heard from the Minister for Civil Aviation the reasons why these conflicts exist. I think it is also time that the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  had a look at this question of where the airport is to be sited. When all is said and done, the campaign which is to be conducted in the months ahead will be a very vociferous type of campaign - at least the equal of or even more vociferous than the campaign which was conducted in relation to Towra Point when the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  was Prime Minister. Finally he was forced to attend a meeting in the Towra Point area to tell the people 'All right, you will not get the airport', even though it was well known that many airline companies wanted the airport sited there. The same type of campaign will be conducted in this instance. I think it is time that the Prime Minister and the Minister for Civil Aviation took note of this question because it is important. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation stated to the deputation of delegates of 6 municipal and shire councils that the preliminary plans for the construction of airports on the 2 alternative sites would be ready in July and that a decision would be made, of all times, early in 1973  -  after the Federal elections. I would not believe that the Minister could be so naive as to think that the great majority of people in the area would not be aware of his motive. He hopes to keep it on ice until the elections are over and then in January he will come out and say '1 am sorry, brother, you have gol it'. The people are not so naive. If the Minister is they are not, and they intend to fight with everything at their disposal the proposal to site the airport in their area. I think it is time that the Minister for Civil Aviation, the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  who, in this chamber, represents the Minister for Civil Aviation and the Prime Minister realised that they cannot dump an airport on massive bousing areas when the people in those areas object to it. 
-I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standardsof service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to national development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation. Is the Minister aware of reports that the Minister for Civil Aviation, after receiving a report from the Academy of Science, has said that there is no environmental reason why the Concorde supersonic airliner should not operate in Australia? Is he aware also that the terms of reference of the inquiry by the Academy of Science referred only to atmospheric considerations and did not include noise pollution and the sonic boom with possible property damage - very serious considerations - and that a number of countries have refused permission for the 
Concorde to fly at supersonic speeds over their land? Therefore, will the Government set up a committee of inquiry- 
I move: 
That the petition be received, read and printed in view of the urgency of this matter. 

 - Mr Speaker, I should like to speak in support of this motion. I point out that the petition which was read was not the petition I presented although it is in similar terms. 
Yes, it was a different petition. 
However, the reason I have moved this motion is that I believe- 
But the question now is that the petition be printed. 
My reason for moving this motion is that I believe very firmly, as do, I think, a great many other people in this country today - 
The reason I am moving that this petition be printed is that I believe a situation has arisen of which everybody should be aware - 
But I have not given you my reason,  Mr Speaker. 
So far, I have not discussed the subject matter and I do not intend to do so now. When this matter was first raised earlier a number of honourable members, particularly on the Government side, were absent from the House and I think it is important that they also should know the reasons why this petition has been presented and is to be printed. As I stated earlier, the reason it is to be printed is that a situation has arisen which I believe must be resolved and this can be done only by the Cabinet - 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I think that that matter has been settled fairly well. The matter raised in the statement by the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  involves a very important issue, and I think that any honourable members who have an interest in this matter should be given an opportunity to participate in the debate, and I thank the 
Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  for ensuring that the debate was not gagged. I say that because the whole question of tariff policy involves economic policy issues which will be vital to this country in the future. When one begins drastically to amend tariff policy one is playing with a fairly dangerous intrument which has to be used with very great care. Whilst the appointment of 2 additional members to the Tariff Board is a step in the right direction, I still cannot help feeling - and I think that time will judge this to be so - that it is a case of too little too late. 
The Tariff Board should be one of the most important planning instruments which the Government can possibly utilise. Therefore, it must be properly equipped with personnel. Adequate personnel are required not only on the Board itself but also on the staff of the Board in order to meet the demands of the inquiries which must be undertaken. In saying that I believe that it is a case of doing too little too late and that the action will not have the overall effect which is required, I refer to the Minister's own statement in which he said: 
The House will be aware that last year the Government increased the membership of the Board from 8 to 9 and provided for singlemember divisions of the Board to handle certain types of cases. However, even with the additional flexibility made possible by these changes- 
And this is the important point -   . . it has become apparent that unless further steps are taken the review is unlikely to be repeated for many years. 
So in order to overcome the problem that the review will take many years to complete, the membership of the Board is to be increased from 9 to 11. As I said, I believe that it is a case of too little too late. I do not think that this will bring about a quick completion of the major review that is required. I believe that the Tariff Board should be continually conducting reviews of the tariff as it affects the whole structure of industry. It is a dreadful admission by the Government that there are still in existence tariffs which were set originally in 1929, and that there are unused tariffs which are forcing up costs in the whole economy. 
We have been stating for a long while. - this is our policy - that the Tariff Board as presently constituted is inadequate, that it cannot possibly handle the job of continually reviewing tariffs over the whole, range of industry. We have also levelled the criticism that the Tariff Board should be used as one of the main planning devices in the economy. The framework is there. If that framework were improved the Tariff Board would be a more, effective body. So I make that criticism, and I think it is a valid one. When these types of admissions, particularly those 'contained in the Minister's own statement, are made I think that we should look very carefully at the action which was taken a year ago. When that action was taken the Government said it believed that it would overcome the problem. But the problem is still there. We criticised what the Government did then. We said that the problem would still remain, and that has turned out to be the case. We make the same criticism now. 
Something should have been done about this question of tariffs long before this. Something should be done as soon as possible. But to do it we need to adopt a far more radical approach to the matter. We need a far more effective Tariff Board. We need more members on the Board and we particularly need far more adequate and effective staff to meet the demands which the inquiries entail. Until that is done we will not get round to creating the planning device that we need; we will not get round to having a continual review of tariffs. The facts are that tariff policy today has gone absolutely crazy. One can take the shirt industry as an example. That industry is working flat out in order to meet the tremendous competition from overseas. The Minister has stated that he will depend purely upon voluntary restraints in order to overcome the problems facing the shirt industry. The industry has stated quite definitely that these voluntary restraints are not effective. Only a few weeks ago in this House I referred to an order being placed overseas for 9,000 dozen shirts and to the fact that those shirts will be coming into this country in the next few months. The Minister believes that voluntary restraints will prevent these shirts from coming into the country. 
We have the position where industry is not being protected; where Australian jobs and Australian investments are not being protected; where industry is being forced to set up subsidiary companies in places such as Singapore, to manufacture its products there and export them to Australia because the industry cannot get protection in Australia. If the shirt industry folds up in Australia there will be no essential competition against the imported product. Overseas manufacturers will be able to hold Australia and the Australian people to ransom because there will be no competition in Australia. These matters have been pointed out to the Government, but the Minister says that he will depend on voluntary restraints. 
Then there is the other side of the crazy picture.. Only last week I heard of a company which made a wrong policy decision. Some years ago - about 8 years ago - it over-capitalised. It increased its equipment and the size of its factory to such an extent that the business was not an economic proposition in view of the market available. In order to protect that company the tariff now has been increased quite dramatically. Instead of the company which was using this company's raw material being able to get that material for 10c a lb from overseas it will now be forced to pay 27c a lb in Australia for the manufactured product although it could manufacture the product itself for 15c a lb. In other words the organisation which made, a wrong policy decision and which is an inefficient company, in order to expand its business will greatly increase the costs of the final manufactured product in Australia. 
That is the other side of the picture and that is the situation which has arisen as a result of the ad hoc basis of making decisions on tariff policy. As a result of the ad hoc basis of decisions, decisions are made without any proper investigation because there is insufficient staff and insufficient qualified staff properly to investigate these problems. On the one hand there is the case of an industry being put to the wall, which will mean the loss of a lot of Australian employment, and on the other hand there is the crazy situation of tariffs being made for and utilised by a very inefficient industry. For that reason. I say quite explicitly that whatever we do when we use this instrument of tariff review we must make sure at all times that we realise it is a dangerous instrument with which to play. We must ensure that Australian industry and Australian jobs are protected. 
Undoubtedly tariffs should be reviewed fully. They should be reviewed continually and I stress what I said in the beginning, namely, that the Tariff Board and its machinery could be one of the greatest instruments as a planning device for the Australian Government instead of an ad hoc device which investigates some emergency situation when an emergency arises. Until the Government realises that it has to make some dramatic and quite radical changes in the composition of the Board and the machinery around it, we will not get the continual review of tariffs which should proceed in Australia at all times. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I thought it was a little quaint when the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  said that he thought that you would have pulled up the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Kennedy)  for straying away from the legislation before the House, because if ever I heard a straying person it was the honourable member for Angas. He talked about almost everything except the contents of this legislation. He did touch on the Bill, I think, for about 5 of the 20 minutes for which he spoke. However I suppose this is a rather wide-ranging Bill and the debate on it gives us an opportunity to touch on certain important aspects which otherwise we would not have an opportunity to discuss. The honourable member for Angas certainly used that opportunity. As I said, he made quite a quaint remark. 
On the question of decentralisation he made some thoughtful remarks. I would like to add a few comments because for a period of 18 months I worked with the New South Wales Department of Decentralisation and Industrial Development and I saw decentralisation in its practical and impractical forms. I think a lot of people mouth the word 'decentralisation' without any realisation of its implications and certainly without any realisation that we have to be very dramatic and very definite in the type of action we take if we are to be successful. For example, establishing a little factory in a small town with a population of 2,000 or 3,000 is not really decentralisation in the accepted form, but setting out to make a big town into a big city is decentralisation and it is a practical proposition. I think we are probably at one on this issue. 
There are areas in which this Parliament could assist a very great deal in encouraging decentralisation. In particular, one must remember that no industrialist will go to the country areas unless it is worth his while. He has to move his home. He has to uproot completely all his family connections and settle down in a different area. This is a problem of management itself. Naturally he will want some benefits if he is to take industry out into the country. A lot of these benefits, such as transport rebates, must come from State legislation, but assistance can certainly be given by this Parliament. I instance just 3 examples. The first is area tax rebates. I believe it is constitutionally possible for tax rebates for industry in country areas to be given. That would be a very decisive incentive for industry to move into the bush. Secondly, I believe that reduced trunk line telephone charges should apply to industries in country areas so that they do not have to pay 74c for a 3 minute telephone call to the city when, if they were operating in a metropolitan area, such a call would cost only 4c. Industries in the country will have to make many trunk line telephone calls. Reducing their trunk line charges would not be bestowing a benefit but removing a disadvantage which an industry would suffer by moving to the country. This Parliament could approve such a measure. It could allow these industries to receive a rebate on trunk line charges so that they would be paying no more than they would be paying if they were situated in a capital city. 
Thirdly, I believe there should be package deals in grants for public works to allow for the provision of housing, swimming pools and other sporting and cultural facilities. If we are to populate the country areas we must make sure that the quality of life in the country is the equivalent of that enjoyed by people in the metropolitan areas. I make those few remarks because this is one issue which the honourable member for Angas raised. It is not only a question of this Parliament being at one, as I think he put it, with the States, which have far greater discussion and liaison between themselves - I fully agree with that - but this Parliament must realise that it has powers to assist decentralisation, and it should use those powers. 
This legislation is simply part of the supplementary budget precipitated by gai- lup poll results. A meeting of the Economic and Trade Committee of the Federal Parliamentary Labor Party chaired by my colleague the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  was held in early February in Melbourne. At that meeting we spent a full day looking at short term and long term proposals to help the economy of this country, which is obviously sliding into quite serious straits. Every proposal which the Government has brought up in this legislation before the House now and every proposal that was announced in the mini budget the other night were contained in a statement that was issued by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports after that meeting in Melbourne. Of course other proposals which were set out in the statement issued by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports have not yet been implemented by this Government, but I think that as time goes on it will be forced to do so. In accordance with the usual activity or actions of this Government, consideration is not given to long term planning proposals or the long term variations in economic policy which must be made if we are to have an effective government and leadership in this country. I believe that many of the measures the Government is now introducing are panic moves. I believe that the public opinion polls, the unemployment which exists, the lack of confidence in the economy, the loss of earnings by the people- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! I must point out to the honourable member that this is not a general debate on the econmy. It is a debate on the States Grants Bill. It is not a general debate on economic policy. 
I realise that,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I just point out that I think my remarks are closer to the subject matter of the Bill than some others perhaps were previously. States grants have a very big impact on the economy. As mentioned by the honourable member for Angas, the grants we are debating now are being given because of what transpired at the Premiers Conference and because of the state of the economy at the time of the Premiers Conference. That was the basis on which these grants were given. Surely therefore we must discuss the circumstances surrounding the granting of these moneys to the States, and that is what I am doing. As I said, I think what I am saying relates a little more closely to the Bill than some of the remarks made by the honourable member for Angas. 
No. I want to keep my remarks on a much higher plane. This legislation completely endorses every criticism that the Opposition has levelled in the past. It endorses the criticism we made of previous legislation for States grants. It endorses the criticisms we made of the last August Budget and the Budget preceding that one. The purpose of these grants to the States is to help with the unemployment situation. These grants and the mini poll Budget announced the other night are mainly panic moves because the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  is in a difficult position with his own Party at the present time. A lot of people are talking of replacing him as the Prime Minister. Other party members want to find some way of lifting the morale of the Liberal Party so as to maintain the Prime Minister until 25th May when this House will rise and it will be too late to replace him. He is going to hang on to this job as long as he possibly can, until he is dragged screaming from the honey pot. That is very obvious. 
I would like to deal particularly with what this legislation does not provide for in the way of States grants, because we still have not got down to dealing with one of the most serious problems this Parliament has to face up to, and that is the dramatic development that is occurring on the perimeters of the great cities. Massive housing developmental projects are occur ring, some instituted by private developers but many instituted by State governments from funds provided by this Parliament. 
I have in mind many electorates, including my own, admittedly. The honourable member for North Sydney would not have these problems. He represents an electorate which is very well set up. It has been established for a long while and has not had any mass development in it for a long while. In fact, the number of electors in that electorate is steadily reducing. It may be that the honourable member himself is steadily reducing, too. However, I think this is a very important subject and one which has to be faced up to by this Parliament. I give my own electorate as an example, and I am not ashamed to do that. The honourable member for North Sydney seems to think 1 should not do this. The people of the electorate of Chifley - that is a very great name - elected me to come into this Parliament to represent them, and that is what I am doing. 
In that area there are housing developments such as the Mount Druitt housing development where already well over 6,000 housing commission homes have been built. That figure will rise to 8,000 or 10,000. Those homes are built, but no provision is made by government for the necessary sporting and cultural facilities. There is a complete dearth of sewerage works in developing industrial areas. Houses are put there but the industrial land surrounding them is not sewered. As a result, industry will not go there. So 8,000 houses are, built there. People come out from the city to live in them. They cannot find local employment because there is no industry because there is no sewerage. So then they travel back on the trains in towards Sydney. That is a completely illogical position and results in complete chaos for the railways. Then there is a demand for further capital expenditure on the railway system. It would be far better if in the first instance government were to realise that funds should be provided for sewering the industrial areas before the houses are built, so that as the labour market moves into the houses, industry moves in there to provide the necessary local employment. I think this is common sense. lt is equally common sense that Commonwealth finance should be provided to assist in providing that sewerage. It is also common sense that Commonwealth finance should be earmarked specifically for these new developing areas to provide swimming pools, community centres, playing fields and youth centres. The problem of education in such areas needs to be looked at. The new Whalan high school was supposed to be ready for occupation at the beginning of this school year. It is still not ready, and it is doubtful whether it will be ready for occupation at the beginning of the next term. The children who are supposed to be going to this non-existent school are being boarded out in other high schools and primary schools, travelling back and forth for different periods. That is a dreadful state of affairs and one which should not be countenanced in a modern community. 
The needs in those areas are far greater than the needs in the old, developed areas, and those needs are not being provided for by this Parliament, which has to accept the responsibility. This Parliament brings in the migrants. It should also accept its responsibility as a parliament for providing the necessary facilities for housing and also the necessary cultural and sporting facilities that must go with every large scale housing development. It should assist particularly in the field of education in the areas of greatest need in this country, which are the new, fast developing areas on the perimeters of the great cities. The Parliament should also realise that people are being put out there and most of the women have to work. What happens to their children? There are no pre-school kindergarten facilities for them - or virtually none. There are a few very minor proposals. Down here in Canberra practically every mother can send her child to a pre-school kindergarten; out in these areas they are virtually non-existent. It is a crazy situation. It is not only bad planning but also morally bad, because it is setting up very great social and economic problems for the future. 
Therefore, funds should be provided for the fringe areas and particularly the major housing commission developments. I believe that these funds should be provided to assist in the areas of need - for education, including pre-school education, for sewerage and water, for local government finance and for transport, particularly as a transport problem is being created because the funds are not provided for water and sewerage. I believe that local government as well should be represented at the coming constitutional convention, and local government should be represented in the councils where the decisions are made as to what funds are to be provided to the various States. I make no bones about this; if special grants are made to the States for assistance for the developing areas on the fringes of the great cities those funds should be earmarked specifically for that purpose. We are providing special grants and we should make it quite clear where those special grants should be sent. It is one thing to ask: Does this interfere with the federal system and all this type of thing? When all is said and done, far too often the funds which go from this Parliament to a State are put into financing the pet little theories and propositions of the Ministers concerned, without consideration for the overall good of the community. I make no excuse for making that statement. I think it is correct. 
I must admit that far too much of our funds going into education are going into the bigger Great Public Schools instead of going into smaller schools, whether they be state or non-state schools, which are catering for the people who need assistance and catering for areas of need. That word need' is a most important one. It is one to which anybody with a conscience should give consideration. So I would ask the House to give consideration to those sorts of proposals. I believe the time has come when we can no longer sit down and use the same systems and methods of allocation of funds that have been used now for 30 and 40 years. It is time this Parliament accepted its own responsibilities, not only in the area of decentralisation but also in the area of housing and specifically in the new developing areas, the areas of very great need. Unless this Parliament allocates funds earmarked specifically for these areas of need on the fringes of the great cities - such as Mount Druitt and Blacktown in my electorate of Chifley - we are going to set up very great social and economic problems for the future. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for the Navy. In view of reports that aero clubs are still pressing for a site for a general aviation airport, having failed in respect of the Duffy's Forest site, and are suggesting the use of the Schofields naval airstrip for this purpose, is it true that the Minister or his Department is giving consideration to allowing the utilisation of that aerodrome for this purpose or for the second international airport? What is the Minister's definition of a 'general aviation airport'? What type and size of aircraft would be allowed to use it? 
I wish  to  raise the issue of the approaches being made by the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  and the Ministers for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman),  Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  and Navy  (Dr Mackay)  to allow the utilisation of the naval aerodrome at HMAS 'Nirimba' at Schofields, New South Wales, as a general civil aviation airport and even possibly as a second airport for the Sydney region. Honourable members will recall that I directed a question to the Minister for the Navy in this House this morning, asking him whether it was true that either he or his Department was giving consideration to allowing the utilisation of this aerodrome for this purpose. I also asked him for a definition of a general aviation airport', and what type and size of aircraft would be allowed to use it. The reason for this last question was that I have it on very good authority that if the aerodrome is used as a general aviation airport it will be enlarged and used not only for light aircraft but also for transport aircraft, and this could mean the use of Electras, etc. 
The Minister for the Navy replied to me that he had no information - and I quote from his answer - 'From my officers or serving members of the Navy of the purport of the question which the honourable member mentioned'. He said: 'I will be in HMAS "Nirimba" later today' - which was an extraordinary coincidence - 'and I will endeavour to find out whether any such plans are in hand, but at the present moment I know nothing of the existence of such a suggestion'. As I was quite sure in my mind that the information I had heard was correct and that the aerodrome was being considered for utilisation as a civil aviation airport, I immediately proceeded across to the Senate side of the building and asked my friend  Senator Mulvihill  whether he could direct a similar question to the Minister for Civil Aviation. He did so, and I quote part of the answer he received. The Minister said: 
We have been looking at the prospects at Schofields. 
He was referring to the possible use of it for general aviation purposes. The Minister continued: 
I have had some discussions with the Minister for the Navy, but they have not been conclusive and there is still a lot more work to be done. I have told the people at Schofields who run the aero club that this is the case. 
You can therefore see,  Mr Speaker,  that there was conflict between the answers given by the Minister for the Navy and the Minister for Civil Aviation. Accordingly,  Senator Mulvihill  and I asked each of the Ministers for the Hansard transcripts of their replies to our questions. I should mention also that, when I asked the Minister for the Navy for his transcript, he said that he was certain that nobody had spoken to him about the. matter, nor had anything, to use his words, crossed his desk. But he went on to say that he did recall that, the other day, the Minister for Civil Aviation had run into him when he was coming out of the lavatory and had suggested that the 2 of them should go up to HMAS 'Nirimba' to look at the prospects. That was the reason why he, was going there today. As I said before, it was an extraordinary coincidence. 
About half an hour to three quarters of an hour later, the Minister for the Navy called at my office upstairs and pointed out to me that he now wished to make a statement to the House in order to correct the answer that he had given to me earlier this morning, in answer to my question. He had spoken already to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  It was agreed that leave should be given, and quite rightly so. This was the statement that he gave to the House: 
My memory has been at fault, for which I apologise. There has been an approach earlier this year from the Minister for Civil Aviation to the Ministers for Air, Defence and Navy for a reexamination of the Schofields area, to see whether greater use could be made of it for civil aviation purposes. The current position is that the study has been initiated at the official level. I have conveyed this information to the honourable member for Chifley. 

 Mr Speaker, I accept the explanation by the Minister even though one cannot help but find it hard to understand how his memory could be so faulty as to forget that the Minister for Defence, the Minister for Civil Aviation, the Minister for Air and himself had had discussions recently - he said 'earlier this year' but I think it was fairly recent - and that he had forgotten all about what the discussions were about. It is all the more incomprehensible when one realises he happened to be visiting HMAS Nirimba today. 
I had hoped to speak on the Minister's statement after he made it this morning. Although I had arranged this with him and rose to obtain leave, I found that I would have unduly interrupted the debate on another very important matter which was being discussed by this Parliament. I therefore refrained and told the Minister that I would have to raise the matter tonight in this adjournment debate. I sincerely regret that he is unable to be present. However, if I left the matter until next Wednesday - my next opportunity - a great deal of interest in this issue, which I feel is very important, would have passed. It is a very urgent matter for the people whom I represent 
As I said before, I accept the Minister's explanation. But I do suggest to the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  that the memory of the Minister for the Navy is obviously so faulty that it is dangerous to the security of this country to leave the responsibility for the administration of our great Australian Navy in his hands any longer. I believe that he should be replaced. Yet, he could remember, only the other day, what John Curtin told him in 1943 - or was it 1944?  His  memory was good then. I point out,  Mr Speaker,  that in order for a Minister always to tell the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth, he must have an accurate and retentive memory. 
With regard to the possible use of HMAS 'Nirimba' as a civil aviation airport - whether it be as a general civil aviation airport or as a second international 24-hour airport for Sydney - I want it to be known that I am strongly opposed to the proposal as I know that it would mean enlargement of the airport and undue inconvenience and noise pollution to the surrounding residential areas, such as Blacktown, Rooty Hill and parts of Mount Druitt  in  my electorate of Chifley, as well as to Schofields, Quakers Hill, Riverstone and Marayong North in the Mitchell area. 1 told the Prime Minister that I would be speaking on this matter tonight. I left a message at his office to say that I would be speaking on this matter tonight. 
The Prime Minister. I point out to him that Mitchell is a marginal seat where the people are already up in arms about the proposal to consider Richmond as a possible site for the second international airport, and this proposal regarding Schofields would certainly break the camel's back. 
Ashley Brown- an excellent candidate. The residents in the North Shire areas surrounding Duffy's Forest are obviously highly influential and obviously live in strong Liberal areas. This is shown by the fact that Cabinet struck Duffy's Forest off the list of possible sites for the second international airport last September and recently the Minister for Civil Aviation bowed to the local demands of these Liberal areas and decided that a general aviation airport would not be located there. Instead, the Government is considering putting both the second international 24-hour airport and the general aviation civil airport out in the far western suburbs where ordinary, everyday peoplethe lifeblood of this nation - have their homes. It is obvious that the Government is making political decisions on these important issues and not the correct tech.nial decisions in the interests of the nation and aviation as a whole. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes, I do. I claim to have been misrepresented in a statement issued to the Press by the Minister for Civil Aviation,  Senator Robert  Cotton, on 21st April. As far as I know that statement has been circulated to all members and senators. It refers to my speech in this House on the adjournment debate last Thursday evening concerning the conflict between answers to questions that morning both in this chamber and in another place given by the Minister for the Navy and the Minister for Civil Aviation in respect of the possible use of Schofields aerodrome, HMAS Nirimba', as a civil airport. The Minister stated that the question directed to him in the Senate, as I pointed out last Thursday night in this chamber, had been asked by  Senator Mulvihill. 
That is what I am about to do. 
I should like to quote the Minister, who said that the question directed to him by  Senator Mulvihill  at my request "was framed to attempt to elicit a form of words which would suggest differences between another Minister and myself'. That was not the purpose. My purpose was to obtain the truth. I was quite sure in my mind that the information I had heard was correct and that the aerodrome at Schofields- 
Very good. Let me just say that the conflict in the answer to the question which finally resulted in- 
asked the Minister for 
Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
What are the specific details as to -how the number of unemployed is computed for each district including (a) the time allowed before schoolleavers, handicapped persons and persons seeling improved positions who have not reported back to the Employment Office are struck from the list of unemployed persons; and (b) the time allowed in respect of all other persons, who have not reported back to the Employment Office, before they are struck from the list of unemployed persons. 
Has there been any variation in the procedure in recent times either by written or oral instructions. 
 I support the amendment, the main detail of which will be dealt with later by the honourable member for Forrest  (Mr Kirwan).  However, I cannot leave the subject completely alone because my experience in my electorate and in the areas surrounding it in the far western suburbs of Sydney has shown that there is a tremendous growth in unemployment in all industries. A number of organisations in the North St Mary's industrial complex, which is one of the largest industrial complexes in the metro, politan area of Sydney, are putting men off weekly, and I have people coming to me day by day with problems associated with unemployment. For this reason and in view of the growth of this problem over the last couple of months, I cannot help but doubt the validity of the unemployment figures which are published and wonder whether some adjustments are being made to them.  1  have put questions on the notice paper in regard to this matter, but 1 have not yet received what I consider to be reasonable replies. 
I will reduce my speech as much as possible in order to allow other members to speak. I should like to give an example of how the processing of Australia's natural resources is passing into the control of overseas multi-national organisations or corporations. However, before I deal with the actual example I quote some figures related to the outflow of dividends on foreign investment in Australia. In 1949-50 the total outflow of dividends on foreign investment was $38m. By 1961-62 - the year in which, as the member for Mitchel], I first spoke on this issue in this Parliament - this figure had grown to $I29m, and by 1970-71 it had grown to $351m. In 1949-50 the investment income payable overseas as undistributed profits by companies - not individuals - in Australia was $31m. By 1961-62 - as 1 said before, when 1 first spoke of this growth which was occurring - it had grown to $66m and by 1970-71 it had grown to $322m. I think that this is an example of how, by allowing uncontrolled foreign investment in this country, we are setting up a tremendous potential drain upon our foreign reserves. At present, these reserves are in a very healthy situation, but it was not very long ago that they were in a most unhealthy position and that same unhealthy situation could obtain again in the comparatively immediate future. If a sudden run were made on our overseas reserves we would need every single dollar that we could possibly get. Yet we are in the position where there has been a steady growth of dividends actually remitted from $31m in 1949-50 to $322m in 1970-71, of potential dividends - funds kept here for reinvestmentfrom $38m to $35 1 m. 
The case I wish to cite is that of Queensland Alumina Ltd. which is refining bauxite mined at Weipa into alumina and which most Australians would regard as an Australian owned organisation. I have done a little research into the background of this company. I have done so because I saw an advertisement in the 'Sydney Morning Herald* by Queensland Alumina Finance NV of bonds which were offered and sold outside of the United States of America totalling $25m. In very small type the following words appeared in that advertisement: 'This advertisement appears as a matter of record only'. There is not one Australian firm or individual in all the bond-holders listed in the advertisement. For that reason I thought it was time to do a little bit of research as to just what this company is. 
Queensland Alumina Ltd operates a refinery at Gladstone which refines bauxite mined at Weipa into alumina. It is a consortium company in which each partner is committed to supply raw materials, guarantee finance and share output in direct proportion to its equity interest in the company. Therefore over time, as the company expands its operations, the proportionate interests of the various partners may change. The point is that late in 1971 the respective interests in QAL were as follows: Kaiser Aluminium and Chemical Corporation of the United States of America, 37.3 per cent; Alcan of Canada, 22 per cent; Pechiney of France, 20 per cent; Comalco, 11.3 per cent and Conzinc Riotinto of Australia Ltd, 9.4 per cent. It should be kept in mind that the Rio TintoZinc Corporation Ltd of the United Kingdom holds an 80.65 per cent interest in CRA Ltd and that the ownership of Comalco is as follows: Kaiser, 45 per cent; CRA, 45 per cent; and the Australian and New Zealand public, 10 per cent. Given the proportion of local ownership in the participating companies, a maximum of 19.35 per cent and 10 per cent in CRA and Comalco respectively, the effective local ownership - that is, the Australian ownership - of Queensland Alumina Ltd is unlikely to exceed 4 per cent. 
Obviously this bond issue repesents one of the capital funds necessary to complete the current exapnsion programme at the Gladstone refinery, which is scheduled to be completed by early 1973. That is why this bond issue was made. But I impress upon the House that the present ownership of the company is no more than 4 per cent Australian and that, as far as this bond issue of 525m is concerned, not one Australian organisation or individual is included. Of course, we have also the extraordinarily cryptic remark that 'this advertisement appears as a matter of record only'. I have not been able to get down to the root of this inscription. The fact is that organisations right throughout Australian - the latest being the Australian Bank Officials Association - are complaining bitterly about how Australia's natural resources and the secondary industry engaged in the processing of these resources are steadily moving more and more into the hands of overseas organisations. I repeat that in 1962 I warned that the remittance of dividends overseas would grow steadily. 1 think the figures 1 quoted a little earlier show that very effectively. 
Before I sit down I would like to quote an example of how students in the far western suburbs of Sydney are being discriminated against in educational opportunities as compared to students in the more affluent areas of Sydney. There are many reasons for this. They include the lack of buildings and equipment and the shortage of teachers in the western suburbs. A lot of the teachers do not want to work out there; they want to work nearer their homes, which are not in the western surburbs. For the same reason there is a lack of experienced teachers. Another reason is that so many mothers are forced to work. I do not have any objection to a mother working if she wishes to do so but I think that the necessity for 2 incomes is a tragedy. The Government is forcing some mothers to work because of the state of the economy. Another reason is the lack of local employment opportunities. Because both parents come home from work at night tired they are often unable to concentrate on the affairs of their children and give them the assistance they need in order to ensure equality of educational opportunity. 1 wish to quote some figures of the number of Commonwealth and State scholarships granted in 1972 to students in secondary schools. No means test is applied to Commonwealth scholarships, but a means test is applied to State senior secondary scholarships. For example, 3 Commonwealth scholarships and 8 State scholarships were granted to the Blacktown Girls High School. I repeat that no means test is applied to the Commonwealth scholarships but a means test is applied to the State scholarships. Pupils at the Seven Hills High School received 4 Commonwealth scholarships and 5 State scholarships; at the Grantham High School, which is still in the western suburbs, 3 Commonwealth scholarships and 5 State scholarships were granted; at the Mitchell High School 2 Commonwealth scholarships and 11 State scholarships were granted. The figures for the Rooty Hill High School were 4 and 9 respectively; for Greystanes High School, 5 and 9 respectively; Normanhurst Boys High School, 1 1 and 5 respectively; Pennant Hills High School. 25 and 7 respectively; Epping Boys High School, 16 and 5 respectively, Cheltenham Girls High School, 33 and 7 respectively; North Sydney Boys High School, 28 and 1 1 respectively; and North Sydney Girls High School, 54 and 10 respectively. 
What I want to show is that where a means test is applied the schools i.i the western suburbs of Sydney receive a fairly high number of State secondary school scholarships and the schools in the more affluent areas of Sydney receive a far lesser number. But where no means test is applied  -  I emphasise that there is no means test on Commonwealth secondary school scholarships - those from the western suburbs receive a very small number of scholarships whereas those from the more affluent areas of Sydney receive a very large number. For example, the breakdown for Commonwealth scholarships is 3, 4, 3, 2 and 4 for the western suburbs compared with 25, 16, 33, 28 and 54 for the more affluent areas. That is the position where no means test is applied. Where a means test is applied - that is, in relation to State scholarships - it is 8 5, 5, 11 and 9 for the western suburbs as compared with 7, 5, 7, 1 1 and 10 for the more affluent areas. 
The case I wish to put is that until the Australian Labor Party's policy of granting a scholarship to any pupil who has the capacity to go on to 5th and 6th year of his or her schooling is introduced it is essential that a means test be placed upon Commonwealth secondary school scholarships to ensure that there is equality of education for all children. After all. a scholarship is granted for only one purpose - to give financial incentive and assistance to a person in order to enable that person to continue his or her education. Scholarships should not be given to people who can afford to pay for their education. They should be given to people who have the capacity and ability but who cannot afford to go beyond the fourth year of secondary schooling unless they receive the financial assistance which is given under a scholarship. 
 I rise tonight to touch on a couple of matters. The first of these is the necessity for government - I do not care whether it is Federal or State - to make a decision as to whether or not there is to be a university or a college of advanced education in the western suburbs of Sydney. Are you right? 
I was just waiting. 
I abide by your suggestion,  Sir. I  think the most important thing here is to look at what has been going on out in the western suburbs in relation to the need for tertiary education in those areas. I point out that this area contains the largest number of young people of any area in the whole of New South Wales. Therefore, the demand for tertiary education facilities will be greater than in any other part of the State in the future. Over the years I have been approached by a number of local organisations. I have carried out a campaign in this House for the last  2i  years on this issue. I have brought the matter before various government departments, Federal and State. I have brought it before various Ministers, Federal and State. But in each instance I found that each one passed the buck over to the other. If one goes to the Federal Ministry of Education and Science one finds that it says it is an issue for the State. If one goes to the State Department one finds that, until they have the finance or until they have inquired more fully into the issue, it is a matter for the Federal Government to determine. 
It has now reached the stage where there is a very great deal of feeling on this particular issue right throughout the area. The latest approach made to me was from the Parramatta District Council of Parents and Citizens Associations, urging that consideration should be given on an urgent basis to the establishment of a university or college of advanced education in the western suburbs of Sydney. I believe that the demands of the area, in respect of young people growing up, will ensure that this must occur. This educational facility must be placed in an area that is close to the railway. It must be placed in an area which will serve young people coming down from Katoomba in the west or from areas such as Auburn or even further east. I suggest that it should be sited either in the Parramatta area or at Werrington near Penrith where I understand land has been set aside for either a teachers college or a college of advanced education. 
I would like the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to look at this matter urgently. I believe that as this Parliament provides the greater part of the finance necessary for such a project this Parliament should influence where that project is established. As I have said, it is commonsense that it should not be placed, for example, out at Campbelltown which is well away from any real centre. The project should be placed somewhere near a railhead to serve those people coming from as far as Katoomba in the west and the Auburn side of Parramatta in the east. In other words, it should not be placed, as is the Macquarie University, well away from rail transport. Such siting means that people have to use motor transport in order to attend that institution. If regard is not paid to the proper siting of the institution people from more affluent areas will be benefited. It should be borne in mind that the great body of young people coming from the areas I have mentioned - areas such as Auburn - would not have a great deal of finance behind them. They would mostly be on scholarships and therefore would not be able to afford high transport costs. Therefore I ask the Minister for Education and Science to have a very good look at this issue. I ask him to initiate the necessary discussions with the New South Wales Government to ensure that a university or college of advanced education for the western suburbs will be placed somewhere near a rail centre so that students who cannot afford high transport costs can use that mode of transport. Students, about who I am speaking of necessity come from non-affluent areas. , 
While I am on my feet I would like to deal also with another matter. It arises from the recent decision of the Church of England to undertake a drive on poverty. A group of people examining this subject recently visited the area of Mount Druitt. Unfortunately one of the newspapers labelled the Mount Druitt area by displaying the headline: 'Whitlam to visit slums'. This caused a great deal of resentment right throughout the area. The fact is that the Mount Druitt area is the youngest area in the State. The average age, it is said, is about 8 years. It is an area in which many young people are trying to bring up big families. The last thing in the world they want to happen is for the area to be called backward, or an area suffering from great problems. As the residents of the area put it, if you give a dog bad names it sticks to it. 
I checked with the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and I am assured by him and his staff that when the Archbishop made the request that members of this Parliament should visit various areas of poverty the Leader of the Opposition rang up and accepted that request. However, the first he knew that Mount Druitt was to be visited was when he heard it over the news media. I make this point: Of course there are areas of poverty in Mount Druitt as there are in every other area of ;he State. Of course there are some invalid pensioners and deserted wives in the Mount Druitt area. But they would be only a very small proportion of the great body of this category of people who exist right throughout New South Wales and the Commonwealth. To suggest that this is an area of extreme poverty and a problem area or, as one newspaper suggested, a slum area creates a great deal of resentment amongst the people living there, and myself as their representative. 
I would like to quote a few headings that appeared in local newspapers. One was: 'Tired of being rubbished'. Another was: 'Meeting condemns continued maligning of Mount Druitt people'. A further heading was: 'Mount Druitt residents angry - district called "slum"'. This type of thing has to be stopped. The facts are mat the Mount Druitt people are hard working people. They work harder for heir organisations than most people from affluent areas do. If one goes to parents and citizens association meetings one finds these meetings attended by more people than would be at similar meetings in more affluent areas. 
I ask the Prime Minister in his capacity of Acting Treasurer, whether in view of the current rash of takeover bids, such as Ampol Petroleum Ltd v. R. W. Miller (Holdings) Ltd, British Tobacco Co. (Aust.) Ltd v. Refresh Holdings Ltd and the anonymous, multi-million dollar bid for Travelodge Aust. Ltd, and reports that the finance for these bids is being derived from the conventional banking system with its swollen liquidity, as in the cases of Ampol and British Tobacco, and from overseas sources, he is prepared- 
I support the amendment moved and just varied by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  which will now read:  whilst not opposing the provisions  ot  the Bill the House is of opinion that the Bill should  provide  for the continuation of the payment  of  age pensions and other benefits after a period  of 10  years' residence in Australia and irrespective  of  any agreement between Australia and the current place of residence. 
Whilst this Bill is a definite improvement to some extent, it is nevertheless a sleight of hand as it cannot really be effective unless reciprocal arrangements are made between Australia and the countries of origin of the various migrants. It is hard to understand, therefore, why this is insisted upon because although this legislation may be introduced and become law, it still will not at this point of time give anything to migrants who wish to return to their homelands. Furthermore, the legislation provides only for the payment of such pensions under the reciprocal arrangements or the portability arrangements after a period of 20 years. This in itself is difficult to understand because a migrant is entitled to an age pension after residence in this country for a period of 10 years. After migrants have been here for 10 years they receive their pensions and if they were made available to them under the portability arrangements it still would not cost the Government any more. Under this legislation a migrant who returns to his homeland sometime during a period of residence in Australia of from 10 years to 20 years will actual!) save the Government money by way of pension payments, so surely it would have been a reasonable proposition at this point of time to give to migrants who return to their homeland the same facilities as they receive here in Australia and the facilities which are offered in their homeland. These are important issues at which we need to look. 
I do not intend to speak at any great length. 1 can recall approximately 2 years ago - the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  will remember this - that there was a deputation of migrant people in his office asking for these portability arrangements. At that time the Minister had hoped that some decision would be made by the time the following year's Budget was presented but this did not occur. I do not necessarily blame the Minister for this. Undoubtedly Treasury leant on him very hard. In fact if there had not been a private members Bill moved by the Leader of the Opposition I do not believe he would have been able to overcome the opposition of Treasury even to this watered down proposal that we now have before us. It is a watered down approach. It does not provide anything in hard cash for any migrant who returns to his or her homeland unless reciprocal arrangements are made between this country and the migrant's country of origin. In addition, the Bill grants reciprocal arrangements, if they are finally organised only after a period of residence in Australia of 20 years. To have given it for the normal period of 10 years would not have cost the Government any more in hard cash and I find it very difficult to understand why this was not done. For these reasons I support the amendment moved by the Opposition. I think it is common sense. It touches these two issues - that is, to grant a pension after a period of 10 years residence in Australia and to grant it irrespective of any agreement between Australia and the current place of residence - and for those reasons I support the proposed amendment. 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
Will he state: 
the number of migrants of non-European origin admitted to Australia for permanent residence in each of the last 5 years ended 31st December 1971; and 
the number of people of Turkish origin admitted to Australia on a permanent basis over the same period? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Works, upon notice: 
What private firms of (a) architects, (b) engineers and (c) quantity surveyors were engaged as consultants to the Department of Works during (i) 1969-70, (ii) 1970-71 and (iii) the 6 monthly period ended 3 1st December 1971. 
What were the (a) projects on which they were engaged and (b) fees paid on each project. 
The honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  has just made a good turnabout. It is a wonder that he did not make his explanation this morning after question time at the time of the controversy. He may have cleared the air a little, but he remained silent then. Very obviously there has been some discussion between him, his Leader and the Liberal Party since question time this morning. The important point which emerged from the speech of the honourable member for Calare  (Mr England)  was his advocacy of the role of this Government in local government finances. Most people in the metropolitan areas would agree that local government bodies virtually have no role. I represent an area which needs finan cial assistance for local government more than any other area because within it there is a greater growth of population than in any other area. I refer to the far western suburbs of Sydney running out through Blacktown, Mount Druitt and those areas where the great growth of population in the metropolitan areas is occurring. 
Local government bodies there cannot get any assistance whatsoever from this Government to finance the building of roads, playing fields, civic centres, community centres and the requirements of youth. In that area there are more young children than in any other area in the State, but we cannot get assistance. As for Commonwealth aid roads grants, they are not even called by that name these days. I remind the honourable member for Calare that they are now called special grants. As far as my area is concerned, the size of the grants has diminished despite the inflation which has occurred under this Government. The grants to the outer metropolitan areas have been reduced dramatically ever since the Commonwealth aid roads system was introduced. I invite any honourable member opposite to visit the Blacktown Municipal Council and find out who approached me about this problem within the last fortnight. 
On the surface this Budget appears to acknowledge some of the requirements outlined by the Labor Party for many years. It also appears to correct - I say 'appears to correct' - some of the mistakes of the Budgets of 1970 and 1971 which were the genesis of the growth of unemployment in the community. However, a careful assessment of increases in revenue, of taxation reductions and of the social service concessions shows that it is a sleight of hand Budget which takes more in taxation this year from the people than it gives in tax reductions or social service concessions. For example, the Budget Papers reveal that had there been no tax reductions revenue would have risen by $1,03 6m or 11.7 per cent this year. 
The Budget Papers also show that after the tax cuts revenue will still rise by $602m or 6.8 per cent. Therefore the value of the tax concessions is $434m and the public will still pay more taxation this year than they paid last year. I give an example of this sleight of hand. The Government estimates that wage rates will rise this year by 9 per cent. A person without dependants on the average annual income of 5,000 can expect his income to rise to at least $5,400. On $5,000 he would have paid $1,026.53 in taxation had there been no tax concessions. Under the new scale he will pay $1,050.50 on an income of $5,400, the income that the Government anticipates he will receive this year. That is an increase of 8 per cent, even less than the anticipated 9 per cent. Therefore the Government will still get about $24 more out of him this year than last year. Is it not a mirage to believe that taxation has been reduced? A man on the average weekly earnings will still pay this year more taxation than he paid last year. 
Furthermore, the tax concessions benefit mainly people in the high income groups. For example, a person with a wife and one child receiving $4,000 a year will have his tax reduced by $104.15. A man receiving $5,000 will gain $140.96. A man receiving $10,000 will have his tax reduced by $295.08. A man on $20,000 will receive a reduction of $667.78. In other words, the man on $4,000 saves in taxation only $104.15. The man on $20,000 saves $667.78. In that circumstance surely Government supporters cannot claim that it is an equitable taxation scale. Obviously the scale is designed to assist the high income groups and not the middle and low income groups. The same is true of concessional deductions for a wife and child. The greater benefit is received by the high income groups. The higher the income, the higher the actual tax concession. I cannot for the life of me understand why my wife should be worth approximately twice the amount in taxation deduction - in actual tax saved - as the wife of a person on $4,000. I do not consider it equitable and I do not consider it justice. 
As I stated, the Budget appears at first sight to correct some of the tragic mistakes of the Budgets of 1970 and 1971 which caused the massive unemployment which now stands at 2 per cent of the work force, or 108,000 people. However, as I have said, a careful assessment shows that the Government will still pull more revenue from the people than last year, and there are no large scale developmental proposals or incentives which would give the much needed impetus to the provision of employment, such as large scale public works and a reduction in sales tax on motor vehicles. A good example of an industry suffering from the present recession is the construction equipment manufacturing industry. This industry has suffered a 25 per cent decline in sales and needs an uplift in its activities through such measures as large scale public works, which are completely absent from this Budget, to overcome this decline. A planned highway construction programme of magnitude to overcome the chaos on our roads would help, not to mention if the Government were to purchase its heavy construction equipment for its armed services and works programmes in Australia and not from overseas. Incidentally, why does the Government not pay import duty on equipment of this type which it purchases overseas? By not paying duty it places the local product at a disadvantage, with the result that the local product cannot compete with the overseas product in regard to price, simply because the local product in effect does pay the duty while the overseas product does not. This Budget offers virtually nothing to help the 25 per cent decline in this industry and the consequent unemployment, and the picture I have shown here - it affects an important industry in my electorate - is repeated in industry after industry. 
I now wish to turn to some of the social service aspects of this Budget. Whilst some of the glaring anomalies in social services are to be corrected, the section most in need of help is neglected. I refer to civilian widows with children. Admittedly, they form a very small section of our community with little voting power, and apparently are accordingly ignored by the Government in this election year. The position of these people should strike the conscience of every member in this House. In these days of intense living one never knows when a husband may be struck down at a comparatively early age, leaving his wife with a great economic problem and with more than twice the responsibility - I say deliberately, more than twice the responsibility - for bringing up her family than she had before her husband's death. Also, one should keep in mind that nearly half the women on the A class widow's pensions - that is, civilian widows with children - are deserted wives. This fact is not generally realised. Yet the Government has given an A class widow an increase in pension of only $1.75 a week without any increase for her children, let alone an increase in child endowment. In other words, a woman could have 6 children but, under this Budget, the only increase she will receive will be $1.75 a week. 
A widow or deserted wife with 3 children still receives a pension of only $39.50 a week. This is ridiculous. No woman could be expected to stay at home, where she should be with her added responsibilities of parenthood - I stress the words 'added responsibilities' - and bring up her family on that amount. In other words, by its parsimonious attitude the Government is forcing women to go out to work, irrespective of the interests of the children. I know that some women wish to work, but other women do not; they wish to look after their families and I do not think that it is right or just that a woman should be forced into this situation, particularly when she does not have a partner to share the responsibilities of parenthood. Incidentally, there is also to be no increase in dependants allowances for the children of invalid pensioners. Thi; is another area which this Budget has neglected. 
The supplementary allowance for pensioners paying rent is to be increased from $2 a week to $4 a week, the first increase since 1965. Superficially this seems to be a magnificent decision. It represents a 100 per cent increase in the allowance while according to the Commonwealth Statistician's figures, rents of privately owned dwellings, have risen only 53.6 per cent since 1965. I think that most people who have bad any experience with younger people who have been looking for homes would find h hard to believe that rents of flats and cottages have increased by only 53.6 per cent in 7 years. To look deeper into these Issues, 1 looked up in yesterday's Sydney Morning Herald' the rents for unfurnished flats and found that in an average working class suburb - not the affluent suburbs - the cheapest rent for a small flat was $25 a week. Based on the Statistician's figure, which we will accept, of an increase in rent of 53.6 per cent since 1965  -  as I said, this is a conservative figure - the rents of these flats have risen by approximately $8 a week. In other words, after 7 years a pensioner now receives an increase in the rent allowance of $2 a week to compensate for an increase in rents of at least $8 a week. Therefore, this apparently magnificent concession in reality is a mirage. 
Another anomaly in social service pensions which has not been corrected is the requirement that a deserted wife will not receive a pension from the Commonwealth until she has been deserted for 6 months and has taken maintenance proceedings against her husband. It is impossible to understand why the Commonwealth will not accept its responsibility immediately the wife is deserted - keep in mind, some of the States do - and it is equally impossible to understand why the Commonwealth insists on her taking maintenance proceedings against her husband, keeping in mind that the maintenance is seldom paid, before it will concede her right to a pension. These maintenance proceedings very often are the straw that breaks the camel's back and makes it impossible to reconcile the couple owing to the bitterness surrounding such maintenance proceedings. Why does the Government insist on these archaic requirements? 
The Budget also does nothing to help the family by way of increases in child endowment. As I have said before in this House, my electorate contains more young children than any other electorate in New South Wales, and probably, Australia. Couples with young families are struggling to raise their families and I know that their main demand in social welfare is an increase in child endowment. This is the only way in which mothers who wish to stay home to tend to their children can do so and not be forced to go out to work when they do not want to. Why has this injustice - the refusal of the Government to update the value of child endowment - been perpetuated? How can Government supporters then say that this is a family Budget? Is it that the Government wishes to perpetuate the socially wrong concept that each family must have 2 incomes and not one to survive? 
The Budget provides $5m for child care centres which mainly is to be allocated to centres catering for one parent families. This amount is a mere drop in the bucket compared to the problem of providing centres properly staffed by competent people for those wives who are forced to work, not because they want to but because they have to. How many such centres will be built throughout Australia with this $5m? Considering the running costs of staff and so on, not to mention building costs, it is doubtful whether it would provide more than 10 or a dozen for the whole of this country. It represents only a token recognition of a vital need. Furthermore, the Government has still not faced up to the problem of assisting pre-school centres in those parts of Australia outside the Australian Capital Territory. I am proud indeed that the policy of my own Party provides for the setting up of a pre-school commission to recommend the extent of grants to the States to assist in pre-school centre establishment. It is time that this proposal was adopted by this Government. Most children in the Australian Capital Territory can obtain pre-school education, whilst those in the various States cannot, except in a few centres run by voluntary organisations which are operating at present. 
As I said before, my electorate has more children in it than any other area of the State of New South Wales. Yet there would be only half a dozen or less pre-school kindergartens in it. Pre-school education - a great necessity to fit a child psychologically for the adventure of primary school - is not available to the vast majority of children in my electorate. If it is good enough for Canberra, why is it not good enough for the rest of Australia? In view of the background I have given I ask the Minister responsible to provide in the Mount Druitt Housing Commission area the first child care centre to be established by the Commonwealth. There would be no area in this country where there is a greater need for such a centre, as I believe all honourable members in this House would understand. 
Other vital issues which this Government has neglected in the Budget are the need for Federal assistance for local government finance, including sewerage; the need for Commonwealth assistance to tackle the problem of spiralling land costs which are pricing homes out of the reach of young couples; the need for a prices justification tribunal to require price increases of basic commodities to be justified - a proposal which the Commonwealth has full power to implement; the need to put teeth in the Restrictive Trade Practices Act and to take cognisance of the Bannerman criticisms; the need to bring fringe merchant banking under the umbrella of conventional banking controls - once again the Commonwealth has full powers to do this; and the need to introduce effective control over the introduction of foreign investment into Australia, laying down firm guidelines as to what investment is good for this country and should be allowed in and what is bad and should be kept out. Again the Government has full power to control foreign investment. Regulations already exist under the Banking Act, which, if they were properly policed instead of merely being given lip service as they are at present, could be utilised to vet the introduction and outflow of all investment. 
Another aspect of Government policy which completely neglects the needs of our day is its refusal to take any positive action to prevent the rash of takeovers. Does the Government not realise that the high liquidity of the banking system is being used by way of overdrafts for the larger barons of industry to take over the smaller barons? This could be prevented by the simple artifice of issuing a Reserve Bank instruction to banks that overdraft funds shall not be provided for takeover bids. Why does the Government not do this? It does not do so because it is not fair dinkum in its opposition to takeover bids. Too many of its friends are tied up in them. So we could go on with the neglect of this Government for the community as a whole - its refusal to correct the health scheme chaos, the lack of an Australian securities and exchange commission and so on and so on. Surely it is time to correct these glaring anomalies. Surely it is time to change. 
It is quite obvious that the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin)  has a deep resentment, almost to the extent of a psychotic resentment, of my return to this Parliament. Ever since I came back to this Parliament I have displayed as much tolerance, as much patience and as much charity towards him, out of respect for his very great age, as I could. However, there comes a time when one's patience is exhausted, particularly when statements of the type he made are made in the cowardice of the protection of this Parliament, not outside it. 
The honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  has been warbling on about the exchange rate issue with no particular recommendations contained in the various ifs and buts he put forward. However, I think that there are a few different sorts of proposals which need to be examined in relation to this question. I would ask the Treasury officials who are sitting in another part of this chamber whether consideration could be given to Australia operating a 2- tier exchange rate. I draw attention to this because I think that there has been far too much controversy surrounding this issue. The Leader of the Country Party and  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  has not done Australia a service by making the matter a political football. In fact, I think he has done Australia a very great disservice by adopting that attitude. 
There is little doubt that Australia today finds itself in some extraordinary dilemmas. For example, in this day, we have unemployment at the same time as inflation. We have a situation where we have bolstered reserves and, at the same time, we have a situation where not only are those reserves over inflated because of speculative reasons but we also still have a deficit in our current account. The honourable member for Angas apparently does not wish to hear the replies to the questions which he asked. We have the extraordinary dilemma where, if consideration were to be given to our trading interests, we might talk of retaining the rate. On the other hand, if we were looking at the problem from the point of view of our capital position - the bolstering of our reserves - then we should perhaps consider at least retaining the rate. 
Belgium and France have worked effectively on a 2-tier rate. That is to say, they have a separate rate for capital transactions. I know that senior Treasury officials expressed an opinion about a year ago that this system could not operate in Australia. Their theory was that it would not be possible to isolate a transaction which, on the one hand is a trade transaction and, on the other hand again, is a capital transaction. Apparently they had not learned the elementary rule that there is usually a document involved - a bill of lading - with a trade transaction. If they had inquired more deeply into the system operating in France and Belgium, they would have found that it was operating effectively. The cast doubts a year ago as to whether this system would continue, yet right up to this day it is still operating most effectively indeed. 
Australia has a particular dilemma. On the one hand, our trading position might call for the maintenance of the exchange rate while on the other hand our position in regard to our capital transactions might in theory suggest an appreciation of exchange rates. We must keep in mind that, when the presidential elections are over, it is virtually certain that there will be a world realignment of currencies. 
The fight will be on from that time and when that occurs, Australia will then make its decision. It is ridiculous to talk about making a decision at this time. When that time occurs, we will have to make a decision as to which way we will go - whether we will remain at current values, appreciate or depreciate in relation to particular countries, according to what our trading arrangements are with the various countries. When that time occurs, I think that the Treasury officials, who apparently are giving so much advice to this Government, should themselves look very carefully at what has occurred in the experiments in both Belgium and France with the operation of a 2-tier exchange rate and consider whether the same sort of proposals should be introduced into this country. 
I wish to deal with one other matter which is a much more human issue. I have a copy of the Sydney 'Sun' of 7th September. An item in it reads: 
A salesman's furniture including TV set and refrigerator have been sold by bailiffs to pay a $71 debt to the Taxation Department. 
The article then gives the address of the person in Merrylands and goes on to relate how his possessions valued at $2,700 were auctioned in order to meet that debt of $71 to the Taxation Office. The furniture concerned included a 12 cubic foot refrigerator, a dining table and chairs, a buffetcocktail bar and a 25-inch television receiver. Apparently this man came home one night to find that the bailiffs had taken possession of all his furniture to settle a $71 debt to the Taxation Office. 
Evidently, the man had had an argument with the Taxation Office. The article continues: 
He was billed for $129.32 extra income lax and paid this amount. 
But certain deductions in his 1968 return were later disallowed and he was billed a further 571.29. 

 Mr Lewis disputed the amount but an ex-parte small debts court judgment found against him. 
He has since been in frequent contact with the Taxation Department and Parramatta Court Sheriff's Office to discuss payment. 
Yet the Taxation Department moved in mid took over goods of very considerable value -$2,700 in all- for a debt of $71.29. 
The Taxation Department would consider this case to be an evasion of taxation, yet in the instance of both Vila in the New 
Hebrides and Norfolk Island, the same thing is occurring. It is now over 2 years since I raised the question of large scale evasions of taxation in Norfolk Island by Australian residents going to Norfolk Island and registering their companies there. Now that that loophole looks as though it possibly will be closed, the businessmen have moved to Vila in the New Hebrides. They have been given ample notice to move from Norfolk Island to the New Hebrides. I put a question on the notice paper seeking the names of the companies of Australian origin registered in Vila in the New Hebrides. The answer to that question from the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden),  which I received only tonight, was: 
I am not able to provide these details. 
Yet we see large scale evasion of taxation in both Norfolk Island and the New Hebrides by Australian resident companies. At the same time we get the opposite case - a man who has had the whole of his furniture repossessed by the Taxation Office for a debt of only $71.29, which has been disputed. I think it is time that the Taxation Office officials had a good look at that case. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I am pleased that the procrastination which has been so evident within the Government ranks on the question of protection of this industry has at last ended. Not only I but also a number of other members of the Opposition have been pressing a case for the industry over the last year. The Oppo sition's committee met representatives of the trade approximately a year ago and I am therefore very pleased that at least some decision has been reached. But I should make this point: The decision has been reached in some very extraordinary circumstances. For a start, every one of us in this Parliament was very surprised when this issue was brought into the Parliament a few weeks ago without any warning not by the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  but by the  Deputy  Prime Minister and Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony),  the Leader of the Australian Country Party. Instead of being handled by the Minister for Customs and Excise, who happens to be a member of the Liberal Party, as would normally have happened it was handled by a Country Party Minister. 
But I am glad that at last something has been done because had this industry not received some form of protection, despite what the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  says - and I must give him full respect because he is at least consistent and always strongly opposes virtually any form of protection for Australian industry - the jobs of approximately 700 people, mostly women, employed in one industry in my electorate would have been in jeopardy and another industry in my electorate employing a large number of people could have been in serious straits. But the most important thing to look at here is the extraordinary circumstance that it took 12 months for the Government to make up its mind to make a decision on this matter. Suddenly without warning the matter was dropped into this House. The debate was to be gagged. It was only because there was some protest on this side of the House from honourable members who wanted to talk on this matter that finally the Government was forced to adjourn the debate to another time and so we are given the opportunity now to discuss it. I should also point out that another extraordinary circumstance is that this measure has been introduced on the eve of an election. One could be excused for saying that the Government's procrastination and delay obviously have cost the industry dearly. 
This measure spells the end of the fantasy to which the Minister has resorted on so many occasions when this matter has been brought before the Parliament by way of both question and debate when he has referred to voluntary restraints and the fact that they were being negotiated. We told him that these voluntary restraints would not be successful and I believe that this legislation now before the Parliament proves what we then said to be correct. The suggestion that the Government was going to negotiate voluntary restraints was only a means of delaying a decision because, as the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart)  has said tonight, there has been confusion in this Government's policy making. I would also make another point that the advisers of the Government  -  I say advisers' because they will be advising a different government in a very short period, and I do not think there will be much more legislation initiated through the Government's advisers by this Government - need to give consideration to whether or not the tariff structure is the most effective and the quickest way to protect any industry when protection is necessary or whether quantitative restrictions would be a much cleaner, much more effective and much more efficient instrument to be used in future. I. know the honourable member for Wakefield absolutely- 
Yes, he falls back with horror; that is quite right. But as I said earlier I give him credit for always being consistent. He is a complete and utter free trader. He is the opposite of the complete and utter protectionist He has not the balance or stability of both but at least right throughout he has been consistent. Naturally I expect him under these circumstances to recoil with horror at the suggestion of quantitative restrictions. I feel that quantitative restrictions as a form of protection and to meet the problems of the industry are at all times a far more effective and efficient and a far cleaner instrument to use. I support the Bill because it does give protection to a very important industry. It will help the employment situation in many parts of of this country, including my own electorate and other areas including decentralised areas and migrant centres where the jobs of many people, despite the fact that the honourable member for Wakefield thinks that these are rather impure motives which should not be considered, would be in jeopardy if some thing had not been done to protect the industry. But the circumstances under which this measure is introduced are extraordinary. The drama and the haste with which it was introduced on the eve of an election by no less a person than the Minister for Trade and Industry, after 12 months of procrastination, is not good government. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Is he able to provide the names of the companies of Australian origin registered in Vila in the New Hebrides. 
Is this place of registration employed by these companies to avoid taxation; if so, in what way is this achieved. 
I preface my question to the Prime Minister by drawing his attention to the fact that on 13 th September 1971 - a year ago yesterday - he indicated to the House that he had instructed his Department to prepare a submission on ministerial housing in Canberra so that policy on this question might be reconsidered by the Government. This undertaking was given in answer to questions and debates in this House arising from the controversy in respect of housing for the Minister for the Interior. I suggest that the Prime Minister should answer this question because he gave this undertaking. 
The Committee will be aware that I have mentioned in this Parliament before that there is very strong and violent opposition to siting the second international airport for the Sydney region at Richmond. In fact, a committee comprising representatives of 6 municipal and shire councils has employed a publicity consultant to make sure that the case against the siting of the airport at Richmond is fully put to the people and fully explained to all responsible organisations. Since 18th March 1970 when I first revealed in this Parliament the strong possibility of this airport being placed at Richmond, I have met a great amount of secrecy, procrastination and misrepresentation on the part of the Government and its departments. As I shall explain in a few minutes, this situation has reached the extent where the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  and other members of the Government have deliberately misled the public. It has got to the stage now that no longer do the people who live out in the region trust a word of the Government or any of its representatives. 
I will outline to honourable members some examples of the type of thing that has gone on. I have here a copy of the Windsor and Richmond Gazette' which quotes a telegram - I have seen this telegram - which in this instance was sent by the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin)  to the councils which had requested interviews with the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  and the Minister for Civil Aviation. This telegram appeared in the 'Windsor and Richmond Gazette' of 26th August 1970-5 months after I had raised this issue in the Parliament. The telegram which was sent by the honourable member for Mitchell is in these terms: 
There  is  not  a  chance in the world of civil airport being  established  in the area. Regret the dis  turbance  and  inconvenience  that has been  created  based on rumour every lying jade and  hysteria. 
That must have been me-- 
Regards and best wishes. 
Another telegram I have here was sent on 2nd September by  Mr Dean,  MLA for Hawkesbury. He wired the honourable member for Mitchell in the following terms: 
Strongly protest  at any  suggestion  of any part of the  Hawkesbury Electorate  being used as commercial  airport.  Leave my people alone.  The honourable member for Mitchell replied by means of a telegram as follows: 
Regret  sincerely  the  upsurge  and  commotion caused  by false  statements  by  Armitage  and  others.  Not a  possible chance  of an  airport  being  established  in and  around  over and  above  anywhere in the area. 
That was in September 1970. On 16th November 1970 - a little more than 2 months later - the Minister admitted to a delegation which represented the 5 municipal and shire councils, which was our number at that stage - I was present at the meeting - that Richmond was amongst approximately 40 sites being considered for the airport. Then one year later the Minister released in the Senate the report of the interdepartmental committee which had taken 3 years to prepare. It apparently had a gestation period of 9 months as it was not released until September although it had been promised for early 1971. The report recommended Richmond as one of the 2 alternative sites. So much for the undertakings we are given by this Government. In spite of that extraordinary situation, now the Minister has broken 2 more promises. 
In February 1970 he promised the committee of 6 municipal and shire councils when he received a deputation at Windsor that he would let us have the preliminary layout plans and flight paths for the 2 alternative sites in July of this year and that he would make a decision as to where  the  airport would be sited in January of next year - just after the elections. He has put off making that decision until, he said, some time late last year. In the last fortnight or so he has said: 'I will not keep the promise to give you the preliminary layout plans and flight paths. I cannot do it at this stage.' He has not given any firm date as to when it will be done. In other words, he has procrastinated, he has dodged, he has abdicated his responsibilities as Minister. He has lost the trust of the people. As I said at the battle for Windsor the other night, the Minister should resign. 1 call upon a Minister who has procastinated to this extent to resign his portfolio and give a go to somebody in whom at least the people can have some trust, because they can no longer trust the word of this Government. This is a very important issue. The people are violently opposed to an airport in this region. I know that the Minister is dodging and procastinating in an endeavour to save the political skin of the honourable member for Mitchell. I know that the Government is frightened of losing the electorate of Mitchell, but every time it breaks its promises to the people in the region the only effect is to make the people more determined in their resolve to express their attitude in the months to come. 
I have also mentioned in the Parliament on other occasions that a proposition is being studied in the United States by the Department of Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration. It has commissioned a 2-phase report on the possibility of establishing an off-shore airport to serve metropolitan New York. The first phase of this 2-phase proposal was  to  be a preliminary survey to see whether the. proposal was feasible and an economic proposition. I have mentioned this matter in the Parliament previously as well as writing to the Minister and to the  Chairman  of the CommonwealthState committee. In each instance I was told that they were interested Even though 2 alternative sites had been chosen for the airport, I was told: Yes, we are interested. We will be studying the issue very carefully.' The report on the first phase of this New York proposal indicates that it will be successful. A copy of the report has been sent to me by  Mr Charles  O. Cary, Director of the Office of International Aviation Affairs. The report shows that it is a feasible proposition. If the United States authorities go ahead with the proposal they intend to site the off-shore airport about  3  miles south of Long Island in the Atlantic Ocean. They have now commissioned phase  2  to go deeper into the economic feasibility of the proposition.  1  telephoned their United States office and I spoke with  Mr Cary  on this issue. They are satisfied at this stage that the proposition is feasible. They say that the proposition would fund itself within a period of  25  years. 
I do not necessarily say that it would be successful or that it is a suitable proposition for a second airport for Sydney, but I think it should be fully investigated. It is ridiculous to talk about  2  alternative sites when other sites are available and when even this proposition could be fully investigated. I call for a full scale investigation of the feasibility of such a proposition by the Commonwealth-State committee, that is, a full investigation as to whether or not this proposition which is being studied in the United States and which may sound like a Jules Verne dream but is not beyond the bounds of reason in these days of engineering would be feasible for a second airport for Sydney. I have a copy of the report in my hand. If the Minister has not got one I would be only too pleased to let him have one. I hope that when the Assistant Minister replies he will give an undertaking that he will bring this matter before the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  who of course is well tucked away in the security of the Senate, away from the various members in this place, and make sure that this matter is discussed. There is very great opposition to the establishment of an airport out in our region. It would mean excessive airport noise and would produce other dangerous features which would affect the whole region, not just within the Richmond area but for many miles around. The people are violently opposed to its location in this area and will continue to oppose it. 
Tha Opposition is not opposing this Bill but wc do make certain criticisms of the general financial structure that exists between the Commonwealth, States and local government because we have a fundamental belief that it is time for that structure to be changed. As the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  mentioned, the present Constitution and the basic framework of the structure between the Commonwealth, States and local government was laid down in 1901. It is now 1972. lt is very obvious that it is time to reassess the situation because today we are living in a completely different culture, society, economic framework and industrial framework from those that existed when this structure was first set up. For that reason it is commonsense to sit down and to reassess it. Any honourable member who has to represent the areas which are growing very quickly and radically, such as the honourable member for Cunningham and myself, knows the position of rate increases by local government authorities. How many more increases can be levied upon the householder? How much more can be squeezed out of the ordinary, everyday householder who owns his own home? He is reaching saturation point. 
We know that the debt of local government is greater than the debts of the Commonwealth and States combined. Unless there is a reappraisal of the situation we will come to a stage of a very great crisis, % complete disintegration of local government works that will mean that finally the Com.monwealth will be forced in a period of chaos to enter the field. For that reason we believe it would be far better if we sat down, 
We see all the time the problems associated with financing water and sewerage reticulation. Without a doubt one of the major reasons for the artificial shortage of land which exists today around the metropolitan area of Sydney is the inability of the Metropolitan Water Sewerage and Drainage Board to raise the necessary finance for water reticulation and sewerage. Basically the Board is the real planning organisation, not the New South Wales State Planning Authority, because the Authority will not recommend the release of land for domestic development until such time as water and sewerage reticulation is available. By creating a shortage of finance in this field the Government is bringing about an artificial shortage of land which has in itself resulted in the large scale spiralling of land costs throughout the metropolitan area of Sydney where the younger people simply cannot afford to get land on which to build a home. It must be realised that - and apparently this is the attitude being taken by this Government - in making these decisions and saying: 'Ali right, we do not consider water and sewerage reticulation to be a top priority matter', and at the same time allowing the Water Board virtually to determine the planning and release of land for urban development around Sydney you are creating a land shortage, you are creating a spiralling of land costs, you are creating an inflationary situation which in itself brings about a natural demand for higher wage increases which add to cost inflation. 
Those honourable members who represent, as I do, some of the fast developing 
That is why we say that funds should be earmarked specifically for use in areas of need. I refer to those areas on the perimeters of the great cities and which are experiencing this massive development which has been brought about as a result of Government policy, as was mentioned by the honourable member for Cunningham. The bringing of migrants into this country creates demands for increased facilities. It is the Commonwealth Government which initiates the migration of people. It is therefore the Commonwealth Government which in effect initiates the great demand for increased facilities such as schools, hospitals, roads, local government works and transport. All those facilities are, in the first instance, generated by the policies of this Government and therefore it is the Commonwealth Government which should accept responsibility for this matter. 
At the same time the Commonwealth Government should look at decentralisation. If it gives to local government authorities direct access to the Australian Loan Council the bargaining power of those authorities and in particular of country councils - our friends in the Country Party should agree with this - would be greatly strengthened. I know that one method by which this Parliament could assist decentralisation would be to rebate telephone trunk line charges to remove the disability which an industry from a city area suffers in trying to move into a country area. The Government could assist with the provision of cheap finance. It could also assist by granting company tax rebates to any company which is prepared to move its activities from a metropolitan area into a country area. As I said earlier, it would be of very great assistance if there were direct access for local government authorities to the Loan Council which is where the financial cake is cut up. This would increase the bargaining power of local governments and give them a far greater opportunity to bring about necessary and important works programmes. It would also be a very good method of assisting to overcome the unemployment problems which exist today. 
Let us face reality. Unless some large scale developmental works are implemented in this country within the months to come the employment crisis which has built up month by month will become permanent and it will not be able to be corrected. Short term palliatives can be used but the long term cure is in large scale works programmes initiated by the Commonwealth, the States and local governments. 
I leave my criticisms at that. As I said at the beginning of my speech, we do not oppose this legislation but we do lay down certain criticisms of the financial arrangements between the Commonwealth on the one hand, the States and local governments on the other hand. I reiterate that I believe that local government should have direct access to the Loan Council. Local authorities would then have greater bargaining power. I believe that there should be a reconstitution of the Grants Commission and that the new fast developing perimeter areas of the great cities should have access to specifically earmarked grants. Until this type of proposal is implemented the problems of local governments, particularly the increasing financial crisis, will continue. 
The phrases that the honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman)  used a while ago - the tickling of the tummy' and 'the selling of the farm' - come from the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  who first used the former phrase, and  Sir John  McEwen, the former  Deputy  Prime Minister, who used the second phrase, lt would appear that the honourable member and the Government unfortunately took cognisance only very slowly of the great problems which the completely uncontrolled inflow of capital into this country and the selling out of Australian resources and industries were creating for this country. Finally the Government was stampeded in respect of both matters by its supporters. It is quite obvious from what has been said by the honourable member for Deakin that he has still not accommodated himself to the change in Government policy which is beginning to be felt today. The statement we are debating contains the new policy announced by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  on overseas borrowing by Australian residents, overseas ownership of Australian industry and resources and portfolio investment by Australian residents overseas, and was obviously hastily conceived. It is vague and is a shadow sparring exercise. It is obviously designed as a political manipulation in an endeavour to sidetrack the mounting public indignation at the sell-out of our industries and resources, including real estate, to foreign interests, which has been brought about by laissez-faire policies and the refusal of this Government to lay down guidelines for overseas investment. 
There are good examples of what can only be called the confusion and haste with which this paper was drawn up. That it is intended to be a political weapon and not a financial or economic instrument can be seen in the attitudes of the Government's friends in the Press. One has only to read today's 'Australian Financial Review' which has a headline: 'Confusion reigns in the wake of Government's capital moves'. The article says: 
Initial reaction to the Government's measures on capital inflow and foreign ownership and takeover has been complete confusion. 
These are the Government's friends talking. There is no newspaper group more beneficient in its attitude to this Government than the newspaper group to which this journal belongs. The article goes on to say: 
How the new arrangements will be applied remains uncertain, and the authorities have hardly begun the task of determining what the institutional channels will be. 
That shows how hastily this statement was prepared. I have another headline in front of me from the same newspaper. It says: McMahon's new foreigners add to stock market confusion'. And so one could go on. The paper would never have been introduced had the Government not been faced with almost certain defeat at the next election as a result of its inaction in this and many other areas of policy, such as its refusal to introduce indicative planning, to put teeth into the Restrictive Trade Practices Act, and to control the activities of fringe and merchant banking. The Opposition has warned the Government for over 10 years of the consequences of its policies on these matters. I can recall issuing such a warning myself in 1962 in one of my early speeches in this chamber. I said at that time: 
The Labor Party opposes this Bill- 
The Bill was the Loan (International Bank for Reconstruction and Development) Bill- 
. basically because the measure represents a further mortgaging of the future of Australia to overseas countries - a policy which is having serious political consequences. We can see the consequences of such a policy in Canada and South American countries where hostility to the lenders of money to those countries is rising. This is human nature. If such policies in regard to overseas borrowings continue to be prosecuted by this Government similar objections will be raised in this country in due course and, in fact, are already appearing here. 
That statement was made on 11th April 1962. That was the attitude which was growing at that time. We have warned the Government consistently for more than a decade of what the consequences would be if these policies were continued. The political consequences are here today and the Government, in this panic move at the last minute before an election, is trying to overcome the problem. 
Labor's policy throughout these years does not oppose overseas investment which brings new know-how and techniques, increases Australian productivity and replaces imports. For example, if in Australia we were unable to produce pipes to meet the specifications of the Australian Gas Light Company, as in the current controversy, we would not be opposed to overseas capital setting up an enterprise to produce them, but we are opposed to capital which lends itself only to speculation in our currency, speculation in our land speculation in our buildings, takes over existing efficient Australian enterprises, portfolio investment in stocks and shares which creates speculation on our stock exchanges, and buys out our birthright - our mineral resources - and so on. Overseas capital, of course, always finds its way into the most lucrative industries and ignores those sections of the economy which are of most benefit to Australia but which are necessarily less profitable. For more than a decade this Government has allowed the uncontrolled access of overseas capital to Australia. We did not need it for development, although in some cases such as those which fall within the guidelines which I mentioned earlier it has helped, but simply to make up the difference in our balance of payments as the Government was not prepared to face up to the responsibility of taking action to correct this imbalance. 
The policy on takeovers as announced by the Prime Minister is essentially a lift out from the policy recently announced by the Opposition. I will quote a very good example of this. It was interesting to hear a former Treasurer quote it earlier. If one looks carefully at the policy announced by the Opposition one sees how the Government has lifted it out and announced it in similar broad terms. Australian Labor Party policy is as follows: 
Th: establishment of a Secretariat which will, in consultation with the relevant section of the Reserve Bank and Ministerial departments, advise the government on all matters concerning the flow of foreign investment flowing into Australia and all substantial takeovers and mergers. 
The Secretariat shall identify, register and examine all foreign investment both current and future in Australia and report to the Government accordingly. All nominees will be required to disclose the identity of any foreign shareholder. Decisions on foreign investment shall rest with the national Government. Where the Government, having been advised by the Secretariat, determines that a proposed importation of capital is considered to he of no benefit, or purely speculative or in any sense contrary to Australia's interests, it will direct the Reserve Bank to withhold authority for that currency transaction, and take other appropriate action. 
It is obvious, I repeat, that the Government's policy on takeovers is, in broad terms, purely a lift out of that policy announced by the Australian Labor Party prior to the Prime Minister making his statement. It means, of course, the setting up of a screening authority but with an alteration to the guidelines, which are further set out in the Labor Party document, to make it easier to sidetrack any action against any takeovers which the Government may want for political purposes. 
The Prime Minister's proposal on the excessive liquidity of overseas reserves will be largely ineffective. Once again on this question one can quote the words of one of the friends of this Government, the Sydney Morning Herald'. An article written by Alan Wood in yesterday's issue reads: 
The 3 measures against capital inflow announced by  Mr McMahon  are unlikely to have any major impact on the excessive rate of capital inflow into Australia. 
The only one of real significance is the decision to stop short-term borrowing overseas by companies in Australia. 
But only 40 per cent of foreign borrowing by companies is in the form. . . . 
I would now like to deal in particular with portfolio investment. This policy announced by the Government allows for portfolio investment by Australian resi dents overseas, but it does nothing whatsoever to prevent or to limit portfolio investment by overseas parties in Australian securities. 
Can any member of this House tell me what is the benefit to the Australian economy of this type of portfolio investment, that is, investment by residents overseas in Australian securities? What new resource does this introduce into the Australian economy? It only creates speculation on Australian stock exchanges. This was largely responsible for the 1969 boom and subsequent depression which cost many small and medium Australian investors their life savings. Why has the Government declined to take action on overseas portfolio investment in Australia? Is it that it would hurt some of its own friends? Is it that the stock broking interests in this country are making sure that their profit margins will not be affected? If they are the reasons, this is indicative of the hyprocrisy of the Government's statement. 
The paper also does nothing to grapple with the ramifications of the multi-national corporations and does nothing to lay down any guidelines as to how some effective action can be taken in this regard. I point out that we can accommodate 90 per cent of our capital requirements. So why do we need this excessive dependence on foreign capital? I cannot help but pose the question: What is the difference between utilising treasury bill finance to provide capital for industrial, mineral and public developmental projects and refusing entry of overseas capital, on the one hand, and not using treasury bill finance but using overseas capital for these developmental projects on the other hand? Both can be inflationary in some instances, but at least one of them - the use of treasury bill finance - does mean quite explicitly that the Government has conrol over the excessive use of it and the inflationary movement which it can generate. If we are not using treasury bill finance but are using instead purely capital introduced from overseas, then the Government has not control whatsoever over its excessive use and the inflationary movements that it can create. 
We have warned the Government for more than a decade of the consequences of its polities on overseas investment. Time and time again we have brought this matter before the Government. Time and time again we have heard the Prime Minister and previous Prime Ministers and previous Treasurers state that they believe that policy was good for Australia. At last, because of the political consequences of that policy, the Government is endeavouring to make amends; but it is quite obvious that there is a great deal of hypocrisy in the Prime Minister's statement. It is quite obvious that the Government is giving far too little too late. It is quite obvious that unless some serious re-thinking of policy occurs within the Government benches, the situation which has developed so dramatically in the last few years will continue to do great hurt to the Australia economy. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Fox)  adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from 6.14 to 8 p.m. 
Is the Prime Minister aware that there is a growing demand in Australia today for the adoption of our own Australian national anthem? Keeping in mind that there are some very competent and fine composers in this country today, is the Prime Minister prepared to initiate an Australia-wide competition for an Australian national anthem, and to include in the final choice 'Song of Australia' and 'Advance Australia Fair'? 
In speaking on these estimates 1 should like to refer to the question of ministerial housing. The Committee no doubt would recall that well over a year ago I raised this matter in the first instance by way of questions and special resolutions in this chamber. As a result, on 13th September 1971 the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  gave an undertaking that the whole question of the policy on ministerial housing would be reviewed and that he would let the public and the Parliament, no doubt, know about it. Nothing else occurred. We heard nothing more until, on 14th September this year - well over a year later - 1 again asked the Prime Minister a question on the subject. I asked him when we were  to  hear what the new policy would be. I quote his reply from Hansard. He said: 
If the honourable gentleman wants me to answer the question, I will refer the matter to my colleague and get him to give an answer in writing to the honourable gentleman. 
When, a week later, I still had not had an answer  to  my question without notice in this chamber, I wrote  to  the Prime Minister. Accordingly, a statement was made in the House by the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt),  who is now sitting at the table, on 26th September outlining the new policy. I agree with the policy. It is one which I advocated when I first raised the matter over a year ago. It is the same policy which 1 advocated in the statement to the Press in the Minister's own electorate. The policy is to the effect that any Minister who finds it necessary to live in Canberra in order to carry out his duties should be provided with rented accommodation and that he should give up that accommodation on his relinquishing his portfolio or no longer being a member of the Ministry. The Minister said: 
The Government has concluded that furnished or unfurnished flat or house accommodation should be made available to Ministers who wish to live in Canberra. But there are 2 new elements. Houses will be occupied by Ministers only while they remain in the Ministry and there will be no right of purchase. 
As I say, I agree with that, lt is the same as the proposal I made well over fi year ago, namely, that Ministers should be treated the same as the Prime Minister who, of course, is given the Lodge during his term as Prime Minister and has to vacate it immediately afterwards. 
However, there are some angles in this issue which need to be looked at. The fact. are that there are 4 Ministers and former Ministers, including a former Prime Minister, who still have houses bought at bargain rates and who will be able to make a very tidy profit at the expense of the taxpayer. I know that the present Minister for the Interior, when I brought this matter up over a year ago, was in the process of getting a house which was on the best site in the whole of Canberra. He was to get it at the price then prevailing and, of course, in due course would have made a considerable capital gain. When the matter was raised he saw the dangers of accepting the house and to his credit he then withdrew from the arrangements. However, if we look at the background of others in this place we see that the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  who incidentally was Minister for the Navy at the time - the inference in the past has been that these houses went only to Ministers for the Interior - in January 1962 paid $17,738 for his house. Independent valuations of it now would be about $30,000. 
The present  Deputy  Prime Minister, the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony),  purchased a house in December 1964, 2 days before the introduction of new rules which made people in executive houses wait for the time applying to people on the Government's housing list before being eligible to purchase houses. He paid a deposit on the house, the price of which was $18,910. The value is now $25,000. Of course, at the time he was the Minilster for the Interior. The present Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  who was then the Minister for Social Services, in December 1966 paid $17,500 for a house that is now valued at $40,000. The present Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  has not made such a great gain. He bought his place under the new system for approximately $32,000. It is now worth $37,000. 
The point 1 wish to make is that there needs to be some adjustment in regard to this matter. I agree with the new policy announced by the Minister for the Interior. I think it is a sound and a commonsense policy. I think it is a pity that this type of activity should exist where all Ministers get at the taxpayers' expense special facilities which are not available to the general public, particularly in a city where there is some housing shortage. That is not a just policy. For these reasons I think that it needs to be adjusted. 
Another matter I wish to mention is that of the staff of members. An honourable member is allowed one person to handle all his work. When the member has a reasonably easy electorate to handle this is sufficient. But in the perimeter electorates on the borders of the great cities I believe that as the work grows one female secretary is not sufficient to handle all the work involved. I do not pretend to be Robinson Crusoe in this situation. I know there are many other honourable members in the same position; their offices are absolutely inundated all the time by inquiries and by a mass of work. I make the suggestion that there should be some facility available where at least some junior assistant could be provided in addition to a private secretary in those areas where it is proved by investigation by the Department of the Interior that such assistance is necessary. I am not suggesting that this should be an open slather for every member. I do not suggest it should be provided purely on a member's own word or behest. But I believe there should be some facility available when it is shown quite clearly and proved beyond doubt that such assistance is necessary. The assistance should then be given in the interests of the people who we, as members of this Parliament, represent and so that we can give an adequate and full service to those electors. 
I ask the Prime Minister whether he has seen the report of the Sydney Metropolitan Public Hospitals Planning Liaison Committee which indicates that by 1980 there will be an overall deficiency of 4,020 beds in the suburbs of Sydney and that the western suburbs will be the worst hit with a deficiency of 2,471 beds. Of course, the Prime Minister represents a western suburbs electorate. Has he also seen a report that the New South Wales Liberal Minister for Health, the  Hon.  Harold Jago, has appealed to the Commonwealth for urgent financial assistance to help overcome this crisis in our hospitals? Will the right honourable gentleman give an undertaking to this House, preferably before the election, that urgent consideration will be given to the provision of special financial assistance to New South Wales to help overcome this crisis? 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Can be say whether the New South Wales Government granted leave with pay to public servants who attended the recent RSL State Congress? 
If leave with pay was granted, will the Commonwealth extend the same privilege to those Commonwealth public servants who attended? 
asked the Minister for 
Repatriation, upon notice: 
How many applications for increases in Repatriation pensions have been granted during the last 3 years by (a) the Repatriation Board, (b) the Repatriation Commission and (c) Assessment Appeal Tribunals. 
How many applications for increases in pensions have been rejected in each of the same years. 
How many applications for acceptance of war caused disabilities have been accepted in each of the last 3 years by (a) the Repatriation Board, (b) the Repatriation Commission, and (c) Entitlement Appeal Tribunals. 
How many applications for acceptance of war caused disabilities have been rejected in each of the same years. 
How many of the present Departmental medical officers are ex-servicemen and what was the figure5 years ago. 
It is obvious that the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe)  is finding it hard to accommodate himself to the new election look of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon).  Of course he has been so accustomed over the years to following the leader in extolling the virtues of foreign investment in and foreign takeovers of Australian industry. If one looks carefully at this legislation, which has been introduced in an extraordinary manner in the dying hours of this Parliament, one realises that it really is an extraordinary document. The legislation contains an extraordinary provision - I use the word 'extraordinary' deliberately and repetitively - namely, that the Act shall expire from 1st December 1973 or at an earlier date, should the Government so desire, by proclamation. This provision is detailed in clause 2. As was said earlier when the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  was speaking, it is a unique procedure, one which we have never seen before. The Prime Minister gave as the excuse for this provision that this is only an interim measure and that a further Bill will be brought down next year to provide for the other proposals mentioned in his statement of 26th September of this year. 
If the honourable member does not get excited I will tell him. This excuse does not hold water as the further legislation to be brought down - the Prime Minister says next year - could just as easily take the place of this legislation. Actually there is no need for the proposal that the Act may cease by proclamation. It should be noted that the explanatory memorandum issued with this Bill makes no mention of this clause - the fact that the Bill is for only one year or that it can be done away with by proclamation. Possibly this is because the professional ethics of the public servants who prepared this document do not extend that far. It might be within the professional ethics of the Prime Minister, but I have some respect for the Public Service behind him which obviously, deliberately and conveniently, avoided the issue. 
I again ask the honourable member not to get excited. The Government knows that the issue of the takeover of Australian companies and assets, not to mention our national resources, is a gut issue in this election campaign. It is trying to sidetrack the issue by the introduction of this so-called interim measure. In reality this legislation is a chloroforming operation in order to anaesthetise the public and is designed only for the period of the election campaign. The Opposition does not oppose the legislation as such. We will move amendments in Committee to the most objectionable clause in the Bill. The Opposition believes that something like this should have been done at least 15 years ago but the legislation should have been extended far beyond what is proposed and should be fair dinkum, not something designed to get the Government over the election period, then to be done away with by proclamation. 
The deplorable history of the Government on this question of encouraging investment into Australia to take over Australian industries is such that one can honestly describe this legislation as being like a miner who ascends from the pit and puts on a new suit without having a bath. In other words, it may appear to gleam on the surface but there is still dirt underneath. On 26th September the Prime Minister came into this chamber and spoke brave words about what he intended to do on this very important issue. Obviously, pressures from the multi-national corporations and other vested interests have been brought to bear on him with the result that we now get this puny legislation brought in with extraordinary haste. The legislation covers only one facet of the matters mentioned on 26th September and it can be got rid of by proclamation without even waiting for the Parliament to meet next year if, by some mischance, the Government scrambles back to power. 
Another issue which shows a lack of sincerity on the part of the Government on this whole question of takeovers and monopoly power is the fact that a Bill entitled the Restrictive Trade Practices Bill (No. 2) already has been introduced in another place. It provides for the control of monopoly practices but the Government does not intend to proceed with that Bill during the course of this Parliament. Shades of the retirement from the Parliament of  Sir Garfield  Barwick and the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Hughes)  who is sitting in the gallery opposite, because they wanted to do something about restrictive trade practices. This is simply another example of how vested interests of monopoly power have brought pressure to bear on the Government. 
He was too fair dinkum for you blokes. I first started to speak in this House on the dangers of unfettered investment in Australia over 10 years ago. The honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  and the former honourable member for Scullin,  Mr Ted  Peters, were issuing warnings in this Parliament even before that. I can recall seeing a perfect example of these dangers back in 1958 when an American company remitted from Australia in one year a 250 per cent dividend, made possible because originally it had brought into this country Stgl60,000 in capital and had retained its profits for reinvestment for a few years. Then it was able to export back to America many times the amount of the original investment. 
Before going further I want to outline clearly the attitude of the Australian Labor Party on this question of foreign investment. That attitude has not changed over the years. It has been consistent since I first came into the Parliament in 1961, when the 24th Parliament first met in 1962, and right up to the present day. We on this side of the House are at least being constructive, and history has proved us to be right. We are not opposed to foreign investment if  it  brings new know-how, new techniques or industry which replaces imports or brings some other definite physical benefit to this country. However, we are opposed to such investment if it involves a takeover of existing Australian enterprises which are operating efficiently; if it is for speculation in our exchange rate; if it seeks to take over, exploit or otherwise speculate in real estate; or if it seeks to engage in portfolio investment on our share markets. 
Hot money, speculation in exchange rates and real estate and portfolio investment only create over-liquidity in our economy with consequent inflationary pressures. They also force up the price of land for the average Australian and create excessive speculation on our stock exchanges which in turn not only creates an inflationary situation but very often brings about great losses to our citizens. For example, the mining boom of 1969-70 was brought about largely by speculation on our stock exchanges by overseas money, and when the bubble burst many Australians lost their life savings. Is this good for Australia? If not, why has the Government not done something about it before this? There is no provision, either in this legislation or in the Prime Minister's paper of 26th September, for any control over portfolio investment in Australia by overseas parties - that is, the purchase of shares on the stock exchanges, not takeover bids, by overseas residents for speculative purposes. Why has this been omitted from both the Bill and the Prime Minister's statement? Obviously because pressure has been brought to bear upon the Government by the share broking interests of this country who would stand to lose a great deal if such speculation in our share markets was to be prohibited, as it should be. 
As a matter of fact, they might want the Harbour Bridge as well. If one looks at the Prime Minister's statement on 26th September, one sees that it was a partial liftout from the policy previously announced by the Australian Labor Party. We are becoming used to this, of course. Honourable members opposite follow the leader these days, in every facet of policy, in a last minute attempt to save their political hides. The Australian Labor Party proposed that a secretariat - that is what we called it - answerable to the Government should be established to vet all foreign investment. The Prime Minister later, after that was announced, announced that an independent authority - that is what he called it; not a secretariat - would be established to vet foreign investment and outline guidelines to be followed by that organisation which, extraordinarily so, represented part of the guidelines we had outlined in our policy, with minor alternations to try to make it look respectable. However, he did not acquiesce in all our policies, and his proposals certainly do nothing to grapple with such issues as nominee companies, portfolio investment by overseas residents, the ramifications of the internal accounts of the multi-national corporations and other important issues. 
If this Government is re-elected we will never see the full proposals of the Prime Ministers statement of 26th September. I believe that these will go the same way as  Sir Garfield  Barwick's proposals went when he sought to put teeth into the Trade Practices Act and, for that matter, the same way as the honourable member for Berowra went when he tried to be a little fair dinkum as well. 
That is right, they kicked him upstairs and gave him $60,000 a year as a retainer fee. That is the rumour. I hope it is not right. This is happening to the present Restrictive Trade Practices Bill which has been introduced in another place and which, heaven knows, is docile enough. If it is not to be proceeded with in this session it will be erased from the notice paper upon the expiration of this Parliament. In other words, it will die. This is something similar to what the honourable member for Melbourne Ports was talking about and what the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  said earlier today, at question time, on the matter of the insurance Bills. In other words, the Government tried to be brave, but suddenly those outside men, those outside influences, those faceless men who influence this Government, brought the pressures down and the Government is bowing to those pressures. Therefore, who can blame the public, not to mention honourable members on this side of the House, for being cynical as to the Government's motives in respect of this legislation? I stated earlier that this legislation is a last minute effort to confuse the public into believing that the Government is fair dinkum on this issue of overseas investment. It completely ignores the fact that a number of members of this Parliament have been warning for over a decade against the evils of the Government's excesses on this issue. 
The honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope)  has just pointed out to me that there is not a Liberal in the House at the present time. On this vital issue affecting the commerce of the nation not one of the members of the Liberal Party - the representatives of commerce in this country - is sitting here in the House. The only people on the other side of the Chamber are the Pitt Street farmers from the Country Party. 
Let us have a look at the latest position in this country. The annual bulletin on overseas investment for 1969-70 and overseas investment for 1970-71 - a preliminary issue - published by the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics, shows that the inflow of private overseas investment in companies in Australia stood at $297m in 1961-62 and had grown to $l,492m by 1970-71. Portfolio investment - which, as I said earlier, gives nothing whatsoever to the economy of this country - and institutional loans had grown from $76m in 1961-62 to $516m in 1970- 71. The monthly bulletin of the Reserve Bank shows that as at June 1969 our reserves - that is, our total gold  aius  net foreign assets - were $1,5 14m whereas at June 1972 they stood at $3, 761m. As we all know, they have risen dramatically since then. Yet the Government refuses to acknowledge that hot money is embedded in these reserves. In this day of galloping inflation in this country, when these excessive reserves are adding to the excessive liquidity in this country and are creating inflation, in the dying hours of this P; Hiatt! en t - the next Parliament probably will not meet until next February - the Government has still made no provision for taking any corrective action on this very important issue. 
An estimate of the degree of overseas control of selected Australian manufacturing industries in the period 1966-67 in  respect  to the total value of production put the motor vehicle construction and assembly industry at being 87.8 per cent overseas controlled, the non-ferrous metals rolling and extrusion industry at being 83.6 per cent overseas controlled, the soap and candles industry at being 82 per cent overseas controlled, the refined mineral oils industry at being 81.6 per cent overseas controlled, the industrial and heavy chemicals and acids industry at being 78 per cent overseas controlled and the pharmaceutical and toilet preparations industry at being 76.3 per cent overseas controlled. Those figures are for 1966-67 and not today. Heaven knows what has happened since. With regard to the mining sector, overseas control measured in terms of the total value of production stood at 39 per cent in 1964 and 58 per cent in 1968, which was once again 4 years ago. Heaven knows where it has gone since. Is it any wonder that this is a gut issue in this country today and that the Australian people are reacting to it. 
Why has the Government not done something about it before this? Why has it waited all these years and only at the last minute taken action which is not even fair dinkum? Is it because it is fearful of the storm of public reaction against its duplicity of the last 15 years? Only the Government's conscience, if it has one, can answer those questions. In April 1962  -  over 10 years ago - I pointed out in this chamber that there bad been great reaction against the sale of national assets in Canada and South America at that time and that this would surely happen to this country if corrective action was not taken. That is happening today. There is a reaction today to the actions of the Government, to its procrastination and to its refusal to do something about the situation over a period of 15 years. Why, even the 'Australian Financial Review' of today's date headlines the Government's legislation as being 'feint and jab'. Even a newspaper published by the Fairfax combine, which is a strong supporter of the Government, has headlined the Government's actions as 'feint and jab'. I call it a chloroforming operation for the election period. The public may rest assured that after the election is over and provided a Labor government is elected - I believe a Labor government will be elected - the Australian Labor Party's policy of common sense and effective controls over foreign investment will be introduced in the interests of Australian industry, the Australian public and the posterity of the nation as a whole. 
In the first instance I should like to congratulate you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  on your appointment today as  Chairman  of Committees and  Deputy Speaker. 
As the honourable member for Hunter says, it is a popular appointment. I am quite sure you will carry out your duties with very great distinction. I hope within a few minutes to be able also to congratulate  Mr Speaker  on his appointment - something I just could not miss. I sincerely congratulate the new members on both sides of the House. The maiden speeches which we heard earlier today from 2 new members on this side of the. Parliament were excellent and show the very high calibre of people who were brought into the Parliament as a result of the last election. Of course, the result of that election gave the Australian Labor Party a majority so that today it can govern for the first time in 23 years. To you,  Mr Speaker,  as you return to the Chair, may I say that I- most sincerely congratulate you. I think that your appointment in this instance is most appropriate. Probably no person was more notorious than you for his humorous and incessant interjections in previous Parliaments. Accordingly, it is only common sense that we should use the principle of 'set a thief to catch a thief in electing a  Speaker  to keep the Parliament operating and to maintain order. 
It is a very sincere congratulation,  Mr Speaker.  Following the suspension of the sitting we have heard tonight 2 speakers from the other side of the House, namely, the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Whittorn),  and the honourable member for Canning  (Mr Hallett).  What struck me more than anything else - this was extremely interesting - was how completely bankrupt of new ideas their speeches were. The honourable member for Balaclava, during his speech, spoke only of the old, old subject, communism. He was trying to kick the com munist can again. That was all he could speak about. He is as bankrupt of ideas now as he was previously. He did not even endeavour to criticise any of the proposals of the new Government as set .out in the Governor-General's Speech. He simply settled once again for that old shibboleth, and that was all he could talk about. 
The honourable member for Canning could speak about the problems of ohe section of the community only - admittedly a very important section - our farming community. When will the; Country Party broaden its ideas and become a nationally minded party instead of looking 'at one small section of the community only. It is a very important section. Perhaps I. am wrong in describing it as a small section, it is a most important section. But the Country Party should look beyond the horizon at the other great problems which affect Australia. The honourable member for Canning did not even have his facts right. He was taking great credit that at last Australia had managed to close the gap in its balance of trade. He forgot to say. that when the Chifley Government went out . of - office this country had one of the healthiest trading situations that it had ever experienced. 
That is quite right. The till was well and truly full- and' it was not full of hot money as it was when the last government went out of office. The honourable member took credit for the former Government that ' the reserves were so high. Of course he forgets that this was hot money - speculative money: - which w.as coming into Australia for one purpose only. Those investors knew that eventually a great alteration in currency value would be forced on the Australian Government irrespective of the political complexion of that government. It is well known that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden),  when he was Federal Treasurer last year, favoured revaluation because he knew that the problem of hot money had to be taken notice of. I do feel that the honourable member should realise just what the economics of that, situation were. Revaluation had to occur. Furthermore, the former government had a large deficit in its balance of trade for a whole decade. It took the former government a whole- decade to close the gap and now, although it is hard to imagine, honourable members opposite are taking credit for that situation. I noticed a rather interesting article in the Press today. It states: 
The former Liberal Party Government had been relegated to the scrap heap because it had lied to the people and Parliament. . . . 
They refused to come clean or, In plain language, tell the truth. . . . 
They lied and lied and lied. . . . 
Ministers were among the worst offenders. 
They thought they, were impregnable- a Government by divine right. A monolith that could not be toppled. They degraded and treated with utter contempt the Parliament of which they were the elected custodians. 
The article goes on to say that the author of these remarks described the Leader of the Opposition as a 'confirmed lightweight'. The article continues: 
With no talent and a succession of Prime Ministers each worse than bis predecessor, the Party turned on itself. . . 
What followed was a facade qf lies and deceit involving one incident after another, wrecking ' the Government's credibility in the eyes of the public. 
People weren't that blind and nor, as it has turned out, was the Opposition. 
Po honourable members know who made those remarks which appear in today's 'Daily Telegraph'? They were made by a former Liberal member of this Parliament. When the present Opposition was in Government,  Mr Edward  St John, the author of those remarks, was a member of this Parliament. These remarks were made by him when addressing a Liberal organisation only yesterday. That is what members of the Liberal Party think of their Party. Of course, anybody with any conscience at all would know that there is a great deal of truth in what he said. He was a great man. He was a man with a conscience. 
I did not intend to come into this debate, but so much irresponsible nonsense has been talked, and the remarks of the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  contained so much of what I can only call hypocrisy, that I must give an answer. No-one knows the facts better than I. I had to move the suspension of Standing Orders in the last Parliament on a number of occasions because of the attitudes expressed by the Opposition when it was then in Government and its deliberate moves to remove the rights of the individual members of this Parliament. For example, was it not the Opposition, when it was in Government, which guillotined the debate on 17 Bills in one night and gagged the debate on another 3? Was it not the Opposition, when it was in Government, which refused honourable members their rights, when it carried a motion in this House suspending the right to move for the suspension of Standing Orders? 
I will have to ask for your ruling,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  In view of some of the remarks made by members of the Opposition about communists and so on do you rule that it is an offensive remark? 
I would have to withdraw it if you ruled that way. 
I withdraw it under protest, because I recall that in the previous Parliament so many people- 
I will stick to the word irresponsible' and outline the provocative actions of the Government in the last Parliament. As I said, it guillotined the debate on 17 Bills and gagged the debate on another 3 in one night. It suspended the right of members in this House to move for the suspension of Standing Orders. Time after time we had to draw attention to the deliberate action of cutting down the period of question time. I had to sit over on the other side of the chamber and keep, a daily note of the time allowed for questions. I found that instead of our getting 45 minutes the time was cut down one day to 32 minutes by the action of the former Prime Minister. As I say, surely that shows the irresponsibility of members of the Opposition in their remarks before this House now, even if, because of the sensitivity of the honourable member for Wannon, I cannot say they have been hypocritical in their attitude. 
I am mentioning the motion very decisively. These were the things that were done. No Government acted more to gag the activity of this House than did the previous Government, particularly in the last year. The facts are that this proposal is a simple one being put forward because alterations are being made to the building to facilitate the working of the Parliament, lt is a commonsense action to take at this time. I repudiate the statement by the honourable member for Wannon that the previous Government always worked on the principle of agreements between the 2 sides of the House on changes to the Standing Orders. Time and again we have opposed the previous Government's restrictive actions on the floor of the House. I have mentioned only a few of those actions of opposition here this afternoon. In the time that has been wasted on this debate we could have put through the increase for pensioners. But for the debate on this matter we would have finished the address-in-reply debate much more quickly. We could have given pensioners their increases, which they are all asking about, much more quickly. We could have done something about the removal of the excise duty on wine, and done it much more quickly, not to mention- 
For the reasons 1 have mentioned I say that the proposal put forward is a sound one. I ask the House to realise that it is being put forward only to facilitate the working of the House. No-one can possibly complain about the action taken by this Government in the short period it has been in office. It has not been restrictive. Consider the time that was allowed for the adjournment debate only last night. In all the time I have sat in this Parliament in Opposition never before have we been given as much time for an adjournment debate. The action taken by us has so far been most responsible. I would have thought that since we have been in office now for less than 3 months the Opposition would at least give us a go to get on with implementing a very important, wide-ranging programme instead of engaging in the type of irresponsible, pinpricking tactics that it is now employing. 
I preface my question to the Minister for Health by referring to the fact that no doubt he is aware of estimates that there will be a shortage of something in excess of 2,600 beds in hospitals in the western suburbs of Sydney by 1980, and that one proposal on which the present Government went before the people was for the establishment of a national hospitals and health services commission with the object of assisting the States to overcome this massive bed shortage, not only in the western suburbs of Sydney but also generally. I therefore ask the Minister how this proposal to establish a national hospitals and health services commission is proceeding. When are we likely to be in a position to assist the States on this very important issue? 
I address my question to the Minister for Social Security in his capacity as Acting Treasurer. Has the Minister's attention been drawn t: a page 1 article in today's Australian' headed 'AIDC Rebuffs Hayden'? The newspaper is not rebuffing the Prime Minister this time; it is rebuffing the Acting Treasurer. The article claims that the Executive  Chairman  of the Australian Industry Development Corporation,  Sir Alan  Westerman, had rebuffed statements by the Acting Treasurer that Australia's overseas reserves of $500m could be better used to finance local development. Obviously someone has made a mistake there because Australia's overseas reserves would be nearer $5,000m than $500m. 
The honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair),  a former Minister of the former Government, obviously from the remarks he has just made supports the extortionate price of meat in this country today. This is something about which every housewife knows. As the only  speaker  from the Australian Country Party in this debate today, he has been very careful in putting forward his case to maintain these extortionate prices. The honourable member for Cook  (Mr Thorburn)  mentioned to me a short while ago the case of a woman who returned from the United States of America only a week ago after having spent 5 years there. She remarked that the price of meat in the United States was the same as it was in Australia. 
She said that it was the same in the United States as it was here in Australia, while wages were twice as great. For this reason, I should like some members of the Country Party who obviously represent in this House a sectional interest - not the interests of the community as a whole or of the majority of the housewives in Australia - to visit my electorate or the electorate of many other honourable members on both sides of the House. They would realise that today meat is off the menu in many homes because of the extortionate prices being charged. 
Honourable members opposite really do oppose the establishment of this committee. This can be seen by a careful look at the way they put forward their amendment. They are not opposing the Bill outright because they know that the Government has a mandate from the people. Honourable members opposite know that the proposal now before the House was one of the issues that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  put to the people during the recent Federal election campaign. Members of the Opposition know that we have the support of the people on this matter and that, if they opposed the proposal outright and it went to the Senate, it could be the subject of  a  double dissolution. That is what honourable members opposite really fear. So, instead of opposing the proposal outright, they moved an innocuous amendment with which I shall deal shortly. 
If ever there were an example of how this proposed committee could be used, it is on the question of the price of meat. The public would be able to make contact with the committee to show the disgraceful situation that exists with regard to the price of meat today. They would be able to submit a case for quotas to be placed on the export of meat. The fact is that, because of the shortage of meat in other countries, practically any price can be and is being claimed for meat. A sound case could be made to lay down quotas on the export of meat in order that the Australian housewife would not be charged so much for meat. This is one of the types of proposals which could be investigated by the proposed committee. Such a proposal may not be adopted, but at least it could be investigated by an authoritative body and not just completely wiped aside as it has been by the representatives of the Australian Country Party. So these are the types of cases which could be considered. 
As I said, the Opposition cannot oppose this proposal outright because it knows that the Government has a mandate from the people to institute such action. The Opposition has moved its minor amendment claiming that the terms of reference of the committee should include public authorities. Members of the Opposition have shown by moving that amendment that they do not understand the basic principles of the framework of the Australian Labor Party's prices legislation. For a start, we are not going to have only a committee of this Parliament to investigate prices; we are also going to establish an organisation known as a prices justification tribunal. As suggested by the honourable member for New England, such a proposal is going to be adopted. I am glad to hear that at last he supports something to do with Labor's policy. We will be implementing legislation to establish a prices justification tribunal. 
The prices of services charged by public authorities already is covered by another committee of this Parliament. I refer to the Joint Standing Committee on Public Accounts. Honourable members opposite have forgotten that. They completely ignored that aspect. In other words, their amendment if carried would cause a clash between the activities of 2 committees of this Parliament, namely, the Public Accounts Committee and the proposed prices committee. That would set up an extraordinarily confusing and impossible situation. So the amendment moved by the Opposition is absolutely unnecessary. Such activities already are fully covered by another committee of the Parliament. 
The attitude, expressed by honourable members opposite throughout has been a completely destructive approach to this issue. They have offered nothing constructive as an alternative to the massive price increases ot recent times. They are acting in exactly the same manner as they acted for 23 years in government. They are acting in exactly the same, way now as they did when they brought about the destruction of their government at the end of last year. Honourable members opposite blame high price only on wages. They claim that wage increases are the only cause of inflation. However, they completely ignore the fact that the demand for wage increases has been brought about by the extortionate, price increases of late. The demand for wage increases was brought about also by the desire of the workers to share in the greatly improved technological ability of the country in recent years - that is, automation. A fortnight ago we heard through the lobbies that members of the Opposition were not only going to oppose this legislation; they were, also going to refuse to serve on the committee when it was established. 
A few messages came back to us. Evidently, honourable members opposite now have had second thoughts and have decided, as was stated by the former Treasurer, the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden),  earlier this afternoon, that they will serve on the committee in order to protect the interests of the various companies that the committee might have before it. In other words, members of the Opposition are not going to serve on this committee to be watchdogs for the housewives and for the community as a whole; they are going to serve on this committee for one purpose only - to protect the interests of the 100 top companies of this country. 

 Mi ARMITAGE - That is quite obvious. In other words, honourable members opposite will serve on the committee to look after the industrial giants; that is the reason for their change of attitude. 
This committee will act as a restraint on price rises because the 100 large organisations whose price increases have a continuing effect over the entire range of the economy will know that the committee will be a watchdog of this Parliament. It will be a committee which the public can approach and which will scrutinise the activities of these companies and which will, of course, be a source of consequent publicity in the event of extortionate price rises occurring. These companies know that this will happen and that is why honourable members opposite oppose the setting up of the committee. Irrespective of what they say and irrespective of their amendment, basically honourable members opposite are opposed to this action in respect of which this Government has a mandate. Let honourable members keep that in mind. Furthermore, the committee will be an important link between the people, the Parliament and the bureaucracy, particularly when the prices justification tribunal is established. Honourable members should keep in mind that this proposal is only a part of the prices framework which will be established in the months to come by the Government. 
I should tike to quote to the House some figures relating to the rate of inflation in recent times. This is a ratio of current to constant prices, the constant prices being based on the year 1966-67. It covers a 10-year period. The increase from 1961 to 1962 was 1.1 per cent; in 1963, 1.1 per cent; in 1964 there was a sudden jump to a 4.5 per cent increase; in 1965 the increase was reduced to 2.2 per cent; in 1966 it was 3.2 per cent; in 1967 it was 3.1 per cent; in 1968 it was 3 per cent; in 1969 it was 2.9 per cent; there was a big jump in 1970 to 4.7 per cent; a further increase in 1971 to 5.4 per cent and in 1972 the increase was 6.8 per cent. These increases occurred under the previous Government. The greatest increases occurred at about the time the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  was appointed to the Ministry. Over the 10-year period there was an overall increase of 44 per cent. A point to note is that at the beginning of the 10-year cycle the increase was only 1.1 per cent whereas at the end of the cycle it was 6.8 per cent. Is it not obvious that it is time for some corrective action to be taken? 
I have already instanced what has happened to meat prices. This is one article in respect of which something should be done. We should examine various proposals. The public should be able to appear before  a  properly staffed body. The proposed committee will not have merely a few typists but will be fully staffed and will have research officers. It will have the opportunity of examining various proposals put before it. The committee will be able to recommend action and suggest the use of various instruments which the Commonwealth Government has at its disposal. The committee will become a continuing economic inquiry into trends in the Australian economy. It will be able to recommend that the Government use various instruments at its disposal, including the taxation instrument, the tariff instrument, export controls and so forth. 
Is it any wonder that members of the Opposition are somewhat fearful of this committee? For 23 years they continued with their laissez-faire approach, hoping that the situation would correct itself. Instead it has grown progressively worse. In the last 10 years the rate of inflation has increased from 1.1 per cent to 6.8 per cent. This is a disgraceful situation and, as I said, inflation accelerated at about the time the honourable member for Kennedy was appointed to the Ministry. 
It is important that this motion should be supported. It is important that honourable members realise that there must be some watchdog. There must be some means of communication between the people and the Parliament. It is important that the Opposition should realise the framework of the prices legislation the Government intends to introduce. This proposed committee of the Parliament will be a committee which the public can approach. It will be an investigating organisation adequately staffed with research officers and others. It will be able to give publicity to restrictive practices and to extortionate price increases. It will be able to recommend to the Government action which should be taken. It will be able to refer matters to various other bodies, including the prices justification tribunal which is to be set up by later legislation. It is well and truly time, as was expounded in the policy speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  when he was Leader of the Opposition at the end of last year, for the establishment of some ombudsman-type organisation to act as a link between the people, the Parliament and the bureaucracy to ensure that justice is done to all in the community and not simply to one section of it as, for instance, the Country Party. 
ls leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted.  (The document read as follows) - 

<graphic href="082131197303293_84_0.jpg"></graphic>


 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! 

I address my question to the Minister for Urban and Regional Development. I preface it by referring to the strong opposition he has expressed both within this Parliament and outside to proposals by the New South Wales Government to site an oil refinery for Total-Ampol at Lucas Heights and his undertakings to use any Commonwealth powers available to oppose such a project. 1 draw his attention also to the fact that he mentioned in the House one day last week that the same authorities in New South Wales, prior to considering Lucas Heights, considered a proposal to site the refinery at Parklea near Blacktown. Therefore I ask the Minister: Keeping in mind that Parklea is very close to major housing development around Blacktown, that it is in a draft corridor which would be open to pollution - 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
This legislation provides for an amount of $6. 5m for the provision of finance to the States to build homes, particularly for needy families. Despite the histrionics and grumblings we have heard from some State governments, particularly those of New South Wales and Victoria, as evidenced by the remarks just now by the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bouchier),  who obviously is echoing some of the statements from his own Liberal Government in Victoria, the States when they received this emergency grant must have thought that Father Christmas had paid them a visit. The facts are that they never got this sort of treatment from the previous Government. It just was not forthcoming. Because this Government had carefully been assessing over the previous 3 years what its policy should be and because it had realised the great need for cheap houses for needy families, one of its first actions on assuming office was to announce that emergency grants would be given to provide cheap housing for needy families. Also one of the early actions of the Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson)  was to announce that a far more generous agreement would be forthcoming when the housing agreement with the States was renewed as from 1st July this year. In a few moments I would like to touch on some of the aspects which I sincerely appeal to the Minister to consider when this new agreement is introduced. 
I believe 1 can speak with some authority on the question of housing developments because approximately 40 per cent of my electors live in Housing Commission homes - a very high percentage indeed. I doubt that there would be any other electorate, certainly in the State of New South Wales and probably in the Commonwealth, with such a very high aggregate of Housing Commission homes in it. Accordingly I am in a position to speak also of the great needs of those Housing Commission areas. I think I can speak authoritatively on the question of what has not been done under previous housing agreements with States. For example, I have stated in this House in the past when I have been speaking in housing debates in the previous Parliament - and the Minister will remember it - that there is a great need for a new approach to the integration of Housing Commission areas with private development. It is not a good thing to place in one area thousands of houses occupied by people of a similar income level. Usually such an area is being developed at a dramatic rate and lacks some of the very important community developments and community facilities. This is not a sound policy, and yet it is a policy which has been perpetuated over the years by the previous Liberal-Country Party Government. I make the appeal to the Minister to consider the question of the integration of Housing Commission and private development. 
I will give a very good example of how housing areas are being developed. Behind my own home in Seven Hills there is a private development. Somehow or other the whole of the land - many hundreds of acres - was purchased by 2 major developing companies. No other smaller companies are involved in the venture. There are no other private individual developers, only 2 major companies. Altogether something like 2,000 blocks are involved. So far all that the community is to get out of the developing companies is a playing field and an amenities centre. I personally have made a rough calculation of the millions of dollars they will make out of that area, and they could easily provide one or two swimming pools and still make a very big fortune indeed. I believe that part of such areas should be set aside for Housing Commission development. By that I do not mean that one particular area within that area of 2,000 blocks should be set outside. I would say that sprinkled in amongst that private development should be Housing Commission homes. 
I will give a very good example of the benefits that would flow from such a move. As I mentioned once before in this Parliament, I knew a young man who came out from England as a migrant at the age of 5 years. He was fortunate enough to live in a Housing Commission home, not in an affluent area but in an area surrounded by people who were bringing up young families and who were prepared to give everything they could to the education of those families and to give them an opportunity in life. As a result the young man went along to a high school. He had to strive. He managed to get a Commonwealth scholarship. He got his degree at the University of New South Wales and is today doing a very important job indeed in the field of engineering for this Commonwealth. He said to me one night that had he been placed in one of the mass Housing Commission areas he did not think that he would have had the necessary competition and he did not think that he would have received the necessary drive to improve himself to the extent of finally qualifying for a Commonwealth scholarship, getting his degree and accordingly being such a very useful citizen for Australia. In other words, he lived in an area where the Housing Commission houses were integrated with private development. He lived in an area where people of differing income levels and differing social outlooks lived together and learnt to work together and help each other. 
I represent the area of Mount Druitt, and I am sick and tired of the people who try to rubbish that area. The facts, as evidenced only the other day at a function I went to, are that the men and women of that area are prepared to work far harder for their community organisations than are people from more affluent areas. They are young people bringing up their families, striving hard to do it, and I am sick and tired of those people who try to rubbish the area. It is not a fair go for these people. The most important thing to remember is that they are prepared to work much harder than the very people who do the rubbishing. 
There is no doubt that it is an area with problems brought about because of sudden, dramatic mass development in one area; brought about in particular by the policies of the previous Government and by the policies of the Government of New South Wales; brought about because the housing commission only subdivides land, builds the streets and puts houses there but does not provide any other community facilities or even access roads. The local council is expected to bear the cost of access roads, as the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Ashley-Brown),  who is a former mayor of that area, would understand. Furthermore, the housing commission does not provide any swimming pools. It does not provide any playing fields. It does not provide any pavilions, amenity centres, civic centres or any other buildings. It simply dumps the houses there, puts the people there and says: 'Sorry, lt is up to you. It is up to your local council.' The loca'l councils are then faced with a colossal financial problem. 
More importantly than that, no action is taken to provide local employment. The housing commission does not even make sure that the water board sewers the industrial land so as to provide local employment. No industrialist will go into an area unless it is first sewered. That is the first essential. With new developments should go local employment. To create local employment there must be sewerage of industrial areas. The States should encourage industry to move into the areas so that the situation does not arise as exists now of 8,000 housing commission homes all together with virtually no local employment available. That is a disgraceful situation. No youth organisation is provided for those 8,000 housing commission homes. There are no youth centres, which are most important of all. There are no community centres. There are no swimming pools provided. There are no playing fields or the neceseary amenities for playing fields. In other words, the houses are put there and no other facilities are provided. 
Furthermore, this type of development brings together people who have to work. A far greater percentage of women in those areas have to work and they have to travel greater distances to work than people in the more affluent districts have to travel. These are some of the problems which I appeal to the Minister to correct. It is essential that when the new agreement is entered into with the States provision is made for the integration of privately developed areas and housing commission areas. This will give a far more balanced development and far more opportunity for the raising of the necessary finance to build the facilities which are needed. Provision should also be made in the new agree ment for the States to provide the necessary community facilities such as playing fields, libraries and swimming pools. 
And footpaths; I quite agree. When these things are done they will give a far higher quality of life to those areas than they enjoy at the present time. I make a personal appeal to the Minister. He heard me speak on this matter many times in the last Parliament. I ask him, now that my Party has the opportunity to act, for heavens sake to do something on these issues because it is only common humanity to do so. 
I wish to speak also for a few minutes about aged people's homes because I feci that this is one of the social problems which is becoming more and more acute as the years roll by. With all the improvements that have been made in the field of health and with all our ability to prolong life we are still not as a nation looking at the problem of providing decent housing for people in their twilight years. My parents and my parents-in-law have grown old. I know what the problems are. Everybody who has experienced this situation understands the problems. In due course every one of us will grow old. I sometimes shudder when elderly people come into my office and tell me that they are re&lt;-c&gt;v  -r&gt;  n social welfare pension and have to pay $20 or $30 a week to live in some room &lt;.-. . ^ of rooms. 1 sit back and I feel ashamed that a country which calls itself civilised can allow this type of thing to occur. It is all very well for honourable members opposite to smile about it but it is time they felt a little bit of humility. 
I submit to the Minister that aged people's homes should be built in areas where aged people can live near their children. This is very important. I do not think that aged people's units should be allocated willy-nilly. Consideration should always be given to the fact that, if the children of aged people are prepared to look after them and to keep an eye on them, the aged people's units should be made available not too far away from the suburb in which their children live. This would give them more comfort and enjoyment in their twilight years. Accordingly, it is necessary that we should insist that the States plan the release of land for aged persons' units keeping this principle in mind. Unless that is done the problem of giving this facility to our senior citizens is made all the more difficult. We should keep in mind that, generally speaking, elderly people cannot live in high rise developments. It is best for them to be given units on the ground floor. I know that there has been a movement in recent years to provide more units of this type but this is still only a drop in the basin. When I last heard of it, the waiting period was something like 5 to 6 years. That is a false indication because when elderly people find out that the waiting list is 5 to 6 years, most of them do not bother to apply. Many of them, unfortunately, say to themselves: T may not be alive by the time I would get the chance to occupy one of those flats.' Taking that aspect into consideration, one realises that the waiting period may be far greater than 5 to 6 years. 
For that reason I believe that old people's units should be provided in close proximity to all facilities. They should not be far removed from shops and from government transport. They should be provided very close to them. These people should have easy access to their relatives. Once again I make a special appeal to the Minister. 1 realise the great problems he has to face. As he said in his second reading speech, the numbers on the waiting list of the State authorities have risen to well in excess of 90,000 but the commencements of government dwellings fell in the September quarter of 1972 to an annual rate of only 12.000. or 6,000 fewer than in each of the years 1969-70 and 1970-71, and 3,000 fewer than in 1971-72. For this reason I. realise that the Minister has a very great problem in overcoming this backlog which occurred under the authority and during the period of office of the previous McMahon and Gorton governments. Nevertheless, realising all that, I also think that we should keep in mind that the Australian Labor Party Government is dedicated to giving a better quality of life to those people who are less fortunate. In other words we should ensure that cheap housing for needy families is not simply housing. Necessary community facilities should also be provided. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Luchetti)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
 Order! The right honourable member's time has expired. 
Sitting suspended from 6.15 to 8 p.m. 
Order! Will the honourable member please address the Chair and not members of the Opposition. 
This motion, if carried, will result in heavy inroads into the amount of time which is available for Opposition members to consider, examine and make recommendations on policy initiatives of the Government. These mat ters must be considered in the Party rooms. The proposed sitting times will cut completely across meetings of the Opposition executive on Tuesday mornings. They will reduce by 2 hours the time for consideration of matters in the Opposition Party rooms on Wednesday mornings. Members will realise that on each Wednesday morning the Opposition Party room is the real forum where alternative policies for this country are being forged. I can understand that the Government has no concern for affairs within its own Party room. We know that the Government is not controlled by the Party room but is controlled totally by the Federal Conference. One wonders what business, in fact, is processed in the Government's Party room. No doubt some members sit looking at one another wondering when the next knife is to be brought out and for whom. It may be a question of the Prime Minister looking at the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  or of the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  looking about him. I do not know whether honourable members have seen the cover of the current 'Bulletin' and the way in which the Attorney-General is characterised. If that is indicative of the position I can understand why members of the Government benches would have a lot to look at during proceedings in their Party room. 
This measure is totally inconsistent with the workings of the democratic institution - with the effective operation of this Parliament - and the Opposition believes it should be resisted. There is no reason why the motion should have been moved in its present terms. If, for its own reasons, the Government wishes to introduce further legislation it has a series of options available to it. It can extend the hours. It can work the Parliament on Mondays and Fridays. Perhaps it has not occurred to the Government to consider extending the session itself. If the Government is responsible in relation to the degree and extent of legislation it is introducing, it will ensure at all times that the Opposition parties have a full opportunity to assess that legislation and to forge their own policies for presentation in this House and, through this House, to the Austalian people. This is no less than the Australian public and the Opposition Parties deserve. I commend that thought to the Leader of the House. 
Unfortunately the Leader of the House seems to overlook completely the fine words that he may well have been saying on this occasion were he in a different position. We have heard from him how effective this Parliament has been, how much opportunity the Opposition parties have had to discuss matters on the adjournment debates and how infrequently the gag has been applied. Listeners will know with what frequency the Government has moved the gag and with what frequency it has sought to restrict debates on important matters of national substance. If the Leader of the House thinks back only a few days ago to the statements which have been freely debated here - but not to the extent that the Opposition would have preferred - concerning his colleague the AttorneyGeneral, he will know that these debates became a farce simply because the Government was not prepared to give the opportunity to the Opposition to press effectively the point which it has been seeking to make in debate after debate. 
I will not suggest that the Opposition is being hypocritical,  Mr Speaker,  because if I did I know that you would rule me out of order for making unparliamentary remarks. Instead 1 would say that the argument which has been put forward by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition,(Mr Lynch) is a phoney argument. 
I fully agree. The honourable member has said that it was completely lacking in consistency. I remember that during the last Parliament 17 Bills were guillotined through in 27 hours and the gag was applied on 3 other Bills, making 20 Bills in all. 
As the honourable member for Banks has said, in one instance the previous Government allowed 2 minutes for discussion of the Bill. The Minister in charge of the Bill at that time - I am sure his conscience has struck him many times since - was able to speak himself for only 2 minutes finally. Imagine that. Yet honourable members opposite having been given a magnanimous timetable by the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly),  something which was never given to us when we were in Opposition, now come forward with this - I will not say 'hypocritical' because that would be unparliamentary - phoney argument. 
I was addressing the Chair. Thank you very much,  Mr Speaker. 
It is very difficult to go on when there are so many interjections from the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. I am sure you will understand how I feel. However, I also recall when we were dealing with a Health Bill, surely one of the most important items of legislation ever to come before this Parliament, the present Opposition, which was then in government, gave us 6 hours to discuss that measure. 
Yes, and guillotined it right along the line. Yet it had spent 6 months discussing the Bill with the doctors previously. The doctors got 6 months- 
That is the inference drawn by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, not by me. The doctors got 6 months discussion. This Parliament got only 6 hours discussion. I also remember the occasion when we were brought back to this Parliament in 1969. If ever there was a farce it was that so-called opening of the Parliament. The firing of the 21-gun salute took longer than the Governor-General's Speech. They are some of the problems we have had to deal with over the years. We sat in Opposition for 23 years. We met the complete and utter arrogance of the Government of the day. The performance of the then Government reached its apex when it guillotined 17 Bills through this House in 27 hours and at the same time gagged debate on another 3 Bills. They were 20 important items of legislation including, if I recollect correctly, conciliation and arbitration matters. Such actions are a disgrace to the Parliament. I compliment the Leader of the House on being so magnanimous in the time he is allowing for this debate. 
1 direct a question to the Prime Minister. I preface it by referring to the decision to hold a competition for an Australian national anthem. 1 ask: Could the honourable gentleman give the House details of the timetable in respect of that competition, including when it is anticipated that Australia will adopt its new national anthem? 

Does the honourable gentleman claim to have been misrepresented? 

I ask the honourable member for Wannon to make sure that he keeps within the terms of the Bill. 
But this is not the only area where the promotion of wool industry funds and the use of wool industry funds show the attitude that the Government has adopted. Not one primary industry organisation in Australia wants a referendum on the merino embargo. The Australian Wool Industry Conference does not want one. But the Government is determined to have a referendum, again because the doctrinaire people in the Australian Labor Party who know nothing about this subject say they want a referendum. The Victorian Farmers Union, the Australian Wool and Meat Producers Federation, the Graziers Association and the Wool Industry Conference - none of them want a referendum on this issue. This again shows that the Government is determined to act without any advice from or consultation with the wool industry leaders. The honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan)  has made a specific habit since he has been a member of this House of attacking the membership of the Australian Wool Corporation. 
We have another example of this Government's attitude to primary industry when we look at what it tried to do about the meat industry. It threw that hot potato to the Department of Primary Industry, which could not come up with any recommendations, and then to the Treasury, which could not come up with any recommendation. The Government then threw it to the Australian Meat Board. I believe that the Meat Board is going to be restructured because it did not get the Government off a particular hook. There will be moves to change the personnel of the Board, that will fit in with the pattern of what the honourable member for Eden-Monaro is attempting to do with the membership of the Australian Wool Corporation. 
Other matters which indicate the completely anti-rural attitude of the present Government include the electoral redistribution proposals which would make seats on the outskirts of Melbourne and Sydney smaller than my seat, smaller than the electorate of Kennedy and smaller than the electorate of Dawson or any of the large rural seats in Australia. Again, the Government is doing nothing to control inflation. It is going to put up interest rates, which in the present context will only put up costs. There is a complete catalogue of proposals which are hostile to rural interests. The increase in interest rates will affect primary industry, which is struggling to reduce rural indebtedness. Primary industry is being attacked by the actions of the Government of increasing a levy by 70 per cent on the one hand and reducing a Government contribution by a third on the other. This can only make life harder for those engaged in primary industry. It will make it harder for more farmers to reduce the large burden of rural indebtedness which otherwise they would have been able to do. The Government is in fact seeking to milk primary indusutry to pay for promises in other areas. I believe that that prediction ill become all the more clear as time unfolds. 
One of the worst disservices done to primary industry, including the wool industry, was a speech by  Senator Wriedt  in Paris. It was in fact the most important speech that he had made since becoming Minister for Primary Industry. It was made not in the Senate and not in Australia. It was not even made to an Australian Press conference. It was made to a group of representatives of foreign countries. There can be only 3 implications derived from a careful reading of that speech. The implications are that he believes that many Australian primary industries are inefficient. He did not indicate whether he thought the wool industry was one of those industries. The Minister for Primary Industry also indicated that he believes that there has been too much production because previously there had been too much government support. Is the wool industry one of the areas where he thinks that that is so? He knows that there is a world shortage of wool yet that is clear implication of the speech he made. The Minister also made it plain that he thinks there has been too much subsidisation. He talked about an end to open ended commitments. He said: 
We have no doubt that a movement towards a reduction in supports given to agricultural production would be in the long term interests of all countries. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has shown what he wants to do and he is moving to do it in the first instance in relation to the wool industry. I believe that it will cover a number of areas. One of the worst things about that speech is that when we come to knock on the doors of the Common Market countries and say that we want them to open their doors to, or remove their barriers on products from, Australia they will be able to quote that speech back at us and use it against us. They will say: 'Why should we take from you the surplus products of what you have admitted are your inefficient industries?' I think that was a disastrous thing for the Minister to have done. It ought not to have been done. 
The Opposition would have liked to oppose this legislation, but if it were to oppose it in this House and in the Senate that would mean that there would be no research and promotion funds for the next financial year because the Government has made it plain that it will not support the proposals that we negotiated with the industry and announced last year. The consequences of opposing what is now being suggested are too serious for the industry. Therefore that cannot be contemplated. Instead of doing that, therefore, I move on behalf of the Liberal Party and the Australian Country Party, as an amendment to the motion for the second reading of Wool Industry Bill 1973: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words In place thereof: whilst not refusing the bil] a second reading, this House deplores the fact that the Government's decisions were made without proper consultation with industry leaders, the fact that a 3-year program has been cut to a one year program, making forward planning virtually impossible, and thirdly, the fact that the present Government has broken an undertaking given by the previous Government to the Australian Wool Industry Conference.' 
I have covered the ambit of these 3 parts of the amendment in the words that I have spoken. I emphasise again that decisions have been taken without consultation with primary industry leaders. That is not surprising, because during the revaluations that took place twice the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  and his Department and the Minister for Overseas Trade and Minister for Secondary Industry  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  and his Department were not consulted. If they were not consulted when there was a junta or two governing this country how can primary industry leaders expect to be consulted by the Government itself when the Government does not even consult its own experts in particular fields when decisions are being made that will have a significant effect upon certain industries? To encompass a revaluation, not once but twice, without any discussion and without any reports from the Department of Primary Industry and the Minister for Primary Industry shows, I believe, the disgraceful and shameful attitude of the Government in relation to primary industry. 
The fact that the 3-year program has been changed to a one-year program is making forward planning virtually impossible. One cannot operate a successful research program if finance is provided on a year to year basis. One cannot operate a successful promotion program which involves liaison and co-opera tion with manufacturers, textile firms and, at the same time, commercial stores, if one can operate only on a one-year basis. That is what the Government is proposing. 
The present Government has broken an undertaking given by the previous Government to the Australian Wool Industry Conference. That is breaking a general tradition and convention between governments that publicly announced commitments entered into by one government with a industry, with a group or with another country, are supported by an incoming government. The Government has broken a long-standing convention of decent behaviour by one government taking over from another government. The Australian Wool Industry Conference had a perfect right to expect that the present Government would honour those commitments. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! Is the amendment seconded? 
Debate interrupted. 
I support the Bill. I do not think we can consider this piece of legislation in complete isolation. I think we have to look at the whole range of Government action on the very important question of inflation. Furthermore, I think we must realise that what is occurring in Australia is only an example of what is happening in the rest of the world today. We do not stand in isolation as the only country suffering from inflation. I think we should look at the root causes of this world-wide inflationary movement. I think that the action of the United States of America is the major root cause of this movement. I am not carrying out an an ti- American crusade in saying this but I think that America has to accept her responsibility for the excessive demand over resources that she has created throughout the world. This inflationary movement is even finding its way into countries such as Russia. 
The real cause is, of course, that America has for nigh on  2  decades lived beyond her means. She has spent more than she has earned. This will have an effect upon that country and upon the economies she influences similar to that which it would have in any family group. America has spent more than she has earned because she has consistently been importing more than she has been exporting. She has been consistently assisting other countries in respect of foreign aid. We are very glad that she undertook this policy. But her assistance to other countries in respect of foreign aid meant, of course, the export of dollars. Importing more than she exported meant the export of dollars. She has exported dollars in respect of the war in Vietnam. She has exported dollars by purchasing other countries' assets and resources, buying up industries and resources such as mining. So, overall, in effect she has printed dollars and exported those dollars to the rest of the world. By doing so she has created a greater demand for resources than there were resources to meet it and accordingly a worldwide inflationary movement. Therefore when we look at this item of legislation and at the Government's pricing policies as a whole we should remember also that what we are endeavouring to do is to put a brake on a situation which has arisen because of the actions of another country far removed from here, but a country which has a reserve currency and accordingly has had a great influence and impact in regard to what can only be called its unwise policies of the last  2  decades upon all other smaller nations such as ours. 
Our action, of course, as the Treasurer said, can only slow down inflation. We cannot by some magic means abolish the inflation overnight. It is not possible to do this. The Treasurer in his second reading speech on this Bill said: 
The Government has already taken ... a number of measures to counter inflationary pressures - the revaluation of the Australian dollar, restraints on overseas borrowings- 
To try to cut down that excess liquidity in the Australian market -  domestic monetary measures including the call to statutory reserve deposits by the Reserve Bank, and the establishment of the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Prices. 
I will deal with that Committee in a few moments. The Treasurer went on to say: 
In the longer-term, policies in other fields - for example, on tariffs, restrictive trade practices and consumer protection - will have a favourable impact. 
These proposals which have already been implemented and the future policies which will be implemented will provide for far greater efficiency in Australian industry and commerce. Of course, that efficiency will be passed on to the consumer by way of more reasonable prices. In other words, the economic policies which have been followed in this country have been laissez-faire policies which have been put forward in the hope that inflation would correct itself. But never at any stage has there been an attempt to sit down to assess what was the real root cause of inflation here in Australia or a realisation that it is a world wide problem. The world wide cause of that problem was never faced up to by the previous Government. This Government intends to do so. 
Basically the policy enunciated by the Government at this stage in this legislation is part of a  2-pronged  attack on prices. Firstly a Joint Parliamentary Committee on Prices has been established which will play an ombudsmantype role. I think that that would be a fairly accurate description of the function of that Committee. The Committee will receive complaints and it will be staffed, unlike most other committees of the past, by people who are highly qualified in the field of inquiry and report. The Committee will make decisions and will publicise unfair pricing tactics and unreasonable prices charged by various sectors of industry and commerce. In other words, by exposing these practices the Committee will show the utter hypocrisy of the claims that were made by the previous Government over the years - and there are men sitting in the ranks of the Opposition who must have known how untrue those claims were - that the cause of price increases was purely that of rising wages. The previous Government refused to realise that increases in wages and salaries were only a symptom of the base problem of inflation. So, the Committee will have a good effect in this regard. 
The Committee also will show which individual companies are engaging in unfair price tactics. It will show that the cause of inflation in this country is not simply rising wages but also the unfair pricing tactics of various companies. Secondly, of course, the Committee then will have the power of recommendation and referral. But sitting next to this Committee in the context of the Government's pricing legislation will be the Prices Justification Tribunal. The legislation before us provides that any company that has sales of more than $20m a year will come under the umbrella of the Prices Justification Tribunal. In other words, the Tribunal will be concerned with those large companies in terms of volume - and there are 300-odd of them at this stage - which by their pricing activities have an impact on prices and costs right through the economic framework of this country. When the Tribunal, which 'again is a body staffed by very efficient and experienced people in the field of inquiry, finally makes a determination it will be able to reveal what is considered to be a reasonable price to be charged by any particular company or organisation. 
Of course, the Tribunal will not exercise any punitive powers. But it will have that great power of exposing to the public as a whole unfair tactics and activities as well as incorrect prices and prices which help to create inflation in this country. Once again people such as supporters of the previous Government will not be able simply to blame wages for inflation. Having done this, one may ask how the Tribunal will implement its recommendations. We will expect industry to adopt a reasonable approach and, of course, large sectors of industry have to come to this Government at different times for assistance. I believe that those sectors of industry which are prepared to adopt a reasonable pricing policy - one which takes cognisance of the decisions of the Prices Justification Tribunal - would be more sympathetically received than those who do not. I think that this is an important instrument in a pricing policy. 
I believe that there are many unfair tactics which are being engaged in today. I think that one factor which will have a big impact upon prices in the economy in the near future is the transfer to the metric system. It is a pity that I did not bring with me into the chamber the tin of pipe tobacco which 1 usually smoke. I had better not give the brand name of this tobacco because I do not want to be accused of giving free advertising. But recently, because of the change over to the metric system, I have changed from buying tins of 2 oz to tins of 50 grams which are approximately 14 per cent less tin weight than the 2 oz tins. Yet, 1 have found that the various shops at which this tobacco is sold still try to charge me 76c for the 50 gram tin, which is the same price as I used to pay for the 2 oz tin. 
I must put in a plug for the pipe. Statistics show that pipe smokers do not suffer more from cancer and heart disease than any other person. The pipe is different from the cancer sticks which some honourable members smoke. It depends on whether one likes a nice aroma. 
I support the Bill and oppose the amendment moved by the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  and supported by the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  as well as the amendment moved by the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland).  I do so because without doubt this Government has a complete mandate to introduce this legislation. Regular publicity has been given to this proposal over the last 3 to 4 years. Earlier this year the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  said that the Opposition would not oppose legislation for which the Government had a mandate from the people. Therefore I find quite incomprehensible the 2 amendments that we now have before us. I would like to deal with them because the honourable member for Gwydir just stated that he was sure that this legislation did not have the support of local government. I do not know where he gets that idea from. I move around pretty extensively and I know that wherever I have met aldermen and councillors of municipalities and shires I have been asked when the new reconstitution of the Grants Commission will be implemented. They have told me that they are looking forward to this move because they realise that this will be one of the great and most important reforms in local government finance to be introduced this century. So it is absolutely ridiculous for the honourable member for Gwydir to suggest that this proposal does not have the support of local government. It has very strong support indeed. 
Furthermore, this Government has a complete mandate to introduce this legislation The statement by the Leader of the Opposition that the Opposition would not oppose legislation in respect of which we have a mandate is being abrogated. 
The honourable member for Gwydir was pessimistic about the legislation. He said that it cannot work and that he could not see how it would be any good. The fact is that this is the type of pessimism and lack of initiative which was within the ranks of the former Government over a period of 23 years and which led to the very serious position in which local government finds itself today. Nobody is trying to destroy any federal systems or anything of that nature. We are trying to take the initiative to overcome the serious plight of local government today. We are endeavouring to take the initiative to help it in its serious fianacial plight. Surely the burden of rates on the ratepayer has reached saturation point. Nearly all councils have a debt burden which they simply cannot meet. Unless some new action is taken, unless some new initiative is taken, the position will become absolutely untenable. 
The Bill is being introduced to meet a position of urgency brought about by the inaction of the previous Commonwealth Government and of the State governments in refusing to assist local government in its plight. The Government has an undoubted mandate to introduce this Bill. Yet as late as yesterday the Prime Minister accepted 4 quite important amendments proposed by the Leader of the Opposition. This action indicates that the Government intends to work in full consultation with the States. That repudiates completely the attitude taken by the Country Party. I think that the acceptance of the amendments showed that the Government is acting in good faith by, on the one hand, endeavouring to assist local government with its great financial problems and, on the other hand, making sure that our action is not misinterpreted by ensuring full co-operation and consultation with the States. 
The whole proposal is a topping up procedure which will provide topping up finance for those local government councils whose needs would be greater than others. In other words, the needs concept must apply. Those councils which, because of their particular development, are experiencing massive development and which, accordingly, are in a more serious financial plight than others, should receive considerable benefit from this Bill. There is to be a grouping of councils. Because this concept of the grouping of councils is only in its infancy, and to ensure flexibility, a special clause has been introduced. Clause 17 (2) (b) states: 
The Minister for Urban and Regional Development may, by instrument in writing - 
in special circumstances, approve any other local governing body as a body that shall be deemed to be an approved regional organisation for the purposes of this Act. 
In special circumstances an individual local government body may apply for financial assistance under this Act. I think this gives flexibility and allows for the exceptions which, may occur when a grouping of councils may not be successful. The Government realises that we are entering into a new and important reform which is quite dramatic and radical. when compared with past actions. We realise that some problems which we do not see at this point of time could intrude. For this reason we are deliberately allowing flexibility in our attitude to the problem. We have accepted amendments already. We have introduced the clause to which I referred, which will mean that in special circumstances a local government body may apply, as an individual body, for assistance. 
I could give some very good examples of this question of need and of the great disparity between the standards applying in some local government areas as compared with others. I represent one such area. 1 represent an area which covers the municipalities of Blacktown and Penrith, areas which have experienced a far greater expansion and increase in population than most other areas of the State in recent times. I submit that this is the type of area which will require assistance. For example, the Housing Commission has developed the Mount Druitt area, but it had done nothing about supplying access roads to that area. It has done nothing about supplying the necessary community facilities such as swimming pools, community centres, playing fields and the like. The whole burden of supplying these community facilities has fallen upon the local councils. It is obvious that some action must be taken to correct this procedure. Unfortunately the New South Wales Government, whether because of inertia, because of an inability to assess the problem or simply because of its financial inability, has refused to take the necessary corrective action. Accordingly, the Commonwealth Government steps in with this proposal. Together with and in parallel with this propping up proposal will be special purpose grants under section 96 of the Constitution. I think these proposals will go a long way towards correcting past inequalities. That is all one could call them. 
I support the Bill. I oppose the amendment. I find it incomprehensible that both the Libera] Party and the Country Party did not do something about this matter in the past. They now put forward their ideas as to how the Bill should be amended. I find it impossible to equate their conscience in putting up such a proposal with their complete inactivity in the past. The Bill is a sincere attempt to do something about a very serious problem. I know it has the support of the people. I know it has the support of local government. I believe it should have the support of all political parties in the Parliament. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Housing. I preface it by asking whether he has seen a report that housing commission rents in New South Wales are to rise by as much as $2 a week from 1 July, which replaces a previous decision made in 1969 that housing commission rents would not rise by more than 50c a week. I therefore ask the Minister whether the new Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement will be able to prevent these increases or increases of such a steep nature if the States agree to that Agreement. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Science in his capacity as the Minister responsible for the introduction of the metric system. I preface my question by referring to the fact that there is considerable danger of overcharging the public by traders, in many instances by design and in some cases by misunderstanding. I have seen already some evidence of this. Can the Minister see that widespread publicity is given to the introduction of the metric system so as to ensure that such overcharging, and for that matter profiteering, does not occur? 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 

<graphic href="085131197308220_29_0.jpg"></graphic>

It is worth noting that last year no fewer than 3,864,474 meals were served by the 354 approved delivered meals services throughout Australia, an increase of about 13 per cent over the number of meals served during the previous year. The vast majority of these meals have been delivered by voluntary workers - in many cases housewives not only giving their time but also giving their own cars. I could not miss this opportunity to pay tribute to all these voluntary workers and I know I speak for all honourable members on both sides of the House when I say thank you to them. 
I would also like to acknowledge the value of a series of Meals on Wheels seminars being conducted, in both metropolitan and country centres, under the auspices of the 
Council on the Ageing in each State. These seminars enable various aspects of expanding and improving Meals on Wheels and other welfare services to be explored and also provide a forum for varying viewpoints to be expressed. Needless to say the seminars also provide an important source of information for officers of my Department. I am also pleased to hear that at a seminar conducted in Sydney recently by the Dietetic Association of New South Wales it was decided to investigate the nutritional standards of meals being provided for elderly people by Meals on Wheels services, aged persons homes, etcetera. We are hoping that the results of this research will be made available to the Government and that it will provide expert guidelines for further developing the objectives towards which the vitamin C subsidy represented a first step. 
Another future objective of my Department is to carry out a survey of the 'coverage' provided by Meals on Wheels services throughout Australia to discover the gaps between the services provided or for that matter, where overlapping or duplication may be occurring. The Western Australian Department of Public Health recently conducted such a survey in its State and has kindly made the data available to my Department. We now propose to extend this survey throughout Australia with a view to ensuring that the splendid service that is rendered by the voluntary workers from Meals on Wheels organisations is made available wherever needed throughout Australia. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Chipp)  adjourned. 
I have quite an affection for the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Cooke),  but I do not think he did any better job today than he did recently in Brisbane at a meeting which he attended. Today's 'Courier-Mail' reports as follows: 
Question time was a tame affair with the main dissenting voice that of former State Liberal MLA,  Mr Ray  Smith. 
He said he had been disappointed that the 3 Liberals had spent so much time discussing aspects of Federal Labor policies, particularly the national health scheme. 
If they were discussing that matter, they should have been giving it a little more advocacy. The article continues: 
He said he believed the men should have talked more about local issues. 
It is quite obvious that the honourable member for Petrie has not realised the import of this Budget. 
I compliment the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  because this Budget, together with the recently announced monetary and fiscal measures, will bring about a very necessary transfer of resources from the private sector to the public sector. I say that it is a very necessary transfer because the public sector in this country was neglected for 23 years. The private sector was allowed to run on virtually unchecked. All the checks were placed on the public sector. The result was that we had the very serious local problems about which the former State Liberal member of parliament spoke. For example, the amendment moved by the Opposition suggests that public sector spending is inflationary but private sector spending is not. In each case further expenditure is involved. If we are to spend more in one sector because it is absolutely essential in order to meet community needs, obviously we have to spend less in the other sector. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden),  who used to be a Treasurer of this country, should know this. 
It is very important that far greater emphasis be given today to the public sector to meet the need for schools, hospitals, local government works, roads and sewerage. Attention should be given to the fact that there are extreme shortages in the building industry and that far too much emphasis is given to commercial building. In a suburb in my own electorate, let alone in the city of Sydney, all space in commercial buildings which went up 3 years ago still has not been let. I know of another building of which one floor has been completed. Less than one-third of it is filled, yet the owner is going ahead with the construction of another 4 floors. This uses up men and resources in a very crucial and important industry which, when it is working correctly, shows that the economy as a whole is working correctly. It has always been said that the building industry is the yardstick of the economy as a whole and there is a great deal of truth in that statement. But when it becomes unbalanced like it is today, when all the resources are going into buildings which are not being used, a transfer of capital must be brought about. 
We have spiralling land costs today brought about undoubtedly because everybody is trying to put money into land as a result of the cheap credit which is available and the easy availability of this credit for the purchase of land. I know of one family of 3 people, each member of which is between 25 and 35 years of age, each of whom paid a 10 per cent deposit on a block of land in addition to purchasing a home. If this goes on, naturally it will bring about a shortage of land and a spiralling of land costs. Nobody with any commonsense will suggest that this should be allowed to continue indefinitely. The private sector, as everyone will agree and as the business community certainly knows, has been overheated for some time. For the last 23 years there has been insufficient emphasis upon the public sector with the result that we have these extreme shortages now and are faced with the necessity for the Commonwealth Government to move in to help finance local government. This should not have been necessary, but after 23 years of neglect by the previous Federal Government this Government had to do something in this field. We have very excessive overseas reserves which today - let us be quite frank about it - are quite embarrassing because they have brought about far too much liquidity. There is far too much finance in circulation, once again overheating the economy and certainly bringing about very great problems in respect of land speculation and commercial buildings. 
The Leader of the Opposition speaks about price and wage freezes, but he is not being fair dinkum because he knows as well as any other members of this Parliament that the Government has not the power to control prices. We heard of the Liberal Premier of New South Wales,  Mr Askin,  crying his eyes out about inflation, but he will not take one action to control prices although he has undoubted power to initiate control over prices. We have to look at future needs. No one can say that this Government is doing nothing about inflation. It has moved in to take an active part in controlling it. I sincerely hope that when the Leader of the Opposition and honourable members behind him say that something needs to be done about inflation and that there needs to be price control, they will support the Government if it goes to the people and asks for power to control prices. I hope that the Government, supported by the Opposition, will be able to go to the people of Australia to ask for the power to control prices. 

Order! There is no point of order. 
Question so resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
My question is directed to the Treasurer and I preface it by referring to reports that there are a number of solicitors and accountants who do little else but work on tax evasion methods and finding tax havens, such as the New Hebrides, for companies and individuals. What action is contemplated to stop these loopholes in the taxation procedures and the nefarious practices which are depriving the Australian public, not only the Government, of millions of dollars of tax revenue. 
I will not take up too much of the time of the Committee. As a matter of fact, I was not going to speak at all, but I felt impelled to speak in reply to one or two of the remarks of the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  who made statements in the typical manner of a member of the Australian Country Party. I will not say that his statements were hypocrisy,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  because you would immediately rule me out of order. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)  - I can assure you I would. 
But I would say that his approach to the question was insincere. I refer in particular of course to his statement that li hours should be allowed for questions without notice. I remember that when the honourable member for Kennedy was a member of the Government last year and I was sitting on the other side of the Chamber I rose time and time again objecting to the practice of the Right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon),  who was then the  Prune Minister, of cutting question time short. I can recollect on one occasion when question time lasted for only 28 minutes or 32 minutes, I am not sure which. I used to sit on the other side and each day I would take a note of the time that was allowed for questions without notice and each day, we found that the time allowed for questions was getting shorter because the Government had a new lot of Ministers, including the honourable member for Kennedy, and they were frightened of answering questions. Accordingly, the time for questions was cut down and cut down until finally I had to stand and move for the suspension of Standing Orders. We then received justice for a fortnight - a whole fortnight - and then suddenly the time allowed for questions started to drift back again. It grew less and less and I think it was then that on one occasion question time lasted for only 28 minutes. 
I think you would agree,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  that since this Government has been in office, the time allowed for questions has never been reduced below the normal 45 minutes. I have noticed this day by day because I am a man with some sense of justice and I have always felt that if I criticised the Opposition when it was in Government, I would have to take up the matter within my own Party if we were being deprived of an adequate time for questions. I think that you,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  would know that I would do that. So I have been watching the situation very carefully indeed and there is no doubt that we have been given a full 45 minutes for question time each day - something that was very seldom given to us during the course of the last Parliament, except when it was absolutely forced by public opinion, the Press and the members of this House. I thought I had to reply to the honourable member for Kennedy and the insincerity - I would not say hypocrisy - of his suggestion that question time should be increased to 1) hours. Honourable members cannot have their cake and eat it too. 
It is remarkable how little critic sm has been levelled against the Government and the conduct of the Parliament during the period since this Parliament first met. In fact, I have heard the honourable member for Kennedy pay a compliment to the manner in which the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  has improved conditions in the Parliament since the beginning of this year. Without a doubt, he has abolished that ridiculous situation where we would be legislating at three, four, or five o'clock in the morning. This is something which surely the honourable member for Kennedy, when he was a Minister, should have done something about. I think that one of the great assets of this Parliament is that we now rise at 11 p.rn. and that we legislate when we have our wits about us. We no longer have that terrible spectacle, that we saw in the past, of honourable members with blankets covering them, and so forth. 
Yes, every one cf them was a Liberal member. When we were in Opposition we never saw a member of the Australian Labor Party with a blanket covering him in this chamber. I think it is quite remarkable how the Leader of the House has improved the conditions in this Parliament since he took over that office. 
I should like to make one or two other points. Firstly, I believe that this Parliament does not have sufficient powers. I know that some of the more conservative members of the Parliament would not agree with that but I think they have to be a little more logical. Everyone should realise for example that in New Zealand there is only one House of Parliament. There is no upper House; just a lower House. There are no States, but purely local government organisations. Yet we have not seen in New Zealand a situation in which it could be said that democracy has been damaged in any way and I think the New Zealand people would object very greatly to such a suggestion. We find that in the United Kingdom, where there are 2 Houses of Parliament but no States, there is a situation in which there are local government organisations. Admittedly, the House of Lords has greatly restricted powers. Once again, would anybody in this Parliament claim that the United Kingdom is not a democracy? 
That is right and we must do a little of that ourselves. As the honourable member for Wide Bay has said, the United Kingdom has been a democracy since they got rid of the rotten boroughs - in other words, the gerrymander. Perhaps that may have to be looked at in this country as well, particularly in some of the States, including Queensland, the State from which the honourable member for Wide Bay comes. Even in the United States we find the central Government has far greater power than the Australian Government has. Nevertheless, the facts are that this Parliament has far less power than the parliament of practically any other democracy in the world. This is the reality of the situation because of the peculiar manner in which this country was first born. In effect, it came from 6 colonies to become one nation, with the very necessary need at that stage, unfortunately, to give and take. This has left the Commonwealth in a particularly different situation. For example, what other national government does not have the power to control prices? Australia is the only nation which does not have that power. 
Finally, I should like to make one other appeal. There has been a considerable amount of talk tonight on the question of the new parliament house. I fully agree that it is well and truly time that there was a new parliament house. There is no doubt that, unfortunately, this building is inadequate for the increased responsibilities of the Parliament of Australia. I make one appeal on this issue: No matter where that parliament house is built this building should be retained. In the interests of posterity it should be retained. After all, it is the first Parliament House of this nation, Australia, and accordingly I believe that in the interests of future generations of Australians this building should be retained, not as a Parliament House but in the interests of the generations to come. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Transport and Minister for Civil Aviation. Is it a fact that Pioneer Tourist Coaches Pty Ltd, a subsidiary of Ansett Transport Industries, is the only passenger bus operator permitted to transport passengers between Sydney and the Australian Capital Territory? If so, who is responsible for this restrictive practice and what can be done to give Reg Ansett - a champion of free enterprise - a little more competition in this industry? 
Is the motion seconded? 
Order! The  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party will resume his seat. The honourable member is suggesting that there is an attempt by the Chair, and by the House, to prevent honourable members from having their say. I already have pointed out clearly that on a number of occasions I asked whether it was the wish of the House to proceed to the third reading forthwith, in which case any honourable members on either side of the House would have had the full right of debate. I also pointed out that if the House decided instead to go into Committee every honourable member concerned would have a full right to speak. Therefore I ask the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party to withdraw the inference that the Chair has tried in any way to prevent honourable members, as he put it, from having their say. 
Country Party supporters - It is the honourable member for New England. 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  put: 
That the question be now  put. 
Opposition members  -  Yes. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! 

Question put. 
Order! This is not a ruling on the interpretation of . Standing Orders. All I have done is to state what the position is. It is not a question of acceptance of a motion of dissent from a ruling because I have not given a ruling on the interpretation of Standing Orders. All I have done is to state a factual situation, which is quite clear, that there was a question that the Bill be read a second time. I looked for honourable members from both sides of the House to rise to their feet to speak on it. I waited some considerable time and then put the resolution. I made one error in after that proceeding to the third reading and calling the honourable member for Cowper. 
I corrected that and asked should we proceed to the third reading forthwith. I have still not received a reply to that question. Otherwise we go into Committee. I have not given a ruling; I have simply carried out the Standing Orders of this House and therefore the question of dissent does not come into it. 
Suspension of Standing Orders 
I rise tonight to refer to the disgraceful behaviour of the Opposition in this Parliament tonight and throughout the last week. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! I suggest that the honourable gentleman not debate the subject matter of the debate that took place here earlier in the evening. I think it would be in the best interests of the House if he did not amplify that matter too much. 

I think the most important thing for us to draw attention to at this stage - I will not simply make a political speech; I am trying to make a sincere appeal to members of the Opposition to treat this Parliament with the respect that it deserves - 
Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  Incidentally, I hope that we are not being threatened from the other side. 
I think that is a very frightful thing which causes- 
I refer to the fact that we have had some very disgraceful exhibitions in this Parliament tonight. 
House adjourned at  11  pan. 
Have honourable members ever heard such hypocrisy (Opposition members interjecting) - 
That must have been a good lunch. Have honourable members ever heard such hypocrisy from an Opposition which was a government until 2 December last and which in one single day guillotined through this House 17 Bills? One Minister had only 2 minutes to speak to his own Bill. He did not even have time to read the title. Of course, this was shortly after the right honourable member for Lowe (Mr McMahon) became Prime Minister. He was so nervous that he did not know how to handle things. So he thought the easiest way to get out of the situation was to guillotine 17 Bills, to gag another 3 - 20 Bills in all - and to put them straight through the Parliament so that he could get down to his place at Double Bay, or wherever it was. 
What the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  said was utter and complete hypocrisy. In speaking on a national issue, he dealt purely with personalities. Up to this point of time I had a lot of respect for him. I thought he was a good bloke. But, on a very important piece of legislation, the National Investment Fund Bill, which involves a national issue, he could deal only with personalities. All he could do was call the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  names. All he could do was call the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  names. I think it is time we got on with the job. Like it or not, the Opposition does not have the numbers. The second reading stage of this Bill is scheduled to conclude at 3.50 p.m. The Opposition has 8 minutes in which to deal with it. It is time the Opposition stopped talking on this motion and got on to dealing with national issues. 
Question put - 
 I support the Bill which I believe to be a rather historic piece of legislation. It is historic insofar as it involves a reconstitution of the Tariff Board - that is in effect what it does- and a widening of the scope of its inquiry by enabling a broader range of industries and types of assistance given to be examined. In other words, no longer will it simply be a matter of looking at tariffs and bounties. The new Commission will look into a wide range of assistance given to all types of industry, both in the primary and secondary fields. As I say it is an historic piece of legislation insofar as the Liberal Party is now supporting it. Undoubtedly it would have liked to have introduced legislation similar to this when it was in office but it was not game to do so because the Country Party tail was forever wagging the body proper of the previous Government. I am very pleased that the Liberal Party in this instance has decided to stand on its own and to support this historic piece of legislation. One can say that it is historic because it is the beginning of moves towards indicative planning. All sectors of industry are quite happy- 
That shows how ridiculous are some of the remarks which the honourable member makes. All sectors of industry are quite happy to see indicative planning because they want to know where they are going in the future. Country Party supporters should talk to representatives of industry. If they did so they would find that industry is only too pleased to have a situation in which it knows what the Government's future policies will be. Our policy is one of indicative planning. This Bill is not an end in itself, but it is a move towards planning of that kind. Of course, the Country Party has had a very bad week indeed. 
First of all, the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  announced that the Government is to bring in legislation which will require the disclosure of campaign funds. That would mean, of course, that no longer would the Country Party be able to get its Sim handouts from different sectors of industry and multi-national corporations. After that announcement was made we heard members of the Country Party squealing. Having squealed about that matter they are now faced with this piece of legislation which will mean that no longer will they be able to negotiate in dark corners handouts as Party donations from sectors of primary and secondary industry. The light will be cast on these dealings and all such handouts will be subject to scrutiny and inquiry, the results of which will be available to the public. In other words, this will mean the end of any legal type of bribery. 
It is interesting to note the split in ranks between the Country Party and the Liberal Party. In the Committee stage the Liberal Party will move some amendments to this Bill but I understand they basically support the legislation, just as the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  supported it a few minutes ago. On the "other hand, the Country Party is violently opposed to the legislation. This is an example of the solidarity of the Opposition Parties. They simply cannot agree between themselves. This is a good example of what would occur if this disunited rabble got into Government. The Opposition Parties make up a disunited organisation and they cannot agree between themselves and, of course, the Country Party tail will wag the body proper forever. 
I think that honourable members will find during the Committee stage the Government will not be rigid on this legislation. We intend to have a look at some of the amendments moved. We will be having a good look, for example, at the proposed amendment to clause 20 which the honourable member for Wakefield mentioned. I think it is a worthwhile amendment at which we should have a good look. I think there is some validity in the arguments put forward by the honourable member for Wakefield in relation to this proposed amendment. I make the point that we will not be rigid in a consideration of this legislation. We want to have a look at the various proposals. 
At this stage I want to touch on some of the matters referred to by previous speakers in the debate and some of the issues raised by the Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  in particular. For example, he argued - this is his argument against the legislation - that the effect of the legislation will be that the Government will merely rubber stamp the Commission's reports. 
The honourable member for Kennedy says: 'That is right'. Let us get the answer. That is not right, and the honourable member will see in a moment that it is not right. 
Do not get excited. I will get around to that shortly. The Leader of the Country Party argued also that the legislation will have the effect of allowing the Commission's decisions to have a standover effect on the Government. He said also that there would be a reduction in ministerial authority and that the Government would be bound to accept the advice of the Commission. He went on to say that the effect of the legislation would be to end all consultation and negotiation with industry. All those points made by the Leader of the Country Party are incorrect. 
I am sorry, they are incorrect and I am about to tell the honourable member why. 
Apparently the honourable member for Kennedy, who is sitting at the table, thinks he is making the speech but what he is actually trying to do is imitate his Leader. The real facts in answer to what the Leader of the Country Party had to say are these: The Commission is to give advice only. The Leader of the Country Party has missed that point completely. If the arguments put forward by the Commission are good there is no problem. There is certainly no reason for consultation and negotiation with industry, whether primary or secondary, to cease. The Government is the one which finally makes the decision, not the Commission. The right honourable member is completely missing that point. It is the Government which makes the decision in the light of the facts which are placed before it, including the report of the Commission itself. That is the answer to that question. 
The right honourable gentleman also said that the IAC would advise on such things as resource allocation and that this function will be removed from the Parliament. 
No. Clause 22 of the Bill lays down the general guidelines on which the IAC will operate and these are not matters which will be the responsibility of the Commission. In other words, the Leader of the Country Party had not properly studied the Bill. He talked of complicated and lengthy inquiries. Clause 23 specifies a time limit on inquiries beyond which the Government is free to act without any restraint whatsoever. The Leader of the Country Party could not have had a good look at this legislation. One never knows, but perhaps had he done so he might have supported the proposition instead of opposing it. The right honourable gentleman said that public scrutiny is already present in the Parliament. Well, this Bill will result in arguments for and against any particular assistance being put into the open and, as I said earlier, the light will be let in for all in the Parliament and the public to see. 
The Leader of the Country Party went on to say that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  is avoiding expert opinions from Ministers and departments. I will give the lie to that one because such a statement is utter nonsense. The Standing Interdepartmental Committee on Assistance to Industry already provides more opportunity for fully co-ordinated advice from all interested departments than has been the case in the past. For example, the Tariff Board report on colour television is being considered by the Departments of Secondary Industry, Overseas Trade, Customs and Excise, the Media, Science, the Post Office, Defence, Supply and Treasury as well as by the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. The recommendations of this interdepartmental committee will go to the Economic Committee of Cabinet for consideration by a wide group of Ministers who represent various departments before going to the full Cabinet and, of course, to the Government Caucus. In other words, the statement by the Leader of the Country Party suggesting that the Prime Minister is avoiding expert opinion from Ministers and departments is utter nonsense. 
It is utter hogwash. There is more provision for interdepartmental inquiries under what has been laid down by this Government than has ever been the case. The Government has provided for a far broader approach and there is a greater capacity to listen to the sensitive points put forward by the various sectors of industry and departments. 
The honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Edwards)  drew attention to the fact that the Bill will cut the number of members of the Commission from 11, as it is under the Tariff Board, down to nine. The Bill sets out that the Commission shall consist of not fewer than five or more than nine commissioners.. It is not rigid. The purpose of this arrangement is to allow for a much broader and flexible type of operation. Whilst the membership of the Tariff Board was eleven and the maximum number of the Commission is to be nine, honourable members should bear in mind that any number of associate members can be appointed to the Commission. Also, the Government will meet its obligations to present members of the Tariff Board. I make this point because it was referred to by the honourable member for Berowra. I definitely refute the rather specious arguments of the Leader of the Country Party who came into this House and made statements although quite obviously he had not properly considered the Bill. In fact, the right honourable gentleman made some rather outrageous statements in this place to mislead the public generally - I hope that he did not make those statements to mislead the public; I hope that simply he himself had been misled. As I said earlier, perhaps if he had understood the legislation better he might have supported the legislation. 
The legislation contains some very good proposals. I have already dealt with the number of members who will serve on the Commission. The Bill provides for a retiring age of 65 years. I think it is very important that I should draw attention to clause 21 which sets out the functions of the Commission. The clause states that the Commission shall hold inquiries and make reports to the Minister:  in respect of matters affecting assistance to industries and other matters that may be referred to the Commission. . . . 
I would like honourable members to note the word 'industries'. The Commission will deal with all sectors of industry. It will not just make inquiries into tariffs and the granting of bounties but will consider all types of financial assistance which can be given to all types of industries whether they be in the primary, secondary or tertiary sectors of the economy. Accordingly, it is this clause which gives effect to the Government's wish to extend the present advisory system for manufacturing industries based on the Tariff Board. Together with clause 23 (2), which allows the Commission to consider all possible forms of assistance for a particular industry, clause 21 provides the basis for systematic analysis of the structure of industry assistance, and thus for evolving a more coherent and rational policy by the Government towards industrial development. I have dealt previously with the need to develop a coherent and consistent policy towards all industry assistance. 
As I have said, I strongly support this legislation. I think it is an historic piece of legis lation which is a first move towards indicative planning which in my view, and in the view of the Australian Labor Party, is one of the needs of the Australian economy. Large sectors of industry which want to know where they are going in the future also believe that indicative planning is something which is very important for the future of Australia. Such a policy was very effective, for example, in building the economies of both West Germany and Japan after the last war. But more importantly this legislation is a reconstitution in effect of the Tariff Board and it will broaden the scope of inquiries by ensuring that inquiries will be made into all forms of assistance given to sectors of both primary and secondary industry. 
I am pleased to see that the Liberal Party, with some minor qualifications, has decided to support the legislation. I am sorry to see that there is a division in the ranks of the Opposition parties and that the Australian Country Party refuses to support it. I cannot help but think that it must be for one of 2 motives: Either they do not understand the legislation or simply they know that this marks the end of the building up of party slush funds by around the corner deals with sectors of industry by giving those sectors of industry special handouts without any public inquiry. I am delighted that this legislation will ensure that the light will be let in to all handouts, to all assistance given by any government to any sector of industry. It is for that reason that I support the Bill. 
The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  is as usual looking for Reds under the bed. This is his usual practice. Of course it is true that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has friendly relations with the Premier of China. I am glad that he has, because somebody has to do something about overcoming the damage of the past and endeavour to get some good relations and some understanding between Australia and China. But I think the honourable member for Mackellar should realise that the Prime Minister is also friendly with  Mr Nixon, Mr Kissinger  and  Mr Heath.  The honourable member mentioned climbing 
Mount Everest. If he wants to climb Mount Everest, I will move in the Caucus that the Government pay the cost for him. 
However, I want to deal with the opening of the Sydney Opera House last Saturday. The opening of the Opera House was a gala day not only for Sydney but also for Australia. It is a great building, a wonderful work of art which will give and is already giving Australia a symbol, an identity, throughout the world. However, unfortunately the opening was marred by the introduction of petty party politics by the .Liberal Premier of New South Wales,  Sir Robert  Askin. The most spectacular election campaign opening ever - that is what it was. It was greatly assisted by help from the Australian Government. This is what we gave to make it such a spectacular day not just for Sydney, not just for New South Wales but for Australia: The assistance of the Navy, helicopters, ships and bands. Most of the operations on the harbour were conducted by the Navy. 
We gave the assistance of the Royal Australian Air Force, as the Minister says, in the form of the Fills. 
Yes, and they stayed up. I have been told, although I could stand correction, that we even paid the cost of the fireworks. We gave the New South Wales Government the use of the whole Commonwealth car fleet to operate in the Sydney area to assist in the celebrations. Furthermore we gave them the television landlines, as the television industry had declared the opening to be an event of national importance. As I said, unfortunately petty party politics were introduced. I give an example. The Prime Minister was not allowed to sit on the dais. 
He was not invited to sit on the dais; that is correct. He was left among the crowd during the official opening. He was also left among the crowd when the Premier and a large number of people accompanied the Queen to inspect the Opera House. I know that this would not worry the Prime Minister. He is a very broad minded man. He is not petty. But it was an insult to this Parliament and to Australia as a whole. Utzon, the original conceiver of the whole architectural proposal, received only a passing reference from the Premier. There was no mention of Labor Premier Cahill, who was responsible for getting the whole project originally accepted by the State Cabinet, the State Parliament and internally within the Australian Labor Party, and who took a great deal of criticism for his actions, particularly from the Liberal Party. 
That is quite correct. It opposed it and made it very much an issue during the 1965 State election campaign, following which the Government was defeated. There was no mention of  Mr Pat  Hills, the Leader of the Opposition in the New South Wales Parliament, who was also of great assistance to Joe Cahill, the Premier of New South Wales at the time the Opera House was conceived, by helping Joe Cahill both to get the idea accepted within the Party and to select the site so that the site would be set aside for the Opera House. But it should be kept in mind that when  Her  Majesty was in Canberra last Thursday the Prime Minister called upon the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  to speak. He had the Leader of the Opposition put at the front table, not down among the crowd, and he made sure the Leader of the Opposition was allowed to speak.  Sir Robert  Askin made no mention of  Mr Bob  Heffron, a former Premier of New South Wales, now over 80 years of age, a man who must take great pride in the fact that he helped to continue the project. All that  Sir Robert  did was done on the excuse of protocol, but he ignored the fact that this was a day for Australia, not just for New South Wales. 
House adjourned at II p.m. 
First of all, I make it very clear that I take great pride in being a supporter of a Government which, immediately upon being elected to office, commissoned the Karmel report. This decision of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  is one of the most far-sighted actions ever taken in this country in the field of education. In fact, I would say that it is the most far-sighted action. 
The honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson said that all schools should be open - I assume that he means after school hours - to the general community. I challenge him. I agree with him. I am a strong advocate of this proposition in my area. I believe that all state schools should be available for use for after school activities. 
For the general community. It is ridiculous that so much capital expenditure is unused. The facilities of the schools are used between 9 a.m. and 3 p.m. I agree with the honourable member; but can he convince St Peters College in Adelaide, the 
Sydney Grammar School and the Sydney Church of England Girls Grammar School- 
. . . the King's School, Geelong Grammar and a few of those others to do the same? I would welcome it. I am advocating it. Many of the headmasters in my area are behind such a scheme. I am quite satisfied that all the schools, whether they are state schools or non-state schools, in my area - it being a deprived area - would be prepared to do it; but I could not see those Greater Public Schools doing it. As I said, I am proud to be a supporter of a Government which commissioned the Karmel Committee report. It is a report which shows humanity and compassion. It is based on the needs concept - the need to help those who require assistance. The report recommends the discontinuance of what has existed in the past, where those who are in positions of power and who have plenty are the very people who have been receiving the most assistance from the previous Government. 
I represent an area of very great need - the far western suburbs of Sydney. My electorate contains areas such as Blacktown, Mount Druitt and St Mary's. These are the areas of real need, if ever there was need. Let me deal with some of the problems which exist in those areas and show how they can be assisted by the recommendations contained in the Karmel report, which recommendations in every instance with the exception of one - that recommendation related to the A class schools - have been accepted by this Government. For a start, as mentioned by the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating),  the Budget contains an increase in the allocation for education of 92 per cent in one year. That is a most extraordinary increase. I wish to sound one warning. I am concerned whether the education departments of the State governments can fulfil completely what is required of them in the Karmel report. I know that there are some education departments - New South Wales would be the greatest example - which are extrtmely inefficient in their administration. The New South Wales Education Department, I regret to say, is acknowledged as the most inefficient Education Department administratively in the whole of the Commonwealth, even though New South Wales is the greatest and the largest State. 
That is right; in the last 8 years. I agree. There is bad administration. The various State goverments should ensure that they utilise that recommendation of the Karmel Committee report which provides for the employment of consultants. I think that is most important. I cannot see, for example, the New South Wales Education Department spending the money allocated to it unless it employs outside consultants. That is a recommendation of the Karmel Committee. I believe that this one recommendation that New South Wales in particular should implement. 
I refer to the question of those schools which are deprived, those schools which are in need. Unfortunately they are the schools for which those members on the Opposition side who have spoken have no compassion. They are forever fighting the case of the A class school. They forget all the rest, whether they be State or non-State schools. They are not concerned with the problems of other schools. They are concerned with the problems of the wealthy schools - not the parish schools, not the small schools, not those schools which take the children, whether they be Catholic or otherwise, of people who are workers. We hear not one word from the Opposition side advocating support for the State schools and the non-State schools which represent the working class elements of this country. 
I can give some examples of how deprived some schools are. In the western suburbs of Sydney the greatest needs of the non-State schools are buildings and equipment. The greatest need of the State schools is adequate teaching facilities. I will give some examples. In one high school a fifth year science teacher, who as a matter of fact was teaching my own daughter, could not be understood by the pupils she was teaching and finally had to resign because she could not cope. She could not be understood because she did not have the capacity in English. In another high school a first year English teacher could not be understood by the pupils she was teaching. In another high school a mathematics teacher tried to explain to the children present that there were 31 days in February and accordingly lost all control of the class. I am not talking nonsense. These are things which happened last year. 
The State Education Department of New South Wales and the 
Liberal Government of New South Wales are to blame. It is a complete disgrace. They have no moral concepts. They are not concerned. The honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe),  who is a member of the Country Party, is not concerned about the future of those children being taught by teachers of that standard. The New South Wales Government is to blame. The Country Party is to blame because it is a coalition partner in the Government in the State of New South Wales. This is the way in which the children in some areas are deprived. This is why there is a need for a needs concept as contained in the Karmel report. It is why there is a need for special allocations under section 96 of the Constitution to provide special incentives to keep those good teachers in the west where they are. I give as an example the provision of inexpensive housing for those teachers who are there now and who are required but who unfortunately far too often leave after 2 years. These are the reasons why I support the Karmel Committee's report. I believe it is moral. I believe it shows compassion. I believe it shows humanity. I cannot understand in any circumstances how anybody claiming to represent the mass of the people of Australia could do otherwise than support the needs concept in that report. 
-r-Last night during the adjournment debate in the 4 minutes available to me I was referring to the manner in which the Premier of New South Wales  Sir Robert  Askin - he changed his name from Robin by deed poll - introduced petty party politics into the opening of the Sydney Opera House and to the pettiness he showed in leaving the Prime Minister of Australia  (Mr Whitlam)  sitting in the crowd. This was an event which affected not merely Sydney or New South Wales, but the whole of Australia. 
All Victorian members and members of Parliament from other States were ignored. The important point is that he received great assistance from the Australian Government through the Navy, which provided ships, the Royal Australian Air Force, which provided Fill aircraft and helicopters, the Commonwealth car pool and television landlines.  Sir Robert  Askin was prepared to accept all that assistance from the Australian Government yet he left the Prime Minister to sit among the crowd and not on the platform. When the official party of about 100 went to tour the Opera House with  Her  Majesty the Prime Minister was left out. This was a dreadful example of pettiness and the introduction of politics. The New South Wales Premier even forgot the former Premier of New South Wales,  Mr Joe  Cahill, who piloted the project through the New South Wales Parliament and attracted great criticism for so doing. He forgot Bob Heffron who continued the project. He forgot the New South Wales Leader of the Opposition, Pat Hills who, as Lord Mayor of Sydney, was responsible for choosing the site of the Opera House and getting it set aside in the first instance. Pat Hills also helped Joe Cahill pilot the project through the New South Wales Parliament. These were all dreadful oversights, but there was worse.  Mr Speaker,  you would not believe it. He used of course, as an excuse, protocol. If a similar sort of function were conducted in the United States of America by the State of Texas, would the  President  be left sitting down amongst the crowd? That would not happen, even after the Watergate affair. 
But worse is to come. Some very important visitors from overseas were present at the function. There was  Mr Somare  of Papua New Guinea. There was the  Deputy  Prime Miinster of New Zealand. There was  Mrs Marcos,  the wife of the  President  of the Philippines. They were kept waiting in the crowd for one hour. They had to wait in the sun and heat. When a representative of the Australian Government approached  Mr Sid  Grange, the protocol officer for the State of New South Wales, and asked him where he could take those international visitors, he was told: 'You will do nothing. This is a State function'. In other words,  Sir Robert  Askin treated the Opera House opening as his election campaign opening and put on as good a turn for his friends and supporters as Thommo's puts on for its customers. Without a doubt, he is rushing to the polls before the Barton affair breaks and destroys him. As I said before, it is a pity that a great national day was marred by petty politics. The Premier would have earned great credit by recognising the work that had been done by Joe Cahill and Pat Hills and by not taking the opportunity to play party politics on such an important occasion. Unfortunately, he was too petty to face up to doing the job properly; he was too much of a larrikin. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I was watching that point very carefully myself. I have been listening very carefully to the honourable member. As I gather, he is speaking of a matter which is under the jurisdiction of the Minister for Services and Property or comes within the electoral matters which that Minister controls. Until such time as I can see that the speech is not referring to that issue I will have to rule that the honourable member is on order. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- I am not going to give reasons. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Order! I beg your pardon. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- I do not want any inferences against the Chair, or I will take the appropriate action. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The point which I have made in ruling on this matter is that what the honourable member is speaking about is an electoral matter and as such comes within the area of the Minister for Services and Property. 
At a large public meeting held Tuesday-  (Quorum formed.) I will continue the story. The Country Party was to endorse this  Mr Jeffrey  for the State seat of Murray.- 
He is talking about a State electoral matter which has nothing to do at all with the estimates before the Committee. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Armitage)  - Very well. It is not a point of order. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Order! I suggest that members of the Country Party do not get so excited. The Chair is able to look after itself. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- It is not the prerogative of the Chair to explain the logic behind the statements of honourable members in this chamber. It is the prerogative of the Chair to determine whether a speech is in order. There is no point of order. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! I have already ruled that this is not a point of order. I have made it clear, and the point was raised by the Leader of the House, that the honourable member for Blaxland has been referring to an election campaign. Although the connection may be a little remote the honourable member has been dealing with an election campaign which does come within the province of the Minister for Services and Property because of the joint arrangement between the Commonwealth and the States concerning certain electoral costs. Such costs are included in the estimates for the Department of Services and Property. For that reason, there is no point of order. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Will the honourable member come to his point- of order? 
Commonwealth Government to prepare a joint electoral roll the honourable member for Blaxland was in order, but that factor has nothing to do with the honourable member's statement. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  I have already ruled on the point of order. The honourable member is raising the same point of order, and it is not a point of order. I am afraid that the time of the honourable member for Blaxland has expired. 
(Quorum formed) I want particularly to draw attention to the tremendous reforms that have already been introduced by the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  and the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham).  Without a doubt, already in a period of only 11 months, they have created a completely new perspective and completely new horizons in the fields of social welfare and health services. Even in the short period since the Budget was introduced very great reforms have been brought to fruition, and I think that every possible credit should go to the 2 Ministers concerned for the job they have done. I realise that they have the great problem of finding the necessary finance, to overcome some of the money problems that still exist because practically nothing was done in these fields for so many years. There was a time when Australia could boast that it was one of the great countries of experiment in social welfare. That has not been the case for the last 23 years. We steadily slipped back behind other countries. Today we are catching up again. 
While I realise only too well that the problem of finding the necessary finance is a very great one I still think there are some matters to which it would be well to refer. I particularly refer to the problem of the deserted wife, the widow pensioner, who is still finding it pretty hard to make ends meet. 
For example, a widow pensioner with 2 children would get a total of $39 a week in pension. But even her position is not as bad as that of the deserted husband, of whom we hear very little indeed. The deserted husband, of course, is placed in a very difficult situation when he finds himself responsible for the upkeep of his children. For example a case which came to my attention involves a male divorcee with 5 children aged from 9 to 15 years. He is earning $65.10 a week, and he pays $16 a week in rent. On the other hand a female divorcee earning the same amount - keep that in mind; earning the same amount per week - with the same number of children would be entitled to a pension of $44.45. 
We do not know how many people would be in the same category as the man to whom I have referred. We know that if we introduced a scheme to help them a means test would have to be applied. Nevertheless I have struck cases in my own electorate which are very sad, and the man concerned is in a very difficult position. Let us say that there are some 20,000 such people in the whole country who would need assistance. They do not number very many in terms of voting power. They do not constitute a big lobby electorally, but from the point of view of morality and trying to do something for people who are put in an impossible situation I think their claim is very strong. It may be necessary to introduce some type of pension which would be based on a means test but which would allow deserted husbands to find some way of getting housekeeper services, or alternatively the Australian Government might have to make a grant through the States to local government authorities for housekeeper services for people placed in this situation. I suggest this is one matter that requires very deep thought. 
Added to that, I think it is time we looked at the question of extending the domiciliary home nursing care service to those under the age of 65 years. Presently a person aged over 65 years can get assistance, but for a person 64 years of age assistance is not available. I suggest to the Minister for Social Security that in the future, when the necessary finance is available, this is something which should receive very definite thought. 
I compliment the Minister for Health on the job he has done for community health services. In my own area, at Mount Druitt quite recently a community health complex worth $528,000 was opened. In Blacktown there is a child immunisation clinic worth $12,000. For the whole of the region there is a community nursing program involving 30 nurses. Actually the number of nurses will work out at 45. The cost of that service is $145,500. The Fairfield-Penrith community health back-up services cost $103,000. A specialist conslutative team for the whole region is provided at a cost of $276,750 and a health education team services the whole region at a cost of $22,550. For Mount Druitt there is a therapeutic day care centre costing $65,000 and a pediatric out-patients service costing $15,950. 
I make one other point before my time elapses. There is a very strong move in Mount Druitt by the medical profession to try to stop the community health complex in that area having an outpatients' section, that is to say, a section where people can go to get treatment. The reason for the move, of course, is that treatment would be free. The doctors there feel that this would mean they would have unfair competition, but the facts are that the members of the medical profession throughout that area are very hard to get hold of at night and during the weekends. Time after time people make calls to the doctors, but the doctors will not attend patients during these times. So the obvious thing is to have an outpatients' clinic at Mount Druitt staffed by full time doctors who, in the first instance anyhow, can give assistance, give treatment, at nights and at weekends. I think that is the approach that needs to be taken. I am rather upset that there is this strong lobby by the medical profession, whose members still will not give the necessary attention themselves but still want to object and put barriers in the way of the Australian Government providing that very necessary service. For those reasons I ask the Minister, when this matter comes before him, to consider it carefully. Apart from that, I think that most honourable members would agree that both the Minister for Health and the Minister for Social Security have already done a wonderful job. They have opened up completely new perspectives and completely new horizons. They have introduced reforms which should have been introduced many years ago. They have a big job to do. They are already handling it. They have done this in the very short period of 1 1 months. 
The honourable member for Henty  (Mr Fox)  earlier said that the guillotine had been used by the previous Government on 4 occasions only. 
He forgot that one guillotine was used in respect of 17 Bills. 
I have here a copy of the Votes and Proceedings for the House of Representatives for 4 May 1971. It reads: 
Allotment of time:  Mr Swartz  then moved - That the time allotted in connection with the Bills be as follows: 
I support the proposition of the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly).  My reason is that constitutional provisions must be introduced to ensure that the people will have an opportunity to cast a vote on these vital issues affecting this country. First of all, there is the question of democratic elections. 
The Australian Labor Government, under the leadership of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  has been responsible for a large number of new initiatives of reform such as the very great economic reforms introduced by this Government in the fight against inflation, in the areas of education and health, in the new area of foreign affairs, to the Constitution, and so I could go on. So much has been done in a period of 11 months that it makes one almost breathless. Certainly one of the most important initiatives has been that taken in the sphere of urban and regional development. For many years people have been looking askance throughout this country, particularly in the new areas of development, at the utter and complete lack of planning by State and local government authorities and particularly at the fact that increases in rate revenue have reached saturation point. It was obvious that something new had to be done. It was suggested by  Sir Robert  Menzies, of course, as late as 1950 but, as always, procrastination took place and it was another 23 years before anything was done. Today something is being done. I am very pleased to say that it is being done on the basis of need, because there are very great needs, particularly in the areas of great development. I represent one of those areas - the area running through Blacktown, in the State of New South Wales in the metropolitan area of Sydney, on through to Mount Druitt, St Marys and Kingswood. It is an area which has developed at a greater rate than has practically any other area in the whole of Australia, if not faster than the whole of Australia. It has more children living in it than certainly any other place in the whole of this country. It has great needs. It has needs for assistance to provide access roads, for transport to remove the chaos from the roads, for improvements in education and health facilities, for recreation centres and for child care centres. All these are very great and vast needs throughout the area. I mention child care centres. Sometimes we can learn something from other countries. Sometimes before we abuse the systems of other countries we should be able to accept the good that those countries do. I instance China. In China there are children's palaces to care for children after school hours, in other words, the latch key children, the children waiting till their parents come home. In Shanghai alone there are 1 1 children's palaces in all taking between 1,000 and 1,500 children a day and undertaking every possible type of activity - hobbies, sports, the arts, music and so on. This type of thing needs to be looked at in this country, just as we need to give far greater emphasis to child care centres for the children of those women who have to work, not because they want to work but simply because of economic circumstances. 
I have to compliment the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  in particular on his initiative in the outer western suburbs of Sydney, because undoubtedly in his pilot project in the outer western suburbs of Sydney and the outer western suburbs of Melbourne he has one of the most forward looking propositions which has ever been initiated in the history of this country Arising out of the Budget there is an allocation of $5m for each of those areas, that is. Melbourne and Sydney. The Minister's proj ect is a pilot project. It is only the beginning to see how these things should be handled in future. Already, of course, we have received great assistance in the western suburbs of Sydney in the provision of health services in the last fortnight. Special medical health centres are to be built. Pediatric services are to be established, as are drug dependency and alcoholism services as" well as psychiatric services. These have been announced in the last fortnight. The Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  has announced the provision of recreation centres, including the provision of recreation centres in schools for community use. This is the first time in the State that school facilities have been made available for community use. These things have already come about. 
One of the important things for the future is what is to be done in the sphere of assistance for local government, and this comes into the pilot project announced by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development for the western suburbs of Sydney and the western suburbs of Melbourne. As I have said, there are very great needs in those areas for roads, child care facilities and recreation facilities for the children. It is an area of need because of a lack of foresight and lack of planning by previous Federal and State governments. But there is equally very great need for co-ordination of activities. I am sure that the Minister would agree that one of the greatest problems we have in all these fast developing areas is the complete lack of coordination between Federal authorities, State authorities, local government authorities and semi-governmental authorities. One finds it almost impossible to get them to work together - first of all to work out the needs of the area, then to work out the priorities and finally to work out how those priorities should be financed. This is one of the greatest needs of urban planning and urban development. 
I am concerned particularly with the crisis in roads. Frankly, I am going to adopt a parish pump attitude on this issue of the road crisis in the Blacktown municipality. The results of a number of public surveys have been released recently. They indicate that the roads in that area are the worst in New South Wales. Anybody who goes into the area will appreciate that this has reached crisis point. The reason is that the developers have moved in - including the Housing Commission of 
New South Wales and companies like Hookers - and have established massive estates. They make extraordinary profits and yet they do not plough back the finance to provide access roads into the area or to provide the necessary community facilities such as meeting halls, ovals and so on. The result is that they then turn to the Government - in this case the Australian Labor Government - to provide those facilities. 
I emphasise for the benefit of the Minister for Urban and Regional Development the seriousness of what I can only call the crisis in roads that exists in that area. I sincerely hope that when the allocations are finally announced - they must be announced in the very near future - for the $5m allocated to the western suburbs of Sydney, special emphasis will be given to the roads system. It is vital. It is the major - issue - the major crisis - at the moment. It is the one that needs to be met first. I compliment the Minister on his initiative in undertaking this pilot scheme in the western suburbs of Sydney and Melbourne. I think this whole issue of reforms in urban and regional development is one of the most important that have been introduced,' certainly in this century. No other Federal government in the history of this Parliament has had the initiative or the courage to undertake this type of reform. I am very pleased to see it. I am very proud to be part of a Government which has initiated such important policies for the future development and future good living in our urban areas. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. Does the Prime Minister know how a letter - presumably a private letter - addressed to him by  Dr Kissinger  came into the possession of the honourable member for Kooyong? Further, does the Prime Minister consider that this poaching of confidential correspondence addressed to the Prime Minister sets adequate standards of behaviour for this House? 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 

<graphic href="087131197311270_54_3.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="087131197311270_55_4.jpg"></graphic>

The Minister may answer when he replies. 
Another gratifying aspect of the legislation which emerges from the Minister's second reading speech is the Minister's assurance that the new agreement does not mean that charges to TAA and Ansett Transport Industries Ltd, which provide the bulk of the revenue, will automatically be increased by IS per cent each year. Nor does it depart from the principle contained in the 1961 airlines agreement that in implementing the policy of full recovery the Government will take into account the level of air fares, the rate of growth of the industry and the requirements of the airlines to provide a reasonable return on capital. The Minister has also given an assurance that expenditure on aviation facilities will be kept to a minimum consistent with safe and efficient operations. 
I want now to turn to the proposals as they affect the general aviation industry - that is, private owners, charter, agricultural and general aerial operations. The Minister states in his second reading speech that it cost $8 .25m to operate the general aviation aerodromes Moorabbin, Parafield, Bankstown, Archerfield, Cambridge and Jandakot and the total revenue including sales tax on fuel was some $3.6m. In line with the policy of recovering 80 per cent of costs the Minister has increased the rates of charges for general aviation by 15 per cent while the weekly charge for private and aerial work aircraft will be doubled and that for charter will rise by two-thirds. He then says that a rebate of one-third of the higher charges payable from 1 December 1973, will be made in respect of such aircraft as are not normally based at a Government aerodrome or at an aerodrome which is subject to Government financial assistance under the aerodrome local ownership scheme. The opposition believes that these charges are outrageous. These aircraft, along with the aircraft on previously subsidised routes, have played a tremendous part in the development of Australia. Now the Government turns its heavy hand, guided by the destructive  Dr Coombs,  to make life in the outback, life in areas away from the capital cities and life in agriculture more difficult and more costly. 
The proposals in this Bill are expected to raise about $300,000 this year and $600,000 in a full year. Combined with the extra fuel tax of 5c a gallon, which will raise a further $800,000, the total amount raised will be $1.4m. This still leaves a gap of over $3. 5m which by next year, with increasing costs, will probably again be about $4m. 
What concerns the Opposition is the Government's hell bent approach to increase the charges in this area of aviation which cannot simply increase fares to recover costs as can civil aviation. We believe that the general taxpayers are concerned to see that every encouragement should be given and that every opportunity should be taken to ensure that there should be transport opportunities equal to those available to people who have the benefits of civil aviation. We also believe that agricultural operators should be encouraged not discouraged, because they provide the most efficient and modern means of boosting agricultural production. Because the Minister has not foreshadowed what charges he proposes to make in future years and because any further increase would lead to a serious deterioration in services, I move the following amendment which has been circulated in my name: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: whilst not declining to give the Bill a second reading, the House is of the opinion that the general aviation industry, which is so important in national development, should have a clear and precise understanding of future Government charges. 
There is one other matter about which something must be said and that is the strike by TAA pilots following the grounding of an air pilot for apparently following the wrong procedures when landing at Wynyard, Tasmania. A pilot coming in to land at Wynyard has to follow a flight pattern that brings him in at 1,200 feet. It appears that because of bad weather the pilot on this occasion came in, I believe, at about 200 feet. Either there are explicit instructions laid down by the Department of Civil Aviation in respect of landing at Wynyard and diverting in bad weather to another port or there are not. If there are explicit instructions then there can be no deviating from them by any pilot who wants to give it a go. The pilot has not only his own life but also the lives of the passengers at stake. The passengers have the right to expect when they are issued with a ticket that there will be no breaking of a long standing safety regulation. Indeed that fact should be unquestionable. The pilot's salary level is commensurate with that responsibility, and indeed Australia has the best safety record in the world in civil aviation because the procedures are followed so closely and so correctly. There can be no argument about 'giving it a go'. Nor should there be any argument about having the rights of appeal on matters so absolute, because safety of lives in civil aviation is a matter that is absolute. 
There should be no shifting of the responsibility in this matter for the serious mistakes made by the pilot. Whether TAA is engaged in a lockout should not be taken by way of an appeal to the courts. The matter of public safety cannot be allowed to be lifted to a situation where there can be an appeal if a pilot has breached safety procedures. There is no second chance with the lives of the passengers in these matters. The Government is quite right in standing by TAA. Whilst the loyalty by the pilots to a member of the Federation is admirable, the Federation must recognise how necessary it is to preserve the integrity of the safety procedures that have given Australia the best safety record in the world. 
Is the amendment seconded? 
I direct my question without notice to the Minister for Secondary Industry. Is it a fact that even Conservative members of the British House of Commons find that the business sector in the United Kingdom feels very emotional about the role of even a tory government and even feels threatened from time to time by that government? Is it a fact that the present feeling in the Australian private business sector that communications are not what they ought to be with the Australian Labor Government falls into the same emotional category? Is it a fact also that the Australian Labor Government has gone far further than its predecessors in setting up regular means of consultation between industry and government, including industry panels? What is the latest development with regard to industry panels? 
I assume that the reason why Country Party members said 'Hear, hear!' is that the speech of the honourable member for Canning  (Mr Hallett)  came to an end. The great difficulty experienced by the Opposition, after 23 years in government, in trying to get used to the change resulting from its loss of Government is obvious. (Quorum formed.) It is apparent that a member of the Country Party drew attention to the state of the House so that we would note that only 3 members of its partner in the coalition group, the Liberal Party, were in the House. Of course that was the reason why a quorum was not present in the House. If Opposition members would attend the chamber more often we would not have these sorts of problems. 
Mir SPEAKER-Order! I call the honourable member for Chifley. 
Mir ARMITAGE - Thank you,  Mr Speaker,  I said the Liberal Party, not the Country Party. Evidently the Opposition was stung a little as I had commenced by saying that every one of us on this side, I know, can sympathise with the Opposition today. The Opposition is in a very difficult position indeed. It spent 23 years in government and now it cannot get used to being in Opposition. Opposition members still think they are in government. They cannot believe that the various methods by which they provided assistance to their friends are now being thrown out. In other words, the Opposition cannot get used to the winds of change. Members of the Opposition are still sticking to the old shibboleths of the past. They want to return to former practices. They do not realise that this is 1974 and that changes have occurred. It was a really delightful and wonderful experience for any person to sit in the Senate chamber last week and to hear  Her  Majesty outline an exciting program of innovations for the future development of this country. That program will overcome some of the inequities of the past. It comes after one of the most exciting years of government that Australia has ever seen. It is in fact the most exciting year of government that this country has ever seen. Accordingly, it is to be expected, I suppose, that the Country Party in particular, the most conservative organisation in Australia - I am reminded by a colleague that it is a reactionary party and that is quite the right description - is now joining with the Australian Democratic Labor Party, of all parties, and the National Civic Council. The Country Party is the most conservative party in this House and we must expect its members to squeal as they have been squealing here this evening. Of course there is change. There has to be change. The program announced by  Her  Majesty last week is one of the most exciting programs of innovation and reform that this country has ever known. 
I should like to deal initially with a few proposals which have already been carried out. I think it is worth while mentioning some of these actions as it is so easy to forget the great works of the last 12 months. The relations of Australia with Asia have been immeasurably improved. Without a doubt the Prime Minister was the greatest Foreign Minister that this country has ever had. At the moment he is Acting Foreign Minister. Our relations with countries such as Indonesia, Thailand and the Philippines have been restored to a position from which they should never have departed. We have very good relations today with the whole of Asia, even though the Opposition may not like that, and they are far better relations than those achieved by the Opposition when it was in power. 
In particular, we now have very greatly improved relations with China, a country which was deliberately isolated from 1949 until last year. The former policies were policies of which any government should have been ashamed. In other words, extreme right wing attitudes were adopted by countries overseas. Instead of having the initiative and the courage to foresake those attitudes, as it should have done, the previous government just tagged along. I am glad to say that today we are in a position where our relations with China are vastly improved. That a quarter of the world's population should have been utterly and completely isolated was crazy. That situation was not in the interests of future world peace. It could only lead to misunderstanding. Today our understanding of each other's problems, each other's ideologies and each other's trade and country is starting to grow. If this can continue it means a far greater chance for peace, particularly in our sphere in Asia. For this reason alone, the work that the Prime Minister has done in this field should receive the acclaim of every Australian who has the interest of his country at heart and who does not simply want to tag along with the extreme movements which have existed in some other country. There has been a vast improvement in our trading relations, especially with Asia. This is something of which this Government may be justly proud. 
I refer now to the area improvement program of the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren).  My electorate of Chifley in the outer western suburbs of Sydney has benefited greatly from the assistance provided under this program. On many occasions in this House I have referred to the dramatic development that has occurred in this region mainly from the activities of the Housing Commission. Time and again, however, I have referred to the provision of housing without the necessary improvement in facilities - in playing fields and rail facilities. I have mentioned the need for expenditure on roads because the developers of estates have not provided the necessary access to those estates. In the Budget announced last August $5m was allocated to the western suburbs of Sydney and a similiar amount to the western suburbs of Melbourne for a pilot project of area improvement where such improvement was needed. There was a vast need in those particular areas, as I well know. 
The pilot project for the western areas of Sydney is to continue for 5 years. Already my area has received more than $lm of that $5m. The people and the local authorities of that area are grateful for the action of this Government and in particular to the Minister for Urban and Regional Development. The expenditure of this money will remove comparatively quickly what can only be called the degrading conditions that existed under Liberal and Country Party governments in both 
New South Wales and the Commonwealth. More importantly, this project is only a first step and I can foresee in the Budget next year similiar area improvement programs for a number of other parts of Australia. TBis is a pilot project - an experiment which is proving highly successful. Of course it is the first time in history that any federal government has taken the initiative to do something for local government. This fact should not be forgotten. This Government has achieved many firsts in a period of slightly more than 12 months. I ask honourable members to consider what has been done in the area of health. I instance the provision of community health centres, drug withdrawal facilities and necessary psychiatric facilities. 
Yes, the honourable member needs them. The Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  has provided various other facilities, including the means of treating alcoholism. This is the first time in history that an Australian government has moved into these fields. The Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  has not only moved into the field of road safety for the first time in history but has also provided for the State railway systems rollingstock as well as quadruplication of the line from Auburn to Penrith to try to remove some of the chaos that has existed there because of the inactivity of past conservative governments. These are a few of the projects which have been undertaken already. Of course we know of some of the proposals which are to come in future. 
There will be legislation requiring the disclosures of political parties' funds. All honourable members have heard squeals from the Opposition, particularly from the Country Party, about this proposed legislation. Did honourable members hear about the party for the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  in Melbourne the other day? At that little party the Liberal Party collected almost a quarter of a million bucks. My golly, it must have been a pretty good sort of feed at that party. 
Yes. Little envelopes that were opened after the guests left contained sums amounting to $250,000. In future when the proposed legislation is passed political parties will have to be registered. 
Yes. Political parties will have to disclose the source of their funds. Furthermore if any member receives a donation of more than $100 he will have to disclose its source. If he does not do so not only will he be subject to a severe penalty but it will entail the automatic forfeiture of his seat. Members of the Country Party had better watch out or the benches they now occupy will be vacant. I want now to deal particularly with some parts of Her Majesty's Speech, particularly that part concerned with foreign ownership of Australian resources. She said: 
My Government is committed to the greatest possible measure of Australian ownership of the nation's industries and resources. To this end it will proceed with its plans to expand the Australian Industry Development Corporation and to establish a National Investment Fund. The Companies (Foreign Takeovers) Act will be replaced. 
It will be given some teeth and will replace that extraordinarily toothless monster introduced by the previous Government simply for window dressing in the dying hours of the last Parliament. One of the purposes of the Australian Industry Development Corporation will be to start buying back Australia. This is an important proposal. Of course it attracts violent opposition from members opposite. Recently  Sir Edward  Dunlop, the  Chairman  of Directors of the Colonial Sugar Refining Company - I would not call him a young radical - resigned from the Board of the Bank of New South Wales because of what he called the bigoted political attitudes of other members of the Board who objected to his supporting the Labor Government's proposal related to the Australian Industry Development Corporation. He does not regard the proposal as creeping socialism, as members opposite claim it is, but believes it essential in the interests of Australia.  Sir Edward  Dunlop resigned as a Director of the Bank or New South Wales, because as he said there were such politically bigoted people on the Board - people who support the Opposition at every possible opportunity. In her Speech  Her  Majesty also said: 
My Government will also introduce legislation to fulfil its constitutional responsibilities with respect to banking, insurance and financial corporations. The Financial Corporations Bill will be reintroduced. There will 'be legislation on new insurance companies and on the supervision -of insurance brokers. 
In other words, some of the racketeers of the past will not enjoy as much leeway as they have had. I refer particularly to the proposed legislation to control what is called fringe banking and merchant banking. When the 
Labor Government went out of office in 1949 approximately 80 per cent of the credit resources of this country came within the control of the Federal government. When the last Government went out of office the percentage had declined to below50 per cent. If a government is to have responsibility for the economic management of Australia it should have the necessary tools. The first tool must be that the Government shall be able to have some area of control over the credit resources of this country. We do not have it when 50 per cent of credit resources are outside the convential banking system. 
Debate interrupted. 
Is leave granted? 
Does the right honourable gentleman claim to have been misrepresented? 
Assuming other parameters move as forecast, the gross PAYE income tax receipts in 1973-74 would  vary from the Budget estimate by approximately $30m for each 0.5 percentage point variation in the increase in average earnings from 13.0 per cent. 
That specifically answered my question. The question was: To what extent would the PA YE collections increase for each 0.5 per cent increase in average weekly earnings? The answer was: Thirty million dollars for each 0.5 per cent increase. The actual increases in average weekly earnings, seasonally adjusted, were: For the September quarter, 5.3 per cent; for the December quarter, 3 per cent- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! As the right honourable gentleman would know, I have been watching fairly carefully to make sure that he did not stray too far from the subject. Of course, traditionally the Leader of the Opposition has always been given a fair amount of leeway. But I think it is important that the right honourable gentleman get to the point as to how he has been misrepresented. He should make his explanation as brief as possible. 
I ask the Minister for Housing and Construction: Has (he New South Wales State Liberal Government, through the Housing Commission of New South Wales, resumed large tracts of land at Doonside, an outer western suburb of Sydney, which includes such community facilities as the Featherdale animal sanctuary, land owned by Blacktown Hospital for a geriatric centre and land owned by the Maltese and Polish communities which is being developed as sites for ethnic clubs with associated sporting facilities? I realise that the Minister has no direct authority in this matter. Nevertheless could he approach the New South Wales Government with the request that these community facilities be preserved? 

Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
Firstly, the final arbiters regarding the decision of a date for independence should be the members of the House of Assembly in Papua New Guinea. Throughout our period in Opposition I have consistently pointed to the consistent policy of the Liberal Party when in Government that the decision on the date for independence must not rest with this Parliament but with the Parliament in Papua New Guinea. The Chief Minister has indicated, by foreshadowing a motion, that during April or May the matter will be fully discussed and debated and the decision will be taken by the elected leaders of Papua New Guinea in the House of Assembly, and we welcome that. 
Secondly, on 'behalf of the Liberal Party since we have been in Opposition and following the viewpoints that I expressed when previously I was Minister for External Territories, I said that not only did we have a duty to ensure the smooth and orderly transition through self-government to independence in Papua New Guinea, but also we had a basic duty to ensure that both Papua New Guinea and Australia fully understood the nature of the relationship in a post-independence situation; that it would not be good enough to arrive at a date for independence and pass through it and then start discussions on the nature of the relationship between the then independent country of Papua New Guinea and Australia. 
I am concerned that insufficient has been done regarding the post-independent relationship between Papua New Guinea and Australia. The motivation for discussion in this area would have to come from the Australian Government. Public servants who are serving the Papua New Guinea Government are hardpressed as it is. Those remaining from the former Department of External Territories in Australia are hard-pressed in handling the transfer of administrative and legislative functions during this period. In addition to those serving in the Papua New Guinea office within the present Department of Foreign Affairs, there should have been an additional cell which was operating specifically on postindependence relations. I just make that point. 
I shall cite 2 specific areas in which Ministers clearly have been delinquent in their duty, and I exclude the Minister for External Territories who is sitting at the table. The first is the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  who is culpable to the Australian nation for not advising this Parliament and the Australian people of what steps have been taken to determine the size, structure and role of the Papua New Guinea defence forces during this period of self-government prior to independence when I would remind honourable members that we are still internationally responsible and answerable to the United Nations for matters of internal security but particularly of defence security. One short paragraph was all the Minister for Defence gave us in his oblique defence statement last year. 
I do not need to dwell on the circumstances of the need for the Pacific Islands Regiment as an element within the Papua New Guinea Defence Forces. It could be called upon if the Chief Minister and his Ministers raters decided there was a need to use it in circumstances of internal security matters or as an aid to the civil power of the police. Australian servicemen are involved in the Pacific Islands Regiment and they will continue to be involved after independence. This Parliament has not been informed by the Minister for Defence at any time on what he views as the role of those officers in the Papua New Guinea defence forces. He had a duty to do it prior to selfgovernment. He has a duty to do it prior to independence and he has not executed that duty in any way. I would be failing in my duty if I did not draw the attention of the Australian Parliament to the circumstances of its Australian involvement in the Pacific Islands Regiment during this sensitive period of time. 
I do not think I need justify my firm belief and confidence in the stability of Papua New Guinea. I warmly endorse and was a party to the motivation towards self-government and the move towards independence. I regard the Chief Minister,  Mr Somare,  as one of the most successful politicians on the international scene. He has a credibility in handling his Government that few other leaders of the world can produce, sustain and maintain. He is charged with the responsibility of putting his resolution through in the next month. I trust that those who disagree with him will regard him as the genuine leader that he is, calling forth the aspirations of his people, and that if they have differences of view they will express them in the House of Assembly, and only in the House of Assembly, so that there is a full and fruitful debate on the matter by the elected representatives of the people. That is where the decision must be taken. 
By intruding these views regarding the role of the defence forces in Papua New Guinea during this period I in no way imply that they could be misused. The Minister for Defence is answerable to this Parliament. We have been ill-informed about their role. He has delayed decisions in consultation with Papua New Guinea as to what their role will be. As this is one of the last opportunities I will have in this Parliament to put forward views of this nature, it is my duty to signal them that he has not executed his duty in this regard. He ought to do it. He did not do it during last year when he had opportunities to do so. He should be seeking leave to enunciate their role now while this discussion is taking place, but his absence from the House is noted. 
A second matter which could have grave international implications in a post-independent situation has to be raised. Again I reiterate that it in no way affects any decision that may be taken by the members of the House of Assembly in April one way or the other. They are charged with making that decision, not us. It is their country and their future. A growing proportion of Papua New Guineans believe that the boundary between Papua and Queensland ought to be changed. When I was Minister for External Territories we formed an interdepartmental committee and endeavoured to determine the way in which we could resolve this difficulty between the Queensland Parliament, the Commonwealth Parliament, the islanders within the Torres Strait and the Papua New Guineans themselves. There is genuine difference of view, and we sought to resolve this by discussion and negotiation. My personal view, as was known, was that the boundary ought to be moved, but moved in a way that would not disrupt the lives of the people of the Torres Strait Islands and would give them security in the future. There could be a solution and there is a solution to this problem. 
The second Minister who ought to be nailed for delinquency in this area is the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  because immediately this Government took office he announced that the border would be moved. He ignored the aspirations, desires and insecurity of the Torres Strait Islanders. He ignored the constitutional right of the Government of Queensland and he seemed to pay little heed to the nature of the requests made by the politicians in Papua New Guinea. During the time of the 2-man government he was unilaterally going to move the border between Papua and Queensland. He was acting unconstitutionally. He has proceeded no further than the dogmatic statement that the matter would be resolved by moving the border. We will now have to wait until after independence for the matter to be resolved. Mark you, there could be few people who would disagree that one of the basic causes of international disputes in this century and many previous has been territorial boundaries, where they are denned and who has sovereignty over them. 
If the Government feels that it can move through 1 December, if that date is agreed upon, and if the Government feels that the 
Papua New Guineans will not insist on having this matter clarified, it is deluding itself. If the Government feels that it can act unilaterally and walk through the provisions of the Commonwealth Constitution by using, allegedly, the foreign affairs power, it will be acting against the spirit and the wording of the Constitution. Section 123 alone vests the right in State governments to determine the changes in their boundaries and no foreign affairs power can override the express mention of that section in the Constitution. It will not go away and the Government will not solve the problem by simply saying it will solve it and not taking action. Take note that there will be some in the independent country of Papua New Guinea - if they decide that 1 December is to be their date for independence - who will not tolerate dogmatic views that this Government with a stroke of a pen can change these boundaries. They will take it to the forum in which the Government has grandstanded so frequently over the last 16 months. While the Government is handling the international problem caused by its mishandling of Aboriginal affairs in this country, it will be seeking also to explain away why during 2 years of office, if it lasts that long, it did nothing to resolve this deep-seated problem. It is not a line on a map; it is an area about which people feel deeply. It can be resolved only by negotiation and I wish the Government would pull its head out of the sand and recognise what it will have to face after 1 December if it does not discuss these 2 specific areas plus others in the nature of post-independence relations. There will be no blame on the people of Papua New Guinea. It is clear where the blame and neglect has been. 
It is not for me to indicate whether I think the vote should be successful or not. I think most people would not need to read much between the lines to know my view on Papua New Guinea. When Papua New Guinea's independence does come, it will signify the last step in a long process. Changes have not occurred overnight. The Opposition believes that the actual movement towards independence will contribute greatly to the post-independence period, if there are discussions on matters such as I have mentioned and others. When we were in government we ensured, and this Government also has ensured - I compliment it in this area - that Papua New Guinea has been practised in governing and has been able to call on the resources, human and otherwise, that are a necessary part of an orderly and developing nation. This Government as well as the previous one - and again I compliment the present Government in this respect - has ensured that self government has not just been a legal facade. Responsibities have been properly exercised in areas for which this Government is internationally responsible. During the period of self government when the previous Government was still in control of certain areas, Ministers in Papua New Guinea were the prime motivators of change rather than the Australian Government and that is how it should have been. 
I trust or assume that this Government is following the policy of its predecessor in all areas of residual powers in regard to foreign relations. I trust that the Government will continue to do so and will ensure, as I said, as far as possible that no decision affecting Papua New Guinea is taken without full consultation with the Government of that country. When we were in government we hoped to arrive at a situation prior to independence where, because of the progressive involvement of Papua New Guinea leaders in the whole range of government activities and responsibilities there would be no sphere in which the newly independent country would find itself unfamiliar or lacking experience. I doubt whether many people would question that Australia and an independent Papua New Guinea will have a mutual interest in maintaining what is a unique and special relationship. 
The Australian Government, as the Minister pointed out, has announced Australia's intention to continue aid to an independent Papua New Guinea for the foreseeable future, both financially and, of course, in the provision of experts and training if this is requested by Papua New Guinea. Factors of geography alone have dictated that our 2 countries are too important each to the other to ignore the historical links that have been forged in the course of our administration of Papua New Guinea. Should this resolution go through, Papua New Guinea will become our closest foreign neighbour. We will be her closest source of aid and expertise. Until the fairly recent past Papua New Guinea has been, except for coastal areas, free from outside contacts and influences in many ways. Ethnically, however, the country is related to and during more recent years has been historically oriented towards, the islanders in the adjoining areas of the Pacific. The people of New Guinea have, particularly over the last 18 months through their leadership group, been taking an increasing interest in developments in South East Asia - to an even greater extent than in Australia - in that to the west of Papua New Guinea and sharing a common land border is part of the largest of the countries of that region. For this, if for no other reason, relations with Indonesia will inevitably occupy a special place for Papua New Guinea. 
I just mention briefly these foreign affairs factors because this is one of the last opportunities, apart from the debate on legislation which the Minister will introduce to obliterate!' the Papua New Guinea Act that we will have to ensure that there is an orderly legislative movement towards independence. When independence does come it will come I trust with a great deal of goodwill on both sides, notwithstanding what I said before which had to be said. I am talking about both sides in Australia and Papua New Guinea. I understand that both the Liberal Party and the Country Party will do all in their power to ensure that the unique and special relationship between Australia and Papua New Guinea continues irrespective of the manner in which the movement is taken towards independence. 
Order! I have been examining the Bill. There is no doubt that the Bill refers to the problem of definition of a foreign boat in the existing legislation. It was pointed out by the Minister in his second reading speech that, without amendment, during the period between selfgovernment and independence, Papua New Guinea boats would continue to be subject to Australian jurisdiction while in Australian proclaimed waters. Obviously this legislation is proposed in order to overcome the question of the definition of a foreign boat. I intend to restrict the debate to that subject. 
I was very surprised to hear a member of the Country Party criticising the administration of the Commonwealth superannuation scheme because the facts are that the Country Party was a coalition partner in government for 23 years administering the scheme. Furthermore, members of the Country Party were supporters of the Government which was responsible for the accumulation of this surplus in the Superannuation Fund. They were responsible for this overcharging of public servants. Yet they now have the gall to come into this House and be critical of the whole proposal. I think that most public servants today - I have had a lot to do with the public service because I was in a statutory body of the Commonwealth Public Service until 1961  -  would be saying: 'Father Christmas has arrived' because all serving members of the Public Service will receive in December of this year a total of $52,525,000 while pensioners will receive in September-October of this year a sum of $17,490,000 which as the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  pointed out in his second reading speech is a total of $70,015,000. Without a doubt, had the Fund been properly administered during the 23 years that the previous Government was in office, it would not have been necessary for this refund to be made to those who are contributors to the Fund. There would not have been a situation in which members of the Fund would have been consistently overcharged in respect of their contributions to the Superannuation Fund. That is a fact of life. 
While dealing with this point, I should also like to discuss a few other matters relating to what this Government has done for the Public Service in its short period of 16 months in office. The desires and wishes of the Public Service have been implemented in a manner not seen in the entire 23 years of office of the previous Government. All the demands and requests which had been made year after year by the Public Service were refused by the previous Government and it was no wonder that the great body of the Public Service voted on 2 December 1972 for a change of government. 
No, it was no surprise at all. The honourable member for Burke would have done the same. Furthermore, let us consider what this Government has done in its short period of 16 months in office. It has granted 4 weeks annual leave to the Public Service. Keep in mind how many years the Service has wanted that benefit. Of course, it was a New South Wales State Labor Government which provided 4 weeks annual leave before its defeat in 1965. It was to. have been the very beginning of this principle which was to have spread out far beyond that point. This Government has also implemented a 17) per cent loading on annual leave, and has provided maternity leave, paternity leave and improved long service leave benefits in that the qualifying period for long service leave has been reduced from 15 years to 10 years. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Does the honourable gentleman remember my asking his predecessor 18 months ago whether he was prepared to initiate an Australia-wide competition for an Australian national anthem to include 'Song of Australia' and 'Advance Australia Fair"' Does he also remember his predecessor replying that he would have the greatest pleasure in looking into the matter? I ask the Prime Minister when he will receive and publish the results of the National Anthem Poll which was conducted in association with the Bureau of Statistics population survey in February and March. 

The honourable member for Gwydir, being a private member, wishes to table the relevant correspondence. He requires leave of the House to do so. Is leave granted? 

Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 

<graphic href="089131197407302_50_2.jpg"></graphic>

The honourable member for Gippsiand  (Mr Nixon)  is a person whom we all like. Who could dislike such a very nice smiling face as his and what honourable member could have helped but be sorry for him tonight, when he walked in and when a quorum was called, just after the resumption of the sitting after dinner, to find that there was not one member of the Australian Country Party in the chamber to listen to him? In fact, I think there were only 2 Liberals-or was it one? - in the chamber and not one member of the Country Party to listen to him. He then launched forward with one of these- 
Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  I am glad you reminded the House of that. 1 think some of the honourable members opposite were beginning to forget that. Then we had that very pitiful attempt - the honourable member for Gippsland is a very nice bloke; he is so friendly with everybody, but it was a pitiful attempt - to try desperately to detract from this extraordinary initiative by this Labor Government. It is the first time such initiatives have been taken except for that period when the transcontinental railway was built by a previous Labor government. 
That action was initiated, as the honourable member for Hunter mentions, by the late King O'Malley. That was the last occasion on which a Federal government endeavoured to do anything about our antiquated public transport system. This is the first time that anything has been done since the transcontinental railway was built. And we had all those years of conservative governments. Yet the honourable member for Gippsland comes into this House tonight and tries to detract from what is undoubtedly a first in Australia's history since federation. The Federal Government has come to the assistance of the State transport systems. 
It is not even a reputable point of view,  Mr Speaker.  The facts are that the honourable member for Gippsland endeavoured to detract from one of the finest policy initiatives that the Whitlam Government has introduced into this Parliament and one that has received the support of all the Premiers, whether they be Labor or Liberal supporters. 
Yes, money does speak and the Opposition had 23 years in which to supply it. 
Thank you for protecting me,  Mr Speaker.  I shall give an example of the delay which unfortunately was brought about by some of the Liberal-Country Party Premiers. I ask honourable members to examine the dates when the various States signed the agreement with the Commonwealth. The Premiers of Western Australia and South Australia signed the agreement on 28 March and the Prime Minister on 29 March. The Premier of Victoria signed on 4 June, the Premier of Queensland on 1 1 June, the Acting 
Premier of New South Wales on 12 June, and the Premier of Tasmania on 13 June. So, in other words, 3 months went by - 3 months of inaction and delay. From the speech made by the honourable member for Gippsland tonight we can find good reasons for the delay that occurred. It was initiated as a deliberate attempt to frustrate the new policy initiatives of this Government. 
Another good example of the Government's initiative is the fact that this legislation is providing $7 1.91m for public transport. Last financial year $3 1.09m could have been appropriated for public transport but of course the Senate, at the instigation of the Liberal and Country Parties, assisted by the Democratic Labor Party, withheld Supply and created a double dissolution situation. The Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones),  therefore, could not introduce legislation to provide to the States at that point of time $3 1.09m to improve our public transport systems. In other words, the guilty men were delaying this legislation when the Government was endeavouring at every opportunity to press it forward. The guilt lies with the Opposition. Liberal and Country Party Premiers delayed the signing of the agreements for 3 months in the first place. Then the Liberal and Country Party senators held up the legislation for many months by their action in withholding Supply in the Senate. 
This is the first time a Federal government has come to the assistance of the States in an endeavour to improve a chaotic transport system which has suffered through 50 years of neglect. It is an area which received no support from previous Liberal-Country Party governments or conservative administrations. The jackals in the Country Party can scream their heads off but they cannot deny those facts. We know of course that the reason- (Opposition members interjecting.) 
Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  I can understand why Country Party members are so upset about this legislation. They are upset because it will .greatly improve the urban public transport system. We know how violently members of the Country Party react if the city ever gets a dollar or a quid. The facts are that the provisions of this Bill will greatly assist the urban transport systems throughout Australia. There have been 50 years of neglect of the public transport systems in Australia and 23 years of those 50 years were under conservative governments. This is the first, initiative taken by a Federal government in the public transport field. It is one of the finest initiatives ever taken by any Federal government, let alone by this Government. 
I am particularly delighted that this legislation provides, out of the funds allocated by it, for the quadruplication of the main western railway line within the metropolitan area of Sydney. It will provide also for the main western railway line new rolling stock and new signalling equipment, particularly at Strathfield. In other words, this action taken by this Government - one of the many great reforms initiated by it - will remove some of the chaos of the railways which has been suffered by residents of the western suburbs and the outer western area who commute to the city and from the city to the areas west of the city, right through to Lithgow. This is very important indeed. I should like the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan),  who is noted for skating down the railway line in his area, to travel in the trains in that area. He would see how packed they are. The conditions suffered by people who travel in those trains should not be tolerated by any decent human being. I think it would be a very good idea if the honourable member for Riverina were to spend a day on the trains examining the situation. Then he would not sneer at this legislation - a very important and necessary piece of legislation. 
I think it should be remembered that our public transport system conveys two-thirds of our population every day. I think it is generally admitted and accepted throughout the length and breadth of this country that it is extraordinarily out of date. I think we should examine systems that exist in other countries. In Great Britain the Government provides up to 75 per cent of the capital cost of urban public transport improvements. In Western Germany the Federal Government set aside 40 per cent of additional fuel taxes imposed in 1967 alone for this purpose. Great improvements have occurred in the public transport system in the United Kingdom. There are a lot of people from the conservative elements of the world - from the United Kingdom and from Australia - who sneered at the fact that a previous Labor government in the United 
Kingdom was forced into nationalising the public transport system of that country. Today a traveller can board a train in London and arrive at Edinburgh ' in Scotland having travelled for most of the journey at 90 mph. If that were attempted in this country, the train would not even stay on the rails. Dramatic improvements have been achieved throughout the United Kingdom. The reason is that the central government has come to the assistance of the public transport system. It is obvious that similar action is long overdue in Australia. It should have been taken many years ago. 
The honourable member for Gippsland endeavoured in the course of his speech to state that this proposal had been initiated originally by the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon).  The facts of the matter are these: Firstly, no action was ever taken by the honourable member for Lowe in his period as Australian Prime Minister to provide finance to the States to improve the urban transport system; secondly, it was only as the result of pressure from the State Premiers at Premiers Conferences that the right honourable member for Lowe finally ordered a study by the Bureau of Transport Economics. Everyone knows - the honourable member for Gippsland certainly knows - the history of reports presented to the previous Government. They ended in the graveyard. Whenever the LiberalCountry Party government was in a sticky situation, it ordered another study or another report and, when that report was presented, it was pigeonholed. Undoubtedly, if the results of this study had ever come to hand, they would have suffered the same fate. Any report would have gone to the graveyard of another pigeonhole. But the report having been presented, this Government took action. An undertaking was given by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in 1972; it was repeated in 1974. It is that promise, that undertaking, which is being honoured. We can understand why honourable members opposite are green about this action. They can recall that following election after election under their government none of the promises made was ever honoured. One after the other, those promises were repudiated. But  Mr Whitlam  and the Whitlam Government have a record of honouring the submissions and promises that it has made. (Honourable members interjecting) 
MemberforChifleydoesnotneedany assistance 
Mr.ARMITAGE.-I  can assure you not,  Mr Speaker.  As a matter of fact, I enjoy it. I Ithinkthatthe Bill represents the first step towardsthe goal of achieving increased public usageofpublic transport, reducing pollution frommotor vehicles and lowering road accidentrates.  I  believe that it is one of the great reforms that have been initiatedby this Federal Labor Whitlam Government. I believe that it ought to be supported completely and unequivocally by the Opposition. It is a pity thataperson of the stature of the honourable memberof Gippsland, a Minister in a Liberal- CountryParty Party government, should not at least acquiescein this proposal and admit that this isagreatreform, that it was well and truly overdueand that his government unfortunately nothing about it. 
For these reasons alone, I believe that this legislation should be completely supported toy both sides of the House. It represents a great reform This is the first time ever that a FederalGovernment has entered this field of transport with the exception of the occasion when theFisher Labor Government initiated the building of the Trans-Continental Railway. In inotherwords, on the only 2 occasions when any suchinitiativeshave been taken a Labor gov- ernment has been responsible. In common with every honourable member on this side of the House I am very proud of this fact. I am deeply sorry that the honourable member for Gippsland tried to detract from that record andtherefore reduced the respect in which he waspreviously held in this House. 
Mr.NIXON  (Gippsland) wish to make a personal explanation. 
Mr.NIXON.-  Yes. The honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  misrepresented me onoccasions. Firstly, he said that I had done nothing about urban transport problems until the Premiers forced the then Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  to refer the matter to the Bureau of Transport Economics. In point of fact the matter had been referred to the Bureau of Transport Economics by me and agreed to before that Premiers Conference. I think that theminutes of the Australian Transport AdvisoryCouncil will show that fact. 
Secondly, the honourable member said that I should be gracious enough to admit that this legislation represents a great reform. I did that at the outset of my speech by saying that this Bill brings to fruition the work that I commenced as Minister for Shipping and Transport and that therefore we are most happy to support the Bill. The third point relates to the claim by the honourable member that the only initiative ever taken in this area previously was by a former Labor government led by King O'Malley. Apart from the fact that since King O'Malley's time there have been a number of Labor governments which obviously have done nothing in this respect, I point out that a Liberal-Country Party government initiated the standardisation of the railway gauge throughout Australia. 
Mir  SPEAKER  - At the outset, the honourable member for Gippsland alleged that he had been misrepresented on 3 occasions. He did mention the 3 occasions in his personal explanation without fully debating the matters. 

 -Mr Speaker, I seek the indulgence of the Chair to make a personal explanation. 
Opposition members- No. 
-I wish to speak briefly on this motion. In 1971 my wife and I went to New Zealand. Typical of the late Norman Kirk,-the New Zealand Prime Minister took a Sunday off to entertain us. Even though I was purely a backbencher, he showed us around his home city of Christchurch. I have never been more impressed in my life by an individual. He was a man who was highly cultured and yet, as the Prime Minister has mentioned, he had very little formal education, leaving school at the age of twelve, By occupation he was a train driver like the late Ben Chifley. Yet, he rose to the highest position in government to which his country could elect any of its citizens. 
He was a man, as the Prime Minister also mentioned, who had great concern for people of all races, irrespective of colour, right throughout Asia.  His  wife- I mention this fact because our condolences go to  Mrs Kirk-  is a very lovely woman, who was completely dedicated to the work of her husband. She is a person of great humility. I am quite sure she was of very great assistance indeed to her husband in his work. I should like to express very sincere sympathy to her, to the nation of New Zealand, which has lost a very great leader, and, for that matter, to the whole of Asia, for this man understood the great problems of the region and was working towards overcoming, and was doing a great deal to overcome, those problems. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honourable members standing in their places. 
-A point of order was taken and the honourable member for Gwydir spoke to the point of order. I have already ruled that the Chair is not in a position to state whether the statements made by the honourable member for Mackellar are correct. I think that the appropriate course would be for the Minister, if he considers that he has been misrepresented, to make a personal explanation after the honourable member for Mackellar has finished speaking. At this stage I want the House to return to the Bill and to finish the discussion on it. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! I have already asked the honourable member for Mackellar not to stray from the Bill but to speak to the Bill. If the honourable member for Mackellar continues making personal remarks against the Minister or any other member of this House I will have to sit him down. 
It appears to me also that governments, as an anti-inflationary measure, should be reducing the charges for services to the current costs. I do not mean to say that they should not charge any interest but I think interest should be shown as a loss so that the true accounting of the service could be known because this is vital when one considers capital extensions, whether they be for the railways, the buses or the Post Office. I believe that it is important that the accounting be kept. For these public services, one of the great things about an anti-inflationary policy must be surely that we should be reducing charges to the real costs. This is something which I believe is fundamental. It concerns this Bill but it goes beyond this Bill. I believe that this real principle should be part of the anti-inflationary policy. We are in a position where an anti-inflationary policy is needed, new principles are needed, and new thinking is needed. This Government, which prides itself as being a progressive government, is really the victim of the old shibboleth- it cannot really think in new terms- and this Bill shows it. 
I support the Budget. I can say quite unequivocally that the Government is very proud of it as an economic instrument. It is not the only economic instrument available to a government to implement its economic policies. As the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  has pointed out time and time again, this is only one section of government policy. We are very proud of the fact that we have introduced, after so many years, a social justice Budget. It is one that gives justice to the vast majority of the people of Australia. It is one that sets out to try to remove some of the dreadful inequalities which have existed, which have been glaring and which have been referred to by members from this side time and time again over the years. These inequalities should have been corrected many years ago. The Opposition, when in Government, refused to do so. 
This Budget represents a redistribution of resources from some sections of the private sector of the economy to the public sector. It is well and truly overdue. It is a reallocation of resources to assist the needy and to ensure that the excessively wealthy do their bit to assist those needy people and the needy sections of our economy. We make no excuse for doing this. It should have been done many years ago. The Opposition paid lip service to it time and time again but never did anything, so the job had to be done. As a good example to show this is a social justice Budget I quote, for a start, the $500m restructure of the taxation scales to assist the low and middle income groups. I quote also the removal of that infamous poll tax- television and radio licence fees. That was an infamous tax. It was a tax under which David Jones paid exactly the same amount as a person who earned $3,000 or $4,000 a year. Now the Australian Broadcasting Commission will be funded out of Consolidated Revenue. Accordingly, by funding out of Consolidated Revenue, David Jones will pay a higher proportion of the needs of that organisation as compared with the person on a very low income, because David Jones pays a higher rate of tax. As I say, poll taxes are historically infamous and never should have been allowed, let alone increased time and time again by the Opposition. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MartinOrder! I ask the honourable member for Stirling to restrain himself. The 3 previous speakers were heard in comparative silence. I think the honourable member for Chifley is deserving of the same consideration. 

I will not let the honourable member take up my time. In regard to the social welfare and the social justice aspects of this Budget I refer to the great strides that are being made to overcome very important deficiencies in the educational and social welfare needs of our community. Education expenditure is up by 78 per cent on 1973-74. It was up 92 per cent last year as compared with the previous year. This is a massive and very needy increase. It will be spent on the basis of need; those who need it the most will get it. That is the only sound social justice aspect which can possibly be applied. 
Areas such as my own electorate will greatly benefit from the increases in health expenditure and on education because it is one of the needy areas. From expenditure on health, home nursing services, community health complexes, drug referral centres and other necessary requirements, outlying and vastly developing areas such as my own will benefit. All these fields have been satisfied by this Government in its new policies. They are all firsts. These policies were never introduced by the Opposition despite its opportunity in 23 years of government. The Government has instituted urban development programs and sewerage and local government grants. In Sydney alone two-thirds of the cost of the quadruplication of the Great Western Railway from Auburn through to Penrith will be funded by this Government and of new rolling stock to overcome the chaos in the railways that existed during 23 years of Liberal-Country Party rule. Funds have been allocated by this Government for roads ranging up to about $2m. There is much more to come and much more is needed out in the western suburbs. This Government has provided legal aid services, child care services and pre-school and kindergarten services. They were never provided when the Opposition was in government. That is why I say that this is a social welfare Budget. 
I want to touch on some much broader aspects of our policy. As I said, this Budget is not the only economic instrument available for implementing Government economic policy. This has been mentioned by the Treasurer time and time again. It has been delightfully ignored by the Opposition. Honourable members opposite, particularly the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  who after all was once the Treasurer of this country, should know better. Let me give other examples of instruments which could be utilised. The new amendments to the Restrictive Trade Practices Act will have a tremendous impact as an instrument of Government economic policy and particularly as an anti-inflationary measure, as also will the Financial Corporations Act which will bring under the umbrella of control by the Reserve Bank the whole of the fringe and merchant banking fields which have risen from approximately 20 per cent of all our banking institutions in 1949, when Labor went out of office, to over 50 per cent today. We have the Banking Act for the conventional banking system and we now have at last what we should have had many years ago- the Financial Corporations Act for the non-conventional banking system including the hire purchase companies. 
Yes, as the honourable member for Phillip says, the Liberals' friends. How much finance did they receive for their campaigns from that crowd? Is it any wonder that they took no action, despite the national needs of our economy, to bring about any control of fringe and merchant banking? This Government has also introduced the Prices Justification Tribunal. It is far more successful than anything the Opposition ever conceived. Otherwise the Opposition would not have allowed the passage of the relevant legislation through the House. The Government introduced tariff policies and finally fixed the exchange rate. These are the types of measures which can be utilised by the Government as instruments for the implementation of economic policy. 
This Government has recognised the economic facts of life. It knows that it took over a demand inflation situation in 1972. It knows that it had to have the courage, as it did, to introduce unpopular measures to combat that demand situation. For example, 2 revaluations of the currency were very necessary in a situation of excess liquidity. There was a need to bring in imports at that point of time to create competition and bring down prices of goods or prevent the price of goods from rising too quickly. There was the freezing of 33!/$ per cent of overseas borrowings with the Reserve Bank, the 25 per cent cut in tariffs and the 3 per cent call-up of special reserve deposits. When the Government realised- not being fixed immutably on its course- that the period of demand inflation was easing and we were moving into the secondary or consequential period of cost-push inflation it started to reverse the procedures which it had introduced to combat demand inflation. That has been done. As a result we now have, of course, a situation where only 5 per cent of overseas borrowings are frozen with the Reserve Bank. We have released statutory reserve deposits, or SRDs, on a number of occasions through the Reserve Bank. Of course, the latest measure, with which I shall deal in a moment, is a devaluation of the currency. In other words we have shown the necessary ability to be flexible in our approach to a situation. 
We are not just trying to use a Budget as a single instrument of economic policy but are using all of the various instruments available to government in order to set to to control the economy and in particular to control inflation; first of all demand inflation created by the Opposition because of the foolishness of its policies in the last 3 years it was in office. Do not honourable members opposite remember what the position was at that time? Do they not remember that one could not get nails? Do they not remember how hard it was to get bricks and tiles when this Government came into office? These materials are available today because of the policies of this Government in setting to to overcome demand inflation. We apologise that cost inflation exists today. Not once during a period of 23 years, commencing in 1949, did the previous Government see the necessity to vary the exchange rate. 
The reason for this was exactly as the Leader of the House just said- the Country Party would not allow it. Members of the Opposition talked about speculation yesterday. Yet we had the spectacle of a LiberalCountry Party Cabinet locked in battle for 3 days trying to decide whether or not the exchange rate should be altered. Opposition members talk about speculation. Fortunes were made and lost and speculation took place on the money markets of the world simply because of the complete inadequacy and complete incapacity of the Cabinet of that day. The Government of the day then made a very minor variation. This was a typical example of how the previous Government could not make up its mind. 
The present Government recognised in the first weeks of taking office that an excess demand situation existed. The Government immediately revalued the currency to reduce liquidity and to reduce the cost of imports because at that stage we had very large reserves which in themselves were creating excess liquidity. We subsequently revalued once again. Today, as the demand situation has passed on, as we no longer have an excess liquidty situation and as there has been a large intake of imports, we have reached the appropriate stage at which to be flexible and to once again devalue the currency back to approximately what it was when we came back into office. This shows that the Government has been flexible enough to introduce the proper type of policy. 
Sitting suspended from  6.14  to  8  p.m. 
When the sitting of the House was suspended for dinner I was speaking in support of this Budget and in support of the various pieces of legislation which have been passed by this Government and which provide it with a great deal of room for flexibility of movement. I was pointing out that this Budget in itself is not the sole factor in controlling inflation and in bringing about a more rational economic policy. 
Before I conclude my remarks, I wish to deal with one very important issue. A great deal of play has been made by the Opposition of the question of the new property surcharge income tax. In other words, I am referring to the 10 per cent surcharge on non-personal exertion income. The Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  has authorised me to make this announcement: A joint meeting of the Caucus Economic and Trade Committee and the Welfare Committee, of which I am the Secretary, was held today with the concurrence of the Treasurer and with his agreement has recommended to Cabinet variations in the proposed legislation which would ensure that retired people and sick and infirm people earning a moderate income from property will not suffer any hardship whatsoever. However, it will also be ensured that individuals who earn a considerable income from property without personal exertion and who far too often retire at an early age, thereby depriving the nation of their work resources, and accordingly their productivity, will still pay the surcharge. The proposal of the joint meeting of the Committees is that income from property of under $5,000 a year will not attract the 10 per cent surcharge. Furthermore, there will be a shading-in arrangement up to the figure of $5,500. This will mean that 800,000 taxpayers who would have paid the surcharge will not now have to pay it. 
The number is 800,000. The number of taxpayers who would have paid the surcharge has been reduced from 1,300,000 to 500,000 taxpayers. I believe that this is an equitable and reasonable compromise arrangement that should ensure that there will be no hardship for the aged and infirm. I have little doubt that the decision of the Committees will be accepted by Cabinet and Caucus. 
And the people; I agree with the honourable member for Hunter. I think that it is a reasonable proposition and a reasonable compromise. I think that it will give a great deal of satisfaction to those people who may have suffered hardship. This Government is different from the previous Government. We are always prepared to review and we are always prepared to be flexible. We have shown that already. When there was demand inflation, the 
Government operated accordingly. Now that the period of demand inflation has passed and cost push inflation has arrived as a natural aftermath, we are prepared to be flexible and vary our policies and, where necessary, reverse them. That is commonsense, economic management. It is time that that sort of management was learnt by honourable members opposite. 
I should mention also that that type of taxation surcharge on non-personal exertion income was first introduced in 1915 by an anti-Labor Government and was abolished only in 1954 at the behest of the wealthy supporters of the present Opposition. Of course, it is time that the tax was looked at once again. I make this final warning to the people of Australia: This Government, through its Caucus Economic Committee, right through from the Caucus, the Cabinet, the Treasurer and the Prime Minister, was prepared to question some of the advice that had been given to it, advice which suggested that we were still in a position of demand inflation and that there should be massive unemployment. We repudiated that advice. Instead of that, we accepted this Budget- a Budget of social justice. (Extension of time granted). 
I thank the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt).  He has always had such a lovely smiling face and I always assumed that underneath that exterior he is a really lovable fellow. I am very pleased he takes the attitude that I should be granted an extension of time. However, the only point I was endeavouring to make to finalise the whole issue is that I warn the people of Australia that the previous Governmentthe Opposition, when it was in governmentalways accepted the advice of the Jeremiahs. If one goes back into a bit of history one recalls that in 1952 there was massive unemployment. One recalls the next cycle in 1 955. One recalls the unemployment in 1960 and, of course, not long before we came to power exactly the same situation existed. The previous Government was always prepared to accept the advice of the Jeremiahs, never prepared to stand on its own legs and make a decision on its own account. At least the Australian Labor Party Government has been prepared to do it. At least it has been prepared to stick to its guns and to bring in a Budget for social justice, which the honourable member for Fisher laughs at. He does not want social justice, nor do the other members of the Australian Country Party, the representatives of the Pitt Street farmers. This is the attitude which they always take. I warn that if the Opposition were to come to government it would continue to accept advice which it has accepted in the past, which our Government repudiated, which would involve a continuation of recession and would bring very dire circumstances indeed to the great majority of the people of Australia. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Before I call the honourable member for Bennelong I point out to the House that this will be the honourable member's maiden speech. I should like honourable members to extend to him the usual courtesies. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 

<graphic href="090131197009265_81_6.jpg"></graphic>

As honourable members opposite have talked about economic effects let me point out that countries which have been prepared to spend a large amount of their budgets on education have had the highest economic growth. There are some other figures which are of interest too. Let us take the field of tertiary education. In 1971-72 the expenditure on universities by the previous Government was $ 1 6 1 m. It is estimated to rise to $49 lm this year. For colleges of advanced education and teachers colleges there is a rise from $55m in 1971-72 to $326m. There is an overall rise in expenditure over the whole field of education from $346m under the McMahon Government to an estimated expenditure in the coming year of $1, 534m. These things have to be done. For many years education had been suffering crisis after crisis. This Government seized the initiative and has done something about it. I believe that the people of Australia will give credit where credit is due when the time comes to make a decision as to which political party is to rule this country. 
In my own electorate of Diamond Valley, apart from education, we have needs in the field of urban transport and urban development generally. It is interesting to note in the papers attached to the Budget that the amount for area improvement programs will rise from the actual figure of $7.4m in 1973-74 to $ 14.1m this year. The land commissions expenditure will rise from $ 11.5m last year to $56.9m this year. The total expenditure, leaving aside protection of the environment and provision of sewerage faculties, will rise from $ 102.6m last year to an estimated $264.7m this year. The expenditure for the provision of sewerage services will rise from $39.9m last year to $ 125.5m this year. This Government has its priorities straight. It will get things done. 
The area improvement programs will confer particular advantage on local governments in my electorate. There are 5 municipalities which are either wholly or partly in the electorate of Diamond Valley. From the Grants Commission the Diamond Valley Shire Council will receive $240,000, the Eltham Shire Council will receive $150,000, the Heidelberg City Council will receive $230,000, the Northcote City Council will receive $225,000 and the Whittlesea Shire Council will receive $105,000.The Doncaster and Templestowe City Council, which is in the inner eastern region, will receive $225,000. These amounts will materially assist local government to overcome some of the problems which have been caused by years and years of neglect not only by federal governments but also by State governments. We hear a lot of talk about the fact that State governments are responsible for local government, but in my experience in local government State governments have not given nearly enough assistance and the time was long overdue for some assistance to be given by a national government. In fact since 1952 seminars and conferences of local government representatives have been calling for assistance from national governments. But it was not until this Government came to office that anything was done in this respect. 
The Government has provided in the Budget for a significant increase of funds for social welfare and social services. Elderly persons have already received increases which, of course, have taken into account inflation and which have brought their pension to 24.5 per cent of average weekly earnings. The Government promised to bring the rate of their pension to 25 per cent of average weekly earnings in 2 years. In 1 8 months we have almost achieved that figure. 1 believe this is a great achievement by the Whitlam Labor Government. We have introduced in this Budget interest mortgage deductions. We propose to set up a Children's Commission to look after child care and pre-school education. It was not until this Government came to office that a national government thought to spend any significant amount in the States on child care and pre-school education. 
This is a Budget of which we can all be proud- proud on the expenditure side and proud on the revenue side. It is a more equal Budget. It will do things to develop this country that previous governments have failed to do in 23 years. Already in the space of less than 2 years we have laid the plan for a significant improvement in the way in which we operate as a nation. We have determined the sort of priorities which we have for the development of our country and the use of its wealth. The time has come for an assessment by this Parliament of what we have done. It is not just a question of who has the numbers because ultimately the people make the decision. I am sure that they will make the right decision. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I would ask the Leader of the Opposition to keep to the context of the Bill itself. 
-The honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann)  seems to be a little uptight. In the House last Thursday night I did mention a recommendationI repeat, a recommendation, and I never suggested otherwise- of a Caucus committee. I emphasise that I stated then, and the honourable members will see that it is recorded in Hansard, that this is still a matter for decision by Cabinet and Caucus. I should mention, as I mentioned then, that before raising the matter in the House I first went to the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  and he agreed that I should make that announcement. What the honourable member for Fisher does not seem to be able to appreciate or understand, being a member of a party which was virtually a complete dictatorship for so many years under  Sir Robert  Menzies and other Liberal Party Prime Ministers, is that this is not a one-man Government. Every member on the government side of the House has a right to partake in policy making. Accordingly, that is what occurred. The Australian Labor Party is a democratic Party, and the people who elected its members know that we go into this Parliament and work hard at policy making. We do not go in and act purely as cyphers as has occurred in previous governments when the Prime Ministers and the senior members of the Cabinet made all the decisions and the cyphers sitting behind them, the marionettes, were simply dangled there without any possible capacity or ability to influence the course of government. That was the case with previous governments; it is not the case with this Government. Furthermore, we are a flexible party which is always prepared to reconsider a decision. We do not stick our heads in the sand and say: 'Right oh, the decision is made. We will stick by it whether it is right or wrong'. We are always prepared to have another look at a decision. 
The tax surcharge on unearned income was first introduced in 1915 by a conservative government. It was abolished in 1954 at the behest of the wealthy supporters of the Liberal and Country Parties no doubt because the costs of campaigns had increased a great deal at that time. It is true that reconsideration is being given to the details of the surcharge so as to ensure that no hardship is occasioned to the aged, the invalid and so on. I think that the principle involved in the surcharge when it was introduced and espoused by a conservative government was that those who earned income through working should pay less taxation than those who earned income without working. That was the simple principle involved but it has been repudiated today by Opposition members. They think it is electorally popular to repudiate it. It is true that consideration is being given to the proposition that people with a taxable income of $5,000 per annum will be exempt from the surcharge and that there will be a phasing out of the surcharge in regard to people receiving incomes between $5,000 and $5,500 per annum. This would exempt some 800,000 of the 1,300,000 taxpayers who would have been affected by the original proposal. A huge heap of letters from people all over the country approving of the proposal I have outlined arrived in this morning's mail. As I have emphasised, it is simply a proposition at this stage and is subject to a decision of Cabinet and Caucus. 
There is a growing body of people today who, because of some windfall of wealth such as being fortunate enough to own rural land which is rezoned for industrial, commercial or housing purposes, to win a lottery or to be successful in speculation on stock exchanges, are able to retire early, thus depriving the nation of their working capacity. In other words, the nation is losing their productivity at a time, as the Acting Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  said only the other day, when it is vital in the interests of Australia that Australia should work its way out of inflation. Members of the Opposition are always expressing concern about cost inflation. Without a doubt, the Government took over a demand inflation situation. We are now getting to the consequential cost inflation era with which we have to grapple. We should not forget that this Government originally took over a demand inflation era from what is now the Opposition. If you cast your mind back you will recall the extreme shortages that existed at that time. Everybody agreed that the economy was grossly overheated and corrective action had to be taken. We had the courage to take it. 
The House, and particularly members of the Opposition, should give consideration to the negotiations at present going on between the Government and the trade union movement for a compact of wage restraint. Naturally the wage and salary earner is arguing that if his wage increases are to be restrained so too should unearned profits or incomes made without any personal exertion on the part of the income earner. In other words, the person who works with his hands or his brain for his income considers that it is a reasonable proposition that if he is to be asked to restrain any increases in income that he may receive so too should those who earn income without any personal exertion be restrained in respect of increases in their incomes. That is the basic reason this proposal was introduced. It is a most effective way to introduce restraint on unearned income. It can be argued that a compact should be entered into to restrain increases in income derived from personal exertion because it is vital to get the co-operation of all sections of the community in the fight against inflation. But we cannot expect only one sectionthe wage earner- to bear the brunt of that fight. Members of the Opposition should have a look at themselves. Are they to continue with their advocacy of fighting inflation by hitting only the little people- the wage and salary earners who earn income out of personal exertionand leaving it to the big and powerful alone to exploit the weak? 
The honourable member for Fisher and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  referred to the fact that we are calling this Budget a social justice Budget. There is no argument about this. If one looks at the whole content of the Budget one can see that it is a Budget to redistribute resources and to remove poverty. The Budget removes the inequitable poll tax on television and radio licence fees and grants tax relief of $500m for those people in what could be called the lower and lower middle income groups. There is no doubt that the Budget intends- and we make no excuse for this- to redistribute income and to remove poverty. If poverty is to be' removed the cost has to be met somehow. I repeat for the benefit of the honourable member for Fisher that the Labor movement is a flexible one which is always prepared to reconsider a decision it has reached. The Government is not inflexible. The Government is not going to hide its head in the sand. It is not a one-man government in which, once a decision has been reached, that decision cannot necessarily be varied. 
Finally I would ask members of the Opposition to look very carefully at their consciences. Are they going to co-operate in trying to get a compact for wage restraint? Do they realise that this is not a one-way show and that if such restraint is to be obtained it must be shown by them that they also are prepared to restrain unearned income. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Sitting suspended from 12.58 to 2.15 p.m. 
-A short while ago the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  was criticising the proposal for indexation of wages. Members of the Opposition are missing the real point involved here. Indexation will mean that the trade union movement will not need to apply to the court for awards based on the increase in the cost of living. In other words, because very often those people in the trade union movement do not know when their case will be heard by the court or because they do not know when they will obtain by way of negotiation with the employer their next award, very often they have to try to pre-empt increases in the cost of living. Of course, this is inflationary in itself, so far as cost-push inflation is concerned. It will mean that they will have these increases automatically guaranteed to them and they will need to apply for other aspects of wage fixation, such as by way of work value cases, productivity increases and so on. For this reason wage indexation, far from being inflationary as some members of the Opposition suggest, would undoubtedly have a deflationary effect. Opposition members do not seem to appreciate that this is the real intent behind the proposal. It has worked well in other countries, such as Belgium, and it is well and truly worth looking at in these days of rapidly rising prices. I hope I did not misunderstand the honourable member for Lilley. 
I thought that the honourable member was criticising the proposal when I walked into the chamber. Certainly some of the honourable member's colleagues have been doing so and I thought that he was following the general line. However, I wish to direct my remarks to the whole history of the corning to power of Labor governments right down through the years. Time and again Labor has come to power in times of crisis, and this occasion is no exception. The present Labor Government took over a situation of excess demand, as exampled by shortages of consumer goods such as white goods, building supplies and so on, and a spiralling money supply, as I will evidence in a moment, and therefore inflation. 
I should like to direct the attention of honourable members to a very important graph which appeared in the 4 October issue of the 'Australian Financial Review', which is hardly a young radical newspaper. I would ask every honourable member of the Opposition to study this graph very carefully, because it depicts movements in the Australian money supply. It shows for the December quarter of 1972- Labor took office on 2 December 1972- that the spiral in excessive money supply was well and truly on. 
From an increase of 2 per cent in the March quarter of 1 970 it had risen to an increase of 1 2 per cent in the December quarter of 1972. This increase was the result of the policies carried out over the previous 3 years when the Opposition, the then Government, was fearful of losing an election. Because of its fear it was introducing policies which economically were quite unsound and quite irresponsible. The result was that the money supply for the June quarter of 1973 increased to its maximum of 24 per cent. Once the new policies of this Government had made themselves felt, it then started to decrease. Anybody knows that one of the major causes of demand inflation is excess money supply. This graph, which was published on 4 October by the 'Australian Financial Review' which, as I said, is hardly a young radical newspaper, gives a very graphic example of what the position was when this Government took control in December 1 972. As the evidence shows, the spiral was well and truly on at that time. Honourable members should cast their memories back to that time. They will remember that excessive demand which resulted in shortages of building materials, white goods and so on was well and truly on. One found it almost impossible even to get nails or bricks. 
Furthermore, the situation which this Government took over has been made all the worse by what can only be called the foolhardy management policies of some of the trading banks, and I refer particularly to the pundit of so-called high finance in Australia and of economic policy, the Bank of New South Wales. The 1 890 bank crash caused a major depression- not a recession- and this was brought about simply  by excessive speculation in land which was financed by the banking system. Honourable members will recall that from this situation came the golden rule of all banks that they would not lend money for land speculation. This was the golden rule. Yet our trading banks went in for wide-scale and excessive lending to finance people engaging in excessive land speculation. At the same time they went for excessive financing of imports, and the result of this was that in no time their liquidity position became very dangerous indeed. 
The banks then went on to the market because their reserves were falling below the traditional 18 per cent liquidity mark. They went on the short term money market, which is the most expensive market of the lot, to obtain finance to bridge what one can only call a liquidity gap. The result is evidenced by an article which appeared in the 'National Times' of 22 April, and which is headed 'Times are tough- even the 
Wales is offering 12 per cent'. Some of the banks were reputedly paying up to nearly 20 per cent. Of course, they then had to charge higher interest rates themselves, which were far beyond the increased interest rates determined by government policy. The same thing occurred with building societies. Because they were lending long, borrowing short, and borrowing even on demand, they also were forced into the situation of having to go on to the short-term money market and finally to charge interest rates well above those determined by Government policy. 
I point these things out for the very reason that I think it is time a few people settled down to realise that Labor has had to take over such messy situations time and again in its history. Once again it has had to do so. One again it has had the courage to face up to the situation in the interests of Australia as a whole and to introduce policies to control what would have been, had the policies of the previous Government been allowed to continue, a completely chaotic situation. 

 Mr KEVIN CAIRNS (Lilley  )-Mr Chairman,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Urban and Regional Development. Is it a fact that $2.5m was allocated to all States last financial year for National Estate projects? Is it also a fact that the $585,000 grant to the New South Wales Government for this purpose has not been utilised? What is the reason for that? 
It is amazing when one listens to members of the Opposition, particularly members of the Country Party, to realise how unreal they are sometimes on the question of foreign policy, and even on the matter of defence. For instance, the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  advocated increased expenditure on defence whereas earlier the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  advocated a reduction of such expenditure by 8 per cent. The honourable member for Maranoa said that we should recognise Taiwan. He revealed a complete lack of understanding of the politics of the situation. The facts are that the People's Republic of China considers Taiwan to be a province of China and the People's Republic will not, in any circumstances, exchange diplomatic emissaries with any country which recognises Taiwan as a separate entity. So there is a choice to make. Do we choose Taiwan or China? That is the simple situation. If the Premier of Queensland,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  were to establish his State as a separate country would members opposite expect Australia to accept that situation? Would they expect that we should expect other countries to recognise Queensland as a separate nation? Taiwan is in exactly the same position in China's view. China maintains that Taiwan is a province of China. Historically this is correct. For that reason China will not accept recognition of Taiwan by any other country and would not exchange diplomatic emissaries with Australia if we recognised Taiwan. So there is a choice which must be made realistically. I have visited the People's Republic of China and it has no objection- contrary to what the honourable member for Maranoa says- to other countries trading with Taiwan. In fact, the latest development is for the Chinese Government to encourage Taiwanese people to visit China in certain circumstances. The question of South Africa also was raised. 
I will deal with that matter, so the honourable member should not get excited. South Africa is a good example of a country finally bowing to world opinion, as it should do. South Africa is one of the most dreadful and disgraceful examples of racism in the world. World opinion has built up against South Africa. It is a tragedy that there are some people in Australia who mouth the reactionary policies which have been followed by South Africa, but there is a light on the hill today. At last she is starting to bow to world opinion. 
The honourable member mentioned the question of the Baltic states. The foreign policies of this Government are recognised world-wide today. The further one travels the more one realises that the foreign policies of this Government are some of its finest initiatives. It has removed the shibboleths of the past. At last an Australian Government is not under pressure from extreme reactionary pressure groups such as the Democratic Labor Party, the National Civic Council and the rest, and an Australian Government is prepared to initiate policies which it considers are in the best interests of Australia and particularly of the future generations of Australians. Honourable members opposite may find this debate very useful, politically, in endeavouring to gather a few votes. 
The honourable member for Riverina is a very new member of this House. He is noted for his brashness and for his lack of maturity. I suggest that he start to learn a few things. We have to consider what is in the future. We have to consider the future generations of 
Australians and where they will stand in the future. We should not adopt foreign policies simply because they mean a few extra votes here in Australia. That is what has been done in the past. 
I refer now to the attitude of the Government in recognising other governments. We recognise those governments which are in effective control of the countries concerned. For this reason we recognised China and we recognised North Vietnam, and on the other extreme we recognised Chile. Chile has an extremely right wing government; nevertheless it was recognised. By the same token, the Baltic states are under the effective control of the Soviet Union. Like it or not, as the Prime Minister said in this Parliament the other day in answer to a question, it is quite immoral, utterly immoral, to try to trick people here in Australia into believing that they will have the opportunity in the comparatively near future of once again controlling those countries. The Opposition is building up false hopes in these people. It is cruel. It is not facing up to what is a political world reality. The fact of life is that the Opposition is doing it with the simple objective of obtaining a few petty votes. If that reflects the type of policies which the Opposition pursued, it is no wonder that Australia's foreign policies were repudiated throughout the world, in country after country, while the Opposition was in government. 
New initiatives are coming forth, new policies are coming forth, with the result that Australia's prestige overseas, particularly throughout the Asian region, has never been as high as it is today. I instance the recognition of China. I have been there twice. I was impressed by the way China had increased its knowledge in the comparatively short period between the 2 visits of the viewpoints of the rest of the world. I recollect a previous Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, Clem Attlee, saying some years ago that he was very frightened indeed of the lack of knowledge in China of the viewpoints of the rest of the world and that the sooner the isolation of China was ended the better it would be for the peace of the whole world. That is correct. We see the fruits of that recognition coming through today. China has increased its knowledge of the views of the world. It has increased its maturity in its relations with other countries. We may not like its political system. It is not our political system. It is quite different from ours. But, as far as its culture and morality are concerned, many people in Australia could well take note. One could not have anything stolen in China. Sexual morality is completely above question. The sooner we get more cultural and industrial exchanges with that country the better. I also noted the great improvement in the technology and the types of equipment in the factories in China. 
I have touched very briefly on the question of the Indian Ocean. I believe very firmly that we do not want to see the Indian Ocean become a source of conflict between the 2 super powers. I do not think it is in the interests of the rest of the world. It certainly is not in the interests of the peace of the world. It is not in the interests of the 2 super powers themselves. I believe that the sooner the Indian Ocean is made a zone of peace with some surveillance to check the activities going on there the better it will be for countries such as Australia. I believe that, as in the case of South Africa, it is time for world opinion, which is starting to exert itself in the United Nations, to force this attitude on the 2 super powers. This will be in the interests of Australia and the peace of the world as a whole. 
Will the Prime Minister elaborate on the reference he made to staff ceilings and staff recruitment in the Australian Public Service in last night's great economic statement and, in particular, will he say what arrangements the Government is making to provide additional openings for school leavers? 
Did the Prime Minister make it clear in his statement last Tuesday that the Government recognises industry's need for an adequate level of earnings to finance reinvestment? Will he confirm that his letter to the Prices Justification Tribunal on this matter represents an expression of on-going Government policy? 
I wish to speak tonight about an individual who has been most outspoken in criticism of the Government.  His  name is Russell Blair Prowse. He has been the Assistant General Manager of the Bank of New South Wales since 1 970. 1 wish to speak of him because there is a very old adage that people who live in glasshouses should not throw stones.  Mr Prowse  has been particularly critical of this Government's economic policy. But I would like to draw a comparison between that policy and the policies being followed by his own institution, the Bank of New South Wales, which hardly bear exposure to the light of day when the question of responsibility is concerned. 
As I said,  Mr Prowse  has been Assistant General Manager of the Bank of New South Wales since 1970. In actual fact, his main claim to fame is that he is apparently a fairly good public relations man who received his opportunity when he was seconded by the Bank of New South Wales to organise against the Chifley Labor Government in 1947. At that stage he was a 3 1 year old teller in a Sydney branch of that Bank- rather old to be in such a junior position. 
Well, I would have some knowledge. 
At that time I was also a teller in a city branch of a Bank. So, I have some knowledge as to what was an appropriate age. I can assure the House that I was a lot younger than 31 years of age. Furthermore, the Bank was concerned by the then Labor Government and wanted to get it out of power.  Mr Prowse  wrote some treatises which he sent to the general manager of the Bank. At that stage, the Bank was recruiting people to work as full-time organisers for the Liberal Party to endeavour to put the Chifley Labor Government out of power. We all remember that the Bank of New South Wales was a highly political institution. Yet this man, who received his chance because he was put into political organisation against the then Labor Government and who was so heavily identified with political organisation, denied in the Press on 2 May this year that he was politically motivated in his attacks on the economic policies of this Government. He claims to be, of course, a high pundit of high finance in this country. Yet his bank is more responsible than any other similar institution for the liquidity crisis in this country. As Assistant General Manager he must personally accept considerable responsibility for the mistakes of his institution. 
Unlike its main competitor the Commonwealth Banking Corporation, that bank did not read the signs and continued on with its irresponsible lending policies. It broke the rule established in 1 890 at the time of the great bank crash and finance companies associated with unbridled and irresponsible land speculation- a boom, of course which had to crash. Of course, in 1890 the rule was laid down that banks would not finance speculation in land but would finance the purchase of land only to put a dwelling upon it That was done because the major cause of the 1890 crash and the great depression which followed it- which of course was one of the reasons for the formation of the Australian Labor Partywas the very fact that banks at that time did exactly what they have been doing recently. I make this point:  Mr Prowse  's bank was responsible more than any other for the land price spiral. Of course, it was also one of those banks which financed excessive imports into this country, many of the rates quoted being 1  Vi  per cent per month, in other words 18 per cent per annum. 
Finally, this bank of which  Mr Prowse  is the Assistant General Manager, because of the severe liquidity crisis it found itself in and because it did not read the signs- the Commonwealth Bank and the National Bank did and they knew just what was occurring; they had the economic advisers on their staff to advise them and accordingly did not get any problems- had to go into the short term money market and borrow at rates as high as 18 per cent because its own liquidity margin had fallen below the 1 8 per cent traditional margin. In other words it was very fortunate that it could turn to the Reserve Bank, a central bank, an organisation whose original establishment it had opposed and which was, of course, the lender of last resort. If the Bank of New South Wales had not had the Reserve Bank- the bank whose foundation it originally opposed- as a lender of last resort the position would have been very serious indeed. In other words, had the bank been operating in that way in the days before the war the situation would have been very serious. 
For these reasons I do not think that  Mr Prowse,  as Assistant General Manager of the Bank of New South Wales, is in a position to criticise anyone. Basically he is a public relations man. That is how he got his move along in the Bank. He has not progressed because of any financial expertise. In view of the history of his bank in recent times and the very serious mistakes it has made in the management of its own affairs- and  Mr Prowse  is one of the very, very senior officials of that bank- he is not, as I said, in a position to criticise anyone. Rather, he should look around, have a look in the mirror and see what his own organisation is doing. In other words, he should ensure that he puts his own house in order, a house which has been responsible for a great deal of the liquidity crisis which exists in this country. 
The Bank has not been able to respond to the Government's call for increased lending for housing.  Mr Prowse  should set to and have a look at his own house, put it in order and then get on with the job of governing his own organisation, if he has that capacity. It is the height of impudence for a person who has shown his own incapacity to handle the affairs of his own organisation to take it upon himself to be a cheap critic of a Government that is trying to handle a very difficult situation, a situation forced upon it by the previous Government. One only has to look at the money flow when this Government took office to realise that we had a situation forced upon us by the previous Goverment and by conditions which exist throughout the world today.  Mr Prowse  should have a look at a little of the history, particularly the recent history, of his own organisation.  Mr Prowse  cannot, with this background, be as he claims to be not politically motivated. He is undoubtedly politically motivated in his criticisms and that politcal motivation should be exposed the whole of the Australian public. 
-The honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann)  examples very well indeed the carping criticism which the Opposition always levels at all legislation introduced by this Government. It never offers anything constructive, because it is an Opposition bereft of any ideas of its own, as exampled in the last Federal election campaign when suddenly it had to adopt Labor policy in the last fortnight before the campaign began in order to have even a policy of its own. For this reason I say quite specifically that it can only resort to destructive criticism and it completely ignores its own responsibility for past actions, for example in respect of particular aspects of this Bill. When the Opposition was in government it increased interest rates from the official bank lending rate of 4'/4 per cent to 8 per cent and in some instances to 8 percent. In other words, it doubled interest rates during the time it was in government. Of course, that included even higher rates for building societies. 
Despite its recent espousal of the complete abolition of estate duties, when it was in government the Country Party did nothing whatsoever. It always uses this beautiful diversion: 'This is what my Party, the Country Party, says', but implying: 'It is that other dreadful coalition Party of ours, the Liberal Party, which stopped us from doing anything.' Right throughout that period the Country Party did nothing whatsoever to grant exemptions from estate duties for matrimonial homes. It is all very well for the Opposition to come here and say that this legislation should go further. At least this Government is doing something. The Liberal-Country Party governments of 23 years did absolutely nothing. 
Then we come to the concessional deduction system, which was introduced by the LiberalCountry Party Government. Prior to that the Chifley Labor Government had a rebate system which gave an across the board flat rate reduction in respect of a wife and in respect of dependent children, for example- an equal amount irrespective of the individual. But because of the pressures upon it the conservative LiberalCountry Party Government introduced a concessional system which benefits the rich to the detriment of the poor. A very good example would be the case of a man with a wife and 3 children. I know the honourable member for Fisher wants to leave now, but he has to hear the truth of things. A man with a wife and 3 children who had a taxable income of $4,000 a year would receive an actual rebate in tax of $208 whereas a man with a wife and 3 children who had a taxable income of $40,000 would receive an actual tax rebate of $696. That is $208 compared to $696. That was the system which was introduced by the previous Liberal-Country Party Government in 1950-1951. It was introduced as soon as the Menzies Government took office. It was a system deliberately designed to benefit those on high incomes so far as taxation rebates are concerned to the detriment of those on low incomes. 
For this reason I am very pleased indeed to see that the Treasurer has introduced in this Bill what one could say is the beginning of a rebate system and the reintroduction of a rebate system which existed under the Chifley Labor Government. It means that there will be a trend now towards a flat rate of taxation rebates instead of the concessional deduction system which now applies and which has over the years operated to the detriment of the lower and middle income groups. I hope to see this legislation extended to provide for a rebate system for all deductions in the future, irrespective of income. I do not think it is just that my wife should be more valuable to me in actual taxation rebates than is the wife of a person on a taxable income of $4,000 or $5,000 per annum. It is not right, it is not just, and I hope that this is one thing which will be corrected in the future. 
I must also congratulate the Government for introducing its scheme of tax deductibility for interest payments on home loans. This scheme has received very little publicity from the general Press. It is a scheme which will bring very considerable benefit to those people who are purchasing new homes, purchasing second hand homes or paying off the dwelling in which they live. It will mean that the average individual will save approximately 2Vi per cent in interest payments. In other words, interest payments will be reduced by  2lA  per cent. As a result of a consequential regulation which is to be introduced and which I understand is at present being prepared, wage and salary earners will be able to claim this tax rebate on a weekly basis in the same way as they now claim tax rebates for dependants on a weekly basis. As I said, people will save up to 2 '/i per cent, and even more, on their interest payments. That is to say, if they are paying today 1 1  'A  per cent in interest, that interest rate will be effectively reduced to as little as 9 per cent. This will go some way towards overcoming the hardship which has occurred as a result of increased interest rates. But, as I said before, it should be borne in mind that interest rates increased under the previous Government also. 
I think it is important that we should know some of the provisions of this Bill in relation to the tax deductibility of interest payments on home loans. Where a loan is used to acquire vacant land, interest paid in respect of the loan will be first deductible in respect of the year of income in which a dwelling erected on the land in first used by the taxpayer as a sole or principal residence. Let me give an explanation of the extent to which interest payments can be claimed as a tax deduction. At a net income level of $4,000 or less in the year of income a taxpayer will be entitled to a deduction for the whole amount of housing loan interest payments. Where the level of income is greater than $4,000 per annum, the deduction to be allowed will be reduced by one per cent for each complete $100 of the excess. This means that 80 per cent of interest will be deductible at an income level of $6,000 per annum and 50 per cent at an income level of $9,000 per annum. No deduction will be allowable where the income level is $14,000 per annum or more. In other words, as was stated by the honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin),  tax deductibility will be applied on the principle on which most of the reforms which this Government has introduced are applied, and that is on a needs principle. Those who have the greatest need will receive the greatest benefit. 
The definition of 'net income' is as follows: The net income of the taxpayer will be combined with the net income of his or her spouse. Their combined net income will in effect be their total income less the expenses incurred in earning it, other than expenses of a private, domestic or capital nature. Payments received by way of child endowment or domiciliary nursing care benefits are to be ignored for purposes of the net income calculation. The net income of the average wage earner will, of course, be the amount of his wages less union dues. 
There are some other aspects of this legislation which I think are very important indeed. For example, irrespective of the interest rate charged, there will be no limit to the amount of interest payments which can be claimed. Furthermore, there will be no restriction in regard to the marital status of the claimant. For example, a bachelor or a spinster living in his or her own home will still be able to claim the rebate. Furthermore, interest payments on bridging finance will also be allowed as a tax deduction. It is quite reasonable these days that when many people buy a home they do not immediately obtain bank or building society finance. Consequently they go for bridging finance. Such people will be able to claim interest payments on that bridging finance. 
I repeat that I believe that this proposal will certainly assist people in overcoming the increased payments they are required to make as a result of increases in interest rates. I think it is a pity that the whole system which we propose has not been given more publicity, because I find that a great many people do not even realise that it is proposed. Certainly they do not realise that as from 1 January they will be able to claim as a weekly tax deduction interest payments on home loans. In other words, just as some people get a rebate in respect of their wife, their children and other dependants, so will they be able to receive, as from 1 January, as a result of a consequential regulation to be introduced, tax rebates in respect of interest payments on home loans. 
The Bill also proposes the removal of income tax in respect of interest paid on loans by credit unions. I think great credit must be given here to the honourable member for Banks for the very tenacious manner and for what I can only say was the almost stubborn manner in which he pressed the Government time and again- he did so in committees and even pressed the Treasurer himself- to bring about this very important reform in relation to credit unions. It will be a very considerable benefit to the credit unions. It is a reform which has been proposed for some years. The credit unions could not get anywhere with the previous Government. Submissions were made to the previous Government but no undertakings could be obtained. Yet the honourable member for Banks, with the assistance of a number of his colleagues, including myself and others, was able to obtain such an undertaking from this Government. It is another one of the election pledges given by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  during the 1972 Federal election campaign which has now been implemented. 
As I said before, at least this Government is doing something in the area of exempting from estate duty a matrimonial home. The previous Government gave great undertakings in this regard but it did not achieve very much. The Government's proposal will mean that a deduction of up to $35,000 will be allowed in the assessment of estate duty payable in respect of the estate of a deceased person where an interest in the matrimonial home passes to the surviving spouse. Furthermore, the exemption will cut out in respect of a home valued at $85,000 or more. In regard to any home valued at more than $35,000, the maximum deduction of $35,000 is reduced by $7 for every $10 by which the gross value of the interest included in the estate exceeds $35,000. 1 think this will be of some considerable benefit to that vast majority of Australian people who do leave their matrimonial home to their surviving spouse. 
For these reasons- I think they are very good reasons- I support the Bill which is before the House. I believe that the amendment has been moved by the Opposition in another effort to try to obtain some element of political advantage. It is opportunistic in the extreme because it touches on issues which the previous Government was not prepared to tackle. Our Government is prepared to tackle these things. We are trying to do something in the interest of the vast majority of the people of Australia, that is, the lower and middle income groups. For these reasons I hope that these reforms will be recognised as very important and a further implementation of the policies announced by the Prime Minister during the 1972 and 1974 election campaigns. For these reasons also, I very strongly support the Bill. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Services and Property in his capacity as Minister in charge of electoral matters. I ask: Is there any electoral division, subdivision or polling booth within his jurisdiction known as the Valley of Death? If not, is he aware of any proposal for one of them to be so named? 
-Is leave granted? 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Urban and Regional Development. I preface it by referring to remarks made by the honourable member for Parramatta in this House on 13 November 1 974. He said: 
Specifically I ask the Prime Minister whether his Ministers were differing in the approach to be taken to the development of the Meggitt's site in Parramatta for a Commonwealth office block. The site, as honourable members know, was acquired in 1973 following negotiations that were commenced during the time of my predecessor, the former honourable member for Parramatta,  Mr Nigel  Bowen. 
I therefore ask the Minister whether those remarks accurately reflect the situation. If not, will he explain the correct position to the House? 
My question is addressed to the Attorney-General. Will he inform the House of the constitutional provisions for the filling of casual vacancies in the Senate? 
-This morning the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock),  in a question to the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren),  drew attention to the fact that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  had stated that the Government intends to curtail expenditure. The honourable member went on to say that he thought the Government was adopting a positive policy of the Opposition, which means that agrees with it. The next part of the honourable member's question shows how illogical his conclusions are because he asked whether this meant that there would be a curtailment in expenditure on growth centres, Land Commission projects, area improvement programs and so on. In other words, he wants to have his cake and eat it too. He said, on the one hand, that he agreed that expenditure should be cut, but on the other hand he did not want it cut in his area. That is what it amounts to. 
During the last session the honourable member was reported in the Press as having said in this House that allocations for recreational facilities proposed by the Department of Tourism and Recreation had not been announced in respect of the western suburbs area of Sydney. He did not seem to realise that they had been announced because he said that there had been no allocations for projects to be undertaken in that area this year and that therefore Labor's assistance to the western suburbs of Sydney was a mirage. I will point out tonight just what type of mirage that is. First of all, the honourable member ignored the fact that the Department's allocations for recreational facilities in the western suburbs of Sydney were tied up with the area improvement program, and accordingly had not at that point been announced. That is why there was no announcement at the time. There has since been an announcement. 
Perhaps I should recount some of the allocations that have been made by this Government since it came to power. In making this point I emphasise that before this Government came to power a little over 2 years ago, none of these programs was in existence despite the continuous appeals by various honourable members, including the honourable member for Reid who is now the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, myself and others to do something to overcome the very serious needs of Sydney's western suburbs. Nothing had been done by the previous Liberal-Country Party Government which the honourable member supported. This Government has achieved something. As I said by way of interjection this morning, the honourable member ought to be on his bended knees thanking this Government for what it is doing for this area which he represents without any prejudice so far as politics are concerned. We are not worrying about the fact that the area is not represented in this place by the Australian Labor Party. Where there is a need we will give assistance. Where there is greater need we will give greater assistance. Under previous governments no need was satisfied. The honourable member should realise this and stop trying to play politics. He ought to learn to co-operate with this Government to assist us in overcoming the great problems in the western suburbs of Sydney which have been brought about by continuous inactivity on the part of his own Party in its 23 years in government. It is time that he set to and co-operated with the Government's plan to try to assist the people in this area, instead of trying to take petty political points because to do so is not giving service to the people he represents. 
I will cite some figures on the funds that have gone into the electorate of Parramatta and the neighbouring electorate of Mitchell which is also held by the Liberal Party. The Grants Commission recommended that for 1974-75 the municipal councils within the Mitchell electorate should receive a minimum of $193,000. Actually the amount is greater than that because they are also to get some of the money allocated for Blacktown. The municipal councils in the electorate of Parramatta are to receive a minimum of $315,000. Again the amount is higher than that because it includes allocations for the Baulkham Hills and some of the other councils in this area. Furthermore, it should be remembered that these funds are allocated on the basis of need in the area. That is the only criterion and it is benefiting the honourable member's area. It also should be remembered that these funds are nonrepayable non-interest bearing grants. In other words, they are gifts from this Government. This is the first time this has happened. Through the area improvement program for 1974, the Mitchell electorate received a total of $663,000 in non-repayable non-interest bearing grantsgifts. For sewerage works projects in 1974 the electorate received a total of $1,010,000, which covers the Baulkham Hills area reticulation, the Baulkham Hills West area reticulation and the West Castle Hill area reticulation. The electorate of Parramatta received $690,000 for area improvement projects and an amount of $860,000 to cover the sewerage works program which includes the Hunts Creek reticulation service, the Hunts Creek submain project, the Lake Parramatta area reticulation scheme and the minor carrier to SPS 256 project. For area improvement projects in 1975 the electorate of Mitchell received a total of $298,000 and I think there are further announcements to come in relation to area improvement programs for the current year. 
I point out that all of these funds are nonrepayable non-interest bearing grants. They are gifts. I also point out that this is the first time in history that any government, be it a Labor government or a Liberal government, has ever introduced programs such as these. I say to the honourable member for Parramatta and to the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman),  who has been much quieter lately and has been using a little more common sense in regard to this matter, that they ought to be going down on their bended knees thanking this Government for having introduced programs about which, despite 23 years of Liberal-Country Party government and despite appeals over many years by various members on this side of the House, including the honourable member for Reid, now the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, and myself, their Party flatly refused to do anything. I could go on to talk of the community health program, which is doing a great deal for the western suburbs, and the allocations from the Department of Tourism and Recreation and from the Department of Transport, which will meet two-thirds of the cost of the quadruplication of the Une from Auburn to Penrith as well as the cost of new rolling stock and signalling equipment. I received notification today that a special non-repayable grant of $434,000 will be made available for work on the main western highway. The honourable member should be thanking us for the job that we have done. 
I ask the Minister for Science: Who names the cyclones that from time to time devastate various parts of the Australian coast, and I refer here of course to cyclones Tracy, Trixie, Flora, etc. 
I refer to a campaign of fear surrounding the question of pensions and the means test which is being deliberately engendered by certain anti-Labor elements within the community. Deliberate attempts are being made to try to make people believe that this Whitlam Labor Government will not fulfil the undertakings that it gave. I refer particularly to the undertaking given by this Government that the means test would be abolished over the term of a Parliament. The Government, in its 1973 Budget, carried out the first leg of that transaction by abolishing the means test for people aged 75 years and over. It has announced quite clearly on a number of occasions that it will abolish the means test as from 1 April this year for people 70 years of age and over. Yet there has been a studied and very deliberate campaign to try to confuse the public, particularly those people who are 70 years of age and over, by statements that the Government would not abide by that pledge. We were sitting here in this chamber when the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  made the position quite clear. Yet in the Press in the following days there were deliberate attempts to imply that the Minister had not been definite on the subject. 
Of course the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in answer to a question in this House only last week made it very clear that without doubt the means test will be abolished as from 1 April for persons who are 70 years of age and over. Tonight I rise because of these misleading statements. There have been deliberate attempts by anti-Labor elements within the community to imply that the means test will not be abolished. It is quite a firm policy. It was made quite clear in the special mini-budget which was introduced after the last Budget. It was made very clear by the Minister for Social Security on a number of occasions in answer to questions, when speaking and also in answer to correspondence. It was made very clear by the Prime Minister in answer to questions in this Parliament only last week. 
One must also touch on the question of pensions. This Government was elected on a policy propounded by the Prime Minister on behalf of the Labor Party that all pensions would be adjusted over a period of one Parliament, which is 3 years, until they reached 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. The last adjustment was an extraordinary adjustment in itself. It was something which had never been seen in the whole history of this Parliament. There was an increase of $5 a week for all pensioners. That brought the pension up to 24.8 per cent of average weekly earnings. There has never been any suggestion from this Government that it would not honour its pledge to continue to adjust the pension until such time as it reaches 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
Yet the radio, the Melbourne 'Herald', the Queensland Press and various other newspapers throughout this country have been carrying stories along the line that this Government will not abide by and honour that pledge. The result is that every member in this House- particularly honourable members on the Government sidehas received continual questions and correspondence asking why it is that we will not honour our pledge. Nothing is further from the truth. It is the intention of the Government to honour its pledge. The best evidence that these deliberate attempts at misrepresentation have been occurring is the fact that the Minister for Social Security made a personal explanation in this Parliament at 4 p.m. last Wednesday because of the various stories which had been appearing in various segments of the Press and radio, and after the Minister had made that statement the news bulletins on various radio stations- not all radio stations- the Melbourne 'Herald' and also the Brisbane Press continued to carry the story, despite the denial and the firm undertaking given by the Minister for Social Security that there would be an autumn increase in the pension to bring it up to 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
I think that we have heard from the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  almost one of the greatest advocacies of the policies of the present Government that I have ever heard in my life. All he has done is quote the amount of finance that the present Government has been pouring into the outer Western Suburbs of Sydney. It has been pouring in finance, whereas in 23 years in office the previous Liberal-Country Party government did not put in one single penny or one single cent. The honourable member for Parramatta has, of course, complained about the area improvement plan. That is to be expected. He always wants more. The Government of which he was a supporter never gave one penny for such a program, but now he says: 'You have given some finance but I want more'. We expect that of him. He has forgotten that the area improvement plan of which he has complained is the result of joint discussions between the Australian Government and the Liberal-Country Party Government of New South Wales of which his father is now a Minister. So he had better go home to Daddy and say: 'Please, Dad, try and get me a little more'. Honestly,  Mr Speaker,  can you blame me for laughing a little bit? The honourable member for Parramatta then went on to say that the various councils around the area had increased their rates. 
What he has forgotten, as the honourable member for Prospect has said, is that when it was controlled by the Australian Labor Party the Fairfield Council did not but that the Parramatta Council, a so-called independent council which has a strong Liberal influence and which is, of course, part of the Liberal Party machine of the honourable member, and the Blacktown Council, a so-called independent council which also has a strong Liberal Party influence- none of them Labor Party con-, trolled councils- as well as the Penrith Council, a so-called independent council which has a strong Liberal Party influence have appreciably increased their rates despite the fact that they have received record amounts in finance from this Government. For the first time in history they have received very appreciable amounts in finance from the Australian Government under the area improvement program and the Regional Employment Development Scheme. They have also received finance from the Department of Tourism and Recreation and, of course, the Grants Commission. All of it is nonrepayable, non-interest bearing grants. I agree with the honourable member for Parramatta that it is hard to understand why they have had to increase their rates by such an appreciable amount. Without a doubt they are going to be in a sea of liquidity with the finances that we have put into the area. 
The honourable member for Parramatta also did not mention that during 23 years LiberalCountry Party Government- a government of the honourable member's political complexionthe debts of local government increased by 2800 per cent whereas the debts of the Australian Government during the 23 years in office of the Liberal-Country Party Government of which he, his father and so on have been such a part remained approximately static. The LiberalCountry Party Government did not do a single thing for local government right throughout that period, yet we have been able to turn around and inject so much finance into the area that it is going to bring about a very great benefit indeed. I stated very clearly last week- I make no excuse for doing so- that the honourable member for Parramatta, instead of always trying to bring carping, petty political propaganda into this House, should be down on his bended knees thanking the present Government for what it is doing in his area. Even though it is a Liberal Party area we are not prejudiced. We believe that funds should be allocated on the basis of need. That is why we have been injecting funds into the outer Western Suburbs of Sydney, which were neglected for so many years by the previous Liberal-Country Party Government. We have been injecting that finance on the basis of need. Those areas of the Western Suburbs which have the greatest need, such as Mount Druitt, will naturally attract the greatest amount of assistance. The Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  has, by way of interjection, made a very important point. He has pointed out that because honourable members like he and I live in the area we therefore understand the problems of the area and the needs of the area. That is a very important point. I think that the honourable member for Parramatta might have moved into his electorate since his election to office, although I am not sure. Certainly if he has done so he has done so only in comparatively recent times. So for that reason he would not have the same appreciation as honourable members on this side of the House of the great needs of the outer Western Suburbs of Sydney. 
The honourable member for Parramatta stated that the Grants Commission's allocation to the City of Parramatta amounted to $3 1 5,000 and then said that most of the area of the City of Parramatta is in the electorate of Reid. I think I heard him correctly. I suggest that he should get to understand the geography of his own electorate. 
A substantial part. That is another qualification. A substantial part surely means the lot. Only one ward is in the electorate of Reid. 
-I call the Minister for Social Security. 
I do not intend to speak at length but rise to explain briefly my attitude towards the Bill as I believe this is one of the most important items of legislation to come before this House for many years. The decisions of this Parliament on it will stand for many years to come. It will be a long time before there will be another opportunity to amend our marriage laws. 
I intend to vote for the passage of the Bill in the second reading stage. However, in the Committee stage of the Bill I will be examining and considering critically various aspects of it, that being the stage where amendments to the provisions of the Bill should be made. 
For example, I will be examining critically those sections of the Bill dealing with maintenance, counselling and causes for dissolution of a marriage. With regard to the question of maintenance, I believe there is a need to protect adequately a woman who leaves the workforce for marriage and a family. It would be very difficult, indeed, for her to return to the work force and enjoy the same earning capacity that she would have enjoyed had she never left the work force. On the question of counselling, I believe there is a need for pre-marriage counselling facilities and for adequate counselling facilities prior to marriage breakdown. An example I could always give of that need would be the case of a young lad who appears in court from whose behaviour it is obvious that there are stresses within the marriage. There is no breakdown at that stage but surely that is the time when counselling should be given to ensure that the marriage is a success. 
I am not one who believes in divorce being too easy. I am fortunate enough to come from a family where divorce has never occurred. I believe it would be incomprehensible so far as my family is concerned. Nevertheless, I am sufficiently a realist to acknowledge that marriage breakdowns are a fact of life in our community and that, therefore, one must legislate in a compassionate manner to represent all sections of the community. I believe that the children of a marriage are the most important people of all and I feel that their interests have been forgotten to a large extent during the course of this debate. I emphasise that, because although the parents may have made a mess of their lives, surely the most important thing of all is to ensure that our laws are such that the children can make a success of their marriage. 
The amendment moved by the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  outlines some very fine principles. However, I do not propose to support it for 2 reasons. Firstly, I feel that support of it would be interpreted as opposition to divorce law reform, whereas I believe reform of the present laws is necessary. Secondly, it closes off the options on the question of causes for dissolution of marriage by its specific reference to 2 years irretrievable breakdown as a cause for dissolution. 
There are many other options open to us for consideration. Some of these, of course, have already been outlined to this Parliament. I mention a couple of others which I have heard canvassed. There is the cause of irretrievable breakdown after 2 years separation with fault as a cause from 2 years to zero separation to cope with exceptions, such as non-consummation of a marriage and where there is consent that a child should be born in wedlock. Even the present Bill before the House ignores that aspect. I understand there is a 9 months gestation period and one year's irretrievable breakdown as proposed in the Bill would not cope with such a solution. Another option which I have heard is irretrievable breakdown by petition of either party after 2 years separation; irretrievable breakdown by consent of both parties after one year's separation; and then fault from one year to zero for exceptions such as I have already mentioned. 
To sum up, I feel I should vote to allow the Bill to pass the second reading stage and then keep my options open to consider critically various sections of it in the Committee stage. As I said, the law that this Parliament finally determines will stand for many years to come. We must ensure that it embodies the most compassionate and sound provisions and reforms possible. I feel that the attitude that I have expressed is most likely to ensure this result. 
Has the AttorneyGeneral's attention been drawn to reports that following instructions by senior police authorities in New South Wales last year, the Australian Legal Aid Office at Blacktown was prevented from offering legal representation to many detained persons? Has his attention been drawn to reports that the Blacktown duty solicitor scheme was suspended when police regulations were changed to require that a prisoner awaiting a court appearance had to ask for the duty solicitor before that solicitor could approach him? 
My question is directed to - 
-I uphold the point of order. I have already pointed out to the honourable member that he is going far beyond the ambit of the Bill. Unless he abides by my ruling in that respect I shall have to ask him to resume his seat. I take the point that the honourable member is trying to deal with a matter which stems virtually from the words 'heavy workload '. He is carrying on from there to talk of a particular State, whether it comes within the ambit of the Bill and so on. That has no relationship to the Bill whatsoever. If the Bill sought to increase the number of fulltime members in order to do that work the honourable member could talk about that aspect. But the Bill does not do that. I must uphold the point of order. I ask the honourable member to stick to and refer to matters contained in the Bill. - 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Thorburn)  adjourned. 
Has the Minister for Transport seen reports that the New South Wales Premier and Cabinet will be approaching the Prime Minister objecting to an alleged instruction by the Minister that all- I repeat 'all'- international air traffic should go to Tullamarine in Melbourne instead of to Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport at Mascot in Sydney and that the Premier will also advocate to the Prime Minister that a parallel north-south runway be built at Mascot. 
A second one. Was any such direction given by the Minister? 
I am very pleased that the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly)  is present tonight because I wish to refer to a statement he made in the House on 15 April when speaking to the Curriculum Development Centre Bill. At page 1607 of Hansard he is reported as having said: 
Recently I visited some schools out in the Green Valley and Mt Druitt areas and spoke to some teachers. To my horror the situation was substantially worse than I had expected. Most - 
I emphasise the word 'most'- of the teachers were prepared to say that no more than 10 per cent of their students at the junior secondary level were fully literate in terms of the standards one would expect of somebody capable of participating fully in the community. 
As the member of Parliament who represents the area I resent a statement like that being made. It was a very foolish statement. It is typical, unfortunately of that section of people, the North Shore type, whose popular pastime it is today to go around denigrating those who are not as affluent as they are. Of course, the honourable member is now walking out of the chamber. He does not want to stay and hear just what it is all about. The fact of the matter is that such people do not realise the damage they do when they make statements like that. 
If one gives a dog a bad name it sticks to it. Statements to the effect- naming areas and referring to people in those areas- that young students in that area have a 10 per cent literacy rate is rubbish. If the honourable member were only to get to know the area and its people he would know that it is rubbish. Most of the teachers in the area are young but very welltrained teachers. If the honourable member is telling the truth it is obvious that there are some who are mischief makers or else fools who do not realise the damage that they are doing to the very students they teach. The type of remark that the honourable member for Bradfield made will stick to those kids for the rest of their lives. For that reason I challenge the honourable member for Bradfield to name the teachers and name the schools so that in future we, the residents of that area in the outer western suburbs of Sydney, can take it up with the teachers concerned. 
I wish to answer a few of the points which have been made by the Opposition speakers tonight in this debate, namely, the honourable member for Patterson  (Mr 0'Keefe)  and the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles).  Firstly, dealing with the question of the small polling booths that are being closed down in some country areas, I interjected on the honourable member for Angas during his speech. I have not the slightest doubt that with his most acute hearing he could not have failed to hear the interjection on a number of occasions but he did not want to acknowledge it because he knew that if he did it would be noted in Hansard. The point I was making, of course, is that there is nothing to stop any of the people in these areas from obtaining a postal vote. They live the necessary distance away from the nearest polling booth, and presumably they are fully capable of obtaining a postal vote legally and in every other possible respect. Of course we must remember that many of these polling booths were established in the horse and buggy days before the advent of motor cars and decent road systems. 
It is all right,  Mr Speaker.  He will be put out at the next election. As I have said, these polling booths were established in the days of the horse and buggy, and accordingly it is only common sense that as road systems and motor transport systems improve the necessity for such booths is no longer so great. Furthermore, honourable members opposite are always talking to us about the need to cut expenditure and costs. One would think that one of the ways to reduce expenditure would be to cut some of the excessive costs of our electoral system. Honourable members opposite cannot have their cake and eat it too. They are forever saying that this Government should cut expenditure. They should not be hypocritical. Every time we try to do something along that Une they are the very people who turn around the holler about it and say that it should not have been done. 
I emphasise the point once again to the honourable member for Angas and the honourable member for Patterson that if they are concerned that these Country Party voters or National Country Party voters or National Party voters- I am not sure exactly what it is- cannot cast their votes they should apply for postal votes. 
Has the Minister for Social Security seen draft letters circulated by the Australian Mutual Provident Society to its employees urging them to write to members of Parliament attacking what it describes as 'luxury social welfare programs'? Can he say whether representatives of pensioner organisations visiting Canberra have expressed agreement with this description of benefits paid by his Department? Will he let the pensioners of Australia know where their real friends and their real adversaries are to be found? 
-I wish to support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  on the understanding that I will be supporting later the insertion of a new sub-clause which will state: 
The Court shall not grant a decree based on paragraph ( 1 ) (c) where the only behaviour relied upon is lack of cohabitation or where on the facts before it the Court could grant a decree based on paragraphs ( 1 ) (a) or (b). 
In effect, that means that a decree shall be granted after one year's irretrievable breakdown of marriage, where no fault is involved, upon consent of both parties. A decree shall be granted after 2 year's irretrievable breakdown, again where no fault is involved, on the petition of either party. A decree shall be granted on the basis of the behaviour of the parties for any period from zero up to 2 years, provided- this is the important point- that it shall not be granted on the basis of behaviour if a decree is available under either proposed new sub-clause ( 1) (a) or (b), that is, one year's irretrievable breakdown, where no fault is involved, with the consent of both parties, or 2 year's irretrievable breakdown, with no fault involved, on the petition of either party. 
This means that the question of behaviour applies only in exceptional cases where there is not the opportunity for a decree to be granted under proposed new sub-clause (1) (a) or (b) because of exceptional circumstances that enter into it. When I spoke in the debate on the second reading of the Bill I mentioned that whilst personally supporting the second reading of the Bill I supported something along the lines that a divorce could be obtained in such cases as, for example, when the partners had been separated for less than a period of one year, where the marriage had not been consummated or where there was a genuine desire on the part of the partners that a child be born in wedlock. The period of less than 12 months would take account of the 9 months gestation period in respect of which there is no provision in the legislation before the House at present. 
I support such a proposal on the grounds that divorce should not be made so easy that couples enter into marriage without a realisation that it is a contract which cannot easily be broken. If the contract of marriage is made too easy to break I do not believe enough consideration will be given to the entering into of that particular contract. For example, I believe that sometimes it is too easy to get married. When it becomes too easy to get married people adopt the attitude that the marriage contract can be easily broken. 
For those reasons, I support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Wentworth on the understanding that in the event of it being successful a proposed new clause will be inserted which will state: 
The Court shall not grant a decree based on paragraph ( 1 ) (c) where the only behaviour relied upon is lack of cohabitation or where on the facts before it the Court could grant a decree based on paragraphs ( 1) (a) or (b). 
I think this is a reasonable proposition. It removes the aspect of fault, which I believe should be removed wherever possible. I believe it should be removed because it is a far more humane approach to the problems of people whom we all have to represent. 
Can the Prime Minister advise the House whether the change in structure of the Western Australian Government will affect relations between it and the Australian Government? 
Order! The right honourable gentleman will address the Chair. 
So much for the genius of this man and for his actuarial qualification. Would it be $120? No. In fact, it would not. It would get to the level of something more than $2m. That is what happens if we have inflation of the continuing order of 1 5 per cent or more- inflation running riot, as it is and is likely to run riot in the future, as a result of the economic actions of this Government. 
I want now to go back,  Sir, to  first principles and ask who will pay for these extraordinary increases? Those who pay will be the young people of this country. The scheme is not to be funded and the money is to be paid out of taxation as and when the liabilities accrue and have to be paid. So the young- those whose votes the Labor Party set out to win in order that they could succeed at the 1972 elections- are to pay in future. They are the ones who will pay, who will have to forfeit their holidays, the right to own their own homes and property to educate their children. They are the ones who, instead of being encouraged to save and to invest and ensure a better hie for themselves and for the future generations of Australia, will have to shoulder the burden. 
I cannot understand why the scheme has not been funded. If one takes the figures that I have mentioned- that is the case of a man who works for 35 years, commencing at $7,500 per annum, with calculations made on an interest rate of something like 10 per cent- then, over the total period of 35 years, $331,655 would be paid by the contributors to the fund. But with a compound interest rate of 10 per cent, the result would cover the payout of $3m and an annual pension of $76,500. In other words, the public unfunded scheme would be 10 times more expensive that a funded one. I read from a recent statement: 
It is a financial fact of life and it has been for a long time, long before socialism and its academic geniuses were ever thought of, that if investments earned 10 per cent a year, then on the salary projection used, that is, of $7,500 a year at the rate of 9 per cent, an annual contribution of 20.5 per cent for 35 years or just over $330,000 in aggregate will produce a present value or capital sum of $1,300,000, at the age of 60, sufficient to fund the $76,000 increasing with 10 per cent per annum increases for 17 years- it is a self-extinguishing fund. 
The second point I want to make clear relates to duplication and redundancies, I believe this creates problems of a kind the Government does not seem to have cared or thought about. We who think about the overall picture, about the amount that the taxpayers have to pay, about future generations of Australia, want to ensure that those who get the benefits of superannuation, whether it is public or private, will get a fair go- even a generous go- but will not be able to push their good fortune and good luck too far to the detriment of the young. I mention some of the possible duplications: A contributor can also get present social services, as well as national superannuation pensions free of means test, national compensation benefits, preserved benefits from prior employment, and benefits for a spouse already eligible for other benefits. I illustrate this by saying that in the case of a husband and wife, who are both receiving pensions if one dies, one pension is inherited and the other is continued. Such people would get not enough to keep the two but more than enough to sustain one. 
I do believe in national insurance. I hope that the Government will present a national insurance scheme covering all, not the Public Service alone. I also think the Government in inflationary times, has a responsibility to sell pensions to members of the public who want to buy them- in other words that it give the same privilege to the private sector as it does to the Public Service. I also believe that for those who want to contribute to private funds the Government should introduce some system of indexing of Government or official bonds sold or traded on the market, whether it is based on a long term of 20 years or a short term of two or three years. 
I come now to a report I have been reading which issues a warning. The Pollard-Melville report, recommendation 6, states that if we do make provision for national superannuation payments which are a right, then we must take action to ensure that it can be fully offset against a benefit payment under the proposed superannuation scheme for Australian Government employees. I also refer to the statement of one of those famous men on the other side of the House who is more often wrong than right but nonetheless creates a reputation for himself in saying so much so frequently. When speaking on the subject of national superannuation last year he estimated that, with a retiring salary as low as $6,000 to $8,000 and a life expectancy of only 10 years, to introduce the same benefit in the private sector as in the public sector would cost $550m a year. He went on to say that a government had no right to require the community to give its Public Service conditions of employment which the community could not afford to give itself. That was said by none other than the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  who says he likes to look after everyone.  His  love for humanity is allegedly tremendous. I have no doubt at all that with his love of humanity he will exercise his right to see that the private sector and the public sector are treated on the same basis and that we do not compromise the position by this Bill. 
I now want to put all this in a national economic context. We live in a community in which there are 2 great evils besetting us economically and financially. The first one relates to the quantity of money being pumped into the economy. We expect next year, 1975-76, a deficit, based on the last 2 Supply Bills, of at least $3,750m. That amount will be increased by about $750m as taxation will be increased next year automatically, because the double amount of deductions in 6 months to permit total deductions for the year to cut out on 30 June will then increase by half the amount. Also, because it is likely the Government will try to have the taxation schedules changed to permit other benefits to be indexed, we will swim in the money supply. The second evil is that the Government professes to be anxious to divert assets from the public sector to the private sector. This Superannuation Bill with the compensation scheme and Medibank and others will transfer about $4,400m from the private to the public sector. That is, it will take away the money that must necessarily be invested in the private sector for growth purposes. 
Could there be a more unbelievable economic and financial policy as this- one which is so totally inconsistent. We now know from reading the Mathews and Asprey reports, that unless the trends are reversed and unless a responsible government that knows what it should be doing is elected, the prospects will remain gloomy. It is not difficult to imagine. As the Asprey and Mathews reports indicate, that the actual present trends of diverting money from the private to the public sector will lead to economic disaster.  Sir, I  will be surprised, because of what I am saying, if you do not vote against the Government and with the Liberal Party. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! The right honourable gentleman should know that he should not address the Chair in that manner. 
I rise to correct the humbug which was just put forward - 
Does the Attorney-General and Minister for Police and Customs propose to meet State Police Ministers to discuss with them the creation of the Australia Police? If so, will he also discuss with them the Australian Law Reform Commission's important inquiry into the relationship between the police and the public? 
-I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 -Incidentally, Mr Cadman and the Prime Minister - 
Naturally on receipt of the copies of these 2 letters from the Prime Minister I rang my office, got my secretary to check the files and ascertained that both the allegations of  Mr Cadman  and  Mr Rozzoli  were completely untrue. I then slipped across to the other side of the chamber and told  Mr Cadman  that in regard to the letter to the Prime Minister, it was he who would have to apologise and not I, as he had his facts wrong. At approximately 8.30 p.m. on Tuesday night he rang me in my office and asked if he could see me, to which I agreed, in the presence of a witness. In my office he stated that he had that day been in touch with  Mrs Potouloff  by telephone- no doubt as a result of my conversation with him- and that she had reaffirmed that the letter was addressed to him and not to me; that he had then asked her to sign a statutory declaration to that effect; that she had refused and that she had finally admitted that she had told both him and  Mr Rozzoli  an untruth when she said she had addressed the letter to  Mr Cadman  and not to me. 
I told  Mr Cadman  that I found it difficult to believe that a member of this chamber could be so immature as to make serious allegations against another member of this chamber to the Prime Minister, which implied against, in fact attacked, the integrity of that member, without first checking his facts. I pointed out to him that he could have rung me to check the facts whereupon I would immediately have made my files available to him, as I have nothing to hide. In fact, a photostat of the whole file has now arrived in Canberra from my Blacktown office and  Mr Cadman  may inspect it if he so wishes. I told him that I would indeed raise the matter in this House as he had asked the Prime Minister to instruct me to do. He said- obviously to try to stop me from doing this- that he was writing a letter of apology to the Prime Minister that night. I told him that I would give him the opportunity of reading it out in this Parliament. He did write that letter of apology, dated 3 June. I ask leave of the House to have a copy of that letter incorporated in Hansard. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 
-I think that surely I could be excused for being a little confused as to what was really the attitude of the honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Ian Robinson).  Was he supporting the Bill or was he opposing it? On two occasions I heard him say that he supported the Bill. But the whole tenor of his speech was that of a person who opposed the whole spirit and concept of the legislation- a person who advocated the continual and continuing sellout of Austalian industry to overseas sources.  His  whole speech was one of advocacy of fresh takeovers of Austalian industry. For that reason one cannot help feeling that what he really means is that the Opposition will support the Bill as it is but when it gets back into office it will administer the legislation in such a way that it will not matter whether the legislation is enacted or not. 
As the honourable member says, in effect they would scuttle it. Of course, they would leave it on the statute book but by administrative means make sure that they carried on their past policies which involved the takeover of large segments of Australia's industry and resources. Of course, the greatest advocate of this, as the honourable member quite rightly pointed out, was  Sir John  McEwen. He was a great advocate in his day. Without a doubt it has always been the Country Party tail- I am not quite sure what that Party now calls itself; I think the latest is the National Country Party which is a consortium of the Country Party and the Democratic Labor Party- that has wagged the dog. As the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  has pointed out on innumerable occasions the National Country Party is notorious for having received large segments of overseas funds into their slush funds. Is it any wonder that for that reason it is so strongly in favour of continuing a policy which it carried out when it was in governmenta policy of a continual sell-out of Australia's own assets, mineral resources and companies to overseas interests? I think that we also need to realise that this sell-out includes not only industry and resources but real estate as well- large segments of Australia's real estate. In other words, members of the National Country Party are supporting this Bill today only because they are afraid of the wrath of the Australian people who want Australia owned by Australians. They know that this is the case. They know that if they oppose the Bill they will show their hand. That is the whole motive of the honourable member for Cowper. 
I think that one has to look at the history of how the original interim legislation- the 1972 legislation- was introduced in this House on the eve of an election. The Bill was enacted on 9 November. The election was on 2 December. This gave the then government a great opportunity to do something on a very important issue. The legislation was introduced into this House only for the simple reason that the Labor Party Opposition of that day had continually carried out a campaign to ensure that Australia was not completely sold out to overseas interests. That is the history of the legislation and I once again repeat the dates. The election was held on 2 December. The legislation received royal assent on 9 November 1972, less than a month before the election. In other words, one could only call the legislation a little bit of window dressing. The then government did virtually nothing in terms of that legislation. The honourable member for Cowper had better check back on his facts because the policies which have since been carried out in terms of that legislation were carried out by the Australian Labor Party Government. 
Let us look at how the legislation has operated. The interim legislation was renewed for another year in 1973 and for another year in 1974. But- and this is important- contrary to what the right honourable member for Bruce  (Mr Snedden)  said, the legislation was fortified by administrative action on the part of the Government. Such action was carried out with the co-operation of both Australian and overseas interests, and we give full marks for that. The legislation before us, of course, wil give teeth to the Government's policy and wil remove the opportunity for companies to evade the policy of this Government. It is important that the legislation should contain this provision. 
-As the honourable member for Hunter says, these measures are long overdue. We have not hurried or been panicked into this. We have carefully watched how the original legislation operated, and we have carefully assessed it. In December 1974, in a paper brought down by the then Treasurer, there was a full outline of the Government's POliCY to be expressed in future legislation. That POliCY is now laid down in the BUI before the House. After some of the hysterical remarks of the honourable member for Cowper, I think it is very important to understand the Government's policy on overseas funds coming into this country and on takeovers of Australian industry. It is a very simple policy and it is in writing in the Federal platform of the Australian Labor Party. We do not hide our platforms around the corner. Any person may go to any ALP office or to the Federal office in Canberra and buy a copy of our platform across the counter. Our policy is laid out clearly and publicly for everyone to see. Furthermore, it is fully expounded and explained in the statement made in this Parliament by the Treasurer in December 1974. What is the policy in simplicity? In simplicity, it amounts to this: A Labor Government is not opposed to the introduction of foreign investment, provided that foreign investment brings new know-how, new techniques or equipment which could not otherwise be provided. That is the policy. We insist that wherever practicable, there should be reasonable Australian equity in the organisation concerned. 
Yes, and look at Canada. We warned the previous Government. I could go back to 1962 when we warned the LiberalCountry Party Government as it was thenbefore the Country Party changed its name to the National Country Party and amalgamated with the Democratic Labor Party- that unless it took action on this issue it would get the same reactions as were occurring in Canada. In Canada, the Government has taken action to preserve its national heritage, the. same as we have had to take action. I press the point that the previous Government took action by way of interim legislation in 1972, which did not have enough teeth in it, only because it was forced to by the campaign carried out by the then Labor Opposition. I refer again to our policy. We do object to the takeover by overseas organisations of" the existing Australian enterprises- and I include Australia's resources- which are operating efficiently and effectively. We do not object to the injection of overseas capital in an industry if that injection will bring know-how, techniques or equipment which would not be provided otherwise. We insist that wherever practicable there should be reasonable Australian equity. 
Yes, I think we could even make Coca Cola with our own capital. The 1972 legislation, as I mentioned, was extended in 1 973 and 1974 and added to it by decision of the Government were administrative practices which operated with the voluntary co-operation of Australian and foreign interests. This was done because the original Bill affected only the means of acquisition of voting shares. It did not affect incorporated or unincorporated businesses by way of acquisitions of assets and mineral rights. Accordingly, administrative practices were introduced to maintain some control over incorporated or unincorporated businesses by means of acquisitions of assets and mineral rights. 
This Bill, in addition to dealing with company takeovers affected by acquisitions of voting shares, contains a number of other new provisions. I quote the following passage from the second reading speech of the Minister Assisting the Treasurer: 
First, takeovers covered by the 1972 policy measures, that is, takeovers of businesses by means of asset acquisitions and takeovers of mineral rights. 
Second, takeover methods which have been used to evade- 
I emphasise the word 'evade ',  the operation of the 1972 statutory and policy measures for the control of foreign takeovers. These comprise company takeovers effected by means of acquisitions of shares other than voting shares; company takeovers effected by means of splitting a large shareholding into small nominee groups where this has the effect of increasing the voting rights attached to the shareholding; business takeovers effected by means of leases or licences over the assets of a business; and business takeovers effected by agreements and arrangements relating to board representation rights and rights to participate in the management or profits of a business. (The main practical effect of these extensions will probably be to discourage use of such methods of evasion . . .) 
Third, transfers of control of business from one foreign group to another. 
In other words, we are looking at both acquisitions by overseas interests of Australian undertakings and the vetting, in cases where one foreign group already owns Australian assets where those assets are then being purchased or acquired in some manner by another foreign group. The Bill will also provide for the screening of certain transactions in the shares of a company incorporated outside Australia. That is the third provision. This provision is a logical consequence of the Bill's coverage of transfers of control from one foreign group to another. We have no intention- it would be practically impossibleto vet every single instance, but we will make sure that a share deal which results in a change in the control of a company incorporated outside Australia will be examinable where either 50 per cent or more of the assets of that company are held in Australia or where the Australian assets amount to more than $3m. 
Then we come down to a criterion which will be applied in administration of the new Act when implemented. Needless to say, the precise criterion has not been laid down in the Act because it is important and essential that it should be reasonably resilient, that there should be a need for flexibility to meet changing conditions. The criterion to be applied in the administration of the new Act will be whether against the background of existing circumstances in the industry concerned the takeover would lead either directly or indirectly to net economic benefits in relation to such matters as competition, productive capacity, technological change, development of new markets, production, quality and range of products and services, level of prices and efficiency which will be sufficient to justify the change in foreign control of the business concerned. If the proposed takeover is then judged not to be against the national interest, additional criteria will be taken into account, namely, whether after the takeover the business concerned could be expected to follow practices consistent with Australia's interests in matters such as exports, imports, local processing of material produced, research and development, and industrial relations, and whether the takeover would be consistent with the Government's objectives in relation to such matters as defence, environment and conservation, urban and regional development, and the preservation of Aboriginal land. Also taken into account- this goes particularly to whether or not the takeover is in the national interest- will be the extent of the Australian participation in ownership, control and management that would remain after the takeover, and the interests of the employees, shareholders and creditors of the business subject to the takeover proposal. 
As I mentioned, this is in accord completely with the policy of the Australian Labor Party contained in its national platform, which is available for any individual to buy across the counter at any ALP office. It is equally in accord with the principles laid down in the statement delivered by the Government in this Parliament in December 1974. It is a very logical policy. There is nothing hysterical, as the honourable member for Cowper tried to suggest. Far to the contrary, it is a policy which will prevent evasion of the policy of this Government and put teeth in the legislation which did not exist under the original temporary legislation, or interim legislation, as it is called. Furthermore, it will ensure that there can still be introductions of overseas investment into Australia where that investment is going to bring worthwhile benefit to Austrafia; but it will also ensure, in the implementation of the criteria which will be used to administer the Act, that 
Australian industry will not be unnecessarily taken over by overseas interests, as was occurring up to December 1972. 
I finalise on this point, and I think the honourable member for Cowper and his friends in the consortium of the Country Party and the Democratic Labor Party now called the National Country Party should take note of it: In 1958 the Labor Opposition started warning the then government of the effects of its policies of deliberately encouraging the takeover of Australian industry by overseas interests. It took honourable members opposite 14 years from 1958 to 1972 to do anything about it, and then it introduced legislation which did not have the necessary teeth. 
As the honourable member says, it was a political gimmick. It was done to try to protect the political skins of honourable members opposite. They knew that the wrath of the people was on them. They knew that the people opposed the takeover of Australia's assets and resources by overseas interests. They tried to introduce a window dressing measure. It has been indicated by the speeches of honourable members opposite such as the honourable member for Cowper here today that if there were a change of government tomorrow they would go back to their despicable practices of the past. 
Has the Treasurer seen reports of a statement yesterday that families deriving benefits from Tuesday's Budget tax reforms are spendthrifts? Can he say what advantage the half a million families newly exempted from taxation payments were previously able to gain from the Liberal taxation deduction system? Can he say whether there is any reason why families which simply cannot afford large outlays for insurance and school fees should be denied the advantages of tax reform? 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the 5 measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
-I call the Minister for Defence. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 

<graphic href="096131197508286_43_3.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="096131197508286_44_4.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="096131197508286_45_5.jpg"></graphic>

There is a growing tendency for party workers to take advantage of the existing provision which enables a person to examine the postal vote applications in the office of a divisional returning officer, to compile a list of electors who voted by post at the election and to use this list to forward postal vote applications to the persons concerned at the next election, without knowing whether those persons are still eligible to vote by post. The Government proposes to inhibit such malpractices by preventing party workers from examining lists of names of postal voters, except when this is necessary for an inquiry into an alleged or suspected contravention of the Act or for a petition to a Court of Disputed Returns. 
It is also proposed to give the Chief Australian Electoral Officer power to vary the form of postal vote applications at each election, in order to prevent the dubious practice of stockpiling par.tially completed forms. Under this proposal the Chief Australian Electoral Officer will specify by a notice in the Gazette the postal vote applicanon forms which may be used at an election. It is proposed too that provision be made enabling a person who is serving a sentence of imprisonment to apply for a postal vote, provided that such a person is still qualified for enrolment. It might be noted that no person who has been convicted and is under sentence for any offence for one year or longer is entitled to enrolment. 
I now turn to another area of reform dealt with in this BUI. It has not always been possible to obtain the services of the Surveyor-General of a State or an officer having similar qualifications for the purpose of redistributing a State. Therefore, it is proposed to provide that one of the Commissioners shall be a registered surveyor. This Will enable greater flexibility for the purposes of future redistributions. There are some minor provisions in the Bill which require no elaboration here. These amendments, taken collectively, Will either improve or update our existing electoral law. 
The Government believes that the reforms contained in this Bill will not only considerably streamline postal voting procedures, but will also reduce the possibility of electoral malpractices which have sometimes been an unfortunate byproduct of the existing postal voting facilities. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Peacock)  adjourned. 
-The honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Millar)  was talking about the personal income tax reforms. He was either deliberately misrepresenting the position- I give him credit here; I do not think he would have done it deliberately- or he simply does not understand the reforms. He said something to the effect that the proposed system would completely ignore dependants for the assessment of net tax. I suggest that he get the papers issued by the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  with the Budget in which there is a full and precise, quite simply written-  (Quorum formed).  The honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann)  in calling for that quorum was simply squealing; he did not like the things that were being said about his side of the House and therefore he was trying to cut down the time available to me to speak. I suggest that the honourable member for Wide Bay examine the Budget papers in which there is a clear exposition by the Treasurer of the reforms in the personal income tax system. I am quite sure even the honourable member for Wide Bay could understand it. I suggest he examine that because it is obvious he does not understand the situation. I am sure he would not deliberately misrepresent it. 
The Hayden Budget is a responsible Budget. It grapples with the twin problems of inflation and unemployment- the world-wide problem of recession and inflation. It should not be forgotten that it is a world-wide problem. The genesis of the problem in Australia of course goes back to the 1971-72 period under the McMahon Government when there was a dramatic growth in the money supply with the consequent creation of demand inflation. The increase in the money supply was finally arrested in September 1973, 9 months after we took office. We have been suffering since the cessation in the growth of the money supply then from the secondary effects of it. 
Before dealing with the details of the Budget I should like to deal firstly with the 'Fraser alternative' as it is called. I think the speech of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  needs some very careful assessment indeed. I have here a Press release by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  in which he gives his sums and shows his adding up. I thought we would have a look at a few of these figures. I turn firstly to the additional financial commitments. I think we should realise that the adviser to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and the Leader of the Opposition was  Mr Michael  Baume of Patrick Partners fame. 
That is the crowd, yes. There is quite a scandal at the moment about it. This is the adviser to the Leader of the Opposition. The whole proposition of the Leader of the Opposition, if one looks at it carefully, is an exercise in hypocrisy and vagueness. As an example of the hypocrisy I give just one example. The Leader of the Opposition, as recorded in  Hansard  at page 520, states: 
How restrained is a Budget which plans a larger deficit than the actual record deficit of the year just passed? 
The Leader of the Opposition accepts the deficit established in the Hayden Budget as the basis for his own assessment and his own alternative. On the one hand he is giving the Hayden Budget a kick; on the other hand he is embracing it. Furthermore, as I shall explain later, he made a tiny mistake of $500m which increases the deficit in his proposal by that amount. 
Then, of course, we have examples of the vagueness. The Leader of the Opposition said: 
Finally, we believe that there is room to make a start on adjustments to the problems created for private companies and small business by the taxation of retained earnings. 
I shall deal with this aspect in a few moments. If ever there was a good example of utter vagueness, that is it. There is nothing specific. In the list of sums he turned out, the  Deputy  Leader of the 
Opposition has allocated for that little bit of vagueness an amount of $ 10m. This, of course, concerns the retention of profits by private companiesprofits which would not be distributed to shareholders. Assuming that the shareholders pay an average of 50c in the $1 in personal tax- we are being big hearted in this because most would pay a higher rate than that- the amount of undistributed profits for private companies would be only $20m out of a total of $450m, that being the figure for 1971-72 and the latest available. In other words from a profit of $450m the Opposition would allow the retention of 4.4 per cent. Surely this is a good example of hypocrisy. It is the carrot being held out to private industry. 
The Opposition says: 'We are going to do something for you. We will assist the retention of profits by private companies.' I again point out that a tax of 50c in the $1 on the $20m retained out of a total profit of $450m amounts to $10m. Of course, the total profit of private companies would be far greater in 1974-75 than it was in 1971-72. In other words the percentage of retained profit that the Opposition would allow would actually be considerably less than the 4.4 per cent proposed. Private industry may imagine that the Opposition's proposal represents a great handout but I suggest that it should do some arithmetic- a few sums- which obviously the Leader of the Opposition did not do. As I said, this is an example of vagueness and hypocrisy. 
I mention next the sums that were done with respect to personal taxation reductions- as shown in the list of additional financial commitments. An amount of $500m is suggested. There is no detailed costing of this item. The Mathews stock valuation proposal less company tax of 2V per cent of $380m could be $50m out, but we will not quibble about a mere $50m. Incidentally, the information I am quoting is from a first class authority. I should mention that if one takes into account the Mathews stock valuation less company tax of 2V4 per cent for a full year together with the proposed 40 per cent investment allowance the Leader of the Opposition mentioned, one finds that the total cost for next financial year will be between $ 1,675m and $ 1,875m and, of course, the total tax collections for all companies will be approximately $2 ,250m. In other words, let us say that the cost would be about $ 1,750m. Total tax collections for all companies would be $2,2 50m, but under the proposal by the Leader of the Opposition companies would be paying tax of only $500m. In a full year company tax would be reduced from $2,250m to $500m. Once again I do not think that there has been very sound concentration upon the sums which were done. 
I then come to the proposals to reduce financial commitments in order to bring down the deficit to the same figure of approximately $2,800m. The Leader of the Opposition referred to zero growth in the Public Service and to a saving of $ 1 50m. The saving is more likely to be half that figure. According to the Treasury, zero growth in the Public Service which the Leader of the Oppostion mentioned would give a total saving of $20m. Then the Leader of the Opposition referred to wiping out the Australian Industry Development Corporation with a saving, he said, of $75m. That would mean a withdrawing of $50m in loan funds from the private sector. In other words, it would create a greater recession. 
The Leader of the Opposition then said that he would save on the $75m Treasurer's Advance. He just did not do his checking of the Budget Papers, because there is no provision for such a Treasurer's Advance in the Budget outlays. Then the Leader of the Opposition referred to other expenditure economies of $480m. The examples that he gave would provide a saving of about $1 15m. So in the final analysis there would be a further Budget deficit of approximately $500m. This is the so-called alternative budget of the Leader of the Opposition. I have used the statements in the speech which the Leader of the Opposition made in this House. We should bear in mind that many of these so-called savings in expenditure would seriously affect employment. I shall give some examples. At page 526 of  Hansard  the Leader of the Opposition is reported as having said: 
We would have stopped the build-up of public servants in Canberra by imposing a zero growth limit on the Public Service. 
That would reduce employment. Surely the principle is to make as few cuts as possible in expenditure which would reduce employment opportunity. That must be the principle to be followed when drawing up a Budget. There is another very good example. The Leader of the Opposition referred to a wind-up of this year's capital works. Once again this would have a serious impact on employment. Then he went on to say: 
We would have suspended the growth centre expenditures and made special economies in the urban rehabilitation and area improvement programs. 
Once again this would have seriously affected employment. In regard to this question of area improvement programs, one of the great reforms that this Government has introduced has resulted in very important developments in my electorate alone. I thank the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  who was in my electorate only a couple of weeks ago to see some of the great new projects that have been built in the Blacktown and Mount Druitt area. They are of very great benefit to the people. Because this question had been neglected by both the previous Federal Liberal-Country Party Government and the State Liberal-Country Party Government in New South Wales for a long time, it was absolutely essential that this Government give assistance to provide necessary facilities and a better quality of life in these areas. 
I have referred to the Baume hoax proposals. Here is another very good example of the types of hoaxes that are being turned out. This paper which was issued by the Leader of the Opposition himself endeavours to show how people under the new taxation proposals will pay more in actual tax. He refers to a single person on average earnings with no dependants and he goes on to show how this person will have to pay more tax. If we look at this matter carefully we see that the Leader of the Opposition refers to a gross income of $7,500 under the old system and to a gross income of $9,000 under the new system. The example is also given of a man with a nonworking wife and 2 children. Once again, the Leader of the Opposition refers to an income of $7,500 under the old system and $9,000 under the new. Of course a person would pay more tax if he received a higher income. But once again, though, one has to read the fine print. This is a hoax. It is irresponsible. I am surprised that the Leader of the Opposition would be talked into putting out a document of that type by  Mr Baume  and Patrick Partners. 
I want to refer to the reforms in the Budget and quote just a few examples of them. Firstly, I refer to the new rebate system, the new graduated system of personal income tax which we have introduced in this Budget. For a man with a dependent wife, a dependent student child and one dependent non-student child with $613 concessional deductions apart from deductions for dependants would save $308 on an income of $6,000 per annum.  (Quorum formed)  The quorum was called deliberately, of course, to try to waste time. Honourable members opposite are starting to squeal. At the time the quorum was called I was detailing some examples of the tax savings which the average family man would receive under the tax reforms contained in the Hayden Budget. I repeat that for a man with a dependent wife, a dependent student child and one dependent non-student child with $613 concessional deductions apart from deductions for dependants, would save $308 on an income of $6,000 per annum; $251 on $7,000 per annum; $254 on $8,000 per annum; $318 on $9,000 per annum; and $430 on $10,000 per annum. A taxpayer with a dependent wife, 2 dependent students and one dependent non-student child would save $385 on a wage of $7,000 per annum and $375 on a wage of $8,000 per annum. Incidentally, a single man with no dependants and no concessional deductions would make a saving of$100 per annum. 
I think I should also mention that the concessional allowance for education expenses has been increased from $150 per student to $250 per student. As the tax rebate is computed by multiplying the concessional deductions claimed by 40c in the dollar, a person who claims the full $250 will make an actual tax saving of $100- a big saving as compared to the past for the average income earner. 
Finally, I wish to refer very briefly to the question of housing. The facts are that  Mr McGinty,  the New South Wales Minister for Housing, claimed that because of the reductions- the socalled reductions- in funds for housing under this Budget he would be able to to build only 650 houses - 
I ask the Minister for Education: Has the pattern of grants for education by the Australian Government produced the crisis in education in New South Wales alleged by the New South Wales Minister for Education,  Sir Eric  Willis, or is this another attempt by a State Minister to blame the inadequacies of his administration upon the Australian Government? 
-I took the opportunity this morning to obtain from the  Clerk  of the House a photostat of the letter tabled this morning by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  which purports or is alleged to be a copy of a letter from the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  to the Prime Minister Mr Whitlam 
I have it right here. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Keith John son-Order!  I do not think the honourable member for Chifley needs any assistance from the honourable member for Bendigo. He is doing quite all right on his own. 
It seems to me that it - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The" honourable member for Hume will please contain himself. I am not in the habit of chiding one member only to have another member respond to the Chair in such a way. The honourable member for Hume will please contain himself, or he will find himself outside the chamber. 
The honourable member for Hume is noted on both sides of the chamber for bis immaturity. At the outset it seems to me that it cannot be the original, a duplicate or an official copy of any letter from the Treasurer to the Prime Minister. For example nothing goes out of the Treasurer's office which is not dated and which has not got a 'signed Bill Hayden' stamp on it. This practice was employed by previous Treasurers. Furthermore it is a retype. It is not signed and it is not dated. Also, a paragraph within it is identical with the terms of an alleged letter which was printed in the  Courier-Mail  of 4 August 1975. 1 stress 'a paragraph'- not all paragraphs. I ask honourable members to keep in mind that that letter was printed in the  CourierMail  before the Budget of 1 9 August. 
I think we all are well aware of the duplicity of the Leader of the Opposition. One has to read every word and every phrase he writes or speaks. He is quite capable of suborning a public servant or another person to leak false, private, confidential or classified information to him. I want to make it quite clear that I do not think a Treasury official necessarily is involved. Every public servant signs an oath of secrecy. I did myself. I can recall that, when I was on the staff of the Reserve Bank and prior to that in the exchange control department of the central banking division of the Commonwealth Bank, I came across some highly confidential and highly politically explosive information which could have brought about the downfall of the Menzies Government in the election of 1961- an election which that Government won by only 2 seats. The information concerned a person who is a prominent person in the Australian community and has great influence upon the media. The person received 3 lots of f stg5,000-in other words, stg 15,000 in all-for his third honeymoon to Europe. The instructions for this came from Canberra in the days of the Menzies Government. However, I did not break my oath of secrecy, even though I was a candidate at that election- a successful candidate as it turned out. I still will not break my oath of secrecy by giving any names - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  -Order! The Chair has been very lenient in this matter, but I think the honourable member is straying somewhat from the proposed expenditure. 
Very well,  Mr Deputy Chairman.  The Leader of the Opposition and the Opposition generally are deliberately trying to destroy the trust which should exist between the Public Service, the Parliament and the elected government; in other words, the democratic system. Members of the Opposition are quite ruthless in their attitude that the use of any means is justified in an attempt to regain the treasury bench. In doing so, they are corrupting other people and the parliamentary system generally. For the reasons I have given- the need for an oath of secrecy, the need for integrity of the Opposition and the need to maintain the integrity of the Parliament- I make a call now for a full scale investigation by the appropriate official bodies to ascertain the validity of the alleged letter and if it is valid- I have grave doubts about that- how it came into the possession of the Leader of the Opposition. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Can the Prime Minister say which Australian Government programs would be affected by a reduction in grants made under section 96 of the Constitution? 
Whenever I meet the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  outside this chamber I find him to be a gentle person for whom I cannot help but feel a lot of affection. Yet when he comes into this chamber he is suddenly transformed. No longer is he such a gentle person; he is a horrifying serpent. He strikes in the most illogical manner at all sorts of extraordinary conceptions which he seems to conjure up in his mind. Tonight when discussing the estimates for the Prime Minister's Department he spoke about matters which I did not think were relevant. For example, he mentioned the Regional Employment Development scheme. I suggest that he asks his friends associated with the Liberal governments of Victoria and New South Wales who have challenged the Australian Assistance Plan and the RED scheme to withdraw that challenge. It is not logical to challenge a scheme and then to squeal like heU the moment it is taken away. Where is the logic in that? 
The honourable member also said that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has been overseas. He has been overseas and he has put this country on the map. This country has never been as well received overseas as it is today. We can thank the Prime Minister for that. No longer are we seen to be hanging on to the coat tails of Uncle Sam. No longer are we see to be a tiny adjunct of the United States of America. Today Australia 's associations with other countries, including the Third World nations, are of very great importance. If the honourable member is a true Aus.tralian if he believes that Australia should have an importance in world affairs and if he believes that Australia should learn to live in Asia he will support the Prime Minister's overseas trips and those of previous Prime Ministers. We did not hear him holler when he was on this side of the chamber. We hear him holler only when he goes over to the Opposition side. 
Tonight I want to speak about child care. I think that one of the great initiatives of this Government has been in children's services. In 1972-73 when the Australian Labor Party came into office $486,750 was spent on children's services. In 1973-74 approximately $9m was spent. 
In 1974-75 $45,200,000 was spent, of which $ 12.7m was spent in New South Wales. For 1975-76 there is an allocation of $74m. In other words the figure has risen from less than $500,000 under the previous Government to $74m this financial year under this Government. We can be very proud of this achievement. I am concerned that this whole program is imperilled by the legal challenge to the High Court by the New South Wales and Victorian governments. They are challenging the Australian Assistance Plan and the RED scheme. If that challenge succeeds the whole children's program of this Government is in peril because it operates in precisely the same manner as the other schemes. Evidently the State governments did not even think about these things when they made the challenge. Now they are protesting devoutly that they want the RED scheme. I have noticed that members of the Liberal and National Country Parties are involved in the Australian Assistance Plan. It is to be hoped that they will prevail upon their colleagues in the State parliaments to withdraw the challenge in the High Court. That would be in the interests of Australia. They should not be petty about it. They should show that they are statesmen after aU. 
In my own area we have done fairly well. The reason for that is that there are more children in my electorate- particularly in the Mount Druitt area- than there are anywhere else in Australia It has been said that I represent the most fertile area of this country. The result is that we have had the need, and having the need we set out to do something about it for ourselves. We formed an ad hoc committee on child care and preschool services  2Vi  years ago. We set to and planned priorities for the area and to gain the knowhow and techniques for handling these types of projects. As a result we have had 28 projects funded already costing over $3m. But as I said, there is a need because of the very large number of children. According to the last census figures quoted by the New South Wales Health Commission, the average age of all people in the Mount Druitt area is 1 1  14.  That is a most extraordinary figure. There is a need for children's services and that need has been met. I take the opportunity of thanking the members of that ad hoc child care committee who served with me for the magnificent job they have done. The idea that if you help yourself you receive help has applied in this respect. 
I want particularly to deal with a pilot day care project which has been initiated and funded by this Government and which is run by the Blacktown Municipal Council. I think that this project will be the pattern of future child care projects in Australia. The capital cost per pupil of providing big buildings for child care is very high. It ranges from $3,000 to $4,000 for each child. I have seen family day care schemes operating in the United Kingdom. As a matter of fact my own grandchild is looked after in family day care in the United Kingdom. It is a very effective method. It involves licensing women who are chosen for their suitability for looking after children. In addition their homes are inspected and they go through a short course. The result is that a cheaper service can be provided than by having magnificent buildings. 
There are 3 pilot projects operating in the metropolitan area of Sydney now. One is at North Sydney, another is at Waverley and the other one which is about to start is at Blacktown. They are very important projects. I thank the local council for having accepted the responsibility for the project. I believe that it shows the future of child care for Australia. It is one of the most important aspects which should be watched very carefully by all officials and organisations interested in this very important childhood service. Once again I compliment the Government on its magnificent record in providing children's services. As I said, when this Government came to office, less than $500,000 was being spent on children's services. That expenditure rose to $9m in our first year of office. In our second year of office, the expenditure was $45 m. It is $74m in our third year of office. In other words, expenditure has risen from $500,000 to $74m. Expenditure in our third year of office is nearly 1 50 times as much as was spent in the last year of office of the previous Government. The increase in expenditure is a record of which we can be proud. It is an initiative of which we can be proud and which is of very great importance to the future of the young people of this country. 
-We in this chamber are very used, of course, to hearing the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  making very untruthful statements. In fact he has the reputation around the place these days, I understand, of being devious Don. We expect this sort of behaviour from him. We also expect the type of action which he took tonight. 
Not only of twisting the facts but also of attacking an honourable member who has no right of reply. I refer to the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen).  I think the action of the honourable member for Hotham is quite cowardly. He attacked the honourable member for Robertson who, as the honourable member for Hotham is aware, is not on the list of speakers in this debate and therefore cannot possibly reply. Into the bargain the honourable member then makes assertions. He says that the Government has not abided by its promises to pensioners. He does not yet know how to do his sums. I do not know where he went to school; no doubt he went to a privileged one but evidently it did not teach arithmetic. I suggest that the honourable member for Hotham shows us precisely how he computed his figures. He did not give us his figures. There is no proof whatever. He was just making a wild assertion without any proof. If he does a few sums he will find that the basic rate of pension at present is 25.2 per cent of average weekly earnings. Our undertaking on coming to office was that we would lift the present rate- it was then, I think, 18.7 per cent of average weekly earnings- to 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. We have done so. 
As the honourable member for Robertson says, we have done better. Furthermore we have done something which no other government has done. We have indexed pensions and related them to the consumer price index. In the last quarter the consumer price index rose by 3.5 per cent whereas average weekly earnings increased by one per cent. In other words if this rate of increase continues pensioners will do better by having pensions tied to the consumer price index than they would if pensions were tied to average weekly earnings. Despite requests from pensioners' organisations and the then Opposition- the Australian Labor Party- the previous Government, after 23 years, flatly refused to give any guaranteed pension. Pensioners waited with bated breath for every increase. The increases used to be 50c or $ 1- not as much as the $5 increases we have given. The pensioners used to wait hoping that the Government would give them a little, tiny bit when the time came once a year. Now pensions are indexed and increased half-yearly in line with the increase of the consumer price index. 
The major thing I wish to speak on tonight is the community health program. The honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  will remember the day when we, along with the present Treasurer  (Mr Hayden),  at that time the shadow Minister for social security and health, toured the western suburbs of Sydney and we looked at the hospitals right throughout the area. At that time we found a backlog- and this was supported by a completely independent surveyof 1200 beds in the hospitals in the outer pension region. On that day  Mr Hayden  stated that upon the Labor Party's assuming power later that year it would immediately introduce a community health program and that for the first time a Federal government as it was called then- it is the Australian Government nowwould give funds towards that program. This has been done. Right throughout the outer western suburbs of Sydney and various parts of Australia very worthwhile projects, such as community health centres, drug withdrawal units, antialcohol clinics, psychiatric centres and home nursing care services, have been undertaken. All these facilities are being provided in cooperation with the States with funds from this Government. We fund the States with section 96 grants. 
If the policy of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  who wants to cut out section 96 grants, is introduced, these community health programs would be in jeopardy. I ask honourable members to keep that in mind. Not only would the education programs, including Karmel recommendations, of this Government be placed in jeopardy but also the community health program would be placed in jeopardy. That policy was advocated by the Leader of the Opposition in his recent statement on taxation. All these facilities have been introduced with our assistance for the first time in the history of this country. They are one of the greatest initiatives of this Government, but the States are endeavouring, by quite dishonest means, to detract deliberately from the efforts of this Government and to take credit for something they did not do. I have some examples of this. I have a beauty which I will give to honourable members tonight. One good example is the Mt Druitt polyclinic. The Australian Government funded it. It cost $1.6m. It is the largest community health project in this country. 
That is quite right. Much work was also done by the former State member for Mt Druitt. Two Labor members of Parliament have been active in this area. This project was funded by the Australian Government. We covered 25 per cent of the capital cost. We will cover 90 per cent of the running cost each financial year from now into infinity. Of course, the clinic was opened by the State Minister for Health. All the publicity in the local Press turned out from the Parramatta office of the State Health Commission implies that it is a purely State project. It completely ignores reference to the Australian Government, excepting that now and again in the very fine print mention is made that it was built with funds from the Australian Government. The main headlines and the main information state that it was built and is operated purely by the State Government, by the State 
Health Commission with its funds, not Australian Government funds. 
Very low politics; I agree. It is not only low politics but also dishonest politics. The matter goes further than that. Today I received a letter addressed to the State member for Blacktown,  Mr Barnier.  He sent it to me. 
He is a very fine fellow. He is an excellent member. The letter was sent to him by the Minister for Health in New South Wales,  Mr Healey,  and is dated 25 September. In the letter  Mr Healey  states that a grant has been made to the community aid service of the municipality of Blacktown to help the operation of its community cottage, which is a refuge for women in crisis situations, the grant being $10,585. The letter states that this was approved under the New South Wales community health program. In other words, this is an invitation to a State member of Parliament to get publicity in the local Press stating that this is a project approved with funds from the New South Wales Government. In actual fact, this is part of the community health program of the Australian Government. The funds for this project have been provided by this Government. 
The honourable member for Riverina is very young and very inexperienced. He would not be aware, of course, that this Government is the first government to finance community health programs. The New South Wales Government is trying to take credit for projects which it did not initiate, and that is dishonest. 
-As these estimates deal with the Department of Services and Property, which is in charge of the electoral machinery, I wish to deal tonight with the extraordinary circumstances surrounding allegations and rumours that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  wishes to block the Budget. Of course, if such an action is taken, it will set an extraordinary precedent- a precedent that will destroy democratic government in Australia. It will set up a circumstance under which other oppositions in the future could take similar action. In other words, whenever a government might be going through a difficult period and be a little bit unpopular, as happens to all governments, then an opposition could take the initiative of blocking the Budget in the Senate. 

 Mr DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Lucock)Order! I think the honourable member for Chifley is rather stretching the debate on the estimates for the Department of Services and Property by discussing, firstly, the Budget and secondly the factor in relation to an election because of the Budget. I suggest that the honourable member might give consideration to the fact that the subject matter which he is debating at the moment is not covered by the Department of Services and Property. 

 - Mr Deputy Chairman, I shall not be discussing the Budget; I shall be discussing matters dealing with the electoral machinery of this country. I shall be dealing with the powers to call elections or otherwise, which surely comes within the authority of the Electoral Office of this country and certainly comes within the machinery controlled by the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly).  I should like to quote from section 53 of the Australian Constitution which states: 
Proposed laws appropriating revenue or moneys, or imposing taxation, shall not originate in the Senate. 
-I think the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  had better check up on his research officers who prepare his speeches for him because obviously they have been looking at the wrong statistics and the wrong reports. For a start, the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Riordan)  is not responsible nor is his Department responsible for Aboriginal housing. What was looked at apparently was the statistics on capital works and services undertaken by the Department of Housing and Construction. The Department undertakes various works for various departments. These include the Parliament, Aboriginal Affairs, Agriculture, AttorneyGeneral, Foreign Affairs, Health, Labor and Immigration, Manufacturing Industry and the Media. I could go on. You name it and the Department does it. This work is undertaken on a contract basis. In effect, it is carrying out contract work for other departments. 
I think the honourable member should really have looked at the statistics on the Department of Aboriginal Affairs to see just what has been done. The facts are that he has given no credit whatsoever for the tremendous initiative of this Government in the field of Aboriginal affairs. Great effort, great work and much expenditure has been used to try to improve the lot of our Aboriginal brothers. I would suggest that the honourable member go back to his research officer and tell him to be more careful with his research work in the future so that the honourable member as shadow Minister will not come into this place again and make a speech on the wrong department, for that is what he has done. He has made that fundamental error. A former honourable member for North Sydney did the same thing when he came into this place one night to make his first speech in 5 years and spoke on the wrong Bill. This is very similar to that incident. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Keith Johnson)-  No point of order is involved. The point of order was taken. It was resolved and you were able to continue. The honourable member may criticise you. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  If the honourable member wishes, he may make a personal explanation. No point of order is involved. 
Thank you,  Mr Deputy Chairman.  The facts are that the honourable member spoke from a prepared speech on the wrong department. He ought to check his facts first and make sure that his speech writers do a better job. The major matter I want to speak on today is the effort, the job performed by and the initiative of this Government in the field of low cost housing. In 1972-73 when this Government took office from the previous government expenditure in this field totalled $60,700,000. Proposed expenditure for the year 1975-76 totals $123,411,000. I refer to those amounts because the Minister for Housing in New South Wales,  Mr McGinty,  made the extraordinary statement about a month ago that because of a cutback in funds by this Government the New South Wales Government would have to reduce commencements of Housing Commission homes from, if I recollect correctly, 6000 down to 1500. Yet in 1972-73 only $60,700,000 was allocated by the previous Government for low cost housing. This financial year $123,411,000 is allocated for advances to the States. That sum is more than double what was allocated in the financial year when this Government came to office. 
I turn now to deal with the figures for the actual number of houses completed each financial year. All these figures are for New South Wales. In 1972-73, 4824 housing commission homes were completed. The estimate for 1974-75 is 7150 homes. We find also that there has been a reduction in the number of 'Applications for Accommodation-Outstanding'. At 31 December 1972, when we came to office, there were 39 562 such applications outstanding in New South Wales. Today the figure is down to 35 74 1 . This reduction has occurred only because this Government has allocated so much more under the housing agreement. The funds that we have allocated have made it possible for the. States to undertake this work. 
For this reason, one must therefore give the lie to the claim by the New South Wales Minister for Housing,  Mr McGinty,  that he is being starved of funds. That statement is like the claims that we have heard recently from the New South Wales Minister for Education in respect of which it has been shown that he is receiving extra per capita grants of an additional 43 per cent from which he pays teachers' salaries. Here the same type of attitude is being adopted; statements are made without any respect whatsoever being paid to the authenticity of those statements. They are being made simply to grab headlines in the Press and to try to damage the image of this Government. After all, the area of housing is one in respect of which this Government can be very proud indeed of its activities. It introduced increases in expenditure which were long overdue and which have certainly assisted the building industry through a difficult period. 
I refer also to the work which has been done in respect of units for pensioners. In 1972-73, $2,705,352 was provided for this purpose; $5,140,000 is the estimated expenditure this financial year on units for pensioners. The number of units approved in building schemes in 1972-73- that is, in the days of the previous Government- was 188. That had risen to 667 units in the financial year 1974-75. A great deal more remains to be done in this field. As our health standards improve and people live longer, a greater demand will be felt for facilities for the aged. Nevertheless, since this Government came to office, a good start has been made in this respect. 
I wish to refer also today to the refusal of the Housing Commission of New South Wales to provide normal facilities and amenities in the large developments which it undertakes. In this respect, I refer to sporting facilities, community centres and so on which are permitted under the new agreement- they were not permitted under the agreement with the previous Governmententered into by this Government to build such facilities and to use its funds to provide such facilities. I make this point because when a housing commission area such as Mount Druitt, which is in my electorate, is constructed and in which approximately 1 1 000 houses and flats are built, sporting fields, community centres and other facilities are not provided, the responsibility for the establishment of such facilities is left to the local government authority. It is simply completely beyond the financial ability of the local authority to do that work; it has not the capacity to do so. 
Accordingly, the people are dumped in these massive housing commission developments. They are all from the same socio-economic background. There is no tendency on the part of the Housing Commission to integrate the facilities and the homes. I have always believed, as I have advocated time and again in this chamber, that housing commission homes should be integrated with private development housing. This is the most effective way to do the job. This ensures that a great many of the problems which can occur are avoided. For those reasons, once again I advocate that integration and also that the Housing Commission of New South Wales in building these massive developments should make sure that it provides these necessary facilities. If this is not done people are left for up to a decade without the normal facilities which they would enjoy were they to live in any other part of New South Wales. 
I do not think that the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  has really given a great deal of credit to the Government and its policies which have stopped the land price spiral of 1972 and prior to that date. The fact is that the price of land was rising at an extraordinary rate prior to that time. The policy of this Government has halted that spiral. Of course development costs have risen. The honourable member for Petrie seems to be particularly concerned with development problems in that respect. But I do not think that he has sat down and really compared the land prices of 1972 and early 1973 with those of the present day. If he did compare them in the metropolitan area of Sydney, he would find that there is an actual reduction in land prices. Despite any movement in prices generally, land is not as dear as it was in 1972 and the early part of 1973 when we were getting over the very difficult period of the maladministration of the previous Government. 
The policies of this Government are working and they are having an effect upon land prices. They are making it easier for young people to get land on which to build houses. Today in the western suburbs of Sydney- I refer to Schofields, Quakers Hill, Blacktown, Doonside and other areas- one will see quite a big rebuilding boom. The reason for it is that the land is a lot cheaper now than it was when this Government came to office. I think members of the Opposition ought to give a little credit for a little foresight by the Government in the policies it introduced. The policies might have been a little difficult to introduce. They took a lot of courage, but at least they have had an impact. They have made land cheaper for the younger people today. 
However the major matter I wish to speak on tonight is one of the finest initiatives of this Government- the urban improvement programs. These programs have been quite remarkable. They are a first. I am glad to hear members of the Opposition now supporting them. The programs did not exist when their party was in power. For 23 years their party, when in government, could not take the initiative to introduce these types of programs. I can recall, as can the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren);  a meeting in Parramatta in 1969 when the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  who was then Leader of the Opposition met representatives of various councils in the western suburbs of Sydney. As the Minister will recall a program was laid down and a policy was decided upon on that day. As time went on that policy was steadily improved. No such policy existed prior to that day. Since then the policy has become a reality and has done a great deal for various parts of Australia, not the least being the outer western suburbs of Sydney. 
I represent an electorate in the western suburbs- an area which particularly needed assistance. The area had been seriously neglected by successive Federal and State Liberal governments. Those governments put massive housing commission complexes out there. In Mount Druitt alone 1 1 000 units- that is houses or flats -were built. In Lalor Park and Seven Hills 3500 units were built. Somewhere between 7000 and 8000 were built in the Green Valley area. Those governments dumped houses in those areas and put people in them but did nothing about providing the people with the various services such as community centres, playing fields, swimming pools and all the necessities that go to make a reasonable standard of life and a reasonable quality of life. Yet as I say those governments put the houses there but did nothing else. 
The concept of the present Government's policy was formulated in 1969 in Parramatta. The honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  was still a boy and did not even know the policy had been formulated at the time. He was still listening to daddy; still sitting at daddy's feet. The facts are that that policy was initiated and it has been highly successful. I thank the Minister for Urban and Regional Development for some of the initiatives carried out in my electorate under the area improvement program. We have, for a start, Alpha Park which will be the first decent park Blacktown has ever had. We also have the Mount Druitt library. 
I will come to that in a moment and to the honourable member's party's policy on it. The honourable member should wait and not get too excited. I will come to that in a moment and to  Mr Fraser's  statement on the Budget and to what it will mean. It will mean an end to the area improvement programs. We also have the Mount Druitt town centre landscaping, the Mount Druitt town centre swimming pool and the oval complex at Grantham Heights- one of the finest complexes ever seen. This is one of the first two pilot projects for the area improvement program. The other is in the western suburbs of Melbourne. Now, of course, the honourable member for Petrie wants to know about the program. I will give him the news. The whole program is now in jeopardy. I quote from the words in the so-called alternative Budget proposal of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  He said that there would be special economies on urban rehabilitation and area improvement programs. In all the discussion and all the criticisms which members of the Opposition make to these programs- they say that they want to improve them- they all have their tongue in their cheek. In actual fact their Leader has stated explicitly that he will make special economies on urban rehabilitation and area improvement programs. This means the phasing out of those programs. This means that the honourable member for Parramattaand honourable members who sit in similar electorateswho has received great benefit from the programs and the policies of the Minister for Urban and Regional Development will have his head cut off by his own Leader. That is the situation which honourable members opposite have to face up to. It is time they got into their Caucus room and tried to tell their Leader to adopt more commonsense policies. 
When we are debating other estimates at other times I will talk of the tax programs of the Leader of the Opposition. I will talk of doubling tax- giving the States the right to levy income tax. Do honourable members opposite want to go back to that system which existed before the last war when States levied taxes and when the people of the Australian Capital Territory paid less tax than people in other States? 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)Order!  The honourable member for Petrie will cease interjecting. 
Of course the honourable member for Petrie is the man who made me speak out of order and to deal with matters not concerned with this portfolio. What will be the effect upon employment in these regions if the policy of the Leader of the Opposition becomes a reality? Less funds will be put into the areas. Less funds will be circulating in the area. There will be less employment in the area. I also ask: What will be the position of local government? Local government has had to bear the whole crunch of the policies of State governments- governments like the one to which the father of the honourable member for Parramatta belongs. I refer to the State Liberal Minister in the Lewis Liberal Government. That Government has refused consistently year after year to provide for the necessary facilities in those areas. This means that local government councils have had to bear the brunt of this lack of financial ability to carry out the necessary works. We have been doing something for local government. We have been giving them a chance and giving them a go. We have been ploughing funds into area improvement programs, into the Regional Employment Development scheme, into the programs of the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  and of course have given capital assistance through the Grants Commission. All this has meant great assistance to local government. The policies of the Leader of the Opposition mean that this assistance will be phased out and that the financial problems of local government in these new developing areas will be greatly increased. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Is the motion seconded? 
-Is leave granted? 
-I have received the following message from the Senate: 
Pursuant to a Resolution passed this day the Senate transmits to the House of Representatives the following Resolution agreed to by the Senate on 15 October 1975 during consideration of the Bill for 'An Act to Authorize the Raising and Expending of Moneys for Defence Purposes ': 
That this Bill be not further proceeded with until the Government agrees to submit itself to the judgment of the people, the Senate being of the opinion that the Prime Minister and his Government no longer have the trust and confidence of the Australian people because of- 
the continuing incompetence, evasion, deceit and duplicity of the Prime Minister and his Ministers as exemplified in the overseas loan scandal which was an attempt by the Government to subvert the Constitution, to bypass Parliament and to evade its responsibilities to the States and the Loan Council; 
the Prime Minister's failure to maintain proper control over the activities of his Ministers and Government to the detriment of the Australian nation and people; and 
the continuing mismanagement of the Australian economy by the Prime Minister and this Government with policies which have caused a lack of confidence in this nation's potential and created inflation and unemployment not experienced for 40 years. '. 
Motion (by  Mr Enderby)  agreed to: 
That the message be taken into consideration at the next sitting. 
-The honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  nearly did not have a seconder for his amendment. There was no other senior member of the front bench of the Opposition from either the Liberal Party or the National Country Party in the House to second the proposition. As the mover of the amendment he had suddenly to look across and to obtain the approval of the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  to second the amendment. Of course the honourable member for North Sydney abided by his responsibilities. The Loan Bill 1975 is essentially, put very simply, to assist in the financing of our defence expenditure. The Opposition Parties have always given great emphasis to the fact that they are advocates of defence, although the Minister for Defence  (Mr Morrison)  showed clearly in this House this morning that this Government has spent far more on defence. As a matter of fact, in 3 years we have spent twice as much on defence as the previous Government spent in 5 years. We can claim a credit on this question of defence. We do not talk about it a lot but without a doubt we do act much more than the Opposition in this area. But the Opposition always gives Up service to defence. Yet the first item, the first Bill which the Opposition delayed in the Senate in respect to this constitutional crisis was a Bill the purpose of which is to provide finance for our defence expenditure.  (Quorum formed)  As I said, the Opposition, which gives great lip service to the issue of defence, chose as the first item of legislation which it delayed in the Senate in respect of this constitutional crisis that we have today a Bill to provide finance for our defence expenditure. That shows how hypocritical the Opposition is. 
Of course the major issue here is that the Opposition is attacking the very foundations of the Westminster system by the action it is taking. It is putting in jeopardy stable, sound government in Australia for generations to come. It is not just a question of this Government; it is a question of future governments. It is a question of governments which may not be the political colour of this Government, of governments of all parties and of all politics. These governments are placed in jeopardy. We could have the same type of situation occur in this country as has occurred in many European countries. Many of us remember what happened to France between the 2 World Wars when governments would last weeks and months. The result was that the bureaucracy got stronger and the voice of the people got weaker. For that reason the Government is fighting this issue. We believe it is not just a question of survival of this Government; it is a question of survival of our whole democratic system of government. 
The honourable member for Evans said: 'Every 18 months'. It is much worse than that. This Government has faced a crisis as to whether we would be denied Supply by a contrived Senate, by a Senate which has equal representation for every State. Tasmania has 10 senators and about half a million people and New South Wales, which has nearly 5 million people, also has 10 senators.  (Quorum formed)  The honourable member for Evans made the point that every 18 months we faced a crisis, but we have faced a crisis every 6 months because there have been threats from the Senate to withdraw Supply every 6 months. As I have said, the Senate is elected with equal representation in every State. The large States get the same representation as the small States. The vote of the people of Tasmania in a Senate election is nearly 10 times as great in value as the vote of the people of New South Wales. 
Furthermore, it is a Senate which is a contrived Senate. There have been 2 examples of this. The late Bert Milliner, a senator from Queensland and one of the most respected members of the Senate, died and his place was taken by an anti-Labor person, who gave an undertaking before being appointed by the Queensland National Party Government that he would vote against Supply. In New South Wales the same thing happened. As a result of the resignation of  Senator Murphy  a non-Labor person was appointed to that vacancy. In each instance there was broken a convention which was laid down to ensure that the people's voices as expressed in a Senate election would be reflected by maintaining the representation in the Senate. That is a very sound convention. The precedent established by the Opposition for the sole purpose of grabbing for power is a very dangerous one for the future of Australia. 
For these reasons it is very important that the Government must make sure that this issue is fought in order to maintain the very basis and the very principles of the Westminster system. What is the Opposition hanging its hat on? Section 53 of the Constitution says: 
Proposed laws appropriating revenue or moneys, or imposing taxation, shall not originate in the Senate. 
It goes on: 
The Senate may not amend proposed laws imposing taxation, or proposed laws appropriating revenue or moneys for the ordinary annual services of the Government. 
The Senate may not amend any proposed law so as to increase any proposed charge or burden on the people. 
Then it goes on to point out that the Senate may make suggestions to the House of Representatives. It then says: 
And the House of Representatives may, if it thinks fit, make any of such omissions or amendments, with or without modifications. 
Except as provided in this section, the Senate shall have equal power with the House of Representatives in respect of all proposed laws. 
The Opposition is hanging its hat on the fact that it does not actually mention the word 'reject'. Yet the inference is very clear. There is a very definite inference that the Senate has not power over money Bills. So we have a situation in which it is quite clear that the Westminster system - 

 Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. (Quorum formed) 

-Before the sitting was suspended for dinner I was pointing out that section 53 of the Constitution is quite clear insofar as it makes the point that the Senate shall not initiate a money Bill and shall not amend a money Bill. It may make suggestions to the House of Representatives but the House of Representatives, if it so desires, will accept or reject those suggestions. Yet we find a situation in which the Opposition is trying to hang its cap on the very flimsy suggestion that because the Constitution does not actually mention the word 'reject' it can reject the Bill. But the intention of the Constitution is quite clear. 
We should look back to the original history of the Constitution and to the constitutional conventions during the 1 890s when this Constitution was founded. During that period it was found that there were great jealousies amongst the States. It was found necessary to provide for a States House. Originally it was intended that that should not be a political House and that it should be purely a House of State representatives to guard the rights of the States. Of course it was rather impractical because politics had to intervene. For that reason it was intended that that House should be purely a States rights House with equal representation for the States- ten each, as it is today- irrespective of the population of each State. I cite the example that this Government in the last Senate election received 200 000 more votes than all the other political parties and groups put together; yet because of a quirk of the electoral system and because of the States representation the Government did not win a majority. 
We now have an example of a Senate which has been contrived and deliberately bodgied by the supporters of the Opposition, in Queensland by the Premier of Queensland appointing a nonLabor representative to the Senate in place of a Labor representative and in New South Wales by that Premier appointing a non-Labor representative in lieu of a Labor representative. Accordingly there is a false majority for the Opposition in the Senate at this time. It is using that majority with the object of refusing Supply to this Government and rejecting the Budget of this Government at a time when, if the Senate had been truly representative as it was at the last election, the resolutions that went through the Senate last week would not have been passed. 
Let us look at the reputation of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  Let us look at this man.  His  reputation is in absolute tatters. This is the man who swore loyalty to the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  a former Prime Minister of this country. He used all treacherous means to undermine him and finally to have him defeated as the Prime Minister of this country by his own Party. He set out to destroy his own leader. That was completely and utterly treacherous. Then on 2 occasions he swore loyalty to his leader, the right honourable member for Bruce  (Mr Snedden).  On 2 occasions he completely reneged on that. On 2 occasions he was utterly and completely treacherous to him. When he assumed the mantle of the Leader of the Opposition he stated quite clearly and definitely that as far as he was concerned this Parliament- as this was the seat of governmentshould run its full term of 3 years. In tiny printone must look very carefully at every word that this man uses- he added the words 'unless some reprehensible action occurs'. When this Budget, which he is now proposing shall be rejected or delayed, was brought down he stated that it should be allowed to pass the Senate. 
This man gave 5 fundamental promises or undertakings: One to the right honourable member for Higgins, 2 separate ones to the right honourable member for Bruce, an undertaking that the Parliament should be allowed to run its full term, and finally an undertaking that the Budget should be allowed to pass the Senate. He has broken every one of those undertakings.  His  reputation today is completely in tatters. Is it any wonder that one hears of a mass movement without this Parliament amongst the rank and file of the people? I understand that on the radio today there was a statement that a further gallup poll has been taken which shows that there has been a 10 per cent swing to this Government in recent weeks. That is only the beginning because as this whole thing unfolds so will the massive support for this Government increase. That is the picture which the Opposition must face. It is time Opposition supporters looked at themselves. It is time they realised that they got on the wrong horse. It is time they went to their leader and said: 'Do something about it'. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! Will the Assistant Government Whip make up his mind whether or not he is entering the House. He has already been spoken to about standing around in the aisles. 
-My question is addressed to the Minister for Agriculture. Can he tell the House what will be the consequences of delaying the passage of the Budget so far as the primary industry policies of this Government are concerned? 
-It is unusual, but I will allow the Minister to answer the query. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Adermann)  adjourned. 
Order! The Minister will address the Chair and the honourable member for Gippsland will remain silent. 
Gippsland was not available earlier so that I could have explained this to him in advance. I am moving a motion of which I gave notice yesterday. It is set out on the notice paper, and it is the motion I am moving. The Committee assumed, and it is reasonable to assume, that there will be changes in the value of shareholdings and changes in the value of land holdings. A number of factors will cause those changes. There is the question of market fluctuations and the question of purchases and resales of shares or of land. It is also reasonable to assume that at a particular time a member may not be aware of the value of a particular parcel of shares or of a particular land holding. For example, shares or land may be held through a partnership or a trust company and a member may reasonably not be aware of their particular value at a particular time. I emphasise, however, that the motion calls upon members and requires members to notify changes in their holdings as they occur. A member is also required to disclose the name of any company of which he is a director. That information is then open to be checked by any interested person at any given time. 
A member is also required to disclose any sponsored travel. Sponsored travel may be made available by foreign governments, by companies or organisations. I put it that the public has a right to know whether any member of either House of this Parliament accepts foreign government sponsored travel or sponsored travel on behalf of any organisation. A member is required to disclose such travel and the public is entitled to know about it. The public is also entitled to be able to test the future conduct of such member subsequent to that travel being undertaken. The matter of substantial hospitality being made available to a member should be disclosed and I strongly urge the House to adopt that section of the motion along with the other sections. 
It has been suggested in certain sections that the great deficiency in the Committee's report and in this motion, which virtually seeks to implement the Committee's recommendation, is that the shareholdings or pecuniary interests of members' families- of spouses and children of members- do not have to be disclosed. The assumption is that there will be some move to evade the provisions of the proposed register. The Committee had no evidence before it to justify that proposition. The Government does not accept it as reasonable. The Committee felt, and the Government in putting this motion feels, that it is not desirable at this stage to require the declaration of interests of spouses or dependent children of members of the Parliament. It is regarded by the Committee as being an unnecessary invasion of privacy. In any event it is doubtful, to say the least, whether this Parliament has the jurisdiction or the authority to require that spouses and dependent children of members should have their interests disclosed. 
I mention in passing a further difficulty which was before the Committee. It was one noted in the report of the House of Commons. It may well be that the spouse of a member has share holdings or interests in land and other interests of which the member may not be aware. Cynics, of course, will say that that is an unreasonable contention but I ask those who make such a suggestion to look carefully at it. It is not reasonable to expect that a member of this Parliament would have full knowledge of all the financial dealings or affairs of his or her spouse. The Committee considered whether the British provision could be implemented; that is, that in respect of shareholdings in companies in which the member is a shareholder and in respect of which the member could have knowledge of the interests of his spouse the interests of the spouse should be declared. The Committee found that to be an unnecessary requirement. It appeared to the Committee to be pointless. 
Public access to the register will be guaranteed but a restriction is placed on that access. The limitation is designed to protect all concerned. This register is not to be regarded as a reservoir for scandal or for scandal-mongering, nor is it to be regarded as a source for personal abuse. Any person who has a genuine reason for obtaining the information has access guaranteed, but there is an obligation on the person to establish that he has such a genuine or  bona fide  reason. Members who have made declarations will have some protection. If a person requires access to a member's disclosures, the member concerned may object. If he does so the member assumes the onus of establishing that the disclosures should not be published to the person having the interest. I emphasise that the Presiding Officers of this Parliament will have the final say in this matter. Of course it may be said that this will mean everything will be covered up and that the register will be open to abuse. I remind honourable members that the motion also provides for the establishment of a committee to supervise the operation of the register and to modify any of its provisions with the approval of both Houses of this Parliament. 
Certain sections have asked why there are no enforcement provisions. I point out that there are, in fact, sanctions once this matter is contained in the Standing Orders. In the first place the effects of the disgrace with which any member who fails to disclose an interest will be confronted cannot be minimised. That is, the disgrace of being found out, as it were, would be sufficient deterrent to ensure that every member disclosed his interests. In any event those cynics who say that members will seek to evade the requirements assume that dishonesty is involved and that some members of this Parliament have something to hide which they would not wish to disclose and so would seek to evade the requirements of the Standing Orders of this Parliament. In reply to the suggestion I point out that the Committee met in public session for a considerable period. Its sittings were well advertised. Many people in this community were invited to give evidence before it but in no case was any substantial proposition put. In no case was it suggested that there was impropriety or dishonesty by any member of this Parliament. 
I suggest that there is a further sanction involved. A standing order once made carries its own penalty for a breach. On page 29 of the Committee's report is a quotation from the report of the 1974 House of Commons Select Committee on Members' Interests. It reads: 
Under no circumstances should the Registrar and his staff be seen as enforcement officers, with powers to inquire into the circumstances of Members. The underlying principle behind the register is that Members are responsible for their entries; the House will trust them in this respect, but at the same time such trust involves obligations. As the  Clerk  of the House pointed out, 'The ultimate sanction behind the obligation upon Members to register would be the fact that it was imposed by Resolution of the House . . . 
There can be no doubt that the House might consider either a refusal to register as required by its Resolutions or the wilful furnishing of misleading or false information to be a contempt'. The sanction of possible penal jurisdiction by the House should be sufficient. 
I remind honourable members that that provision would apply with equal force in this Parliament. It is also sought to cover ministerial staff and staff of office holders of the Opposition. They have, in varying degree, access to confidential information which may or may not lead to a possible conflict with public interest. There is capacity for breach of public interest, and because there is capacity it is recommended that they should have a register. It is not recommended that such register should be open for public inspection. Opposition staff members also have access to confidential information. They equally play a significant role in the decisionmaking process in this Parliament. It is appropriate, in the Committee's view and in my view in putting this proposition before the House, that they should also be required to disclose their interest. 
The Committee also recommended- this resolution seeks the endorsement of the House for the proposition- that the media should also be required to register their interest. There is an expression of view that it is desirable that a media council should be established but that in the meantime there should be a declaration of interest by various representatives of the media. Paragraph (iv) of Part B of the motion states: 
A Media Council which is representative of the component parts of the media should be established with an independent chairman. 
But until such time as any such media council is established it is proposed that the same provisions as are provided in paragraphs (i) to (vii) of Part A, subject to such changes as necessary, should apply to the directors, executives, editors and journalists of those media organisations accredited to or using the facilities of Parliament House and to all other journalists accredited to, using the facilities of, or working in or from Parliament House. So if this resolution is adopted it will be a condition on media organisations which wish to use the facilities of this Parliament that they register in the same way as is envisaged for members of the Parliament. 
Financial journalists in several States are already required by State legislation to register their pecuniary interests and the reason for this is simple. During the mining boom and during the share boom there was gross abuse of the power of the Press whereby some journalists, according to evidence before the Committee, drummed up the prices of shares and gained substantial financial benefits from their action- a completely unethical practice.  (Extension of time granted).  Such unethical practice was exposed and now journalists are required to register their interests. 
I am not suggesting that there is necessarily unethical practice in respect to political reporting but what I am suggesting is that those who assume the right to influence public opinion accept unto themselves an obligation to allow public confidence in their actions. The news media are in a special category. They claim to exercise a public function and unquestionably they do. They report the news of this Parliament and of the community. The parliamentary system of government would be ineffective if news of it were not reported. 
In respect of public servants let me briefly say this: The Committee did not, and this resolution does not, cover public servants. There is no doubt at all that in the Public Service there are significant areas where there is prospect of conflict of interest. The Committee did in fact write to the Royal Commission inquiring into the Public Service to inquire whether that Royal Commission was going to examine this matter. On receipt of advice that the Royal Commission was examining this aspect of Public Service activity, the Committee decided not to proceed further with it. It is involved and it cannot be dealt with simply. The problem cannot be resolved by imposing a requirement on members of the Public Service who are employed in particular divisions. It will flow right through the Public Service and different criteria will need to be established. If the Royal Commission does not deal with the matter the Parliament, of course, can subsequently come back to it. 
The motion also requires that Ministers should not be able to have directorships and that they should not have shares in companies affected by their ministerial responsibility or authority. This is merely a formalisation of the rules which apparently have been existent for some time and which presently apply. Evidence before the Committee was that such rules have been in existence for some considerable time. This resolution and subsequent legislation will seek to formalise those present arrangements. There is contained in the motion a proposal that a joint committee should be set up. It is suggested that such a joint committee should be in similar numbers to the Joint Committee on Pecuniary Interests. It is necessary that such a committee exit for 2 reasons. Firstly, it is suggested there will be a need to supervise the administration of this register to ensure that it operates smoothly, and to make recommendations for any change that may be necessary. There should also be established a contemporary code of conduct for members of Parliament which will suit the needs of a modern community. 
A number of issues can arise. For example, are there companies or industries in which members of Parliament should not. hold shares in any circumstances or should there be any further restriction on paid employment for members of Parliament outside their parliamentary duties? For example, section 45, placitum (iii) of the Constitution already places a restriction on members of Parliament receiving remuneration for work done as a member of the Parliament beyond that allowance which is paid to him. The question arises as to what that means in the current setting, and that needs clarification. Another question that might be considered in relation to this code is when and how there should be a public declaration of any interest in a Bill being considered before the Parliament. For example, if a government subsidy is being paid to an industry in which a member has an interest, or if a member has an interest in a tariff proposal on which he may be voting, should this interest be disclosed and under what circumstances? Another question would be: Should members and their spouses have any restriction placed on them other than that envisaged by section 45 of the Constitution? Another one might well be: To what extent, if any, should members be restricted in trading with the Crown? We all held a view about that, a view which was held by the Court of Disputed Returns, constituted by the Chief Justice,  Sir Garfield  Barwick, to be erroneous. The principal task of that committee, of course, will be to establish a reasonable code of conducta code of conduct which is desirable and necessary. The weakness in the whole scheme is the matter of donations to political funds but this was a matter which was beyond the jurisdiction and terms of reference of the Joint Committee and such a proposal has already been rejected by the Senate. I draw attention to the fact that agreement has not been possible so far on this important issue but hopefully at some stage the Parliament will agree to such a proposal. 
It should be made very clear that it was not the intention of the Joint Committee, nor is it the intention of the Government, that a register of wealth should be established, as I have already indicated. The purpose of the register and the disclosure provision is to allow for the ascertainment and/or establishment of any possible conflict of interest. It is not suggested that the scheme is incapable of evasion. There is probably no scheme with provisions which an ingenious mind could not find proper means of evading. The proposal works on the premise that there is basic integrity and honesty amongst members of Parliament. This, however, is a vastly different issue to conflict of interest. 
This is an historic proposal. It is the first step in the establishment of a total code of conduct which will put beyond doubt the integrity of the Parliament as an institution. It is designed to establish in the public mind that decisions made are consistent with public interest and are motivated by a proper concern for public good and not to advance the personal interests of those who constitute the Parliament. The proposal goes much further than the register which has been established in the House of Commons in the United Kingdom. It is far more comprehensive and requires a declaration of much more detail. Whilst a member of Parliament is entitled to privacy, such member must also expect to be subjected to the closest public scrutiny in respect of his conduct as a member and in respect of his personal financial affairs. 
Similarly, those who seek to influence public opinion in respect of important national decisions must also be prepared to establish clearly that their motivation is in the public interest. It must be possible for the public to be able to ascertain whether there is some interest other than the one expressed at the time which motivates a particular viewpoint. This proposal, if adopted, will establish public confidence in the total decision-making process. This is essential at a time when the democratic parliamentary system is under strong challenge in various parts of the world. Honourable members should consider this whole issue as a matter of basic principle, which is fundamental for the promotion and preservation of the democratic system. Parliamentary government can only succeed and be most effective when those governed by it have confidence in the institution as such. I commend the resolution to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Wilson)  adjourned. 

 -Mr Speaker, may I take this opportunity of congratulating you on your election as  Speaker.  You are well known for your good humour. I feel sure that you will bring that good humour to the office of the Chair, and I hope you will also bring with it tolerance. I also congratulate the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  on his maiden speech. Of course he will find it very difficult to live up to the record and the reputation of the former honourable member for St George and Minister for Defence, who was of course very highly regarded by all the defence chiefs and departmental heads. 
Without a doubt, as the honourable member just said, he was an outstanding Minister. I refer to  Mr Bill  Morrison, who was the former member for St George. I realise that the honourable member will find it difficult to live up to Bill Morrison's reputation. Nevertheless he has just made his maiden speech and I congratulate him on it. 
A lot has been said over the months about the events prior to and on 1 1 November during a period when fundamental constitutional conventions which form the very framework of our democracy were broken. Of course this led up to the  coup d'etat  of 1 1 November. One matter that has not been mentioned in the House previously- I think it should be mentioned- is the opinion given on television by  Sir Murray  Tyrrell, who of course was Secretary to a number of Governors-General and who retired just prior to the present Governor-General taking office.  Sir Murray  Tyrrell appeared on television on 2 occasions. On both occasions he made it very clear that it was his view that it was the Senate that was in error in breaking the convention that it should not reject money Bills. He also made it very clear that he considered that it was the then Opposition, the present Government, which was in error. Finally, after the  coup d'etat,  he said on television words to this effect: 'There is no doubt about it. Australia has been through a revolution during the last few days. It may have been a bloodless revolution but it was a revolution'. 
As the honourable member for Hunter has just said, they were very strong words from a man who has served in a position which has enabled him to understand the Constitution of this country and what is required of the office of the Governor-General probably better than has anybody else in the country.  His  job was  to work with and advise successive GovernorsGeneral. It was he who stated: 'Yes, there is no doubt about it, Australia has been through a revolution in the last few days'. Like it or not, no matter how honourable members opposite try to gild the lily, the facts are that a government was removed- picked off- right in the middle of its term by methods which are not in accordance with the normal requirements of the Constitution of Australia and certainly the constitutional conventions which apply in Australia. 
A matter with which I wish to deal arose this morning. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  refused to agree to a request this morning by the honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin),  for a full inquiry into statements made on the  AM  radio program this morning. I have here a transcript of that section of the  AM  broadcast of today, 19 February, which concerns me. It reads as follows: 
You may remember that last week, the New York weekly newspaper, the  Village Voice  published a secret congressional report on the CIA, the so-called Pyke Papers. Now in its latest edition, the  Village Voice  has turned its attention to the CIA in Australia with allegations that the CIA was involved in the dismissal of the former Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam.  With the details, here is Ray Martin in New York. 
This is a transcript of the  AM  program this morning. The transcript of what Ray Martin said reads: 
The allegations, and that's all they are, have surfaced in a lengthy column by Alexander Coburn, a staff reporter for the  Village Voice.  Coburn headlined today's story 'CIA triumph, incredible but true, the CIA came through'. According to Coburn, the US intelligence establishment has been keeping a signalled triumph from the attention of the American people- that triumph, again according to Coburn, was the dismissal of the Whitlam Government last November. The gist of today's newspaper report is this, that former Prime Minister Whitlam had decided to release to Parliament, some secret details about the American base at Pine Gap near Alice Springs. 
I wish to interpose here and say, as a matter of interest, that I was one of the members who went to Pine Gap and asked, as a member of this Parliament for the right to go in to find out what Pine Gap was all about but I was refused permission. I think they would find it very hard to find anything wrong so far as my personal attitude on the defence of this country is concerned. 
That was the Gorton Government. I return to the transcript of the broadcast: 
The gist of today's newspaper report is this, that former Prime Minister Whitlam had decided to release to Parliament, some secret details about the American base at Pine Gap near Alice Springs. What is more that the Labor Government was making threatening noises about maybe not renewing the lease on Pine Gap. At the same time,  Mr Whitlam  was due on November 1 1 - 
Note the date, 1 1 November -  to reply in Parliament to a question from  Mr Anthony  about the activities of Richard Lee Stalling, an American technician who had been charged in Australian papers with being a top agent of the CIA in Australia. So, on November 10, one day before the Whitlam reply- 
Note the date, 10 November-  the CIA informed Australian Intelligence in Canberra that 'recent developments by  Mr Whitlam  would blow the cover of American spies in Australia and also endanger the gathering of intelligence, presumably the future of Pine Gap'. So again, according to the  Village Voice,  the Governor-General, who was allegedly favourably disposed to the CIA was approached, and then the newspaper says the following day came the dismissal. 
I will repeat them. The transcript of the broadcast reads: 
So again, according to the  Village Voice,  the GovernorGeneral, who was allegedly favourably disposed to the CIA was approached- 
Of course there are many people who think the CIA is a very worthy organisation. I am not one of them but there are some who do think that. The transcript of the broadcast goes on:  . . . and then the newspaper says the following day came the dismissal. Again it must be repeated that these are only allegations and have no evidence to back them up- at least not in today's report. Much of the Coburn report is based on stories in the Australian Press, but more especially on an article in the latest edition of the French Journal  Le Monde Diplomatique,  by Australian Journalist, Malcolm Salmon. But what is significant is that these very serious allegations have now surfaced in the American Press. The  Village Voice  is distributed nationally in the United States and has a circulation of about 165 000 per edition. It will almost certainly focus the congressional spotlight on the charges and perhaps bring a closer investigation of CIA activities in Australia. 
I sincerely hope it does. The transcript continues: 
Coburn concludes his report by commenting, 'at the very least, the magnificent saga of  Sir John  Kerr should be widely publicised to give comfort to those who feel in these dark days, that the CIA simply cannot put a foot right'. 
In other words, the allegation is that for once the CIA was successful. It was able to bring about the removal of a government in Australia by way of a  coup d'etat.  I think it is most important - 
No Member may use the name of Her Majesty, her representative in the Commonwealth, or her representative in a State, disrespectfully in debate, nor for the purpose of influencing the House in its deliberations. 
It is clear from May's  Parliamentary Practiceand  the House has always followed this rule- that reflections cannot be cast in debate on the conduct of the Governor-General and certain other persons, unless the discussion is based upon a substantive motion, drawn in proper terms, which admits of a distinct vote of the House. Also such matters cannot be questioned by way of amendment, that is, because an amendment has been moved a reflection will still be out of order. Also, such matters cannot be raised upon any motion for the adjournment. 
I will expand a little on the opinion which I take on this matter. Some past rulings have been very narrow. It has, for instance, been ruled that the Governor-General must not be either praised or blamed in this chamber and, indeed, that the name of the Governor-General must not be brought into debate at all. I feel such a view is too restrictive. I think honourable members should have reasonable freedom in their remarks. I believe that the forms of the House will be maintained if the Chair permits words of praise or criticism provided such remarks are free of any words which reflect personally on  His Excellency  or which impute improper motives to him. For instance, to say that in the member's opinion the Governor-General was right or wrong and give reasons in a dispassionate way for so thinking would in my view be in order. To attribute motive to the Governor-General's actions would not be in order. I ask honourable members to adhere to this rule. I draw the attention of the honourable member for Chifley to the fact that if he imputes motive for the action he will be out of order. 

 - Mr Speaker, I think that a ruling of that type should not have taken up the time of an honourable member's speech. Obviously it was prepared - 
I will make the point,  Mr Speaker;  do not worry about that. I make the point that the document which I have read out in the House makes allegations of such a serious nature- they may or may not be true- that I believe the Government cannot do other than immediately institute a full inquiry into the matter to ascertain whether the allegations are correct or incorrect. If they turn out to be correct the inquiry should make recommendations to this Parliament as to what should be done to rectify the situation. It is a very serious allegation which affects the whole framework of our relations with the United States of America and certainly imputes that the CIA is very active here in Australia and is even prepared to take action to overthrow a constitutionally elected government. 
There is another matter with which I wish to deal. Yesterday each honourable member received a copy of the  Round-up of Economic Statistics.  The summary at the beginning says: 
Aggregate demand remained weak in December. 
That is correct. If one goes to any of the major stores one will be told that demand has reduced ever since 1 1 November and this month and in the month of January has remained very weak. As late as a week ago I was speaking to the manager of one of the major stores in Sydney. He said that consumer demand is still very weak. In other words, despite the suggestions by the Government that its action is enthusing business confidence and increasing business activity, the contrary is the case. People are very frightened today. They are putting more money into the banks for a rainy day. That is what is occurring. The summary also says: 
The labour market appears to have firmed somewhat in January although the firming is largely confined to Melbourne. 
A set of monetary measures designed,  inter alia,  to absorb excess liquidity was introduced on 22 January. 
The Government has introduced a set of measures such as the Australian savings bonds which have had a dramatic impact upon the building societies. The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  mentioned in the House the number of applications for savings bonds and the total amount received. But what he did not mention was on whom the cheques lodged with the bonds were drawn. The people in the banks will tell one that a great number of them are drawn on the building societies. This has meant a dramatic drain of funds out of the building societies and this in turn will force them to increase their interest rates. They will have to do that in defence. This will mean an increase in the general level of interest rates in the building industry right throughout the length and breadth of Australia. 
-As the honourable member for Hughes says, it is inevitable. This is a very good example of what could be called a credit squeeze by stealth. It could not be labelled any other way. This is not an official credit squeeze. The Government is using a new instrument altogether which is having and will have a tremendous impact upon that key industry, the building industry, which is a barometer of the economic health of this country. It is unfortunate that all these extraordinary, restrictive measures are being taken by the new Government led by the Prime Minister who is an extreme conservative, an extreme right wing Prime Minister. In fact he is so right wing that he makes  Sir Robert  Menzies look like a young radical. The present Prime Minister's attitude is definitely to introduce these various measures because he is in the hands of Treasury which undoubtedly believes that the Australian economy is overheated. This has been stated by officials of the Treasury. Treasury apparently does not realise the extent of unemployment in this country. The policy will mean that the economy gets 'some short sharp knocks'. Those are the types of policies being introduced by this Government. 
I was pleased to listen to the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  yesterday. I do not always agree with him but I was glad that he had the courage to stand up in this Parliament and criticise.  (Extension of time granted)  I thank the House. I was saying that I was very pleased to see that the honourable member for Mackellar had the courage to criticise the economic policies of his own Government, pointing out how restrictive they are and the impact that they will have on economic recovery which, under the Hayden Budget, was starting to make itself felt. The honourable member pointed out, quite rightly in my belief, that the measures being undertaken by this Government and the impact of Treasury upon the policies of this Government would mean- I believe that I am quoting him corrrectly- not only the slowing up of economic revival but also that the economy could go backwards instead. According to the Press this morning he was joined by other members of the Liberal Party caucus. They call it a party meeting but it is still the same thing. It is a caucus. He was joined, I think, by the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  and one other honourable member. I do not recollect who it was. 
That is right, the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns).  He is a man of some knowledge of economic factors so he should know something about it. He would have far better qualifications than the Treasurer. I do not think that the Treasurer was a public relations consultant; I think that he was a management consultant. I think we have to be very careful indeed and we must make sure that this Parliament acts as a watchdog over the Government's economic policies. 
Finally I want to refer to the question of legal aid for the enforcement of maintenance orders. The Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  made a Press statement this week on the subject. I had raised the matter with him. The facts are that under the previous Act maintenance orders were not very effective. They were simple but ineffective. Under the new Act they are very effective but they are complicated and require a trained legal mind to handle them. Women in receipt of deserted wives pensions have come to my office and have told me that their husbands or former husbands have welshed on the maintenance payments. Accordingly they have gone to the Legal Aid Office for assistance. Up till 22 January the Legal Aid Office gave that assistance but on 22 January it was instructed from Canberra to cease giving that aid. Furthermore, these people found when they then went to the clerks of petty sessions that they too had been instructed from their head office not to give any assistance with either applications for maintenance orders or with enforcement orders. 
When I spoke to the Attorney-General he endeavoured to imply that this decision to cut out legal aid in respect of enforcement orders was a decision of the former Attorney-General,  Mr Enderby.  I checked with  Mr Enderby  and he quite definitely said no. As a matter of fact, he made the very important and valid point that he was making arrangements to fund the States so that they could employ special officers in the 
Family Courts to handle enforcement orders. That was a proposition which he was putting forward. So it is obvious that this Government has decided against funding the States for the employment of officers to handle enforcement orders. The present Attorney-General was not frank in his Press statement when he said: 
The previous Government had concluded that the enforcement of maintenance orders could most economically and efficiently be effected by using existing State machinery. 
That is true, but what he does not say is that the previous Government had decided to fund the States to make sure that officers were employed in the courts of petty sessions to handle enforcement orders. I call upon the Government to be frank about this matter. I ask the AttorneyGeneral immediately to bring into being arrangements which will ensure that the undertakings given by the previous Government to the States are abided by and not ignored, as they are being ignored at present. 
Is the Treasurer aware that home lending institutions such as building societies are hard hit by the Government's latest restrictive monetary measures and that building societies are already raising their interest rates? I include the Australian savings bonds. With an appreciable reduction in new lending for housing will there not be a consequent falling back in the rate of approval and commencement of private new dwellings? 
-I direct my question to the Prime Minister. Has the Prime Minister seen reports that the rate of growth of money supply has been reduced as at the end of January? I ask this question of him as he is the person responsible for the economic policy of his Government. Therefore, does he believe that the Government's policy of floating Australians savings bonds to sop up a supposed excess of liquidity, with a consequent increase of interest rates, such as building society interest rates - 
I did. Come and have a look at it. Does the Prime Minister believe this was the correct policy in terms of the latest statistics available or was the Treasury advice to him once again incorrect and accordingly his policy needs revision? 
-I am about to call the honourable member for Sydney. I would remind the House that this is the honourable member's maiden speech. I ask honourable members to extend the usual courtesies. I call the honourable member for Sydney. 
-The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  made a rather rash statement something along the lines that under the National Employment and Training Scheme as operated under the previous Government, people walked in off the street for training, leaving good jobs, obviously simply because of the open endedness of NEAT. Obviously the Minister completely ignored the guidelines laid down by the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  when he was the Minister for Labor. These were very strict guidelines and laid down very clear priorities. The Minister completely ignored that fact, which is a very important point, because our Government, by laying down these guidelines, ensured that people would not just walk in off the street, as the Minister put it, and leave good jobs. It ensured that they had to establish a very clear and concise case before they could be granted assistance under NEAT. I do not think it is a very good approach by the Minister to try to mislead the House in that way. The action of the Government is dishonourable. It is tantamount to breaking a contract. Without a doubt, the Minister has to take the responsibility although from conversations I have had with him over the years I have always thought him to be a very honourable man. Therefore I can only conclude that he has been instructed by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  who would not be as honourable a person as the Minister, to take this action. I think it is a pity because it is destroying the reputation of the Minister to take this action. I think it is a pity because it is destroying the reputation of the Minister when the man whose reputation should be at stake is the man who made the real decision, the Prime Minister himself. 
It is one thing for the Government to decide to reduce allowances for students now coming into the scheme. That would be quite an honourable act, but deliberately to break a contract, to go back on an undertaking given by the former Government, to break the essential convention that has been laid down and followed by previous governments, that a decision of the previous government shall be adhered to by an incoming government, is a dishonourable act. Students under the NEAT scheme entered into commitments in the belief that they were to get X amount as an allowance. They have hire purchase commitments and are paying off mortgages. I have on file in my office records of people who had exactly these commitments. 
They entered into NEAT in the belief that they were to get $96-odd and therefore would be able to meet their mortgage and hire purchase commitments. Now they have no alternative but to leave their courses. 
The Minister also stated that there has not been a large scale withdrawal from the various courses. Of course there has not been at this stage. The whole thing only starts on 1 April. That is when there will be large-scale withdrawals, and they will be pretty hefty. People such as those who have visited my office will withdraw from courses because they will simply not be able to subsist on the allowance which the Government intends to pay under the new scheme. We have some very good examples of what will happen. For example, the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  received a letter signed by 27 foreign language speaking students who were teachers in their own countries but who now wish to do a conversion course in English so that they can teach in this country. They would be very useful people, particularly in migrant areas such as the one I represent, where they would be excellent teachers to look after the interests of migrant students. 
What the honourable member for Hindmarsh says is quite correct. Let me quote a few excerpts from the correspondence sent to the Leader of the Opposition by these 27 students. They say: 
This assurance - 
That is the assurance that they would get $96.80- is the prime mover for the majority of students to join the course and to give up jobs that supported their families which they will not be able to take up again. 
They go on to say: 
Under these circumstances the students concerned will be forced to discontinue the course, and since this is the majority the continuation of the course will be in jeopardy. 
Then they say: 
Because of their experience - 
That is the experience of these students- they - 
The migrant teachers- will be in a unique position to understand and assist with the social and learning problems facing migrant children. 
The  Age  of Saturday, 13 March, reports that the Victorian Government has taken up the case of people doing NEAT courses. The Victorian Government has decided to take up the tab and pay the difference between what these people will receive from the Federal Government and what they would have received had the allowances not been reduced by this Government. Surely one cannot call that anything other than a condemnation by the Liberal Government of Victoria of the Liberal-National Country Party coalition Government in Canberra. The decision to take up the tab and meet the difference is in itself a condemnation of this Government by a government of the same politics. In other words, the Victorian Government can see how unjust the Federal Government's action is. This in itself vindicates and recognises the justice of the proposal by the Opposition today to discuss this as a matter of public importance. 
Let me refer to what happened, apparently, in the joint Government Parties' meeting only yesterday. Apparently these days there are some good leaks to the Press. It is all in this morning's  Australian Financial Review,  from which I shall quote. This newspaper has obviously received the information by way of leaks from the Government Party room. It says: 
The Government's new income test on the NEAT scheme and the poor communication between Ministers and backbenchers were two matters vigorously canvassed by private members at yesterday's joint Government parties meeting. 
Backbenchers showed no signs of docility in the face of  Mr Fraser's  'strong hand ' on party matters. 
A number of members showed their disquiet at the way the means test had been applied to NEAT recipients. 
Some said that the Government's decision is destined to result in wasted expenditure. 
I agree with that, because if students leave their courses in mid-stream the resources will be wasted. Instead of completing the courses and then being able to find employment in the areas in respect of which they had studied, they will be forced to leave the courses before completing them. All the finance that has already been poured in by the previous Government and the present Government to train these people will be completely wasted. The  Australian Financial Review  goes on to say: ... in that some trainees would have to discontinue their courses half-way through. 
Once again this is indicative that the attitude that the Australian Labor Party is expressing today is vindicated. It is common sense. I would suggest that the back benchers opposite who yesterday criticised the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations and the Prime Minister in respect of this dishonourable action by the Government come across to the Opposition side of the House, show the colour of their conviction and vote with the Opposition in this matter. 
Sitting suspended from 12.58 to 2.15 p.m. 
-The speech of the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  only confirms fears that the Government intends to emasculate the Australian Broadcasting Commission. There are many ways in which one can state quite clearly, as the Minister did, that the Government intends to uphold the independence of the ABC. It can appear to be doing so. There are many backdoor ways by which that independence can be destroyed, as I will outline further as I speak this afternoon. For example, the Minister said: 
We would not contemplate the use of advertising if it would threaten in any way the ability of the Australian Broadcasting Commission to act independently. 
That appears to mean that in no circumstances will the Government permit the use of advertising by the ABC. If one studies the small print in that statement one sees that it contains an inference that if the Minister is satisfied or if he can convince the public that advertising will not destroy the independence of the ABC perhaps he will introduce advertising on the ABC. Once again, as with the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  at all times one must read the small print. It is very important to do so. 
There have been reports of clandestine con.sulations between the Prime Minister, Rupert Murdoch and  Mr Packer  about the future of the ABC. The three have a common interest, namely, a strongly held view that the ABC is becoming dangerously independent and is becoming, as a result of the high quality of its programs, serious competition to the commercial television and radio interests. The Prime Minister has a further interest in the matter, that is, his conviction that television and radio licence fees,' an iniquitious poll tax which is levied on the rich and poor alike, should be introduced. As proof 0 this statement, look at the articles in both yesterday's and today's  Australian.  Keep in mind that this is the  Australian,  the Murdoch Press. Without a doubt it is a softening up process to create a climate of public acceptability of change in the structure of the ABC. It comes from the Murdoch Press. Surely that is an extraordinary coincidence. The proposals which are reported to have been canvassed are as follows: Firstly, a requirement of ABC radio and television to carry advertising, ostensibly to boost revenue but in reality to reduce the quality of its programs. This was denied by the Prime Minister in the Press this morning. As I said about the Minister's statement, the denial is worth very little. One must read the small print. It could quite easily be a smokescreen to hide his real intentions. One must always read the small print. 
Another proposal is to combine the ABC and the Australian Broadcasting Control Board into one organisation which would control the activities of the existing ABC and which would be responsible for recommending the issue of new broadcasting and television licences. It would also be responsible for recommending radio and television licence fees payable by the public, and funds from Consolidated Revenue would be stopped or drastically reduced. That is one of the reports which is circulating , freely today. The Government would then each year make itself the people's friend by reducing the amount recommended for radio and television licence fees by the new Board, with a resultant reduction in its financial capacity and a consequent resultant reduction in its program standards and a transfer of viewers and listeners to commercial stations. 
Another proposal which is being canvassed at the present time is the complete abolition of radio station 2JJ. I refer here to the reasons and the motives for that proposal. This morning's  Australian Financial Review  reports that the latest McNair-Anderson survey shows that the Australian Broadcasting Commission's 3 radio stations now attract an audience of 18.1 per cent of the listening public. Up to the present time it has not been a serious competitor with commercial interests, but in recent times, with the advent of radio station 2JJ, it has become a very serious competitor indeed with commercial stations. Also in this morning's  Australian Financial Review  Mr Des  Foster, the Federal Director of the Federation of Australian Radio Broadcasters, is reported as saying this: 
There is a stench about the whole of the 2JJ episode. 
It reeks of secret deals, patronage and partisanship. 
It was presented as an experiment. 
The experiment should now be terminated and the station closed down while some sensible overall plan for broadcasting is worked out. 
He is calling for the closing down of 2 J J. Is it any wonder that he should do that; he represents the commercial radio interests and obviously fears the success of 2JJ which can attract such a large slice of the 15 to 25-year old listening audiencea very lucrative listening audience from the point of view of advertising- because, of the appeal of its programs to our young people. Sometimes one wonders whether perhaps the young people of today should boycott the commercial stations in protest against these moves to abolish 2JJ altogether. 
The same situation applies to ethnic radio. Once again a large section of the migrant population today is listening to ethnic radio. Accordingly there is a fear of the competition of that radio and a desire once again to close it down because of the listening audience which it attracts. These so-called advocates of free enterprise are not very enterprising when it comes to competition. The same situation applies in relation to the regional news services. They also have been abolished by government action, once again because they are in competition with private news services. 
What is the motivation behind all of this? It is, firstly, to impair drastically the quality of the ABC's programs and therefore to reduce its listening audience, with a consequent transfer of that audience to commercial stations which arc more susceptible to giving a biased reporting favourable to the conservative forces in this country; secondly, to create an atmosphere of insecurity amongst the staff and management of the ABC, to force them to impose a selfcensorship. In other words, it is an overt way of destroying the independence of the ABC. Thirdly, the motivation is to repay commercial radio and television interests- the Murdochs, the Packers and the Fairfaxes- for their support prior to, at the time of and since the last election campaign. These are the motives of the Government; these are the motives of the Murdochs and the Packers. These are the motives of people who today wish to emasculate the ABC and to destroy its independence. It is no use the Minister saying that he will not destroy the independence of the ABC if the introduction of the types of measures I have mentioned means that the ABC will be forced to impose censorship on its own activities for fear of further reaction against it by the Government, by the Minister himself, and particularly by the Prime Minister. 
The honourable member for Hume is not noted in this Parliament for the wisdom of his remarks. 
I wish to deal mainly with the future rather than with the past. My reason for doing so is reports, which are now emanating, to the effect that financial guidelines are to be placed by Treasury upon the various education commissions and in fact that that has already been done. If it has been done, it is an unprecedented action. I refer to a report which appeared in the  Australian Financial Review  in the last few days. The report states a decision of the present Government to impose financial guidelines on the recommendations of the Schools Commission has delayed the Commission's report. The article then goes on to point out that the report which was due at the end of this month will not now be finalised until June. The Government has given instructions- that is tantamount to what it says- that no publicity should be given to these financial guidelines because the Schools Commission has always independently- I make the point that it uses the word 'independently'- formulated its recommendations on education expenditure. 
In other words, there are two important points to be noted in this: Firstly, it is an interference with the independence of the various education commissions in making recommendations; secondly, it goes much further than that in that the Government is doing it very quietly, in a secretive manner, with very strict instructions to the various commissions that they should not give publicity to the Treasury guidelines- or government guidelines, if one wants to call them that, although they are actually guidelines recommended by Treasury- because it will show that there is governmental interference with the activities of the various commissions. The report in the  Australian Financial Review  to which I am referring goes on to say: 
The Schools Commission has no argument with a Government ignoring or by-passing its advice, but could be expected to resent being told in advance what it should say on spending. 
All four education commissions- I make this point because they are the subject matter of the Bills now before the House - have been, or will be, presented with financial guidelinesthe Universities Commission, the Schools Commission, the Commission for Technical and Further Education, and the Commission on Advanced Education. 
I realise that the honourable member for Parramatta is still quite young but obviously he should listen more carefully. If he had been listening more carefully he would have heard me read this section of the newspaper report; 
The Schools Commission has no argument with a Government ignoring or bypassing its advice, but could be expected to resent being told in advance what it should say on spending. 
In the past there have been variations to its recommendations or advice, but there has never been any suggestion of the former Labor Government telling the Commission what it should report, what its advice should be. Obviously that is what is now being done. The newspaper article continues: 
One commission is threatening to incorporate the guidelines into its final report. 
The guidelines referred to are those being dictated to it by the Government on what it should report. In other words, once again the Treasury has told the Fraser Government what it should do and the Fraser Government as always is going to obey the dictates of Treasury. I sincerely hope that the particular commission concerned will make sure that it does publicise the guidelines which it has been instructed to follow. The article goes on to state: 
Although this calendar year saw an interruption to the triennium form of funding, the former Labor Government claimed this as an exception. 
I think that the honourable member for Parramatta should listen to what I am saying more carefully instead of chattering away to his neighbours because, once again, it refers to his interjection a little while ago which obviously showed that he was not concentrating and giving his, some think, undoubted intellect to the debate. The article continues: 
Treasury - 
Honourable members should keep in mind that it refers to Treasury again- is now pushing for continued annual funding. 
In other words, that is an end to the whole principle of the Schools Commission and the various other commissions set up by the Labor Government to bring about reform in the field of education and under which a long term program is laid down for the future of education and spending in education generally. The article goes on to say: 
This has aroused antagonism in the Department of Education, as has Treasury's tight budgetary proposals. 
Later on the article states: 
It is obvious that this area appears attractive for pruning in this year's tight Budget situation. 
Despite undertakings given by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  during election campaigns and at various forums that education would continue to receive the high priority that it received under the Labor Government, it is very obvious that spending on education will get the chop in the coming Budget. I think that the charge made in that article is a very serious one indeed. It is to the effect that the Government is instructing the various commissions- I repeat that it is not only the Schools Commission but also the Universities Commission, the Commission for Technical and Further Education, and the Commission on Advanced Educationby giving them financial guidelines. In other words, it is instructing them as to the types of recommendations they shall bring in so that they will not, under any circumstance, the Government hopes, embarrass the Government. 
I believe that the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt),  who represents the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  in this chamber, should be frank with this House. He should give this House precise details of those financial guidelines which the Government has given to the various commissions. Instead of endeavouring to ensure by secretive means that the commissions bring in the reports that it wants, the Government, which says that it believes in open government, should be quite frank about this matter, remove the secrecy, and let us know the full and precise details of those guidelines, who recommended them, and who instructed that they be implemented. Was it the Prime Minister or was it the Minister himself? I think it is time that we were given that information because, without a doubt, it is going to have a very big impact upon the future education policies of this country. It should be remembered that it was a Labor Government which introduced the legislation to provide for the Schools Commission. We are aware that the Opposition at that time did not want it. In this instance I give credit to the National Country Party which joined with us in the Senate to allow the legislation establishing the Schools Commission and its funding to be passed by the Senate. The Liberal Party opposed that legislation at every opportunity. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MartinOrder! The House was getting along very nicely until the honourable member for Hume walked in. I suggest that he should maintain silence. 

I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Education: Has he seen a report that the Government has imposed financial guidelines on the recommendations of the Universities Commission, the Schools Commission, the Commission for Technical and Further Education and the Commission on Advanced Education? Is the report correct and, if so, what are the guidelines? Does not this decision of the Government interfere with the independence of the 4 Commissions? Does the decision herald drastic cuts in education expenditure? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. I preface it by pointing out, as an example, that the figures of the Commonwealth Employment Service offices which cover my electorate show a total unemployment as at the end of February of 7655 people whereas as at the end of June last year, when the Regional Employment Development scheme ceased, the figure was 6295 people. I therefore ask: Has the Government given consideration to the introduction of a scheme, such as the RED scheme, which would provide employment for unemployed people on projects of worthwhile value and enable them to do something useful for the community, instead of continuing the wasteful exercise of maintaining them on unemployment relief? 
I support the amendment moved by the Opposition in this debate. I support every paragraph of the amendment. I wish to deal particularly with paragraphs (a) and (b) of the amendment which state: 
the Speech makes no acknowledgment of the financial pre-eminence of the House of Representatives; 
the Speech makes no reference to the need for action to ensure that there cannot be a recurrence of the Constitutional crisis which threatens the continuation of the Australian Parliamentary system . . . 
In this regard I should like to take the memories of honourable members back to the swearing-in, in another place, of the Governor-General. At that time I was sitting in the Senate, as were other honourable members, listening to the ceremony going on. It was a rather boring ceremony, but one thing has stuck in my memory. It was when the Governor-General came to that section which said that he was CommanderinChief of the armed forces. He emphasised the point so greatly that I could not help but notice it. I think that this matter needs to be looked at in the context that the Governor-General- an appointed person, not an elected person- is the Commander-in-Chief of the armed forces. As such he is in a very sensitive position. He is an appointed person, not an elected person, as is the 
Commander-in-Chief in other countries except the United Kingdom, where the Queen is the Commander-in-Chief of the armed forces. The Queen, of course, has made sure that she could never assume the powers- she would never do so- which the Governor-General has assumed here in Australia. She would not, under any circumstance, assume such powers. Yet the GovernorGeneral of Australia has assumed the power to make sure that he could dismiss a constitutionally elected government. For this reason I believe that in this sensitive situation where the Governor-General is endeavouring to build the powers of his office, to increase the powers of his office as compared with his powers purely as the Queen's representative in Australia, we need to look very carefully at other powers which the Governor-General has, including that of Commander-in-Chief of the armed forces. In this regard I point out that the amendment states quite clearly: 
the Speech makes no reference to the need for action to ensure that there cannot be a recurrence of the Constitutional crisis which threatens the continuation of the Australian Parliamentary system . . . 
For that reason I say that it is well and truly time that the Constitution of Australia was revised to make it very clear that in the future no GovernorGeneral can take the action of dismissing a constitutionally elected government. Furthermore, it should be made clear that in the future no Governor-General- an appointed person, not an elected person- shall hold the position of Commander-in-Chief of the armed forces, a position which could be abused, a position which is very dangerous for an appointed person- not a person who has been elected by the people of Australia, a person who finally depends upon the confidence of the people of Australia, but a person whom frankly I do not trust- to hold. 
For those reasons I believe that action is very necessary indeed to overhaul the Constitution of this country, to make sure that in future the Prime Minister, as the elected head of Government, is the Commander-in-Chief of the armed forces, not a person appointed. In other countries, of course, it is the  President  who is the Commander-in-Chief of the armed forces, but I believe that in this country, under the system we work under, and under the circumstances existing at present, the Prime Minister should be the Commander-in-Chief of the armed forces. For example, in the United States it is the  President,  an elected person, who is the CommanderinChief of the Armed Forces. He is the only person who can press the button. If there are demonstrations in that country, and if the Government wishes to bring in the armed forces to quell those demonstrations, only the  President  is responsible for that action. I should hate to see a situation in this country where we would have a GovernorGeneral deciding, on his own volition, to bring in the armed forces to quell a demonstration, possibly against himself. Yet in accordance with our Constitution as it now stands that type of situation could be a reality. I ask honourable members opposite to give a little bit of thought to this at last, to forget the political side of things, to stop playing politics, to listen to my remarks and to consider the implications. I say to them: 'You may have a Governor-General and a Prime Minister in your favour today, but tomorrow it might be different. Remember that this could implicate you in the future just as it could implicate us today'. I think it is time that this question was looked at very seriously. 
I repeat that the time is well and truly overdue for our Constitution to be revised. It is well and truly time to make sure that the Senate shall not have power over money Bills. The time is well and truly overdue to make sure that the constitutional convention of filling a casual vacancy in the Senate with a person of the same political background as the senator to be replaced is not broken. This convention was broken last year on 2 occasions by both Queensland and New South Wales. It is time that that convention was firmly established and written into the Constitution. It is time that the power of the Senate, which is elected every 6 years- with the exception of the case of a double dissolution, each senator is elected for a period of 6 years- was curtailed. The House of Representatives, the mother House, is the House which by convention provides the Prime Minister of this country. I remind honourable members of that. In the present Constitution nothing is laid down to say that the Prime Minister shall not come from the Senate. It is surely time that it was laid down very clearly that the House of Representatives shall be the only House which has power over money Bills. As I have said, there could be senators elected today who would hold office for 6 years, while a new government will be elected in the House of Representatives in 3 years' time. This sets an impossible situation where senators who have been in the Senate for 3 years since the last electionsenators who are parliamentarily 3 years old- can refuse a money Bill. This right of the House of Representatives must be laid down firmly in the Constitution. That would mean that the constitutional crisis which this country suffered last year could never recur. 
It should also be laid down formally in the Constitution that the Governor-General, an appointed person, is not commander-in-chief of the armed forces. I am not opposing the office of Governor-General or Viceroy. Of course such an office is part of the system which we have. I believe that the Governor-General should have the same powers as the Queen of England. The events that took place in Australia could never happen in England. The Governor-General should not have the powers of commanderinchief of the armed forces. At least 43 per cent of the population of Australia voiced their protest firmly at the last election. In other words, the issue completely divided this country and established beyond doubt that they did not trust the Governor-General. They did not agree with the action that he took. For this reason I believe that the Governor-General should not hold the office of commander-in-chief of the armed forces and I believe that action should be taken by the Government to ensure that an elected person is placed in that very onerous position. An elected person should make the decision as to whether the armed forces shall be used or, to use the vernacular, whether the button shall be pressed. We could see the day when the armed forces in Australia are used against our own brothers here. If that occurred I would not like to see a person not responsible directly to the people being given that responsibility. 
Item (c) of the amendment states: 
The proposals outlined in the Speech are so framed as to cause a major transfer of resources from middle and low income families to those on higher income levels. 
In this regard I point out just a few examples of where this Government, with its emphasis on assisting the rich against the poor, has made its intentions very clear indeed. For example, the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  only last weekend gave a Press release on introducing a means test for legal aid, and it is a very restrictive means test for legal aid. 
The honourable member says that it is long overdue. He is only a baby in the House. He is one of the oncers brought into this House. He will not last more than the life of this Parliament. He is one of those sitting on a fine majority and he is one of the oncers who will flash over the sky and flash out of it overnight. The honourable member will flash out of this Parliament as he flashed into it because he does not understand the ordinary people of this country. He does not understand their aims, their ambitions and their needs. 
I suggest that the oncers keep quiet. The honourable member for Phillip is notorious. Everybody knows about him now and knows what he used to get elected. There is so much sympathy around the electorate of Phillip for Joe Riordan - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)There has been a certain amount of provocation. I ask the honourable member for Chifley to come back to the subject of the debate. 
Yes,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I am very seldom provoked but when honourable members insist on interjecting in an unruly manner in the way that the honourable member for Phillip interjected I feel I have to protect myself and particularly Joe Riordan, the member for Phillip. 
I call upon the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to give this Parliament an unequivocal undertaking that the Australian Government Centre in Parramatta will continue to be built. I call upon the Government to make it very clear that this proposal is not to be ditched and that the announced deferment of it will not stand. I refer to a copy of the Parramatta  Advertiser,  which I point out to honourable members opposite is one of the Murdoch newspapers. The contents of the newspaper in respect of this matter show how even the Government's friends are beginning to get a little frightened about what it is doing. I will deal with the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock),  who is trying to interject, because there is a remarkable statement by him in this newspaper. A front page article in last week's  Advertiser,  which as I said is pan of the Murdoch Press, states that it has now been announced that the Government will defer the Australian Government Centre in Parramatta. The editorial points out that the Government is trying to have two bob each way, in effect; it is trying to say that it is deferring the project, but it will not say when it will finally go ahead. Let us face reality. Everyone is aware that what the deferment really means is that the Government is scrapping the whole proposal. That is what it is trying to do. 
Let us look at a few of the statements in the newspaper. The editorial states: 

 Mr Fraser must give a clear statement on his Government's intentions immediately, particularly in view of an assurance given before the 1975 election by the then caretaker Minister for Construction and Housing,  Senator Carrick-  he is supposed to be very influential in the Government- that the project would go ahead. 
This is another example of the Fraser Government breaking a firm election undertaking given by one of its most senior spokesmen. An article in the newspaper reported what a local organiser of the trade union movement had to say. The article stated: 
He said not only labourers but architects, consulting engineers and quantity surveyors had been thrown out of work. 'When the time comes to recommence work, the industry will be unable to do so ' he said.  'By June, 60 per cent of the building industry will be unemployed, 'he said. 
He was referring to the building industry in the western suburbs. Surely this shows the great problem which has been brought about by this decision of the Government. 
The newspaper also has an article on what was said by the  President  of the Parramatta Chamber of Commerce, who I assume is a friend of the Government forces. The article states: 
Parramatta Chamber of Commerce  president, Mr B.  Edwards, said businessmen were very concerned because both political parties had promised the centre would go ahead. 
Ah; that is the best of the lot. Out there they call him 'little boy lost'. He usually goes to his daddy, who is a Minister in the State Liberal Government, for advice. 
I was only replying to him,  Mr Speaker.  The Parramatta Council got in touch with the honourable member for Parramatta I do not know whether this was by way of letter or by some other means- to ask him what he knew about this matter, because he is supposed to be so influential in the Government and he is supposed to be always able to give an answer. As honourable members- know, his father is a Minister in the State Government and a very influential person in the Liberal Party machine. Accordingly, it would be expected that the honourable member could answer this question. But what did the honourable member say in reply? He is reported in the Parramatta  Advertiser  as having said:  'I have been and am still seeking from the appropriate departments, an up-to-date statement of the situation and progress. 'I will write to you again as soon as I have something from the responsible Ministers'. 
Apparently he cannot get anything from his Ministers. I doubt that he can even see the Prime Minister, who made the decision. It is very obvious that this is another one of the Prime Minister's decisions where, irrespective of what bis Ministers have promised, he says 'You do that', and they go ahead and do it with gutless incapacity. 
I know that he is bigger than you are. There is an admission by the honourable member that he is being stood over and is frightened simply because the Prime Minister is a little bigger than he is in height. I know that the honourable member is not very big; but I am amazed that he would make such an admission. However, you can understand,  Mr Speaker,  why I say that the honourable member for Parramatta is called 'little boy lost'. In a big issue like this- one of the most important issues affecting his electorate and probably the most important issue that has affected his electorate since he was elected- he cannot even get in touch with one of his Ministers, let alone the Prime Minister, to find out whether the project is to go ahead. 
Is it any wonder that I have to stand up in this House tonight? Someone has to represent the electors of Parramatta. It is quite obvious that the honourable member for Parramatta is utterly inadequate in this respect. He is incapable of adequately representing the people of his electorate. That is why I have to stand up here tonight and call upon the Government and the Prime Minister to give an unequivocal statement, one way or another, on whether the Australian Government Centre at Parramatta will go ahead. What does the Prime Minister mean when he says that it is being deferred? Does this mean that it is to be deferred indefinitely? Does it mean that the project will go ahead after 30 June, or will it be deferred from this date, as the people suspect? We want to know the answers because this is one of the most important projects for the people in the electorate of Parramatta. The establishment of this centre will create a great deal of local employment not only in its construction but also in the large number of public servants who will work in it. These people will shop and work in Parramatta - 

 - Mr Speaker, he can do so tomorrow night. If the honourable member for Griffith had not taken up my time I could have given the honourable member for Parramatta some time. I want to make this point: The Taxation Office has brought many public servants into the Parramatta area. These people will do their shopping in the area and therefore will increase the circulation of money in that area. In turn, local employment will flow to people in the outer western suburbs of Sydney. The same thing would happen if the Australian Government Centre were established. Local employment is a vital necessity for the whole of the area - 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I wish to make it very clear that the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock),  as 1 said previously, seemed to be very upset - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! Is the honourable member claiming again to have been misrepresented? 
No. 
I was making a personal explanation previously. I made the point very clear. The honourable member for Parramatta still has not given an undertaking that the Australian Government Centre will proceed. He still says that a decision on it has been deferred. Contrary to what he said, the Australian people, particularly those in Parramatta and the western suburbs of Sydney, will not accept that decision. 
-Last Wednesday night the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  was in a most emotional frame of mind. As a matter of fact, the honourable gentleman seemed to be most upset that I had taken him to task on the previous evening for not having supported adequately the needs not only of his electorate but also of the whole of the western suburbs of Sydney in relation to matter of the so-called deferment- one could say the indefinite deferment or the abandonment of the proposal to build the Australian Government Centre in Parramatta. He said at one stage, if I recollect his remarks correctly, that it was of no use building that office block if it was intended to get rid of 18,000-odd public servants anyhow because, as he put it, there would not be enough bottoms to put on the seats. That is an extraordinary admission in itself- that there would not be enough bottoms to sit on the seats. 
It is quite obvious therefore that the honourable member has completely misunderstood the whole concept of the Whitlam Labor Government in establishing the Australian Government Centre in Parramatta. The purpose of its establishment was not to take up surplus bottoms of public servants; it was not to ensure that there would be more public servants. In fact, its whole purpose simply was to ensure that the Public Service was decentralised, that many of the public servants who are at present stationed in the centre of Sydney- and particularly those who actually live in the outer western suburbs of Sydneyare, generally speaking, nearer to their homes by working in Parramatta rather than in the centre of Sydney and would therefore have a much more amenable type of job. In other words, they would not have to spend so many hours in the morning on the train or on the bus- on the transport system of the New South Wales State Liberal Government in which the honourable member's father was the erstwhile Minister for Transport. Of course, they finally demoted him; they finally got rid of him because in his period the transport got worse, the railways got worse and the derailments got worse. During that time, of course, it was found when finally the new Premier came to power that the Minister had to be demoted and sent back to his original bailiwick. 
The facts are that many public servants in Australia and many public servants in the honourable member's own electorate of Parramatta, in the electorate of Berowra as well as in the electorates of Reid, Prospect, Werriwa, Chifley, Macarthur and of Mitchell would far rather go to Parramatta to work than go to the central area of Sydney and have to use the worn out public transport system for which the honourable member's father is partly responsible. I cannot blame him for the lot. However, that is one point in the whole issue. One of the reasons why the Whitlam Labor Government decided to build that centre in Parramatta was simply to ensure that many public servants would be closer to their work. But far more important than that was the fact- I emphasise the words 'far more important'- that it would give ample opportunity in the building trades to work in the outer western suburbs of Sydney where, without a doubt, unless something is done in that regard there will be a very high rate of unemployment throughout the area. That is the first point. 
The second point is that it will not only provide far more employment for the people in the outer western suburbs but also it will mean that the decentralised public servants who occupy these offices- it will be a similar situation to that introduced by the Whitlam Government in decentralising the Taxation Office to Parramatta will spend more money in the outer western suburbs. I refer not only to Parramatta but also the other surrounding electorates. In turn that would help the economies in those areas. It is in that regard that the honourable member for Parramatta seems to have missed the whole point of the establishment of that centre. 
We are not arguing about the number of public servants the Government intends to sack or find redundant. That seems to be the whole argument as far as the honourable member is concerned. He says that the Australian Government Centre would be empty because the Government intends to get rid of all these public servants. I surely and sincerely hope that that will not occur. I hope that the Government will not be that heartless. I hope the Government does not set out on a deliberate campaign of creating more unemployment. Far more important than that I think is the fact that the establishment of the Australian Government Centre will provide employment for a large segment of the building trades in the outer western suburbs. Still more important than that, it will mean that a large amount of money will circulate there, once again creating even more employment right throughout the area. 
The honourable member for Parramatta also stated that I should not interfere in the affairs of the electorate of Parramatta. I am not actually interfering in that electorate. I am expressing my opinion as a member of the Parliament representing the outer western suburbs of Sydney. I do not think the honourable member should be so parochial in this regard. Surely the Australian Government Centre will not affect only the electorate of Parramatta; it will affect all the electorates in the whole of the western sub;urbs of Sydney, as I have already pointed out. If the honourable member is not capable of standing up for his electorate, if he is not prepared to fight the Government and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to ensure that that project is established in the outer western suburbs, if he is not prepared to go into the committees and approach members of the Cabinet to see that this job is done effectively, then somebody has to. come to the party and do the job for him, andthat is all I am endeavouring to do. I do not think . it is a bad proposition. 
When I called the honourable member little boy lost the other night and when I pointed out that he had to run to his daddy for advice whenever any problem arose he said that I was ridiculing the project. I want to assure the House that in no circumstance was I ridiculing the project itself. Far from it. It is one of the dearest projects to my heart. It is one of the major Whitlam offensives originally proposed by the Whitlam Government, and one which I supported right from the very beginning. I still support it to this day. I was only ridiculing the honourable member. I was certainly not ridiculing the project. Nothing was further from my mind than to: ridicule the proposal. 
I ask the honourable member that he do the right and decent thing not only by the electorate of Parramatta but also by the people in the outer western suburbs of Sydney who are crying out for decentralised industry so that factories are moved out into the area to provide localemployment. In the Press today the State member for Mt Druitt is reported as being very critical of the Liberal Government of New South Wales for failing to encourage industry into the outer western suburbs of Sydney. By the same token, I am very critical of the honourable member for  Parrramatta  and of his Government. I cannot altogether blame him. He probably has to abide, by the instructions and dictations of the dictatorial Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  to do precisely as he says and to go along with the indefinite deferment or abandonment of the project. He still has not given any date when the project will be recommenced. I ask very decisively that action be taken. Finally, I say that I am a very charitable man. If the honourable member wants some advise from me he should come over and find out how to get on with this job and to try to influence the people around him whom he obviously cannot influence. I ask him to remember that old biblical verse: 'Suffer the little children to come unto Me'. I suggest that the honourable member come unto me. 
I ask the Treasurer Did he on 27 November last release an economic statement entitled  Policy Speech, Supplementary Statement, the Economy? Did  that statement say that the strategy for restoring full employment and economic growth would be based on a revival of private investment? Did the statement further say that a sustained and permanent revival in employment will not- I stress 'not'- be secured through private consumption expenditure? Is this still the Government's economic strategy? Does the Government still expect an economic recovery to be based on an improvement in private investment? Alternatively, do the Treasurer's recent statements about the need for consumers to spend mean that the Government has changed its tune? 
I will not speak at great length. The honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume)  said that he was a director of Tancred Brothers Industries Ltd and how hard the going is for that company these days. He said it is having a pretty rough time. I have a few facts about the position of Tancred Brothers in the last financial year. Admittedly, in 1974 its sales were $7 1.2m whereas in 1975 they were $5 1.7m. 
-As the seconder of the motion - 
I shall proceed with my speech. I might just say,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you looked across at me when you asked whether the motion was seconded. Anyhow, that does not matter very much. The important thing here is that if the ruling of the Chair is upheld we could end up with debate on any controversial issue in the future being completely prevented. This is an important issue because anybody could put onto the business paper any matter which he wants to ensure is not debated in the House or which he wants to ensure is gagged. 
-And keep on putting it on so as to ensure that the matter does not come before this House. On 2 occasions the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  has endeavoured to bring this matter before this Parliament. On each occasion a number of points of order have been taken and very deliberate attempts have been made to stifle the discussion and to make sure that the public interest is not served. If this practice is allowed to continue there will be a complete travesty of the forms of this Parliament and great damage will be done in terms of ensuring that matters of public importance of this nature are brought to life and are properly discussed in the Parliament where they should be discussed. 
-The airport debate is on again. This time possible alternative sites for an airport to service Sydney are being considered. One is at Nelson. I quote from an article in the  Sydney Morning Herald of  3 May. It is headed 'New move for second airport near Windsor'. This is at a place called Nelson. Actually Nelson is near the Rouse HillMaraylya area. 
It is in the electorate of Mitchell. It is slap bang in the electorate of Mitchell. We know that this will create extreme airport noise for a number of areas. I will name the areas. The noise factor applies not only to the Nelson site but equally to the other sites which the Government is considering. One is at Holsworthy and one is at Marsden Park, which is also near Windsor and Riverstone. The flight path for the Marsden Park site would cut across into my electorate from Mitchell. Once again the site is in the Mitchell electorate and the flight path would cut into the Chifley electorate, another site is in an area west of Liverpool, in the RossmoreBringelly area. If the Government goes ahead with the proposal to site the airport at Nelson, which is in the Rouse Hill-Maraylya area, or at Marsden Park, it will mean extreme airport noise in a mass housing area. I make that point. It would particularly affect the Mt Druitt area, the Blacktown area, the Seven Hills area and surrounds, the St Marys area and Penrith. Keep in mind that some of these areas are not in the Chifley electorate; they are in the elctorate of Macarthur as well. The noise would go into the areas of Richmond, Baulkham Hills, Castle Hill, etc., and even down into Parramatta which is represented by the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock). 
-It could happen. We never know what is ahead with this Government in office. We never know what the next decision will be. The siting of the airport at either place would have a tremendous impact upon an area right throughout the western suburbs of Sydney or what one might call the north western suburbs of Sydney. They are very densely populated. Unfortunately, so far, these announcements having been made by the Government we have not heard a word from the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman)  or the honourable member for Parramatta in opposition to these proposals. I would have expected them to be at least assiduously working on this issue. There have even been rumours. I do not really believe them. I make this quite clear to the honourable member for Parramatta. 
These are the rumours, but I do not really believe them. Rumour has it that he agrees with an airport being established at one of the sites being considered, as it would save him travelling from his home to Mascot. It would be a dreadfully selfish attitude to ignore the interests of the people in the area just to save half an hour's travelling time back and forth to Mascot each week. I do not believe the rumour. I do not believe the honourable member for Parramatta could be so selfish. I am sure the rumour is not right. I am sure I will hear from him that he is very violently opposed to any of these sites being selected. I think I should read the editorial in the  Sydney Morning Herald  this morning. It states: 
A confidential State Government report now suggests that the use of the airport at Mascot will not increase as rapidly as earlier forecasts predicted. It suggests that Mascot could probably cope with Sydney's air traffic until the turn of the century. 
I say this: It is time the Government woke up to this fact. I have believed right through that Mascot could handle the traffic for many years to come. Members of my Party know how very definite I was on this matter over the years when certain other sites were suggested. I believe that this is the answer. Apparently the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  is quite unaware of the State Government's report and refuses to let the issue die. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. Before I call the next  speaker,  I mention this matter. Earlier concern was expressed that the  Hansard reporter  might not be able to take down what was being said. During the time that the honourable member for Chifley was speaking the level of conversation was remarkably high. On more than one occasion the honourable member for Chifley turned around and had his back to both the Chair and the  Hansard  writer. Comments were being made by honourable members which must have made it extremely difficult for the gentleman from  Hansard  to take down what was being said. Therefore I suggest that the concern which was expressed previously for  Hansard  be expressed at this moment. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted.  (The document read as follows)- 
Leader of the Opposition. 31 March 1976 
My dear Minister, 
Some of my colleagues have sought information from  Senator Frank  Church, the  Chairman  of the Sub-Committee on Multinational Corporations of the United States Senate Committee on Foreign Relations, concerning the sale of Lockheed Electra aircraft to Australia.  Senator Church  has replied: 'The Subcommittee on Multinational Corporations has decided to make its files available pursuant to formal government requests transmitted to the United States through our State Department. 'Should you wish the Australian information, the proper procedure would be to address a request through your foreign office. We will be pleased to respond as soon as possible.' 
In the late 1950s TAA sought permission to import two Caravelle aircraft and Ansett-ANA to import two Electra aircraft. At that time the Customs (Prohibited Imports) Regulations, Third Schedule, Item No. 1, prohibited the importation of aircraft unless 'The importer shall produce to the Collector the permission in writing of the DirectorGeneral of Civil Aviation to import the goods'. The DirectorGeneral at first refused permission. Later both companies sought permission to import two Electras each. They received this permission on 22 May 1958. Meanwhile, on 26 March 1958, Qantas had received permission from the Director-General to import four Electras and later, on 16 November 1959 and 24 February 1960 respectively, AnsettANA and TAA received his permission to import a third Electra each. Tasman Empire Airways Limited, at that time jointly and equally owned by the New Zealand and Australian Governments, took delivery of three Electras at the same time as Qantas took its four. 
A member of the Australian National Airlines Commission explained this transformation of a request for two Electras to orders for thirteen Electras by informing me that the Lockheed agents in Australia, E. L. Heymanson Company Pry Ltd, gave the then Minister for Civil Aviation the commission they had earned on one of the thirteen Electras whose sale the company had procured and the minister had permitted. This information was reflected in the question for which the minister supplied me with an answer on IS March 1962  (Hansard,  page 938). My colleagues  Mr Beazley  and  Mr Jones  have now asked the Prime Minister questions without notice on 18 February 1976  (Hansard,  page 32), and 24 February 1976  (Hansard, page  187) and my colleague  Mr Morris  has received answers to questions on notice from the Ministers for Defence and for Transport on 1 6 and 1 7 March 1976  (Hansard,  pages 693 and 767). 
We now ask your department to transmit through the United States State Department to the Church Committee a request for the relevant files. 
Yours sincerely, 
E.G. WHITLAM 
Copies to: Honourable K. Beazley, Honourable C. K. Jones,  Mr Peter  Morris. 
The Honourable Andrew Peacock, M.P., Minister for Foreign Affairs, Parliament House, CANBERRA, A.C.T., 2600. 
-I ask the Minister to refer to the subject of the Bill. 
It is important that foreign investment strikes a balance between what we need for capital structure and what are the aspirations and desires of the Australian people at large. So any Bill of significance with regard to foreign investment is one in which this Government takes pride for the encouragement it is giving to foreign investment in various areas. I refer again to the tremendous damage that was done by the Labor Administration. It discouraged foreign investment throughout Australia. The Government has now set out, as outlined by the Treasurer in a statement to the Parliament flexible guidelines that will be followed as the Government does all that is possible to encourage the greatest possible investment consistent with national aspirations. 
I regret my inability to be in the chamber and listen to the entire debate. The Bill is a technical one. It provides for the screening of foreign takeovers of Australian businesses and the prohibition of such takeovers where they are determined to be against the national interest. That is what the Government's policy is all about- the national interest. That is what makes it different from the policies which are encouraged by the previous Administration. The Bill provides for amendments to the Act which were foreshadowed in the Treasurer's statement to the Parliament on 1 April when he set out quite clearly for the benefit of honourable members and the electorate the policy on foreign investment in Australia. This Bill retrospectively corrects certain technical deficiencies which have become apparant since the Act's commencement on 1 January 1976. The main amendments concern the compulsory notification requirements of section 26 of the Act. The amendments will ensure that proposals which were approved but not effected prior to 1 January 1976 need not be renotified, that a proposal notified under section 26 may be proceeded with as soon as the Government approval is given and that conditional agreement to acquire shares may be entered into without attracting a penalty. 
In addition the Bill also removes the link between the foreign takeovers legislation and the trade practices legislation. This was the link which enabled foreign takeover proposals to be granted automatic authorisation under the trade practices legislation. Its removal will ensure the same treatment for both Australian and foreign interests under that legislation. The Government welcomes the opportunity for this Bill to be discussed. It thanks all those who contributed to the debate, for the interest taken in it and generally for the interest, sensitive though it may be, of the Opposition. We believe that the passage of this legislation is desirable. It will form an integral part of the Government's overall attitude to foreign investment and its overall concern to see that there is a fairminded approach. Particularly important is that the Bill now breaks the link with the trade practices legislation. On behalf of the Government I thank all honourable members who took part in the debate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
I want to draw attention to the proverbial paper tiger of this Parliament, the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth).  There are honourable members in this House, including the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James),  who will recall an incident that occurred on 10 October 1963. At that time only one vote divided the coalition parties and the Australian Labor Party. If I remember rightly, the numbers were 61 to 60. At that time the honourable member for Mackellar had circulated an amendment to the Disabled Persons Bill. Day after day in the pages of the newspapers he was being reported as saying how, if the Menzies Government did not give in, he would vote against it. Of course, as there was only one vote between the Government and the Opposition he would have defeated the Government had he voted against it. The former honourable member for Grayndler,  Mr Daly,  in the committee stage of that Bill moved the amendment which appears at page 1732 of  Hansard  of 10 October 1963. The honourable member for Mackellar had been extolling the virtues of this amendment in the Parliament. Then in came the great white father himself- the Prime Minister,  Sir Robert  Menzies. He sat on the front bench. The honourable member for Mackellar was sitting in the same seat as he now occupies. The Prime Minister looked back at him and grinned. All he had to do was to grin at the honourable member for Mackellar and the honourable member caved in. On page 1 735 of  Hansard  he made the point - 
-Look it up, brother. That is not hard to do after one has been here for a little while. When the honourable member has been here for a little longer he will be able to handle those matters. The honourable member for Mackellar finally caved in and agreed to vote with the Government. This was the man who time and time again had stated that he would oppose the Government, if necessary, would vote against it and, if necessary, would see his Government defeated. He went to the brink of the precipice. He was speaking to the Bill when in came  Sir Robert  Menzies. All he had to do was to smile sweetly at the honourable member for Mackellar who caved in and withdrew from the precipice. According to the  Hansard  record he said that he would not put the matter to the vote. He appealed to the Prime Minister, as he put it, 'at this late hour' to accept his wisdom but the Prime Minister did not see any wisdom. It is said that he actually threatened the honourable member privately that unless he voted with the Government and stopped the defeat of the Government his endorsement would be withdrawn. 
I thought it appropriate tonight in view of some of the statements that the honourable member for Mackellar makes in this House about communists under the bed and that type of thing, and in view of the way he waxes so strongly on these issues, the attention of the Parliament should be drawn to this paper tiger- this man who has such a desire to hit the Labor Party at all times. He tries to present an image of being a great rebel but he is a paper tiger who at the appropriate time caves in. If the honourable member for Mackellar does not agree with what I am saying- I remind him that on the night in question he sat in the very same seat he now occupies and the Prime Minister sat on the front bench- or if he wants his memory refreshed he can cross the chamber to me, or I will cross the chamber to him, and show him the  Hansard  record which is a witness to his infamy. 
-The honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown)  mentioned that if he had time he would have prepared a Bill or an amendment to the Bill to abolish provisional tax completely. I like the honourable member. He is a very likeable sort of fellow. But I think he should be honest with his electorate. The honourable member would have had time to prepare an amendment to the BUI to abolish provisional tax. He did not do so for the simple reason that he knew he could not because his own Party, his own Treasurer  (Mr Lynch),  his own Leader, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  would not allow him to move such an amendment. I do not think that to say this just to gather in a few votes- parish pumpingis a good thing. I believe that you must be honest with your electorate otherwise the electorate will not be honest with you. The honourable member may be a little confused because it is obvious that the person concerned in the case he raised must have had some other investment income or income of that type otherwise he would have to be paying provisional tax. 
I support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  which states:  'whilst not declining to give the Bill a second reading, the House notes that: 
the legislation involves the breaking of election promises with the removal for many of home mortgage interest deductions - 
It is a great many, by the way-  and the inadequate alterations to wine-makers' tax liability, and 
the provisions for the introduction of the investment allowance have created a chaotic situation in the economy'. 
I support that proposition because I think it exemplifies very clearly the fact that this is the most politically dishonest Government that this country has ever seen in the whole of its history. Never before has a government in such a short period broken so many of the undertakings that it gave during the election campaign. 
The honourable member for Robertson makes a very good point: Has the Government kept any? One has to sit down and scratch one's head to find out what promises the Government has really kept and implemented and which ones it has abrogated. For example, about an hour ago a statement from the wine industry was placed in my box. I happened to open it only a little while before I came here to speak on this legislation. Of course, we have noted that the present Treasurer, when  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, called on the then Government on 16 June 1975 to withdraw the system of stock valuation introduced in the 1973-74 Budget. Later a firm pledge was given that a Liberal-National Country Party Government would abolish the existing stock valuation system. 
That has been stated. That was a firm undertaking by honourable members opposite when they were in Opposition. These are the undertakings that were given by the previous Opposition. These are the undertakings that have been broken consistently by the present Government. I would suggest that the honourable member for Bendigo had better get back and learn his own policy. If he did so he might do a little bit better. 
As late as tonight honourable members will have received in their offices a statement from the wine industry pointing out the bad deal that it is getting. Is it any wonder that various sectors of industry, one after another today, are losing confidence in this Government? They are learning the hard way. The people in these industries believed that they would receive great assistance if they weighed in the money to the slush funds of the present Government's election campaign. But now they find that all of those promises and undertakings have been completely abrogated. 
The first promise broken tonight is the promise in respect of the home mortgage interest deductibility scheme. Some more promises will be broken tomorrow night. Promises are being broken almost day by day. The second promise to be broken tonight is the promise in respect of the wine industry. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  knows how much work went into the job of introducing a scheme to give a reduced liability for interest on the mortgage repayments of the average home owner. This scheme was a very great assistance to the majority of people who have been affected by increases in interest rates on mortgage repayments. The present Prime Minister and Government gave a firm undertaking during the last election campaign that under no circumstances would they dismantle the home interest deductibility scheme. That was a firm promise and undertaking which has been completely and utterly abrogated. One simply cannot put it in any other way than to say that this is a 'rob Peter to pay Paul' exercise. The Government says: 'Yes, we are going to introduce a grand new scheme, a homes grant scheme which will provide $2,000 to people who are buying their first home'. What the Government does not mention is that one has to be able to save $40 a week for 3 years to qualify. Who are the people who will be able to afford to save that amount of money? These people naturally will come from the upper middle income groupings, not the lower middle or lower income groupings. It is pretty hard to save $40 a week. Even I cannot do that on my salary. Therefore I do not know how the great majority of the people can do it. For that reason I think it is disgraceful that this very important program which was designed to reduce the mortgage interest liability of the vast majority of the middle and lower income groups is to be dismantled. About 80 per cent of the people- that is a minimum figure- who qualified up to 30 June in the last financial year and who otherwise would have qualified in this financial year will now be deprived of this benefit. From now on the benefit will apply only to mortgages of 5 years duration or less and only to first residences. This is the important thing which people should keep in mind. 
In the past the benefit applied to all mortgages irrespective of their period of duration, whether it was for one year, 25 years or 30 years. It applied also in respect of all homes; it did not matter whether it was a first home. The benefit will now apply in respect of the first home only and will apply only for the first 5 years of the mortgage. This means that the vast majority of people will lose this facility, particularly people, for example, in Housing Commission homes out in the western suburbs of Sydney. A very big proportion of people in that area live in Housing Commission homes. Up to now, if these people were buying their homes they would be able to claim a tax deduction at the end of the financial year. From now on they will be eligible to claim a tax deducation only if they have lived in that house for a period of less than 5 years and provided it is their first home. The benefit will not apply if they have lived in the home for more than 5 years. As the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  who represents a similar area to the one I represent would know, the vast majority of people acquiring Housing Commission homes in the last 5 years have not been buying them. They have not been buying because the Commission does not allow them to do so. A big majority of people who have held the houses for more than 5 years are buying them. Some of the people are buying their first home; others are not. 
From now on the great proportion of people living in Housing Commission homes will not be able to claim their interest payments under the home mortgage deductibility scheme. This will have a dramatic effect on the people out in the western suburbs of Sydney. That is promise number 2 which is broken completely. Of course honourable members will find many more broken promises. More are to be broken tomorrow night in the statement which the Treasurer will make. There are so many of these promises. The coalition Parties promised to reduce unemployment. The March and April figures seasonally adjusted show an increase in unemployment. In other words the coalition Parties are not grappling with this issue after 5 months in office. The coalition parties promised that there would be no credit squeeze, and yet we have a credit squeeze by stealth. We have a credit squeeze particularly from the Australian savings bonds which have had a dramatic effect upon the building society movement in this country. On a delayed action basis these bonds will have a dramatic effect upon the building industry in the months to come. At this stage there is still a turnaround in the building industry because of loans which were approved many months ago. The time will come in the months ahead when there will be a decisive downturn. 
We can go on to deal, one after the other, with the various promises that this Government has completely and cynically abrogated. The Government gave an undertaking in the election campaign that it would not interfere with wage indexation. Within a couple of months of taking office it has approached the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to do just that. If they are the sorts of policies that are to be followed, is it any wonder that people are losing confidence? The 40 per cent investment allowance is to cost a net $500m to $600m after removal of the double depreciation allowance which was introduced by the Labor Government at a cost of approximately $190m. In other words, the gross cost of the 40 per cent investment allowance will be between $590m and $690m. This is a pretty good hand-out by a government which says it wants to cut costs. Let us look at the basis of this. Let us have a look at what the Treasurer said about the new investment allowance in his second reading speech on the Income Tax Assessment Bill 1976. He said: 
The new investment allowance is being introduced as a decisive and far-reaching incentive to industry to invest and, at the same time, to create jobs; in other words, to repair the damage which has occurred during the past 3 years. 
This assertion is an old stock-in-trade, of course. The people are beginning to become a little fed up with that sort of nonsense. He continues: 
On the other side of the ledger, by reducing government expenditures and lightening the burden of personal taxation, we shall be putting more money into the private citizen's pocket to spend as he wishes, so that investment and private consumption can move forward together. 
In other words the whole basis of the Treasurer's contention is that more investment will occur as a result of giving this investment allowance, and accordingly there will be more production and more jobs, and so on. 
I would agree with that in different circumstances, but in circumstances where there is a lack of confidence in the integrity and the policies of this Government to maintain undertakings it gives to the public, I cannot possibly see the idea working. I will go one step further than that: The economic policy of the Government is in such a shambles that it will not encourage the business fraternity- industry itself- to regain confidence in the economy. I will tell honourable members why. Industry will not invest unless it has confidence that it will receive a reasonable margin of profit. If businessmen find that in the present economic circumstances it is just not worth the risk to invest on a large scale because there is simply not a reasonable return, they will make the decision not to invest, and all the investment allowances in the world are not worth a cent unless in the first instance there is an assured return on the investment. If there is a margin industry will take advantage of investment allowances and, accordingly, there will be greater investment, greater production and a greater number of jobs. 
In this instance I do not think the vast majority of industry will invest. A very interesting article appeared recently in the Press concerning the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  attending a luncheon in Melbourne. He thought that he would be patted on the back, but all the captains of industry told him what a bad job this Government was doing and that it would have to do something effective in order to restore business confidence. Honourable members opposite would all know about that article. They would have read it within the last fortnight. It is something of which they should all be taking notice. 
Let us see why industry does not have confidence in this Government which, as I said earlier, said it would reduce unemployment. The unemployment figures for the last 2 months- if ever there was a period when unemployment should have been reduced this was it- show an increase in unemployment when seasonally adjusted. The Australian savings bonds, which I mentioned, are having a dramatic effect upon building societies and in the months to come will have a dramatic effect upon the home building industry itself. The bonds are doing a delayed action job. Let us take the reductions in expenditure in employment giving areas. This Government is absolutely and completely fanatical in its desire to reduce Government expenditure but it is not prepared to be careful to ensure that when it reduces expenditure it does not lower its resources to provide employment. 
Debate interrupted. 
-This morning a busload of 143 workers from Martin Wells Pty Ltd, spectacle frame manufacturers of St Marys, demonstrated outside the House in an attempt to save their jobs. 
Their jobs are at risk because of the Industries Assistance Commission report on the spectacle frame industry. The honourable member laughs at this, but it is a serious matter. I understand that the IAC report has already been to one of the Ministers and is now with  Senator Cotton,  the Minister for Industry and Commerce. I spoke to  Senator Cotton's  senior private secretary last Thursday and asked that arrangements be made for the Minister to see a delegation of three- I made the point that it would have to be a limited delegation- this morning. Subsequently he telephoned my office and left word with my secretary that he would be telephoning the company with regard to the delegation. Firm arrangements were made. The workers left the meeting time open; they said that they would arrive either yesterday or today to fit in with the Minister's appointments. The firm arrangement was that he would meet them at 10.30 this morning. On that basis, in an effort to protect their jobs, 143 workers representing 430 workers who will lose their jobs if this IAC report is implemented, came down here this morning to meet the Minister. At 10.30 last night, after I had finished speaking in a debate, I received the following letter from the Minister's senior private secretary: 
Dear Mr Armitage 
The Minister for Industry and Commerce.  Senator Cotton,  has been called to a Cabinet meeting at 10 a.m. tomorrow. 20 May 1976. 
This means, unfortunately, that he will not be able to see the delegation from Martin Wells. 
I draw attention to the time the Minister was to see the delegation- 10.30 this morning. And at 10.30 this morning the whole of the House of Representatives members of Cabinet, including the Prime Minister, were sitting in this chamber. Therefore  Senator Cotton  has given a false alibi. He simply is not prepared to see these people. He is not prepared to face up to his responsibility as the Minister responsible for the IAC report at this time. 
Because I have been trying to stop this matter from blowing up, I told the Minister's secretary this morning, and the honourable member can check this: 'Right, I will not be able to stop it'. I had been trying to stop it and I told him so last night. I told his senior private secretary so when he rang this morning to say that  Senator Cotton  could not even spare 10 minutes to see the delegation. That is all I asked- 10 minutes at some time during the course of the day. I told him that now, I could not stop it from blowing up because the facts are that 430 jobs are at stake. The facts are that we have to do something about this if this factory is to be saved. The Minister's senior private secretary said to me, when I asked him to arrange for the delegation to see  Mr Howard,  the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs: 'You do that'. I said: 'Well, you do it. You are a part of this Government; you make the arrangement with  Mr Howard'.  He said: 'No, he can make his own arrangements'.  His  attitude was inexplicable but I have now found out the reason for his attitude. It relates to an article contained in the  Manufacturers' Monthly  of 15 April 1976. The caption reads:  Cotton Loses Cabinet power battle. Howard to run protection policy.  It states: 
The first boots and all power struggle within the Fraser Cabinet took place recently with the decisive winner, the Treasurer.  Mr Phil  Lynch, and the loser.  Senator Bob  Cotton. Minister for Industry and Commerce. Such was the heat of battle that it was a remarkable tribute to the tightness of the Cabinet that news of the struggle did not leak- well, not very much, anyway. 
For manufacturers the struggle was important since it decisively decided who was going to run protection policy and it is to he  Mr John  Howard. Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  not Bob Cotton. 
It goes on to say: 
On the question of protection or assistance, the Howard submission suggested that each industry departmentPrimary Industry. Industry and Commerce. National Resources- be the contact point for industries within its ambit of responsibility that sought assistance. 
The article further explains this. It then states: 
The appropriate industry department would chair the Standing inter-Departmental Committee on Assistance to Industry  (SIDCAI)  where the protection issue involved flowed from that department. 
But Cotton dug his toes in. He argued in Cabinet that Howard's department should merely administer the IAC in the sense of salaries, creation of new positions etc. He also wanted to transfer to his department from Howard 's department the Protection Policy Division, under  Dr David  Charles, which deals with all protection matters, be they manufacturing or otherwise. 
It was at this point that Treasury and the Treasurer, Phil Lynch, took an interest. 
It goes on to say: 
In future, although each industry department will be responsible for vetting applications for protection and sending them to the IAC through Howard's department, Business and Consumer Affairs will hold the key role of chairing SIDCAI. 
Obviously that is why  Senator Cotton's  senior private secretary would not make contact with the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. Evidently the battle is so tight that they will not talk to one another. But that does not help the 430 workers whose jobs are at stake. 1 shall give honourable members a few examples of what is in the IAC report. With regard to ophthalmic frames at present the import quota is 75 per cent of the 1973-74 imports which carries a duty of 26.25 per cent. The IAC report which is now before the Government recommends the discontinuance of quotas and the imposition of a 25 per cent duty. The import quota of sunglass frames and sunglasses is 85 per cent of 1973-74 imports and carries a 28 per cent duty. The IAC report with regard to sunglasses complete with lenses recommends the discontinuance of quotas; duty-free entry of up to $1.50 f.o.b. and 25 per cent duty over $1.50. For sunglass frames without lenses, the IAC recommends discontinuing quotas and discontinuing duty. They will have free entry. No wonder the company is concerned. 
I have respect for the judgment of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs on this. I am sure that he is a humane man. But the facts are that if that IAC report is implemented it will mean the end of this industry. It will mean the end of spectacle frame manufacturing not only for Martin Wells in St Marys but for all companies in Australia. It means that Australia will no longer have a spectacle frame manufacturing industry. In particular, for Martin Wells at St Marys, the biggest manufacturer of these frames in Australia, it will mean that 430 workers will lose their jobs. This involves workers from areas such as Mount Druitt Housing Commission area, St Marys, Penrith and those surrounding areas. 
I realise that the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs may have had some disagreement with  Senator Cotton  in Cabinet, but nevertheless I believe he will appreciate that such personal differences cannot be allowed to interfere with the jobs of people who are dependent upon this industry for their living. I request the Minister to show more compassion than  Senator Cotton  has shown.  Senator Cotton  has ducked his responsibility this morning. He has refused to see the delegation by using an untruthful, false alibi- stating in effect that he would be at a Cabinet meeting at 10.30 this morning, the time he was to see the men, when at that time the House of Representatives members of the Cabinet were in this House, in public view, for everybody to see that the Minister's alibi was false and untruthful. 
I direct my question to the Acting Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. Is it a fact that the Government intends to initiate action which will result in an appreciable increase in the rents on housing commission homes, and will also result in the interest rate covered by the CommonwealthState Housing Agreement being increased from 4 per cent to the long term bond rate? 
-The honourable member for Swan  (Mr Martyr)  who has just finished speaking was, I understand, State  President  of the Democratic Labor Party in Western Australia. Is that right? 
He was State Secretary of the DLP in Western Australia until a comparatively recent time. Then somehow or other Lang Hancock- is that who it was- got you preselection for the Liberal Party. 
Yes,  Mr Speaker.  I understand it was  Mr Lang  Hancock who got him preselection for the Liberal Party and got him into this House in double quick time. But he is showing, of course, the usual complete fanaticism of the DLP people. 
Anyhow,  Mr Speaker,  this is not the important matter with which I want to deal at the moment. The honourable member has shown the usual fanaticism in describing the Australian Conservation Foundation as a communist inspired organisation. I have heard the lot now. 
This week has been set aside for Project Jonah, because many people with a conscience very seriously consider that something should be done about conserving the whale population of the world. We are getting to the stage where, as a result of indiscriminate killing, some species are already virtually extinct and many others will become extinct. Today I received a letter from a very young lady, a young student, in my electorate. It reads: 34 Stewart Avenue, Blacktown. 24 May 1976 
I really do think it is a tragedy. We all remember the former member for Higgins, the Right Honourable John Gorton. We remember him as a man of very great stature. We may not always have agreed with his point of view. In fact, we have had disagreements with him on many occasions. We always admired his sincerity and the earthy manner in which he made his points and put his case, always removed from the histrionics of politics. We always knew, whether or not we agreed with his point of view, that he was sincere. Then we heard that Shakespearean display in the chamber earlier tonight. The honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Shipton)  obviously lacks the basic sincerity of his predecessor. I was shocked at the reply I received when I suddenly asked: 'Who is that bird speaking?' I was told: 'That is the honourable member for Higgins'. I said: 'Good God!' However, that is as it will be. It demonstrates the vicissitudes and sometimes the tragedy of politics: Men- even those who may not agree with our viewpoint- are sometimes knocked down when they could have given so much to Australia. Lesser men take their place. I leave it at that. I do feel quite sincerely that it is a tragedy and a pity that we do not have John Gorton in this Parliament today, a man who brought an individuality to the House and who was one of the more outstanding personalities that one meets in this place. 
The Government's economic package has been described as a mini-Budget. Personally I do not think it can be called a mini-Budget; I think it can only be called a maxi-Budget. Without a doubt this Budget is a rob Peter to pay Paul exercise. There are some very good examples of this. I am very pleased to see the increase in child endowment. But, of course, this increase is basically to be paid for by the discontinuance of the allowances for children, namely, the actual cash rebate of $200 for each student child and $150 for each non-student child. In other words, the Government proposes to take money from one area and give it in the form of increased child endowment payments in another area. This is supposed to be a magnificent gesture which will convince the trade union movement that it must accept the Government's proposals to vary the wage indexation guidelines with which the Government promised at the last election campaign it would not interfere. People all over the country today are realising that this is the most politically dishonest government in the history of this country. It has broken promise after promise, undertaking after undertaking and is still going ahead in this manner. 
Another good example is the Government's proposal to introduce tax indexation. The Government proposes to pay for tax indexation by means of the Medibank levy. This again is a rob Peter to pay Paul exercise. This sort of exercise is the whole basis of the propositions of this Government. The actions of the Government have caused strong reactions. The honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  a short while ago quoted to honourable members the latest gallup poll figures from the  Bulletin  which show that the Liberal-National Country Party coalition had 47 per cent of the vote and that the 
Labor Party had 46 per cent. These figures show a dramatic increase in Labor's share of the vote in such a short time. All of the oncers in oncers' corner on the other side of the House should start heeding the cold wind. They will need to be careful if they are to retain their seats at the next election. 
Even their closest friends are losing confidence in them. A meeting of representatives of the various health funds was held in Sydney yesterday and  Mr J.  F. Cade of the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia told the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  that he was going to get some Government senators to cross the floor to vote against the Medibank proposals. Furthermore, the Minister for Health raised this matter in the Government Caucus this morning. I cannot reveal which honourable member opposite told me this. One does not give away one' s source.  Senator Baume,  the  chairman  of the Government supporters welfare committee, or whatever it is called, gave an assurance that none of the Government senators would cross the floor. He must have had a guilty conscience to have had to jump up and give that assurance. One cannot be certain that Government senators will not cross the floor because one can recall how many times in the past  Senator Baume  has given an assurance that he would cross the floor. One can remember the whispers that ran around the corridors last November in respect of the refusal of Supply. On that occasion the honourable senator did not cross the floor at the appropriate time. One never knows, the reverse situation might apply on this occasion. Although the honourable senator this time says that he will not cross the floor this might be the time when he will cross the floor together with some of his other friends who are perhaps a little more advanced in their thinking than their colleagues. 
I really do not believe that we can look at the 
Proposals covering child endowment, tax rebates or dependent children, tax indexation and the Medibank levy in isolation, because there are so many other propositions at which one has to look. If one looks very carefully at the whole economic package, this massive economic package, that the Government has introduced one can see that if ever there has been a weighting of the scales in that the Government has put on a pound weight instead of the required 4 oz this is the occasion. I would like to give a few examples. The Government has cut the child care and preschool program, the area improvement program, the sewerage program - 
The honourable member said that the sewerage program smells, but the whole purpose of this exercise is to see that it does not smell in the future. I am quite certain that it does not smell the same as some of the smells coming from the other side of the House. There has been a complete abrogation of the undertaking and promise given during the last election campaign not to interfere with the home mortgage interest tax deductibility scheme. 
That is quite correct. The Government undertook quite clearly not to interfere with this program. Yet, from now on, about 80 per cent of the people who have enjoyed this facility will not do so in the future. 
I am talking about the economic package which will increase housing commission rents. I am talking about the intention of the Government to increase the interest rate on defence service homes. I am talking about the intention of the Government to increase the interest rate which is the subject of Commonwealth-State housing agreements. I am talking about the decision to issue Australian savings bonds at 101/2 per cent, which has meant a massive withdrawal of funds particularly from the building industry. 
The honourable member for Higgins tried to maintain that the Government was not interfering with the Australian Assistance Plan. The honourable member should not kid himself. The Government is trying by an obtuse dishonest method to phase out the Australian Assistance Plan utterly and completely within 12 months. That is what the Government's actions amount to. The Government has said that the States can continue the Plan if they want to but that it will not give the States the necessary finance to continue it. This decision means the end of this great reform. The examples that I have mentioned are part and parcel of the Government's economic package. The decision now to cut widows pensions or I should say to tax widows pensions; the decision from now on to cut sickness benefits, unemployment benefits- I mean to tax- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Bonnett)Order! I remind honourable gentlemen on my right who are interjecting that interjections are out of order. 
Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I admire your impartiality. 

 Speaker, but I think you should also draw the attention of the honourable member who is speaking to the fact that he obviously does not understand what he is talking about. He is not even stating the situation correctly. He does not know whether he is talking about cuts or taxes. 
-My question is directed to the Attorney-General. Is it correct that an official of his department,  Mr P.  Massie, who has been in Paraguay for 15 months, has been brought home? Is it correct also that the Government has given up its attempts to extradite Alexander and Tom Barton and bring them back to Australia? 
I must compliment the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Macphee)  on having the courage to bring up this matter in the Parliament. It is important for the public to be educated about the activities of parliamentarians and about what they receive in reimbursement. The Press finds this subject a good way by which to enter into a little bit of sensationalism. It is more and more important for honourable members to have the courage to speak out on these issues as the honourable member for Balaclava has done. If this does not happen Australia may become like some other countries such as France where government by bureaucracy becomes stronger, and government by the people's representatives in the parliament becomes weaker. I compliment the honourable member for his remarks here this morning. 
Today I wish to grieve about 2 matters. The first relates to the Westmead hospital in the outer western suburbs of Sydney. It is reported that, as a result of this Government's expenditure cuts, there will be a downturn in the building activity on this new hospital project. 
This would be utterly tragic, as the honourable member for Hunter says. A survey conducted in 1969 showed that by 1980 there would be a 1200-bed shortage in the outer western suburbs of Sydney unless immediate action were taken to correct the position. For many years, we as a Labor Party and as a Labor Government, tried to press the New South Wales Liberal Government at the time to get on with the job at Westmead which is to be a major teaching hospital, a specialist hospital. Even though at one stage, I think in 1973-74, we allocated $4m for the project, there was no activity. Now the job is being proceeded with because it was threatened by the previous Labor Government that unless the State Government got on with the job we would build our own Australian Government hospital in that area. Information is now filtering through that because of cuts in allocations to the community health program by the Federal Government to the State, the Health Commission of New South Wales will be faced with the situation of having no alternative but to phase down the building activity on Westmead Hospital, yet it is an urgent work. 
Month by month and year by year we are seeing throughout that area more and more private hospitals being built. They are mainly financed by the medical profession. They are private hospitals which have far higher fees than the public hospitals, and they do not have the necessary facilities, particularly for urgent cases. In other words, there is a transfer of resources from the public sector to the private sector. This is not in the interest of the people as a whole, and action should be taken to give the most urgent priority to the Westmead Hospital project. This comes into the field of this Federal Government which is responsible for allocating funds to the New South Wales Health Commission under the community health program. Unless action is taken by this Government to ensure that the funds are earmarked for this project this will have a very serious effect upon the most populous area in the whole of Australia. One forgets that about half the children of New South Wales are born in an area west of a line drawn north and south through Parramatta. I made a rough estimate yesterday. In 5 electorates out there in the west- Reid, Parramatta, Mitchell, Prospect and Chifley- there would be a good one million people living. I ask the Government therefore to give special consideration to this matter now in this forthcoming Budget period and to make sure that funds are earmarked so that the project as it is now being developed may continue in the interests of the health of the whole of that most populous region. 
The other matter about which I have a grievance today relates to housing and to the fact that there is undoubtedly a recession- in fact, one could call it a depression- in the building industry. I am referring of course to the large scale unemployment in the building industry, once again particularly in the outer western suburbs of Sydney where there is a bigger concentration of building workers than in most other parts of Austalia. One could say that there has been an extraordinary disparity or discrepancy between figures relating to the building industry. For example, in April there was a 13 per cent increase, after seasonal adjustment, in private housing approvals, that is, approvals by local authorities. On the other hand, savings bank housing loan approvals were down 6.2 per cent in the March quarter on the 3 months to December and building society loans were down 34.4 per cent. These are approvals of finance. So we can see the discrepancy: On the one hand is what is being approved by local authorities for future building and on the other hand is the actual finance being made available by the various finance authorities. The finance available is showing a dramatic downturn. The reason for the downturn in finance approvals goes back to the Government's decision to introduce the Australian savings bonds at 10V4 per cent interest. This brought about a dramatic withdrawal of finance from the building societies. The savings banks, because of the regulation which lays down that 50 per cent of their assets must be held in a specified form, in specified types of securities, cannot move into the vacuum left by the building societies to grant more approvals. This is quite a serious situation. 
As the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  pointed out last week, there has been a very great recession in the commercial building field. Without a doubt, it was over-inflated, it was overheated. 
Far too many office blocks were going up. We had up to five or six years' surplus in office accommodation. The Labor Government, seeing that this movement away from the commercial field was occurring, deliberately allocated grants of $ 150m to the banks and $50m to terminating societies so as to bring about a transfer of resources from the commercial field to the private home building field. This had its effect and the result was that there was an immediate upsurge in both approvals for finance and approvals for building. But all of these things have a delayed action effect. If we take action today in the building arena, it will take some considerable time before its effect is felt in the building industry itself. It will take up to six or nine months. Unless the Government takes urgent action now to overcome the growing unemployment in the building industry and what will become growing inactivity in the home building industry, then the industry is in for a very big depression indeed. 
This is an essential policy issue and one which the Government obviously is not looking at properly. Obviously when it sets to and virtually cripples the building society movement through the Australian savings bonds without bringing about a re-allocation of resources into the savings banks which do so much home lending, then it is not tackling the job properly. I believe there is a need for the Government to take action immediately in 2 areas. First, the regulation should be altered to bring about a reduction in the 50 per cent ratio that savings banks have to maintain in specified securities so as to release more funds to the savings banks so as to offset the reduction in building society activity. Secondly I believe there should be an allocation of grants by the Federal Government to terminating societies and to the banks, just as the Labor Government did, so that the savings banks and the terminating societies can grant more home building approvals. Unless this action is taken there will be a major recession in the industry. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I thought I should say a few words about the forthcoming visit of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to the People's Republic of China because there are rumours floating around the lobbies of Parliament House that the honourable member for 
Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  is to precede him there apparently to make some arrangements for his welcome. I thought it important that as honourable members understand and know some of the ideas of the honourable member for Mackellar - 
That the question be now put. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
House adjourned at 4.52 p.m. until Tuesday, 17 August at 2.15 p.m., unless  Mr Speaker  shall, by telegram or letter addressed to each member of the House, fix an alternative day of meeting. 
-Like the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  I would really like to direct a question to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson).  It is supplementary to that asked by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports. I will give a specific example to the Minister. Radio station 2KA at Katoomba wishes to put in a supplementary booster lower down the Blue Mountains so that it can beam into the western suburbs of Sydney and specialise in the problems of those suburbs, which have a particular community of interest We should keep in mind that these areas now range 35 to 40 miles beyond the centre of the city of Sydney and accordingly no longer should be looked upon as an ordinary metropolis. There was a proposal to establish a high powered station in the western suburbs. That seems to have died. Possibly the Minister could inform us as to what is happening with that proposal. I think it went to court. He will know. That is not the issue. The issue here is the lowpowered stations that want to put in boosters to beam around the western suburbs. I am not touting the interests of any group- far from it- but it is simply the principle that the western suburbs should be served by radio stations which specialise in the problems of the area. I refer particularly to news coverage and social commentary on the problems of the outer western suburbs area, which is very much a distinctive area and in many ways divorced from the city of Sydney. 
I want to clarify 3 points. Firstly could a lowpowered station such as the one I mentioned put in a booster further down the Blue Mountains, or could some other station established in the future do something similar to serve the area? Secondly, if it is allowed to do that, will it interfere with the existing programs from high powered stations such as 2GB, 2CH, 2SM, and so on in the metropolitan area of Sydney? I think that is the basic question. 
I am essentially talking about radio broadcasting, not television broadcasting. Thirdly, what impact would this have on community access stations? I know that quite a number of people are interested in establishing such stations in the outer western suburbs mainly on frequency modulation bands, with the object of providing a specialised service to the area but also at the same time providing the best possible reception and music available to the outer western areas of Sydney, where that type of project is very important. 
-The House may recall that on the last day of the last session of Parliament I endeavoured to speak on the attitude of the honourable member for MacKellar  (Mr Wentworth)  with regard the People's Republic of China. I was gagged after speaking for about 20 seconds, because the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  was about to visit China. The reason why I wanted to draw attention to this matter was that because it is well known that the honourable member for MacKellar is a very well known and close confidant of the Prime Minister and is one of his closest advisers. It was rumoured at the time that he was to precede the Prime Minister to China to make advance arrangements for his reception. In fact, some cruel people- I do not subscribe to this view- say that he even engineered the Press leaks in Peking. 
I find it absolutely impossible to believe, but even the honourable member for Hunter had heard it. It is a general rumour around the place. Nevertheless, this attitude can be understood if one looks back a few years at the  Hansard  record. I think it is important that the People's Republic of China should understand the attitude of supporters of the Government and the views that they have expressed in the past. In the days prior to the recognition of that country and prior to an exchange of ambassadors - 
That is right. Show thenspots. It is recorded in  Hansard  of 25 March 1965 that the honourable member for MacKellar had this to say: 
I do not advocate and have never advocated war against the Chinese people. I do advocate the denuclearisation of Red China. It is only necessary to destroy a few factories if it is done in time. This weapon - 
This refers to nuclear weapons- must be taken out of the hands of those who would destroy humanity if they can once get the nuclear capacity. 
I agree; it is unbelievable. The Chinese did not even have a nuclear weapon. The honourable member for Mackellar went on to say: 
This must be done in time and, if it cannot be done by negotiation, force should be used- not a war, but in order to prevent war. It should be used to destroy the factories which are making nuclear material in China- not war with the Chinese people, not wholesale destruction in any way at all, but simply the removal from their hands of the weapons whereby humanity can be destroyed. This must be done in time. 
They are the words of the honourable member for Mackellar. Again on 11 May 1966 he referred to the division between the Soviet Union and China. He had this to say on page 1722 of  Hansard  of 1 1 May 1966: 
Are we to stand aside while these criminals, who, on the evidence of their Russian comrades, will not scruple to risk the death of half of mankind, obtain the weapons of destruction by which they can do it? I pose the question. I wonder whether we have the moral right to commit this sin of omission, to allow this thing to happen. Sins of omission are no better than sins of commission in this regard. If what the Russians say is true, the Hitler adventures and things of that description were mere child's play where a few tens of millions of lives were at stake. 
That statement was made by the honourable member for Mackellar on 1 1 May 1966. He went on in that vein quite a bit. At page 1723 of  Hansard of  1 1 May 1966 he said this: 
Why have they betrayed their own principles- the principles that led them to this traumatic split with Russia? 
But the really important thing here is that the honourable member for Mackellar, who is a close associate of the Prime Minister and, as is very well known indeed, is a close adviser of the Prime Minister, had this to say about the People's Republic of China. For that reason I think it can be understood that some people suspect that he might have been responsible for the leaks in Peking. I do not think so; I do not think it is correct. But when one reads statements such as these I think it is really understandable that people could get that idea. I think the more important thing is that the people of the People 's Republic of China should know and understand that that is the attitude of members of the Government. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Defence. Did he say, when speaking after reviewing the 25th Battalion Royal Australian Regiment in Toowoomba on 22 August, that in any future conflicts Australia would not be involved alongside any big power and that Australians should understand that in future they are on their own? I therefore ask: Does the Minister regard the ANZUS alliance as vital for the future protection of Australia? If so, can he explain the rationale for his statement which so obviously conflicts with the stated policy of the Government in regard to the ANZUS treaty? 
-Mr Acting  Speaker,  I seek leave to table a document which is a transcript of a tape recording prepared by the Parliamentary Library of an item taken from the 7.4S a.m. Australian Broadcasting Commission news program on 23 August 1976 which indicates that the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  - 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="100131197609074_59_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="100131197609074_59_0.jpg"></graphic>

subtracting this amount of $540m which then gives $ 10,767m. Also included in the tax statistics is the Medibank levy amounting to $250m. As I said, this is collected by the Commissioner for Taxation but it is really a fee-for-service and to get a fairer picture it too ought to be subtracted. We thus have that the total figure that is quoted less these 2 items of $540m and $250m which leaves a total of the order of $ 10,500m compared with $9,200m in 1975-76. That gives an increase of $ 1,298m which represents an increase of just 1 4 per cent on last year. 
-This morning during question time I raised a question in respect of a transcript prepared by the Parliamentary Library from a tape recording of the 7.45 a.m. news of the Australian Broadcasting Commission on 23 August. I will read the transcript to the House. I did ask leave of the House to table it, but leave was refused. I do not know why it was refused. I do not know why everyone was so sensitive about it. It reads as follows: 
The Defence Minister,  Mr Killen,  said yesterday- 
That would be on 22 August- that in any future conflict- 
It was on the ABC, my friend. The transcript goes on:  . . Australia would not be involved alongside any big power. The Defence Minister said that Australians should understand that in future they were on their own.  Mr Killen  was speaking after reviewing the 25th Battalion Royal Australian Regiment, in Toowoomba in Queensland. 
-This Budget has been validly called a big man's Budget. It has also been validly called a miner's Budget. Also quite validly, it has been called a reversion to the Premiers' Plan of the mid-depression years, with the adoption of precisely the same policies as were advocated in the Premiers' Plan. One would have thought that over the years we might have learned a few lessons, but apparently the conservatives who at present are governing this country have not learned them. I will give one example of why this is a miner's Budget. Take the case of Utah Mining Australia Limited, which is reputed to be the company which paid Khemlani's expenses. I have heard, and I think it is quite well known, that that is the company which paid Khemlani's expenses and which weighed in very heavily for the election expenses of both the National Country Party and the Liberal Party. Let us consider the golden handshake Utah will get out of this Budget. Last year that company exported approximately 13.5 million tonnes of coal, and it is understood that this year it will be exporting considerably more than that. It will receive a reduction of $1.50 per tonne in the coal export levy, which amounts to a saving this financial year of $20.25m, assuming that it exports the same amount of coal as last year. However it is reported that it will be exporting more. 
To that saving can be added some of the other special assistance given in this Budget. Firstly, the allowable capital expenditure of any mining company on the development of a mine or field will be deductible on a diminishing value basis, as at present, by reference to a maximum life of mine or field of 5 years instead of the present 25 years. Secondly, allowable capital expenditure on facilities used for the transportation of minerals, including petroleum, will now be deductible on a straight line basis over either 20 years, as at present, or 10 years at the taxpayers' option, to be increased with the first claim for the deduction. Thirdly, the categories of expenditure covered by the present provisions giving deductions for allowable capital expenditure on mineral transport facilities will be extended to cover expenditure, at present not deductible, on port developments such as harbour surveys, initial dredging, navigational aids and breakwaters. Fourthly, the company will benefit from the general 40 per cent investment allowance. So there are 5 propositions from which that company will benefit. From one alone- the reduction in the coal export duty- it will benefit to the extent of $20.25m, based on last year's exports. The other 4 benefits are all investment allowances. By the time the company reaps the whole of the benefits it is to receive from the Budget, it will be saving something like $35m to $40m this financial year. This is a company which the  Sydney Morning Herald  on only 28 August announced would make $148m in the year ending on 31 October. What a golden handshake- $35m to $40m- for having weighed in to the coffers of the Government parties during the election and for having paid Khemlani's expenses. 
I have not the slightest doubt that the Democratic Labor Party would have got something. I know that the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Martyr),  who has been trying constantly to interject, until a couple of years ago was the State Secretary of the DLP in Western Australia. He now represents the Liberal Party in this House, but of course he will be a oncer. He is in oncers' corner over there. The example I have just given is a very good indication of why this Budget can be called a miner's Budget 
The Budget has also been called a reversion to the Premiers' Plan of the depression years in the 1930s. Without a doubt, the whole strategy of the Budget is to provide further short sharp knocks to the economy, as though it has not already suffered enough. At the very least it is aimed at maintaining the present levels of employment. Of course, we know that the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  admits to the level of unemployment being approximately the same next June as it was this June. As most of his predictions have been wrong- the situation has turned out to be far worse than he has predicted- there is little doubt that the number of unemployed will rise by next 
January to something like 400 000. It could go through the roof and reach the half million mark. 
I think it is important that we should be looking at the matter of the employment of youth. I am glad to see that some Government supporters have a conscience. I refer to the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  and the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  both of whom have been raising this matter in their own Liberal Party Caucus, but apparently, according to this morning's Press, they have been rolled. I would like to cite a few statistics in that regard from my own electorate. My electorate incorporates the outer western suburbs of Sydney, which are suffering some of the worst unemployment, if not the worst, in the whole of Australia. The statistics I have relate to the Penrith Employment Office, the Mt Druitt Employment Office and the Blacktown Employment Office. But my electorate does not take in the whole of those areas. It can be seen that as at the end of August 1976, of the total of 7287 persons registered as unemployed at those 3 offices somewhere between 6000 and 6500 persons- it would be nearer 6500- would be resident in my electorate. Of that total of 7287 unemployed as at the end of August, compared with a total of 6026 unemployed last August- that gives an indication of the decline in the employment situation- 3287 were juveniles. In other words, of those registered as unemployed in those 3 offices, 45.1 per cent are people under the age of 18 years, or juveniles. I think that any government which does not take that into account has very little social conscience indeed. 
It must be realised that those juveniles who are presently unemployed will find it very hard to obtain employment after the next crop of school leavers come onto the market. That is so because of their age and because of the fact that employers naturally want people with experience. Those poor young people have not even had the chance of obtaining experience. Also, because of their age, an employer will naturally engage the younger person to whom he will be required to pay a wage which would be lower than that paid to those who are a year older. I think that is a factor which has been forgotten. Unfortunately the situation will get worse. 
We must also look at the areas in which the Government has made its cuts in expenditure, because unfortunately the great body of those cuts have been made in employment giving areas. It should always be remembered that government is the biggest purchaser from the factory; it is the biggest single employer. When government introduces cuts in employment giving areas this must have a very serious effect on the employment situation. The  Age  of 18 August, under the heading 'Where Lynch Axe Fell', lists those areas in which cuts have been effected. I shall cite a few of them. The figures given indicate the percentage drop in government expenditure. They are: Sewerage 56.1 per cent, migrant education 50 per cent, old people's homes 29.1 per cent, area improvement programs 96 per cent, shipping 49.5 per cent, pipelines 36. 1 per cent; ship building 37.4 per cent, stevedoring industry 33 per cent, and Commonwealth offices- that, of course, would include the Commonwealth Government Centre in Parramatta 16.4 per cent. All of these cuts are in employment giving areas, and they must all have a very serious impact upon the employment situation. They have a multiplying effect right through the economy, as far as employment is concerned, and that is particularly so in the building industry. The programs and the policies introduced by the Government, such as the Australian savings bond issues, drew away from the building societies a large proportion of funds which otherwise could have gone into the home building industry. 
I wish to refer now to a report of the Indicative Planning Council on the housing industry. The  Australian Financial Review  of 27 August, in dealing with that report, states: 
According to the report the desirable level of dwelling completions during 1976-77, 1977-78 and 1978-79 financial years is 148 700, 155 500 and 160 800 respectively for Australia as a whole. 
In value terms, the desirable levels for the three-year period are $ 1 ,274m, $ 1 ,296m and $ 1 ,302m respectively. 
By contrast, the council estimates that, due to resource constraints - 
And that is the responsibility of this Government- the feasible levels of dwelling completions in those years will be 138 400 in 1 976-77 ( 10 000 short of demand), 144 800 in 1977-78 (10 700 short of demand) and 150 700 in 1978-79 (10 100 short of demand). 'N.S.W. is in by far the worst position,' the report says. 'The present capacity of the industry is well below what it was some years ago and well short of the desirable level. ' 
We should keep in mind the fact that the unemployment situation is worse in New South Wales than it is in any other State of Australia. It is for that reason that I think the Government should set about having a very good look at the need to reduce the percentage of specified securities required to be held by the savings banks. At present the savings banks are required to hold 50 per cent of their deposits in specified securities. They can then lend a further 50 per cent. If that percentage was reduced by 5 per cent to 45 per cent it would mean that over an extended period of about 9 months more than $ 1,000m could be released for housing loan finance. That would be really worthwhile in prompting the building industry, because I emphasise that the building industry is in for a very serious recession indeed. The unemployment figures which I cited to the House this afternoon for the outer western suburbs of Sydney will become appreciably worse because there are more building workers in the outer western suburbs of Sydney than in any other similar area in the whole of Australia. Therefore that area will be affected all the more. 
It is vital that the Government should enunciate and determine policies which will help overcome what will be a very serious depression in the building industry unless action is taken immediately. I make that submission to the Treasurer and to the Government as being a viable proposition. It has been advocated by some of the Treasurer's friends in the Press, by the way, including the  Australian Financial Review  as far back as 14 May this year. I should mention that action taken by the Whitlam Labor Government when the building industry started to go backwards gave that industry a little fillip at that stage. The percentage of specified securities held by the savings banks was reduced from 55 per cent to 50 per cent. Now is the right time to reduce it from 50 per cent to 45 per cent. Of course, that would offset the effect of the Government 's Australian savings bond issues which have drained from the building societies and so on funds used for home loans. 
I think it is also time that the Government set to on a long term planning program to revive secondary industry generally, and employment in secondary industry in particular. The Jackson report indicates that secondary industry started its decline not in the 1970s but from the mid-1960s and that that decline basically arose from industry not receiving sufficient capital investment to modernise it. That is to say, after the war industry put in the most modern equipment available up to that time. Accordingly, we had a very efficient secondary industry. Other countries such as North America, Japan and West Germany have now passed us by with the installation of much more efficient equipment in their industries. Added to that we now find that our own industry is not as competitive as it used to be with the low labour cost countries. When a company does decide to modernise its factory, the pattern is that it finds cheap industrial land in the outer suburbs such as the outer western suburbs of Sydney, builds its new factory on that land and pays for that new factory by flogging the old property in the inner suburbs. It puts in modern up-to-date and automated equipment and pays for the equipment over the long term because it has to employ very much less labour and therefore its labour costs are much less. An example of this is a food processor at Seven Hills, Cerebos. We must also take into account that more and more companies are today operating off shore. They are operating in places such as Taiwan and Singapore. 
Yes, and in the Philippines, as the honourable member says. This means jobs which would normally be held by Australians are now held overseas. This is once again a reason for the down-turn in employment opportunities. This development in industry will mean that as time goes on fewer and fewer job opportunities will occur in secondary industry, and society therefore has to decide whether we will maintain a very high rate of unemployment with consequent heavy expenditure by Government on unemployment relief with its associated social problems; whether we will introduce unemployment relief schemes to provide job opportunities and social and cultural improvements such as playing fields; whether government increases the vote of funds for public investment to provide also improved public facilities such as hospitals, road building, sewerage and schools; or whether working hours are to be cut and annual and long service leave are to be increased so as to allow for a great many more people to be employed in industry than are at present. 
Probably a mix of all these proposals would be the best, but certainly we should now be looking at an unemployment relief scheme to provide employment particularly for young people and men with families. For example, a man with a wife and 3 children today receives $91 a week in unemployment relief. We should keep in mind the award provisions. The State award in New South Wales, based on a minimum wage for labourers, for a process worker is $107.50. For a carpenter the State award is $180 and the Federal award is $179.70. For a fitter and turner the State award is $128.10 and the Federal award is $128.10. In other words, if we add somewhere between $20 and $50 a week to that unemployment relief which is going down the drain, and in respect of which we are not obtaining any benefit for the community as a whole, then we have the wage of a labourer or a tradesman and the community gets something for its money. 
For that reason, I submit it is imperative that from now on the Government should introduce some form of unemployment relief scheme such as the Regional Employment Development scheme or something similar. We are quite prepared to look at any sort of proposal but the important thing is to give to the community something which will be lasting. People forget that one of the major sources of labour in the construction of the Sydney Harbour Bridge was the unemployment relief scheme operating in those days. Despite the Treasurer's argument that consumer spending will increase as a result of this Budget, the opposite will apply. The reasons are that with the fear of unemployment people will save more and spend less to protect themselves from a rainy day. That is indicated by an article in today's  Australian Financial Review.  Pay as you earn taxation is going up to $ 1,766.3m, an increase of 24.7 per cent. This must reduce consumer spending. That is indicated at page 1 15 of the Budget Papers. On page 112 of the Budget Papers we find that the Government is going to tax widow's pensions, supporting mother's benefits, service pensions, unemployment benefits, sickness and special benefits. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drummond)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

Recommendation: That special consideration be given to the provision of employment opportunities in the Public Service, particularly towards the end of the year. 
Recommendation: That urgent consideration be given to the more extensive use of part-time employment in the Public Service (without in any way jeopardising current full-time employees). 
Recommendation: That consideration be given to the transfer of some sections of the Public Service to Canberra in the near future. 
Recommendation: That consideration be given to the introduction of lower retirement ages in the Commonwealth Public Service. 
Recommendation: That consideration be given to the longer term construction program in the Capital Territory (perhaps introducing the concept of a long term 'rolling program ') and that consideration be given to announcing future significant projects so that the private sector is able to more clearly discern the Government's approach to the Capital Territory. 
Recommendation: That, to assist home buyers and to stimulate the housing construction industry, consideration be given to: 
increasing Commissioner for Housing Loans from $15,000 to$18,000; 
introducing some 'shading in' of higher interest rates on Commissioner for Housing loans which have been announced. 
Recommendation: That the Industrial Development Group in the Department of the Capital Territory be provided with adequate staff and its activities widely advertised so that it may be effective in encouraging industrial and business investment in the Capital Territory. 
Recommendation: That a clear policy be announced to provide preference in Government and contract work to well-established local firms in the Capital Territory wherever this is feasible. 
Recommendation: That measures be taken through the Department of the Capital Territory, and if appropriate, also through the Department of Industry and Commerce, to more effectively promote Canberra nationally and internationally as a tourist centre. 
Recommendation: That the capacity of the CES to fulfil its role be examined with a view to ensuring that it can provide guidance and assistance to the unemployed. 
Recommendation: That consultations be held between community groups and the Government to assess the means of assisting unemployed young people in Canberra. In particular, consideration might be given to such innovations as a youth Work Activities Program and Pre-Apprenticeship training. The Minister for the Capital Territory has already given direct grants of leases for a variety of industrial activities and is considering further action along these lines. 
Recommendation: That this sort of approach be further encouraged and publicised significantly, particularly as a stimulus to the private sector. 
Recommendation: That the Ministers for the Capital Territory and Employment and Industrial Relations, through their respective Departments, be asked to examine the overall question of unemployment in the Capital Territory and to produce a strategy to be implemented by the Government in the longer term with respect to future employment opportunities and structure of the work force in the Territory in accordance with the Government's policies. 
There is, however, one option available to us in our efforts to match our national policy of containing public expenditure with the employment needs of a company town such as Canberra which I would like to canvass in detail. I refer to employment in the Public Service. As honourable members would be aware, I had the pleasure of serving the Department of Trade and Industry for almost 6 years. It occurs to me, drawing on the experience I gained in that Department, that there are a considerable number of public servants who would, given a reasonable basis of severance, choose to retire from the Service at an age earlier than that currently available. 
It is well known that this Government is, like many other governments, attacking the scourge of inflation by steadfastly reducing the size of the Public Service. I do not wish to debate the desirability of this action but faced with the reality of the policy, I wish it to be implemented with as little disruption and cost as possible to the people of my electorate. The suggestion of induced early retirement which I put to the Prime Minister earlier this year has now been investigated by the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration. There are at least 2 bases for early retirement. One is enforced retirement and the other is voluntary. The firstenforced retirement- would apply where there is solid evidence of limited efficiency- that is, those who are no longer able to measure up fully to the requirements of the position they occupy, even though it might be quite unjust to describe them as being inefficient. This is a very difficult judgment to make and I would suggest that such officers should be encouraged, by marginally generous conditions for early retirement, to retire. I understand that a fairly minor adjustment to section 85 of the Public Service Act would achieve this end. 
The other more important aspect of my suggestion and the area I would recommend the Government should implement as a matter of urgency is voluntary early retirement. Some benefits would be that officers and employees would have greater flexibility in organising their working lives. The opportunity would be available to exchange portion of expected pension entitlement for an earlier age of retirement. This increased flexibility would therefore recognise that people age at differing rates and thus provide to officers and employees the right to retire at an age when they still retain the mental and physical abilities necessary for an active retirement- 1 see no reason why a person who has served his country well cannot, when he feels he is becoming stale, turn to pastures which would regenerate and stimulate. I press the early introduction of such a scheme because it would be good for those officers who are disillusioned, dissatisfied or have just plainly had enough. It would remove the inhumanity of a system which locks employees into employment when they would rather be out and it would enable the size of the Public Service to be fairly quickly reduced so that the present artificial and abrupt curtailment of a proper flow of recruitment and promotion could come to an end. I would, as my contribution to the Budget debate, endorse the Budget, entreat the Opposition and unions to fulfil their proper roles by rejecting the extremists in their ranks and endorse for immediate implementation recommendation 180 of the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration on early retirement. 

 -Yes, Mr Acting Speaker. I second the motion because this is one of the most important issues to come before this House for many years. 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  put: 
That the honourable member for Chifley be not further beard. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Defence. In view of the AuditorGeneral's report on the extraordinary looseness of the financial administration of the Department of Defence which has resulted in $34m in spares for Mirage aircraft being lost and defence supplies from overseas paid for in advance never being received, will he institute a full inquiry into the financial administration of the Department of Defence, including all the Services. I refer the Minister to the public inquiry of the Public Accounts Committee which was held as recently as last Tuesday. 
-I refer to the matter of juvenile unemployment, particularly in the western suburbs of Sydney. During another debate recently I pointed out that of the 7200 registered unemployed at the Commonwealth Employment Service offices at Blacktown, Mount Druitt and Penrith 45.1 per cent were juveniles. I read in the  Age  of 9 September about a number of back benchers on the Government side who supported the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations,  Mr Street,  and the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  of course, when they opposed the proposition spearheaded by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Went worth)  that something should be done about juvenile unemployment. I am surprised at some of the names I read in the edition of the  Age of  9 September. 
As the honourable member for Adelaide said, it was a leak from their party meeting. Apparently the story of the whole debate was leaked. The remarkable and most humourous thing was that the following week there was a leak about the leak. They objected to it having been leaked in the first place. The fact that they objected to it being leaked was also leaked, which made for quite a Gilbertian situation. Let us look at the names of some of the members involved. There was the honourable member for Evans,  Mr Abel.  Apparently he supported the Government in its attitude of not doing anything about an unemployment relief scheme for our youth, to get our youth back to work, as did the honourable member for Barton,  Mr Bradfield.  Then a  Mr Rudd  of New South Wales is mentioned. There is only one person from New South Wales with a name like that, and that is the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock).  What did he have to say? He said he told the members of a delegation who came to him complaining of not being able to find jobs to contact his office the next day. He said that no one had done so. Would anyone blame them? Honestly, who would want to go back to him? In view of the attitude he expressed in the caucus room, they knew that he did not have a sympathetic ear. 
Then we find a very interesting article in yesterday's Sydney  Sun.  It shows, for example, that in the Leichhardt Commonwealth Employment Service office there are 4082 registered unemployed, and 23.1 per cent of those are juveniles. That office, of course, would cover part of the electorate of the honourable member for Evans. In the Parramatta area we find that juvenile unemployment is shown to be 38.13 per cent. Frankly, as a member who represents an outer western electorate of Sydney, I am ashamed that any honourable member would pretend to be a representative of that western area and adopt the attitude that unemployment is not a serious problem in the western suburbs, and would go into his caucus room and support the Government in its attitude that it should not bring in a system of unemployment relief, particularly for our young people. That is a very essential job which has to be done. I do not think he helped his colleague in the adjoining electorate, the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman).  The electorate of the honourable member for Mitchell coven the area of Windsor, and I notice that the juvenile unemployment rate in that area is 42.56 per cent. In other words, 42.5 per cent of the young people in Windsor are out of work. 
No, I do not think he would have leaked it. I think the honourable member for Mitchell and the honourable member for Parramatta get on reasonably well. Nevertheless, it was leaked and the humourous part of it is that they then objected to the fact that it was leaked. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Given the interdependence of countries in today's world, the importance therefore of the presidential elections in the United States of America and the evident interest amongst Australians in the forthcoming American elections, will the Minister take steps to encourage the Australian Broadcasting Commission and/or the commercial television companies to acquire and transmit in Australia the forthcoming television debates between  President  Ford and  Mr Carter? 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes, I do. What I quoted in the Parliament last night was a report from the  Age  dated 9 September in respect of a matter brought up in the Caucus of the Liberal Party of Australia by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  on the subject of the unemployment of youth in particular and unemployment generally, which said that several back bench members of Parliament, including  Mr Abel  of New South Wales,  Mr Bradfield  of New South Wales and  Mr Rudd  of New South Wales- we can only assume that that was meant to be  Mr Ruddock-  had supported the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street).  I then quoted what he said. 
That is right. 
I rise to a point of order,  Mr Speaker.  The point of order is that, in making his personal explanation, the honourable member for Parramatta reflected upon my credibility in drawing attention to the statements made. He has in effect endeavoured to deny the statements in the Press and to imply that I have deliberately misrepresented him. I am endeavouring to establish the basis upon which I made those statements and I think that I should have the right to do so in protection of my own position. 
-I know that the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  will be disappointed tonight to know that I am not really going to talk about him. He has been sitting in the House for an hour or so wondering and waiting to hear what we were going to say about him. But the facts are, as everybody knows, that what the Melbourne  Age  said about him on 9 September is correct. It is all down the corridors. His own party room knows what has been stated to be true and the members of the Press gallery know that it was straight reporting- straight down the line. So tonight we will not go further into the matter, although we may have to do so later. 
The matter I wish to talk about concerns an invitation that I received from the Schofields  flying club. It stated that on Sunday, 26 September, there would be a massive air pageant to be known as Schofields air spectacular and that the attendance is expected to be between 20 000 people and 30 000 people. Anybody who knows the little Schofields aerodrome- that is HMAS  Nirimba-  would ask, 'How could 20 000 people to 30 000 people fit into that area to start with?'. Naturally, I scratched my head and thought that I had better look into the matter. I had heard rumours before that the Liberal- National Country Party Government wanted to upgrade Schofields aerodrome for use for commercial traffic, to make it another Bankstown aerodrome. So immediately I wrote to the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon).  I said that an invitation had been issued to him- this is what this correspondence said- and that he had accepted. He replied that he had found that he had another invitation, or words to that effect, and that he could not attend this air spectacular. When I wrote to him, I said: 
Would you please advise me whether this means that your Department has plans to extend the use of Schofields Aerodrome for commercial and private light plane traffic and, if so, the extent of the expansion to be approved? 
As I said earlier, he replied that he could not attend. This is what he said: 
Unfortunately, because of prior commitments, I will not be able to be present at the pageant and I have advised the organisers to that effect. 
In response to your request for advice as to whether my Department has any plans to expand the use of Schofields Aerodrome by general aviation, I can inform you that this matter is receiving the joint consideration of my colleague the Minister for Defence - 
Here comes the Minister for Defence again - and myself. Consequently I am not yet in position to provide you with any meaningful advice as to what extent, if any, general aviation activities at Schofields Aerodrome might be increased at that aerodrome. 
In other words, the Government is once again considering using the Schofields Aerodrome for general light aircraft traffic. It is considering making it another Bankstown Aerodrome such as the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  has to put up with. It is near the whole of the Blacktown area, the whole of the Mount Druitt area, the whole of the Riverstone area, the Seven Hills area and Lalor Park. It would even affect the electorate of the honourable member for Parramatta. I think he ought to be on his feet here tonight supporting me in my protest against such a proposal by the Minister for Transport and the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen). 
I believe that we should receive from the 2 Ministers concerned, both of whom sit in this 
House, a fundamental undertaking that in no circumstances will Schofields Aerodrome be upgraded for use by commercial traffic beyond the reasonable and low tone traffic it is used for today. 
I support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford).  In doing so, I will deal with some of the points made in the amendment. However, before doing that, I wish to say that without doubt the .whole thrust and strategy of this Budget is completely wrongly directed. I think that is because the Government does not understand the basic causes of the recession we are going through, and particularly what is going to happen in the long term. For example, the Government does not realise that Australian industry, because of its need to compete with industry overseas, is being completely altered in its character. Unless there is a quite massive increase in consumption of secondary goods manufactured in Australia, it is very likely that there will be a continuing decline in the percentage of people employed in secondary industry, brought about by the fact that in an endeavour to make industry more efficient- something which will happen; it cannot be stopped- there is a greater and greater movement towards automation. In an earlier debate in the House I gave an example of a factory moving out into my area, where there is low cost industrial land. The factory operators flog their land in the inner city, use the profit made out of that sale to build a new factory, put in automated equipment and pay for it in the long term largely because they have to employ fewer people. In other words, where they were employing 300 people formerly, they go out to the western suburbs and employ 75 people on automated equipment. Added to that, a large section of industry today is going off-shore to the Philippines, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Singapore and so on. They have factories in those places and are manufacturing there, and every time an organisation moves in that way it means less jobs for Australians. 
That brings me to why I say that the thrust of the Budget is basically wrong. The Government has cut expenditure in employment-giving areas. In its mad desire to say: 'Let us get out of public investment', it has cut expenditure in the main areas, and I will quote some of them. Sewerage expenditure is down by 56. 1 per cent, migrant education expenditure by 50 per cent, old people's homes by 29.1 per cent, area improvement programs by 96 per cent, shipping by 49.5 per cent, pipelines by 36. 1 per cent, shipbuilding by 37.4 per cent, the stevedoring industry by 33 per cent and Commonwealth offices by 16.4 per cent. Those figures indicate the percentage of reduction in government expenditure in areas all of which are employment-giving areas. 
So we come to what I think is one of the major issues that we have to face up to here in Australia today, and that is the issue of medium and long term planning in the economy. It should not be thought that business is going to object to it. That is what enlightened business and commerce want for the future, because they will know where they are going. No longer will they have to suffer the stops and starts of the past. Such people as Gordon Jackson of CSR Ltd would welcome the opportunity to plan ahead. That is exactly what they want. It is time that the Government started to think about this matter. It is proposed to make it part of Australian Labor Party platform- this is going to be a very important matter for discussion at our future Federal conference- that a department of economic planning or department of industry and economic planning should be established with the object of introducing medium and long term planning in the economy, with special emphasis on indicative planning and context planning. In other words, its purpose will be to foretell what is likely to happen in future in industry and in the economy generally, as well as to endeavour to set guidelines on the direction in which industry and the economy generally should move in the future. 
I think that when such an organisation is established it should recruit not only Public Service personnel into its medium and long term economic planning section but also personnel from outside industry, personnel who have a more practical knowledge and understanding of what is happening in industry and commerce. I think it is not an unreasonable criticism of the Treasury that far too often such organisations are established here in Canberra and far too often they are unable to understand the situation. That is only natural that they are not moving all the time with industry, and it is very difficult for the people involved to get the feel and the knowledge and the understanding of the trends and developments in industry and commerce outside. 
I am not one who is hypercritical of Treasury; I want to make that clear, but I think it would be of great advantage to government if that economic planning organisation were to recruit, as well as public servants, people from outside industry employed on a contract basis. Such people could be given an undertaking that they will not lose any of the benefits which would have accrued to them when they return to their usual employment at the end of the contract. By the same token, I think it would be equally advisable if many public servants were to be contracted out into private industry for specific periods of, say, 3 years and once again be guaranteed that their normal expectations in their ordinary employment would be maintained upon resuming their occupations in the Public Service. I think that is a very important aspect indeed. I believe that the Government and the Treasury should set about giving far greater attention to that matter. I can assure honourable members that the Australian Labor Party will be concentrating on the question of long term and medium term economic planning. Without a doubt the enlightened sections of the business community, industrial and commercial, agree with such a proposition. We find organisation after organisation agreeing that it would be to the long term benefit of private industry. 
I turn now to the very important aspect of the amendment which deals with the Bureau of Statistics. It would play a very important role in context planning, provided that it is removed from the control of Treasury. Far too often the information which it obtains and provides to Treasury does not go to the Government. During our term of government we were not always given the necessary information in regard to trends in the economy. Of course, we must realise that there was once in the Bureau of Statistics a section which one might call a special research bureau which was making forward estimates in regard to the trends in the economy. However, when  Sir Roland  Wilson transferred from that Bureau to become Secretary of the Treasury he took that section of the Bureau of Statistics with him. From that time on its ability to make public the trends it believed were occurring in the economy was completely lost. That is a very important aspect because if, first of all, the Bureau of Statistics is funded sufficiently to ensure that it can maintain such a research bureau, and, secondly, its forward estimates in regard to what is going to occur in the future are given not only to Treasury but also to our proposed department of planning and to the public generally, we will have a far more healthy economy as a whole. 
I strongly support the proposals contained in the amendment. Firstly, I support the proposal for the establishment of a department of economic planning; secondly, I suggest that forward estimates be provided, possibly for up to 3 years ahead; thirdly, I believe that the Bureau of Statistics should be given more finance to establish a separate section which will have the function of researching future trends, with those forecasts being made available to the public generally and not merely to Treasury. That, of course, means removing the Bureau of Statistics from the control of Treasury and the Treasurer. 
-I support the remarks of the honourable member for Perth  (Mr McLean)  about deserted husbands. It is a subject which I have raised in this House on many occasions in the past. 
No, it will not happen to me. The honourable member for Hughes should speak for himself. Quite seriously, I have raised the subject in this chamber on a number of occasions in the past. It is becoming a very serious problem indeed. I agree with the statement by the honourable member for Perth that it has a dreadful psychological impact upon not only the father but also the family. It is a very bad start in life for children. It is a very complex problem to overcome, but without a doubt it has not been tackled effectively by government. I hope that the honourable member for Perth will continue to press his colleagues in the Government very hard to get something done about this very difficult matter. 
I was rather intrigued by the announcement of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  that he is going to change the name of the Repatriation Department to the Department of Veterans Affairs. The honourable member for Hughes and I will be known as veterans in the future. I do not know how that makes him feel. I cannot help but wonder what is the real motivation behind the change in name. Is it some type of camouflage for the commencement of the dismantling of the repatriation legislation of this country which has been built up to assist those who have served their country? One cannot help but wonder what is really behind this move. I ask the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt),  who is at the table, to put forward the proposition to the Government that it release and make public the whole of the Bland report on the Repatriation Department so that we can find out for ourselves just what is behind this sudden change in name. It appears to be just window-dressing, but one cannot help but wonder whether there is something much deeper behind it and one cannot help but wonder whether  Sir Henry  Bland may have had a great deal to do with it. This is a very important issue now. We have already had quite a few reports filtering through from various sources that there is an intention on the part of the Government to increase interest rates on war service home loans. If that is to be done, what else is involved in the 
Bland report? I think it is imperative so far as repatriation benefits are concerned that the Bland report be made public so that we can find out for ourselves whether this change in name is mere camouflage and what is really the intention of the Government as to our repatriation framework. 
I also want to deal with another matter concerning repatriation. I have been approached by British ex-servicemen concerning repatriation benefits. When the Labor Government was in office it introduced a very important reform, that is, it made British ex-servicemen eligible for Service pensions. At that point in time that was to be our first move. We intended to move on from there towards entitling them to free medical treatment. Unfortunately this Government has not proceeded with the original plan. Accordingly British ex-servicemen are naturally a bit uptight about this matter. This is something that they had anticipated would be introduced and now it seems as far away as ever. I ask the Minister for Health once again to put this matter to the appropriate Minister and make sure that this particular reform, which is a very important reform, is introduced. 
I am also concerned about the Medibank muddle, which everybody is deeply worried about. 
I know that the Minister is certainly worried about it. In fact at one stage it was suggested that he did not understand the situation himself. I am sure that that is not the case. He has been studying the situation very hard recently because he has had to make up his own mind which fund he will join. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Jarman)-I  uphold the point of order. It is the duty of the honourable member who has the call to address the chair. 
I was addressing the chair. I must admit that I did find the honourable member for Lang to be someone well worthy of addressing. I would not have turned around towards the honourable member who took the point of order. However, I am concerned about something which came to my notice as late as today with regard to Medibank. I think that the Minister for Health, who is responsible for Medibank and the Medibank muddle, ought to look into this matter. Perhaps I should have said that the Prime Minister is the one who is responsible and that the Minister for Health has to carry out his dictates when it really comes down to the point. It came to my notice today that multinational companies- I will not nominate the particular case because a fight occurred today in regard to it and my pin-pointing of it might get the individual concerned dismissed or something of that nature- are refusing to deduct contributions to Medibank Private from the pay of individuals. 
There have been cases in the past where they have deducted contributions to private funds. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Jarman)That  is not grounds for raising a point of order and the honourable member knows it. 

 - Mr Deputy Chairman, I suggest that you be a bit firmer in the chair in that those were frivolous points of order which were taken deliberately to interrupt the debate. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Is that meant as a reflection upon the chair? 
No, I did not mean it in that way,  Mr Deputy Chairman.  I had better put it in another way. I do think that those points of order were frivolous. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- I think that I am quite capable of protecting myself in the Chair. 
I am sure that you are,  Mr Deputy Chairman.  The point that I am making is that these multinational companies have in the past allowed deductions to be made from the pay of employees for contributions to private funds and that they will continue to make those deductions for the private funds but they have refused to do so for contributors to Medibank Private. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! I think the honourable member for Bendigo is being provocative. 
In other words, prejudice is deliberately being shown against Medibank. I do not think the Minister for Health should be smiling. I think he should be very deeply concerned. He says that he is going to join Medibank. 
I have already joined Medibank. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Jarman)Order!  I will not permit such crossfire across the chamber. I am prepared to allow honourable members to make the normal types of interjections, but if a crossfire occurs between the member speaking and the interjector I shall intervene. I call the honourable member for Chifley. 
I cannot understand it,  Mr Deputy Chairman.  I am a very easy-going bloke but I seem to excite certain people in this chamber. I wish to deal as well with the hospitals development program. I notice that the allocation in this Budget has increased to $108m from the $ 107.2m which was allocated last year, which represents an increase of less than 0.8 per cent. That means that it does not account for inflation, which means that the expenditure on the overall hospitals development program is going to be less in real terms than it was last financial year. We should keep in mind that the program has only just got off the ground. It is a very important program that was introduced by the Labor Government. It is of particular importance as far as the outer western suburbs of Sydney are concerned, where it was estimated in 1969 that there would be a 1200 bed shortage by 1980. The Westmead hospital is now under way, but we do not want to see the situation arise where the Westmead project is further delayed. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I direct a question to the Acting Treasurer. Did his colleague, the Treasurer, a few days after announcing his Government's foreign investment guidelines, give his approval to the use of US$36m by K Mart (Australia) Ltd to purchase properties in Australia? Is it a fact that the increase in value of these properties over the next 26 years will accrue to the overseas lenders who have lent this money to K Mart? Is this an example of the actions of the Government being in sharp contrast to its words, namely, that the Government is prepared to allow the unnecessary sellout of Australian assets to foreigners? 
I rise tonight to congratulate the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman)  for his frankness. It was quite surprising frankness from a Government supporter. At the weekend he represented the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  at a seminar which was sponsored by Civic Constructions Pty Ltd. A Press report of his speech states: 
He said the N.S.W. Government could help the situation by removing the 1  Vi  per cent mortgage tax imposed on all interest rates above 14 percent. 
He said later he was criticising members of his own party because the tax was introduced by the Liberal-Country Party coalition in NSW, which was the only State to have had such a tax. 
I congratulate the honourable member for being so frank about the matter. I am quite sure that our candidate for The Hills electorate,  Mr Gibson,  will be delighted. This seminar was actually held in The Hills electorate where a State by-election is to be conducted on Saturday. The honourable member made this statement in that electorate. Of course, I am quite sure that Councillor Caterson, the Liberal Party candidate for The Hills by-election, will be rather upset about the matter. I cannot really blame him because, after all, he is representing the very party, that is the State Liberal Party, which introduced this tax. He is asking the people of The Hills to give him a vote of confidence and also the discredited party which he represents, the Liberal Party in New South Wales. 
While I am on my feet I shall also touch on a decision of the Federal Government which affects the Hills electorate. The decision is to refer to a Federal-State committee the consideration of 4 sites for the second international airport. These sites are: Kemps Creek, I think it is called, which is near Badgerys Creek or Bringelly, Nelson which is right dead flat, slap on the border of The Hills electorate, Marsden Park which is also very close, and Holsworthy. I am sorry for the honourable member because I do not think the Government is being very fair to him. The situation is that two of the 4 sites are virtually in the Mitchell electorate. I am very concerned because all 4 sites are out in the western suburbs of Sydney. The people of the western suburbs of Sydney are not the people who use the planes. As a matter of fact, I think about 40 per cent of the passengers come from the northern suburbs of Sydney. 
I agree. Councillor Caterson, I think, is secretary of the Australian Federation of Air Pilots, or something of that nature. He might have something to do with this matter himself. He is very closely associated with the aircraft industry. What I object to is that for some reason or other this Government seems intent on putting the second international airport out in the western suburbs of Sydney amongst the working class people. It does not want it anywhere in the northern suburbs. It wants to make sure it does not go in that area and it has referred this matter to a Federal-State committee which it has set up to give consideration to which of those 4 sites should be selected. I point out to the people in The Hills electorate who face an election on Saturday that they should be aware of what the Liberal Party Federal Government is doing in relation to this matter. They should voice their protest very firmly this coming Saturday. I remind the Government not to forget the protest which people voiced in relation to Galston. Now the Government proposes the second airport right, dead flat in the area around Rouse Hill, Maraylya, right on the border of The Hills electorate, as well as at Marsden Park. The rumour is that one of those 2 sites is likely to be selected for the second international airport. People of The Hills electorate should be aware of this and they should voice their protest this coming Saturday. 
-I must say I fully agree with what the honourable member of Balaclava  (Mr Macphee)  had to say about the need to realise- I think this in effect is what he was saying- that structural changes are occurring in the economy which are having a dramatic impact upon employment opportunities in secondary industry and in primary industry, and that there is a need for debate on this matter to continue and for inquiry to find a solution. However, I was a bit disappointed when he once again lapsed into an advocacy of free trade. I find I cannot agree with him on this point because in these days of very high unemployment there must be protection for jobs and protection for industry. I believe that that protection should take the form of tariffs or subsidies or whatever means are available to assist industry. 
The main issue I wish to speak about tonight is juvenile unemployment. I have the latest unemployment figures for my electorate based on information supplied by Commonwealth Employment offices at Blacktown, Mount Druitt and Penrith. My electorate also takes in a little bit of the Parramatta area, and a part of the Penrith area would not come into my electorate. So basically the figures relate to the number of unemployed in the Chifley electorate, which is located in the outer western suburbs of Sydney. The total number of unemployed for the whole area at the present time, from the aggragate  of figures from those 3 offices is 7167 people. Of that number 46.3 per cent represent young males and young females. Last month the figure, which I mentioned in the House last month, was 45. 1 per cent. In other words, the proportion of the total number of unemployed represented by young people increased last month from 45.1 per cent to 46.3 per cent. I think most people would agree that the number of unemployed young peoplealmost half the total number- in an area in the outer western suburbs of Sydney is extraordinary. These young people come from what in basically a working class area. They are referred to as juveniles. I do not agree. I think they are young people. 
I was very pleased to be in a position to assist a new organisation started by the young people themselves, which is called the 'Get-a-Job Youth Employment Service'. This organisation first started in my area and it is spreading to various other areas throughout the State of New South Wales. I believe that it will soon be moving interstate. The young people who started the organisation were themselves unemployed and wanted to help themselves. They went to the Department of Social Security to ascertain whether they could still receive their unemployment benefits if they started this organisation, on the understanding that they would still be eligible to be put into a job by the Commonwealth Employment Service. The Department unfortunately at the time said no, they could not. I made approaches to the Director-General of the Department of Social Security and eventually a meeting was arranged between the young people and  Mr Dowell,  the Director in New South Wales, who I must say treated the whole matter in a most sympathetic and realistic manner. As a result the young people were allowed to retain their unemployment benefits while they ran this organisation. But at the same time they had to undertake that they would be available to take any job offered by the Commonwealth Employment Service. As it happens, young Sandra New who was a driving force in that organisation now has a job. It has been able to get a number of jobs for a number of people. Sharon Rogers is now running the service. 
I have a copy of the third report of the service which was issued 3 months after its inception. I think it is worthwhile noting some of the points made in it. I mentioned that 46.3 per cent of the 7167 people unemployed in my area where there are 3 unemployment offices are young people. This year in the municipality of Blacktown alone from the various high schools in that area- with the exception of the Dunheved High School about which the service did not inquire because it thought the school was only in its third year when in fact it was in its fourth year- there are 2070 young people in either year 10 or year 12 who will be coming on to the labour market at the end of this year. There are 2070 young people plus another 83 students who are not sure about their intentions. Included in those who are staying at school after year 10 or year 12- these are the findings of an excellent survey conducted by the service and even if it did not find jobs for people the service is worth while in itself- is a large percentage of students who intend returning to school simply because of the uncertain situation in the labour market. Third monthly report of the Get-a-Job Youth Employment Service states: 
From our experience in talking with young people many of whom have attempted to remain in school whilst lacking the ability to adequately cope with the system and who have eventually 'dropped out', we can see very real dangers occurring as a result of such decisions to remain at school. 
A student who cannot cope with the system will be unhappy and his self-esteem and self-confidence must naturally suffer; 
That is referring, of course, to the young people who should have left school after fourth year secondary or year 10 but instead decided to remain at school simply because they could not find a job. In other words, they stay at school and at least do something rather than leave school, go on the labour market and be unemployed. The report continues:  the teacher, who will have no choice but to spend extra time with 'problem students' will be unhappy, causing him anxiety and frustration, and those students in the class who do have the ability and capacity to cope, will also be unhappy for they will possibly be required to work at a slower pace than would otherwise have happened. 
The facts are these: If a student has the capacity to go on to tertiary education it is logical that the student should go on to year twelve. If a student in the normal circumstances does not have the capacity for tertiary education, that student goes out and finds work, goes into a trade, attends a technical college and so on. But if we force that student into a situation in which he has to undertake study for which he is not qualified- let me put it that way- and for which he does not have the capacity, tha? student will end up with considerable social problems, lack of confidence and so on. This will affect that student throughout his life. It will have a 'definite impact upon the personality of the student. We also have to consider the situation when that student finally leaves school because employers will naturally employ those of a younger age since the awards provide that a lower wage can be paid. When those young people finally come on to the labour market a year or two years later, they will find it all the harder to obtain employment. The people in this group are doing a wonderful job, for which everyone has to admire them. They are finding jobs for young people and they are doing it in their own way. They have already found many jobs for young people, although there are very few vacancies out in the western areas. They have to battle and interview employers to get jobs for the young people whom they represent. I believe that this type of organisation needs support, and I think that at this point of time the Federal Government should be considering making Federal finances available to assist them. 
-Last night in the finest tradition of John Buchan, who wrote those first-class spy stories which we used to read when we were kids, the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Birney)  spoke to the House about Soviet submarines. In fact, it was a hot spy story of such magnificent proportions that the whole House was hushed and shocked at the allegations which he made. For example, he said: 
This dimly-lit ship hove to some distance away. As the cruise ship drew near its engines were stopped and its lights turned off with the exception of navigation lights. Lifeboats were lowered into a choppy sea and were eventually seen to pull away in the direction of the other vessel until they disappeared into the darkness. 
He went on to state: 
At approximately 3 a.m. the same morning, a crashing and banging noise was heard to come from the side of the ship- to the mental anguish of passengers- and this time a submarine was sighted dose by. 
I have here the monitor of a radio bulletin. It is quite interesting. I shall read it. It states: 
A submarine which reportedly rendezvoused with the Russian cruise ship,  Fedor Shalyapin,  was probably a humpback whale, the Marketing Manager of CTC Lines, Stan Higgs- 
He does not sound like a Russian- said today. He said the humpback whale is an enormous creature often mistaken for submarines.  Mr Higgs  was replying to claims by Federal Liberal back-bencher Jack Birney that last month the ship met another surface vessel late at night in the Tasman sea and with a submarine early the next morning. 

 Mr Higgs said it wasn't unusual for ships to transfer crews at night, and if the Russians were doing anything clandestine it seemed peculiar they would do it with 700 passengers on board. He says it happens on ships all over the world, but because this is a Soviet ship people think there must be something nefarious about it. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! There is no substance in the point of order. 
I am concerned as to whether this story is true. I am not saying that it is true. What I have read is only a monitor of a radio bulletin. But if the story is true it can have a tremendous impact upon the reputation of the honourable member. In fact, he could even be sunk with a story such as that. If the honourable member was given this information it is obvious that he has been misled by someone. That person could even be a Soviet agent. I believe that as the integrity of the honourable member is at stake a full inquiry needs to be undertaken and I would suggest - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)There is no point of order. 
There should be a full inquiry into this matter by the  Speaker  or the Privileges Committee, and perhaps I had better get the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation along to give them a hand. I thought it important to bring up this matter tonight so as to protect the good name of the honourable member for Phillip. I think this matter needs full and proper inquiry. 
I wish to raise tonight an issue reported in the  Australian Financial Review  this morning which shows the duplicity of the Liberal Party and is an admission that, by nefarious means, it has control of a radio station which is supposed to be an independent station. The headline to the article reads: 'Liberal Party wants Control over 3XY programs', and of course 3XY is a radio station in Melbourne. The article states: 
The Liberal Party in Victoria is hoping to exercise complete control over the program content of radio station 3XY in Melbourne when the present agreement with the station's operator, Efftee Broadcasters Pty Ltd, expires in May 1 978. 
The article goes on: 
Station 3XY Pty Ltd is owned by  Sir Magnus  Cormack  (chairman) - 
Of course,  Sir Magnus  Cormack is a former  President  of the Senate and is at present a senator- 

 Mr S. M. L. Guilfoyle (executive director) 
The article states later on that he is the husband of the present Minister for Social Security- and  Mrs Audrey  Reader and  Mr H.  Murray Hamilton. 
Those people whose names I have just read are the licensees. The article continues: 
Efftee Broadcasters Pty Ltd, which operates the station under an agreement with Station 3XY Pty Ltd - 
I have already read the names of the owners of that station- is owned SO per cent by broadcasting station 2SM, 35 per cent by Sims Consolidated, and IS per cent by David Syme and Co. Ltd. 
The basic issue I want to bring out is contained later in the evidence set out. I submit that an agreement between station 3XY- I have already stated who the owners of that station are- and Efftee Broadcasters Pty Ltd- I have already stated who owns that- is contrary to the Broadcasting and Television Act. If one reads carefully the evidence contained in the article, one will see that that is the crunch of the issue.  Mr Guilfoyle,  as I said, is the husband of the present Minister for Social Security,  Senator Guilfoyle.  The article also states: 

 Mr Guilfoyle said the notice was served because Efftee had broken the terms of the agreement by allowing paid ALP advertisements to be broadcast before the last Federal election. 
Before that, the article states: 

 Mr Tadgell  also suggested Station 3XY had, in February this year, served notice on Efftee to terminate the operating agreement as a means of extracting more money. 
The article goes on to state, and I repeat it once again: 

 Mr Guilfoyle said the notice was served because Efftee had broken the terms of the agreement by allowing paid ALP advertisements to be broacast before the last Federal election. 
As I understand it, it is contrary to the Broadcasting and Television Act for any radio station - 
I have been a director of a radio station; so I have some knowledge of the position. It is contrary to the terms of the Act for a radio station to refuse an advertisement from a party along those lines. That is, where it is bringing a deliberate political content into the issue and refusing to receive the advertisement, it is acting contrary to the terms of the Act if the matter deals with politics. In this instance there was a specific agreement entered into which provided that the station should not accept advertisements from the Australian Labor Party. In fact if we take the matter further we find some very interesting bits of information. It is disclosed that by arrangement with the Liberal Party the company operated from some of the space at the Party's Albert Street premises. We also find out that, asked about the philosophy station 3XY would like to project if it had a 51 per cent interest,  Mr Guilfoyle  said: 
They would like to think of ' political education ' - 
In other words, trying to influence the minds of young people in favour of a particular political philosophy-  rather than the hard core politics. 
The station has in mind, apparently, political education rather than hard core politics. He said that there should be continuing emphasis on Australian content and that the station would like to get involved with community projects. All this is admitted by the husband of the present Minister for Social Security.  Mr Guilfoyle  also said that in his opinion the program content is a matter for the Party to decide- the Party being the Liberal Party of Australia. But, as I have said, the whole crunch of this issue is that there was an agreement between Efftee Broadcasters Pty Ltd and 3XY Pty Ltd, with  Sir Magnus  Cormack as  chairman, Mr Guilfoyle,  the husband of the present Minister for Social Security as the executive director and  Mrs Audrey  Reader and  Mr H.  Murray Hamilton as owners. I do not know the politics of the last two people. I have not been able to check that out yet. But they admit through the whole of the evidence that it is basically a Liberal Party station and that there is an agreement which, I submit, is contrary to the Act which states quite unequivocally that it shall not accept advertisements from the ALP. For that reason, according to  Mr Tadgell,  who, of course, is a Queen's Council appearing for Efftee, apparently in February of this year they had served notice on Efftee to terminate the operating agreement as a means of extracting more money. 
I suggest that this is a matter which needs full investigation. It is a very serious issue that a station of this nature is deliberately adopting an attitude when it is supposed to be an independent station. At least the other radio stations in this country are frank about their political colour. But in this instance the radio station has gone straight in and quite deliberately under a  nom de plume,  it may be said, operated on behalf of the Liberal Party. Now the owners want a 51 per cent shareholding because 50 per cent of the shareholding is not sufficient for control. But the basic thing is that the owners entered into an agreement which is contrary to the Broadcasting and Television Act. 
I direct a question to the Prime Minister. Was the release of this month 's consumer price index figures deliberately delayed for 24 hours so that the Treasurer would not have to face questions on them? 
I ask the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development: Is it a fact that the United Nations General Assembly will debate the Habitat Plan for Action next week? Is it also a fact that at the Australian Institute of Urban Studies Conference yesterday the Minister admitted that the Australian Government had no firm policies on human settlement? When will the Government announce its policy towards these vital concerns? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I was drawing attention to the sub judice rule. The matter raised by the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume)  is the subject of an environmental impact study. The House of Commons resolution of 23 July 1963 to which I referred is as follows: 
The general principle is that, subject always to the discretion of the Chair, where a matter is before a court or is awaiting adjudication- 
Note the operative words 'or is awaiting adjudication'- then the matter should not be canvassed by the House. 
I was attempting to submit, sir, that the matter that was raised by the honourable member is awaiting adjudication and therefore should not be canvassed by the House. 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. Does the honourable gentleman agree with the report of the Taxation Review Committee- the Asprey report- that in Australia indirect taxation consists mainly of excise duties and wholesale taxes which, in the words of the report, weigh heavily upon only a restricted range of goods and services? Does he accept that such taxes discriminate against Australian manufacturing industries? Will he agree that in the present circumstances a temporary cut in such taxes would lead to an increase in demand for the output of such industries, which would be particularly valuable when retail sales are declining? Will he also agree that such a demand increase would have no inflationary consequences? 
-Is the amendment seconded? 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr Scholes' amendment)  stand part of the question. 
-I support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  which is in these terms: 
That all words after 'that ' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: the House declines to give the Bill a second reading until it has been redrafted following proper consultation with the State Governments concerning its objectionable features. 
The honourable member for Calare  (Mr MacKenzie)  is quite a likeable young man but at his youthful age I think he ought to stick closer to the truth otherwise it will be impossible for him to do so when he grows older. I suggest that at this stage he should realise that the States are anything but satisfied with this legislation. That is the very reason we are moving the amendment. I shall make a few major points on this whole issue because I believe that the introduction of the so-called Fraser new federalism is a confidence trick on both local governments and the States. It lays down a fixed percentage of revenue from personal income tax to go to both the States and local government. The Government says that it can amend the fixed percentage from time to time by an Act of Parliament, but it will not necessarily amend it. Accordingly, with the introduction of tax indexation personal income tax will be a no-growth tax. 
I ask my friend to wait a minute and he will hear. He should not get so excited. If he would talk less and listen more he would be much wiser than he is. The point I am making is that this is an allocation of a fixed percentage of personal income tax which is a nogrowth tax owing to the introduction of tax indexation. The allocation to the States- I ask the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  to listen carefully, not to walk out, and he will find out some information- and to local government will not rise in line with the inflation rate. Therefore, the real value of these funds allocated to the States will decline year by year. The real value will decline year by year because the amount is based on a fixed percentage of a no-growth tax. That is the crunch. In turn, that will force the States to either dramatically cut their programs, particularly their works program, as the real value of the funds received from the Federal Government grows less and less year by year or introduce a State income tax which, year by year, will steadily increase. In other words, this will force the States to introduce State income tax and place a burden of double taxation on the Australian people. This is the crunch of the whole program under the socalled Fraser new federalism. Local government, owing to the reduction in the real value of funds which it will receive from the federal arena, will be forced to either reduce programs, increase rates or increase borrowings. That is the position. 
The alternative is very easy. We should stay with the system which the Australian Labor Party introduced which means that grants from the Commonwealth year by year are indexed against inflation. The grants under Fraser 's new federalism will not be indexed against inflation. Allocations to the States and to local government should be a fixed percentage of total federal revenue. This would mean that allocations would be indexed against inflation as is revenue from import duties, sales tax and the like. They are growth taxes. Federal revenue is a growth tax. 
The honourable member obviously does not know the Government's legislation. The Government is not allocating funds based on a fixed percentage of all federal revenue. It is allocating funds only as a fixed percentage of personal income tax. They are 2 completely different things. One is a growth tax. All revenue is a growth tax and therefore indexed against inflation whereas personal income tax will no longer be a growth tax. I think it should never be forgotten that it was a Labor government which was the first national government to allocate funds directly to local government despite 23 years of appeals by the Labor Party when in opposition to successive conservative and anti-Labor governments. No action whatsoever was taken until the Whitlam Labor Government was elected. 
Immediately we introduced grants from the Commonwealth Grants Commission, based on need, to local government. Immediately we introduced the area improvement program which was under the administration of the present  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  who is sitting here today. Once again this was based on the needs concept. It did a great deal to improve the quality of life in the quickly expanding areas on the fringes of the great cities, areas such as Blacktown and Mount Druitt in my electorate in the outer Western Suburbs. We also made available funds from the Department of 
Tourism and Recreation. Of course many honourable members know what was done under the community health program.  Before  Labor was elected in 1972 there was no national community health program. These facilities and great reforms such as community health centres, drug referral units, anti-alcoholism units, home nursing care services and psychiatric referral units were introduced under the community health program. They did not exist before the Labor Government was elected. 
By the same token, we did not see the Regional Employment and Development scheme before the Labor Party was elected. With the massive increase in unemployment which is now occurring I believe it will be essential to introduce something of that nature again. One should never forget that it was the Whitlam Labor Government which first introduced the allocation of national funds to local government. This despite the fact that we had asked year by year previous conservative governments, of which this Government is a sister, to allocate such funds. I submit that the funds allocated under this legislation or any funds allocated by the national Parliament to local government should be allocated through the Commonwealth Grants Commission. I make that submission on this basis: For a start, the question of need is paramount. We do no say that all funds should be allocated on the basis of need. We maintain that a proportion can be allocated on a  per capita  basis. 
-The honourable member ought to know. He will find out in a few minutes how the Government is handing out money to areas which do not need any assistance. 
Yes, it is 80 per cent in Western Australia. Our friend, the former State secretary of the Austraiian Democratic Labor Party up until 3 years ago ought to know about the DLP in Western Australia. Anyhow, I submit that these funds should be allocated by the Commonwealth Grants Commission because many of the State grants commissions will be under the administration of conservative, Liberal governments which have been notorious in the pastthis is exemplified by the conservative governments in New South Wales under Askin, Lewis and Willis- because they have not allocated funds on the basis of need but mainly on the basis of political patronage. 
For that reason I believe it is essential that we have one body allocate these funds. It will have an overall look throughout the width and breadth of Australia and it will allocate the funds on a similar basis. Some funds will be allocated on a  per capita  basis but the bulk will be allocated on a needs concept. This will be a regular concept right throughout the width and breadth of Australia. Added to that, I submit very sincerely that to give the States the right to raise their own income taxes- and that is what this legislation does in effect- is to weaken the ability of the national Government to manage the economy effectively. After all, economic management in this country today is weak enough as it is, as exampled by the economic policies of this Government. But it will be made all the weaker and all the more difficult to manage if the States are given the right to raise their own income taxes. Furthermore, it is going to have the very serious impact that people will be forced finally to pay double taxation and thenincome tax bill in the long term must increase. 
I have been dealing with the question of need, which I think is very important indeed, and I wish to quote from an article in yesterday's  Australian Financial Review  by the financial writer, Paddy McGuinness. The title of the article is  The hidden bite of Fraser's Federalism.  Would anybody in this Parliament suggest that the  Australian Financial Review  is a young radical newspaper? I would say that it is a very conservative newspaper, and yet here is a headline:  The hidden bite of Fraser's Federalism.  The article states in part: 
The new legislation, by allowing for 30 per cent or more of grants to be allocated on a population oasis, amounts to offering assistance to those councils which are not in need of it on any criterion of need. 
Thus, of the grants recommended in June 197S, the municipality of Blacktown received the single largest sum - 
That is in my own electorate- $1.25m, while certain inner city and suburban councils, such as Woollahra, Hunter's Hill and Willoughby in Sydney were considered either to be too low-rated by comparison with the standard - 
That is to say, the rates that they charged were too low by comparison with the standard- or too well-provided with services, to be in any need of a grant. 
The article goes on:  the highest average per capita income being in Woollahra, at $6,596 and the lowest in Blacktown, $2,522. 
That is per head of population. 
Naturally the larger size of families in Blacktown (where in 1 97 1 , 48 per cent of the population was under 2 1 years of age) partly accounts for the low per capita income. The average for the whole Sydney metropolitan area was equivalent in June 1 976 terms to $3,682. 
But here is the crunch: 
The wealth areas pay, in terms of the UCVs well below the Sydney average and the poorer areas well above it. 
Woollahra had a rate burden in terms of UCVs of only 75 per cent of the Sydney average, while Blacktown paid 120 percent, Leichhardt 139 per cent, and Windsor 161 percent. 
In other words, the poorer the area in terms of income the greater the rate it pays. Naturally, these were the areas, in terms of the legislation brought in by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition when he was the Minister, which received assistance because they were in need. The article continues: 
Blacktown comes out as having a revenue raising disability of -1253, by contrast with excess revenue raising ability in Woollahra + 1459, Kogarah + 1275 and Sydney City + 1206. 
I think those are very interesting figures taken from the  Australian Financial Review-  hardly a young radical newspaper. It is a very conservative paper, but the article by Paddy McGuinness refers to the hidden bite of Fraser's federalism. 
I think it is very important to consider some of these cases and I will refer to a very good local example of which the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition will be aware. In my electorate, trie Blacktown Municipal Council receives $ 1.87m under this legislation, but it receives that only because the funds, coming as a block grant to the State, were allocated by the Wran Labor Government on a basis of need. Had it been the previous Willis or Lewis or Askin Government, which did not allocate on the basis of need, Woollahra would have been getting the lion's share of the funds and not areas of need such as Blacktown. I think we should look also at what that Council would have got under the Labor Government legislation. Quite apart from funds for health services, quite apart from funds for road building, quite apart from funds which were received under the Regional Employment Development Scheme and others, this financial year it would have received from the area improvement program, from the funds allocated under the Commonwealth Grants Commission legislation and by the former Department of Tourism and Recreation- and all these funds were indexed against inflation- between $2.1m and $2.2m at a minimum, as compared to $1.87m. Even then, it can get that grant of $ 1.87m only because it has a State Labor Government which allocates on the basis of need. In other words, the Labor Government allocated funds as a major concept on a basis of need. This Government does not believe in need. 
This Government believes in privilege. What is more, it believes in maintaining that privilege in the years to come. 
Furthermore, the Government goes much further than that. It is deliberately putting a confidence trick over the States and local government by tying the allocation of funds to personal income tax, which is a no-growth tax because of the introduction of tax indexation. Secondly, the Government refuses to allocate these funds tied to a formula relating to the total Federal revenue, which is a growth tax and indexed against inflation. Therefore, if the funds were allocated in that way, they would be indexed against inflation. The last of the confidence tricks on the States and local government is that this Government has laid down that the Federal Government can treat personal tax increases as surcharges. That is, they will not be taken into account in the formula for disbursement of funds to the States and local government. That is the final confidence trick of the lot. For those reasons, I strongly support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Adelaide, which states:   the House declines to give the Bill a second reading until it has been redrafted following proper consultation with the State governments concerning its objectionable features. 
I strongly support that proposition, because of the confidence trick, which I have already detailed to the Parliament, which is being perpetrated by this Government under the heading  Fraser 's new federalism'. 
It is part of the history of Australia today that  Mr B.  A. Santamaria, particularly during the first half of the 1950s, planted people in the Australian Labor Party to change the course of the policy of that Party from one of reform to one of conservatism and one advocating the  status quo.  These people were put in as plants. It is also beginning to be part of the history of Australia today that certain officials in the Liberal Party are very concerned about the same sort of thing happening in the Liberal Party today. 
Up to 3 years ago the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Martyr)  was State secretary of the Democratic Labor Party in Western Australia,  Mr Santamaria  's party. I have here tonight a document called an information sheet which is returned by branches of the Labor Party to its head office. This one was received at the head office on 26 March 1953. It refers to the Gordon Branch of the Australian Labor Party in Sydney. Who does it show as secretary? The secretary was none other than Michael E. Baume, of 32 Bent Street, Lindfield. 
Far from seeing the light,  Mr Michael  Baume, of Patrick Partners and all that, is noted as a most Machiavellian fellow. He was one of the people planted by  Mr Santamaria  in the Gordon Branch of the Australian Labor Party back in the early 1950s. Finally, of course, in 1956, at the appropriate time- I point out that I know that branch very well; I lived only 4 miles from it and therefore I know its history- that branch split and joined the Democratic Labor Party. Its members then found that their ambitions could not be satisfied, just like the honourable member for Swan, so they infiltrated the Liberal Party. So today here we have Michael E. Baume, who is the honourable member for Macarthur, and the honourable member for Swan. They are in the Liberal Party. Is it any wonder that officials of the Liberal Party are very deeply concerned about the infiltration of the Santamaria movement into the Liberal Party today. That is why I brought this document forward tonight. It is a very interesting document, one which nobody had heard of before. The honourable member for Macarthur has not admitted this before. In his Machiavellian manner he has made sure that he was a plant in the Labor Party. Then he went to the Democratic Labor Party and now he in the Liberal Party. I ask leave to table this document. 
If leave is granted I have made my point. Perhaps I should incorporate it in  Hansard  I ask leave to incorporate it in  Hansard. 
Well I shall have to read it. It states: 
Australian Labor Party-New South Wales branch, Branch officers elected; meetings arranged for 19S0; 
It does not give the exact date but there is a date stamp on it for 26 March 1953. Beneath that the document reads: 
Name of Branch: GORDON; State Electorate: GORDON; Secretary: Michael E. Baume; Federal Electorate: BRADFIELD; Address: 32 Bent St, LINDFIELD, N.S.W.; Municipality or Shire: Ku-Ring-Gai; Phone No.: JM3254; President: C. H. Jackson. 
I ask the Prime Minister: In view of his grazing interests, what will he make out of devaluation? 
I wish to grieve about the activities of the honourable member for Phillip,  Mr Birney.  I refer particularly to an article in yesterday's Sydney  Sun  under the heading 'Fee For Our "Paris Palace". $2.2m to Architect'.  Mr Birney  raised this matter during the adjournment debate on Tuesday night. The House always knows when he is to have a major story in the Sydney Press because he always speaks in the adjournment debate late at night and reads a prepared script from a mini lectern which he brings into the House and places before him just like in a high school debate. In fact, he is typical of an amateurish oncer. Joe Riordan, who lost the seat of Phillip at the last election and who will regain it at the next election, is fully aware of that.  Mr Birney  's wife is a journalist with the Sydney Press and it is well known that she uses her position to obtain publicity for her husband and to have her stories printed. Surely this is a case of collusion for their own private interests. 
I refer to the wife of the honourable member for Phillip. For example, I refer to the story about the Russian submarine which turned out to be a whale. She had heard the story but she did not have any proof. So she got her husband to use the 'coward's castle' of parliamentary privilege so that her story could be printed and her husband could have publicity without a writ for defamation being issued. Without a doubt, if that story had been related outside this Parliament, a writ would have been issued. 
On Tuesday night they used the coward's castle once again to blacken the name of Australia's most distinguished architect. I quote the  Sun  which states: 

 Mr Seidler is Australia's best known contemporary architect and has won dozens of awards for his designs both at home and abroad. 
Without a doubt, he is Australia's most famous, best known and most respected contemporary architect. I will state a few facts concerning this incorrect allegation against  Mr Harry  Seidler. The brief for a building in Paris for our Embassy was prepared by an interdepartmental committee in 1969 on the direction of the Gorton Government- not, as suggested by  Mr Birney,  by the Whitlam Government. Approval to purchase the land was given by the McMahon Government in 1 972. It cost $ 1 8m. Of that $ 1 8m the cost of the land was $7.4m. It was a good buy, by the way, because at the present rate of inflation in France, which is less than it has been for some years, the land would now be worth at least $14m. The architect was commissioned by the Whitlam Government. As I said, he is Australia 's most distinguished architect. The article in the  Sun  states: 
He designed the Australia Square tower and the MLC complex in Martin Place. 
That is correct. He is presently lecturing at Harvard University in America where he is serving a 4-month appointment as visiting Professor of Architecture. It should also be remembered that Paris is among the top five of our diplomatic posts, and, in fact, contains 3 Missions in one. For example, the building will house the Australian Embassy to France, which is a permanent member of the Security Council and a major world power. It will also house the Australian Mission to the Organisation for Economic Co-Operation and Development and the Australian Mission to the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation, a most prestigious branch of the United Nations. As I said, it will be 3 Missions in one. 
I stand corrected by the honourable member for Newcastle. Further, the building replaces rented accommodation for offices and residential accommodation which costs approximately $ 1 m per annum. These costs are rising steadily and, therefore, it is not a bad deal for Australia.  Mr Birney  said that over $2.Sm would go 'straight into Seidler's pocket'. I challenge  Mr Birney  to say this outside the House. If he does so he can be assured that he will cop a writ. In fact, he needs to do his homework better. If he had done so, he would have found out - 
I do not know where he is. I made sure he was to be advised that I intended to raise this matter. If he had done his homework he would have found out that the fee of 1 1 per cent, which  Mr Birney  has libellously declared - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! I point out to the honourable member for Chifley that he should not refer to the honourable member for Phillip by name. 
Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  If the honourable member had done  his  homework better he would have discovered that the fee of 1 1 per cent, which he has libellously declared goes into  Mr Seidler's  pocket is, in fact, for the payment of fees of a host of consultant firms involved in the construction of the building. These firms are mechanical engineers, structural engineers, electrical engineers, insurance assessors, etc. In fact,  Mr Seidler's  own firm received only 3 per cent of the fee of 1 1 per cent. Consultants of French origin received 6 per cent ofthe fees. 
Is it any wonder that people are saying today that not only does the honourable member for Phillip not know the difference between a submarine and a whale but also that he does not even know which government made decisionswhether it was the Gorton Government, the McMahon Government or the Whitlam Government. He thought that his attack on Tuesday night was upon Australia's most distinguished architect and upon the Whitlam Government, but he also attacked the Gorton Government and the McMahon Government. In view of this, is it any wonder that people are now saying: 'It is Joe Riordan to win in 1978'? I want to make a challenge in addition to challenging the honourable member for Phillip to make these allegations against Australia s greatest architect outside this House and to take his chance of copping a writ for defamation. I also call upon the Sydney  Sun  newspaper, the honourable member for Phillip and his wife to ensure that this reply given today to these libellous accusations against one of Australia's greatest people are printed fully in the Sydney  Sun. 
-I am particularly concerned about clause 17 which amends the Principal Act: 
by omitting sub-section ( 1 ) and substituting the following sub-sections: - "( 1 ) Subject to sub-section ( 1A), an inquiry conducted by the Tribunal shall be held in public. "( IA) If every party to an inquiry to be conducted by the Tribunal (other than a person or body of persons that became a party to the inquiry by virtue of section 20) gives notice in writing to the Tribunal, before the commencement of the inquiry, stating that that party does not wish the inquiry to be held in public, the Tribunal may, if it thinks fit, hold the inquiry in private. 
I think this sets a very dangerous precedent because it means that there will be a very distinct tendency- it was not there before- for more and more companies and people who go before the Tribunal to endeavour to ensure that the inquiries into their pricing practices are held in private. This is one of the fundamental issues arising from this Bill. 
That is right. I agree with the honourable member. For example, let us consider devaluation and the rip-offs that will occur as a result of that decision. 
The matter to which the honourable member refers occurred in a different place. Let us consider rip-offs with regard to imported goods, as a result of devaluation. 
The honourable member is apparently not concerned about the fact that members ofthe public can be taken down. He is not concerned in any respect whatsoever to protect the general public. Honourable members opposite are only looking after the interests of those people who put funds into their election coffers. 
I think that most people are aware that fortunes have been made and are being made as a result of the devaluation of the currency. I raised the issue at question time, I think last Thursday, as to how much the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  in view of his grazing interest, would have made out of devaluation, but he declined to answer the question. Accordingly I thought I would do a little research as to the sort of interest he has in the grazing field. I have a document dated November of last year, so what I will read to the House goes back to November of last year. I think it is very important that we look at this document because it is well known that it was the Prime Minister's personal decision on the devaluation of the currency. The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  himself and the Treasury were opposed - 
<para class="block" pgwide="yes">
 Seamen's Compensation Bill 6 December 1976 REPRESENTATIVES 3355 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! 

I direct a question to the Minister for Defence. I refer him to page 33 of his White Paper on defence, on which the following statement appears under the heading 'Reserve Manpower': 
There is, at any one time, a margin of preparedness and operational efficiency between the Regular and Reserve elements.The margin cannot, for obvious reasons, be eliminated in peacetime. However, Parliament may well wish to consider whether the purpose of better training and better sense of participation would justify provisions authorising compulsory call-up of Citizens Reserves for limited periods in international situations proclaimed as requiring augmentation of the forces, but not proclaimed as a state of war or time of defence emergency . . . 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
Did he state in correspondence dated 2 November 1976 that full details of the Area Improvement Program for the year 1975-76 are still in the process of being compiled; if so, what are the causes of this inordinate delay, keeping in mind that I refer to last financial year's program. 
Is he now in a position to give me the precise details of this program insofar as the Electoral Division of Chifley is concerned. 
-Mr Acting  Deputy Speaker  - 
At least I do not have to read every word of it. I rise to support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden). 

 Honourable members interjecting. 

I direct my question to the Treasurer. Does the revaluation of yesterday suggest that under the new currency arrangements very frequent changes will occur in Australia's exchange rate? Will this unsettle business confidence and create surges of speculative hot money flowing in and out of our reserves? Would it not be better to manage the destabilising capital flows through regulations such as the variable deposit ratio scheme and other banking controls rather than by such confusing exchange rate changes? 
-The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  will not admit that the Government's policies have failed completely and utterly. The Government came to office on an undertaking that it would reduce unemployment. Unemployment has since increased, and in some areas very dramatically. I will give a very good example. In the Australian Capital Territory the rate of unemployment has gone up from 1 per cent to 5 per cent. Today more than 5000 people are unemployed in the Australian Capital Territory. I can give another example, namely, in the western suburbs of Sydney, in my own area. In the areas administered by the Commonwealth Employment Service offices at Blacktown and Mount Druitt the total number of unemployed as at the end of January was 7107, of whom 52.24 per cent were young people under the age of 21 years. This is the important thing: I checked this morning on the increase in the area administered by these 2 offices since this Government came to power. The total has gone up by 32 per cent since then. For people under the age of 2 1 years the total has gone up by 44.4 per cent. That is the result of the policies of this Government. 
What the honourable member says is quite correct. There are 2 groups of persons who are not registered. For a start, married women have given up the ghost. They know that it is impossible to get employment and they no longer bother registering. Furthermore, because of the attitude this Government took to unemployment benefits for school leavers, there is still a big swag of school leavers to be registered at the end of this month. In other words, there are large elements which are not yet employed. Is it any wonder that this situation has arisen when we consider the policies which have been carried out by this Government- devaluation, the skimming off of spending power by the new Medibank arrangements and expenditure cuts in employment-giving areas? As I have said, a very good example is right here in Canberra. If the Government cuts expenditure in employing giving areas it must create unemployment. 
I mention the attitude the Government has adopted to the Commonwealth Employment Service. It has deliberately imposed staff ceilings, with the result that today fewer people are employed in the Commonwealth Employment Service, particularly in New South Wales, than when the crisis began. This is a ridiculous situation. It must mean that the Commonwealth Employment Service cannot fulfil its duties in finding employment opportunities for our people, particularly our youth. While on that subject, I refer to a case that has received a bit of publicity. The general manager of the Fidax Engineering company, at Silverwater is reported as saying: 
I just don't believe there's unemployment. I won't buy that. 
He is also reported as saying: 
The factory has been advertising in vain since Christmas for 8 unskilled and semi-skilled workers. 
Speaking of the Commonwealth Employment Service, he said: 
The Granville one told me I'd be lucky to get anybody. 
I checked this out. I made a number of checks. I found that, first of all, the company has not a good reputation as an employer. It insists that people provide their own transport because the factory is situated in a place that is very difficult to get to by public transport. The company insists that its employees start at 6 o'clock in the morning. I also found out that it had gone to the Commonwealth Employment Service, which had filled 15 out of the 17 vacancies it had last year. This is completely contrary to what has been reported in the newspapers. The Commonwealth 
Employment Service did not hear from the company this year until 8 February, and it has filled 4 vacancies since then. From what I can gather, the real problem of this company is that it cannot keep people. Employees leave or their services are terminated. Obviously there is a very big turnover of labour. As the company apparently is employing people who are normally prisoners, undoubtedly it is taking the opportunity to exploit the penal system. I think this needs to be inquired into very carefully. 
Of course. It is exploiting cheap labour. I raise the question of the investment allowance. This Government has put $600m a year into an investment allowance. This will make industry more capital intensive and therefore throw more and more people out of work. I think these funds would be far better used for an unemployment relief scheme. We should look very carefully at this issue. We are throwing away millions of dollars a year on unemployment benefits. In the normal course, if there was an unemployment relief scheme, we could look forward to those funds going into projects which would be of lasting value to the community. That is not happening today. The honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  was not permitted to make this point, but I recall his mentioning on the day he preserved the Hayden Budget- a very fine Budget- that the Whitlam Government would be making more money available for the Regional Employment Development scheme. I understand that the honourable member for Oxley has written to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations pointing out this very fact to him. So, the Minister was being less than frank with the House when he made the remarks he made earlier this afternoon. 
What is required is an unemployment relief scheme. Quite apart from the humanitarian aspects- man's right to work and the dignity of man- the facts are that we are throwing money down the drain and getting nothing in return. It would be far better if we were employing people on community projects which would be of long term value to us as a whole. Secondly, I believe there must be a complete revision of the apprenticeship scheme, not just the patch-work that is done every now and again by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. The Minister recently announced that 1000 more apprenticeships would be available for the whole of Australia. This is only peanuts. 
As the honourable member for Sydney says, there will be no jobs for them when they finish their training. We ought to have an apprenticeship scheme for those young people who are out of work today. As they get older they will find it increasingly hard to find work. For example, in 12 months time if they are still out of work employers will not take them on because they would have to pay a higher award rate. So employers are taking on people who are completely unskilled. It would be far better if these young people spent 2 years at a technical college and at the end of that time were indentured, preferably with a government department, because government departments turn out the best apprentices in the country. Every trade union official knows that. These are the important issues at which we should be looking. 
I believe also that it is imperative that the Government lift the staff ceiling imposed on the Commonwealth Employment Service. I know that recently the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  ordered an increase of 101 staff for the CES for the whole of Australia. Once again that is only touching the problem, it is not overcoming the problem. The new Department of Finance stopped the CES from recruiting. That decision has been reversed and the CES can now recruit an extra 101 people. But probably 20 to 25 extra staff could be used in my area alone, and my electorate is only one of 127 federal electorates. We should take note of what was said in the recent report of the Australian Industry Development Corporation. It said that there is no prospect in this financial year of a reduction in unemployment. In other words, unemployment will become worse. This Government is soil not taking any positive action to reverse the ridiculous economic policies which it introduced and which it has followed throughout its period of office, nor is it taking action in setting up new employment-giving schemes to employ our people. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I ask the Prime Minister How many people fit into his category of 'dole bludgers*? What action has the Government taken to ensure that those who have a right to unemployment benefit are paid it and those who have no such entitlement do not receive it? Also, when will the Government decide to introduce identity cards for persons seeking unemployment benefits? What will be the cost of the system and will the Government be studying important historical examples of identity card systems, such as the system which existed under the Third Reich, in order to ensure that this new system is run with maximum efficiency? 
Does the Treasurer accept that the living standards of Australians as measured by the consumer price index have risen by 6 per cent in the December quarter? Does he also agree that as there was virtually no increase in wages in that quarter Australians have suffered a 6 per cent drop in their living standards? 

 -Mr Speaker, in the brief time available tonight I wish to make an appeal to you on behalf of the general public who visit this Parliament. There have been 2 recent events of some moment. One was when you agreed that I may enter this Parliament in a safari jacket without a tie. The other event was last night when you, together with a number of other members of the Government Parties, attended a reception for  Her  Majesty the Queen dressed in a kilt, the Scottish national dress, although it was noticeable that I could not find one amongst you who spoke Gaelic. In fact I think you were all Australian born. Nevertheless what you wore was quite right in the interests of your forebears. I understand that  Senator Mcintosh  did speak Gaelic to one member of the Government Parties, who did not know what he was talking about. 
Despite that, I think it is time to look at the dress of people who come into the public gallery. For some time now people have had to wear ties and jackets when they come into the public gallery. I understand that they can now come in dressed in a safari suit, which is neat and tidy, without a tie. I assume from the precedent set last night that they can come into the House and into the Speaker's gallery dressed in a kilt. In fact one's imagination could almost boggle at what the future could hold for people who sit in the public gallery. But the most important thing is that people such as myself, dressed in a safari jacket and without a tie, I assume, would be admitted. People in kilts, I assume, would be admitted. People in national dress, I assume, would be admitted. But people in an expensive sports jacket- a jacket much more expensive than the Scottish national dress you wore last night,  Mr Speaker,  and the safari jacket I worewill not be admitted if they do not have a tie. 
So I ask you,  Mr Speaker,  whether we can use a little common sense in our approach towards the general public who come here to see this national parliament in session. I believe that, provided they are nicely, neatly and appropriately dressed, they should be allowedinto the Speaker's Gallery.  Mr Speaker,  I know that already you have shown very great tolerance in this regard, and I ask you to consider the plea which I raise tonight on behalf of the general public who come to see our national parliament in session. 
-I will rule on the point of order, if you do not mind. I ask the honourable member to restrict his remarks to the area in which he maintains he has been misrepresented. The honourable member shall not introduce new material and shall not debate the matter but shall stick strictly to where he has been misrepresented. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering these 3 measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
I do not doubt the sincerity of the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  but I doubt very much his wisdom. In his remarks about the People's Republic of China I do not know whether he is attacking purely this side of the Parliament or whether he is attacking both this side of the Parliament and his own side. Without a doubt, if one were to accept the remarks which he made, one would realise very obviously that they were directed as well to members of his side of the Parliament who have visited China. This is a pity- a tragedy, in fact- for future relations between Australia and China. Everyone must remember that there are 800 million people in China and that China forms a very great part of Asia. It is of very great importance for Australia to understand China and for China to understand Australia. For that reason I think it may be a great pity indeed that the honourable member for Mackellar has not had an opportunity to visit China. For example, I can recall speaking to Embassy officials in Peking after a visit to China by a delegation from this Parliament during the term of the Labor Government. The late  Senator Greenwood,  an Attorney-General in the previous Liberal-Country Party Government, led the then Opposition members in the delegation. The officials said that he gained a good deal from the visit; that he went to China with a lack of understanding as to what was really happening there and he came away with a far greater understanding, particularly of the need for the 2 countries to work together to understand one another. They felt that he benefited very greatly indeed, and I understood from the people who spoke to him privately that this was the case. Nobody would suggest that the former Attorney-General, the late  Senator Greenwood,  was a young radical of the Liberal Party- far from it. He was looked on as being one of the right wing members of the Liberal Party- and I say that without any disrespect because he had a right to express his own views at all times. Yet he went to China and he came back with a greater understanding of China than he had previously. I think it is a pity that the honourable member for Mackellar continues on with what I can only feel, with due respect to him, is fanaticism when he refuses to acknowledge anything which may be good as well as those matters with which he could validly disagree. I think all of us are in this category because sometimes we agree with some things and disagree with other things. I think it is a bad thing when one's mind is closed. Unfortunately I feel that the honourable member's mind is closed on this issue. I am not saying this facetiously or in order to score a point. I recall one night during an adjournment debate in this place bringing forward some  Hansard  quotes in which the honourable member had suggested military action against China.  His  reply was not apologetic in any respect whatsoever; that is what he believed should have been done. I think that very foolish talk. If he had taken what he suggested to its logical conclusion he would have realised the holocaust that would have been brought upon the world. As I have said, China represents 800 million people in Asia. It is, I believe, very important that we should get to know and understand China. China is one of the oldest civilisations in the world. It is a civilisation which over thousands of years has had the ability to bring to the world great wisdom, a great civilisation in itself, a great capacity in the arts and so on. I believe that it is a civilisation which can still give a good deal to the world. 
I think that one of the great pluses of the Whitlam era during the period leading up to the election of the Labor Government in 1972 and during the period of its term of office from 1972 to 1 975 was that we were able to get rid of the isolation of China. I can recall very well the visit of Lord Attlee to Australia in 1 954. 1 can recall him addressing a group of people at a reception in the Sydney Town Hall. He said he had just come from China and he made the point then that he was very deeply concerned about the ignorance at that point of time of the leadership of China about what was happening in the world outside. He felt that the ignorance was dangerous and that it was very very important to involve China in the councils of the world. Fortunately, that is what the Labor Party realised in that year of 1954 when it first adopted as its policy at the Hobart Conference that not only should China be given diplomatic recognition but also that she should be admitted to the United Nations, to the councils of the world. That policy was adopted by the ALP. That policy received a great fillip from the visit to China in 1972 by the then Leader of the Opposition  Mr Whitlam.  Of course upon the election of a Labor Government in 1972 there was recognition of China by Australia, and not that long after the admission of China to the United Nations, to the councils of the world. I believe this was a step towards achieving greater international understanding not only between Australia and China but also between China and the rest of the world. I think it was a step towards world peace. I regret very greatly that there are people who have completely closed their minds to the need to get this understanding between China and Australia in particular and between China and the rest of the world. I have in my hand a copy of an article which appeared in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of 1 1 October reporting the result of an opinion poll. It says: 
Most Australians fear the country will be threatened by military attack within 15 years . . . 
It says that China was seen as the most likely invader. I do not believe that. If there is to be an invasion I am not going to suggest which country I think will be responsible for that because I think to do so would do a great disservice to the interests of Australia as a whole. But I believe that we on this side of the House very greatly regret that there are people who still inflame relations between this country and other countries simply because they are sitting on the fanaticisms of the past, the fanaticisms of the McCarthy era, that dreadful era of the 1 950s. 
Looking back on history, one of the issues of which I am most proud as a member of the Opposition and of the ALP is that we were able to forge new links with Asia and the rest of the world. We were able to update our foreign policy to make it a policy of this era, of this decade, instead of still following the policies of the 1950s. That was a decade which saw great damage done not only to Australia's relations with other nations but also to relations between various other nations throughout the world. The Labor Government was able to update attitudes and policy and forge new links with the third world, that group of developing nations which will have such a tremendous impact upon the future of the world for so many years to come. If Australia is able to make sure that she is looked on, not as white policeman in Asia but as a country which is prepared to work with other nations, irrespective of their colour, their creed and their culture, it will have gained a great deal indeed. 
One of the positive aspects of this debate is the fact that the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  was not as reactionary in his statement as the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  who is still endeavouring deliberately to foment the Indian Ocean issue and who has already been virtually repudiated by the Carter Administration in the United States. The Carter Administration is today adopting a directly opposite policy to the policy espoused by the Prime Minister of Australia, who is not even being consulted when major announcements affecting this country, the Indian Ocean and United States relations with Asia are made. Australia is not being consulted. The Prime Minister is not being consulted because the policies he has been espousing are out of date with the United States. I think this is one of the great pluses which have been achieved. The former Labor Government, by espousing the new era in foreign affairs leading up to 1 972 and by its actual implementation of these new policies which brought so many other countries into association with Australia, has forged new links with Asia, with the third world as a whole and with the Association of South East Asian Nations. They have had an impact even upon the present Government or, particularly, upon the Minister for Foreign Affairs. 
The statements he made yesterday were by no means as out of line with Labor Party policy as they would have been had they been made when the Government was in Opposition. In other words, the Minister has matured in the short period since his Government came to power and his policies are very much different to those which have been espoused by his Leader, the Prime Minister of Australia, who, in many respects, is still living in the past. But at least the Prime Minister has now visited other countries. He has been to China and his attitudes are in direct contravention of the attitudes expressed by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth).  I think that is very good for the future of the world. Those are the major issues which I thought I should bring up in the House today. I hope that this tendency towards greater understanding between nations will continue. 
-Her Majesty the Queen must have been most embarrassed to be handed by the Government in the person of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  the skimpy document which contained her address to the Parliament- an address which took only 6 minutes to deliver. Never before in my experience and, I feel sure, even in the experience of the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  who has been in this Parliament for many years, has either the monarch or even a Governor-General been treated in such a manner as to be handed a document so skimpy that it took only 6 minutes to read. The Government was so bereft of new ideas, new proposals and new legislation that I am sure that  Her  Majesty, having travelled all the way to this country, must have been very embarrassed. That skimpy document was all that the Prime Minister could hand  Her  Majesty to read to the Parliament. 
Let us look at some of the matters raised in that very skimpy document. The Speech states: 
My Government is not only taking action to restore the economy, it is also making social reforms which are of fundamental importance to the freedom and well-being of the Australian people. 
Yet Blind Freddie knows that this country is sinking deeper and deeper into recession, and deeper and deeper into unemployment. So the document which was handed to Her Majesty does not even tell the truth. 
The honourable member for Adelaide adds inequality. The Speech goes on to say: 
My Government is committed to assisting people overcome poverty and disadvantage, and is giving priority to assisting those most in need in a manner increasing their choice, dignity and self-respect. 
That statement is made at a time of rising unemployment and the creation of greater poverty than we have known since the 1930s. 
The honourable member for Canberra interjects. Unemployment in the electorate of the honourable member for Canberra has increased during the term of this Government from 1 per cent to 5 per cent. 
Yes, he is a oncer, if ever there was one; he will not have the chance of being a twicer. Unemployment in the Canberra electorate has increased from approximately 1000 to 5000 and the honourable member has the temerity to say: 'What rot'. 
-It is not nonsense when I speak of oncers. The Queen's Speech goes on to say: 
In the area of industrial relations, one of vital importance to the economic and social well-being of the Australian community, my Government will bring down legislation to protect the rights of individuals and the community, and establish an Industrial Relations Bureau. 
That is a deliberate attempt to bring on a confrontation with the trade union movement purely for the purpose of political advantage. So I could go on referring to this skimpy document in respect of which Her Majesty must have been very embarrassed indeed. The present Government is the most dishonourable government in the political history of this country. I say that because no government in the history of this country has broken so many promises. In fact, finding those promises which it has actually fulfilled is like looking for a needle in a haystack. Let us have a look at a few of the promises. The Government promised to reduce inflation. There has just been a 6 per cent increase in the consumer price index. 
Yes, for the December quarter. Inflation is on the increase. The  Government  promised to preserve Medibank; it undertook to leave Medibank alone. Look at Medibank today. It has been utterly and completely emasculated. The Government promised to support wage indexation. It has been going before the Commission and opposing it ever since, trying to undermine it and reduce real wages. The Government is frank about it. In its submissions to the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission the Government states that real wages must be decreased. It promised to retain the scheme of tax deductions for home buyers. Remember the scheme introduced by Labor by which people could claim as a tax deduction the interest they paid on their home mortgages? The Government removed that benefit from 80 per cent of those who enjoyed it. It promised to maintain Federal funds for Aborigines, and it has cut them. It promised last June that it would not oppose the flow on of Medibank charges to the national wage. 
Once again, an untruth, once again a broken promise, once again the Government is opposing it. The Government promised to abolish the means test. Of course it has not done that. Nothing has been done about a special child care rebate for the single parent family or the family where one parent is an invalid yet it was promised in the policy speech. 
Nothing whatsoever. The Government promised to establish a rural bank. 
Nothing has been done in that regard although I must say that that was one of the promises with less merit than any other that it gave. That would have been a very expensive exercise for the Australian economy. The facilities and the expertise are already there in the Commonwealth Development Bank. All the Government would have to do is increase the capital and enlarge the facilities available to the Commonwealth Development Bank. It is all there. But why put in another bit of the pyramid to increase costs to the community, the economy and the Government as a whole? The Government promised that it would maintain and develop the shipbuilding industry. Look at Newcastle. The Government promised that it would maintain the Australian Assistance Plan. It has been scrubbed. The Government will finance the plan only up to June this year. It will not give the 
States any more funds to finance it. The Government says that it is up to the States to run it. This is a complete abrogation of its undertakings. 
The Government said that it would maintain the urban development schemes established by the Labor Government. What has happened to those? They have been wiped as well. We have heard nothing of the proposed legislation on sex or race discrimination, or legislation on pollution control and effective means of appeal to protect applicants for unemployment benefits from official abuses. The Government promised to introduce uniform company laws. We have heard nothing on that. It promised to restore public confidence in the securities industry. What has happened to it? We have had the scandals in relation to Parkes Developments Pty Ltd and the other firms associated with the term of this Government. The final promise was to reduce unemployment. Let us have a look at just what are the figures. What has happened to unemployment? At the end of February the number of unemployed persons was up to 346 000. This is 5.7 per cent of the work force. The figure was only 4.9 per cent of the work force a year ago. 
The figure is steadily increasing. I have not the actual figure of unemployment for the whole of Australia for December 1974 but I have the figures for my own area and I shall cite them. I thank the honourable member for asking me. This is just the question I wanted to answer. To be precise, the number of people registered as unemployed at the Commonwealth Employment Offices at Mount Druitt and Blacktown as at the end of February was 6977, of which 3471 -almost 50 per cent- were under the age of 21 years. In Mount Druitt the number of unemployed represented 1 1.3 per cent of the work force. That is nearly twice the national average. In Blacktown the figure represented 7 1/2 per cent of the work force. It had dropped by only 130 out of approximately 7000 in the very month when there should have been- by all the historical background of unemployment figures- a dramatic drop in the figures. To answer the honourable member's question, unemployment in those 2 unemployment offices has risen by 30 per cent since this Government took power and nearly 1 7 per cent since February last year. 
Obviously the answer to the honourable member's interjection is: Get rid of this Government. This is the most dishonourable Government that Australia has ever seen, a Government which has completely abrogated every electoral undertaking that it has given. No government in the history of Australia has anything like the disreputable and dishonest record that this Government has. I thank the honourable member for asking me for those figures on the increased unemployment since this Government took office. If he has any other questions like that, let him just come along. Let us have a look at a few of the other aspects. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  raised an interesting angle the other day on the question of unemployment. He stated: 
In June 1974, which was the midst of the term of the last Australian Labor Party Government, civilian employment in Australia reached its highest level ever. It reached a level of 4 795 500, seasonally adjusted. The last figure that is available for civilian employment was published the other day by the Australian Bureau of Statistics. It showed that the level at December 1976-214 years after June 1974-was 4 722 700. In December 1976 there were 70 000 fewer people in total employment than had been the case in June 1974. 
That was at a time when the available work force was increasing, when consistently there should have been a steady increase in the level of employment, the level of the total number of people employed in Australia. So much for another broken promise to increase employment. So much for another broken promise to help to assist the private sector which is mainly responsible for this unemployment, together with the fact that this Government is deliberately creating unemployment for the sole purpose, it says, of controlling inflation. Of course its policies are not working. It is deliberately increasing unemployment by cutting back expenditure in employment giving areas of the public sector- a deliberate policy. 
Yes, it is unfortunate but it is a deliberate policy. I come to another untruth of this Government. Day after day during question time we hear the right honourable the Prime Minister- he is now right honourable; he is to the right anyhow- and the right honourable the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  saying at regular intervals: 'There is no credit squeeze in Australia'. They maintain that they are not implementing a credit squeeze. 
Well, it is certainly not being truthful. Let us look at what the Government has done. It has increased the statutory reserve deposits- that is the call ups by the Reserve Bank- from private banks from 5 per cent to 10 per cent since 23 June last year. The 
Reserve Bank now holds $ 1,650m of private bank funds and Commonwealth Trading Bank funds. This is the Government's monetary policy- monetary restrictions. It has increased the LGS ratio- that is liquid government securitiesfrom 1 8 per cent to 23 per cent. 
It is not wrong; it is correct. Look up your facts. Look up the announcements by your own Government. No wonder you are in oncer's corner. You will not get a chance to be a twicer either. The Government has now reintroduced the variable deposit requirement so that 25 per cent of overseas borrowings for longer than 2 years are frozen with the Reserve Bank without interest. Borrowings for under 2 years are prohibited altogether. The Government has increased the interest rate on Australian savings bonds to 10 per cent. But here is the daddy of them all: The Government has issued an instruction through the Reserve Bank to banks to cut lending by 50 per cent. Furthermore, it has told finance companies that they shall also cut lending voluntarily. If they do not, the Government will bring them within the umbrella of a financial corporation by issuing regulations which it has the power to issue under the Financial Corporations Act. This Government has implemented all these monetary restrictions and as a result we are now facing the harshest credit squeeze we have seen in the history of this country. 
I ask honourable members to cast their minds back some 20 years. Not even Billy McMahon in his hey-day - 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Was it in his office last Wednesday night or in the parliamentary courtyard on Thursday that he told the honourable member for Franklin that the honourable member was behaving like a grub and should go back to Tasmania and bury himself in an apple? Was the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development present? Is the Prime Minister aware of the Minister's pet name and how this outburst might have hurt the Minister's feelings? 
-This morning in answer to a question asked by the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  was, to say the least, particularly in answer to interjections from myself, very evasive. I am referring, of course, to the decision of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board to recommend to the Minister that a licence should be granted for a high powered radio station to operate in the northwestern suburbs of Sydney. The Minister referred me to his,Press statement on this matter. He said that if I had read that statement I would have an answer. I have read his Press statement but it did not give any answer. The Minister announced in his Press statement that the licence would not be issued. It stated: 
The Minister said that he had taken into consideration a recommendation made by the previous Australian Broadcasting Control Board that a licence should be granted to Prospect Broadcasters Pty Ltd but that he had decided not to grant a licence for the area. 

 Mr Robinson went on to say that he would be reviewing the position in relation to the area at a later stage. The northwestern suburban area and adjacent areas were experiencing considerable changes and he had instructed his Department to develop a planning proposal involving this and other relevant areas. 
Change and growth have taken place but there has been no dramatic change since the Board made its decision. 
I recount what happened. It is now 40 years since a commercial licence for a high powered station has been granted in the Sydney Metropolian area. In that time the population has grown from 750 000 to 3.5 million. The Australian Broadcasting Control Board asked the then Minister for the Media to invite applications for a high powered commercial radio stations in the north-western suburban area of Sydney, Wollongong and Mornington Peninsula. The then Minister called applications on 14 January 1975. There were 5 applicants. The inquiry, which cost a colossal amount of tax payers money, continued from 21 May 1975 till August 1975. Of course, the basis behind this was that the Labor Government's wish to try to break the existing monopoly of commercial stations in Sydney. Of course, that monopoly objected. To give an example of the objection I quote from the Twenty-Eighth Annual Report of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board. It states: 
The Board, pursuant to the provisions of section 22 of the Act, gave approval to  Mr G.  Bates, solicitor, to appear at the inquiry on behalf of the licensees of the existing six Sydney commercial broadcasting stations, as a person interested in the proceedings. 
In other words, after 40 years the Government objected to another high-powered radio station being established in Sydney. This high powered radio station would broadcast to the western suburbs of Sydney where today a great proportion of the population of Sydney lives. 
Yes. The only licence issued has been to station 2 JJ which Government supporters have attacked at every possible opportunity because it takes an independent attitude. The Minister was certainly aware that this matter was to go to the High Court. Proceedings were due to begin on 15 March this year. But before the matter could go to the High Court to be considered the Minister abrogated the authority of the High Court by deciding that the licence would not be issued. In other words, he deliberately set out to frustrate the court and to frustrate the inquiry by the former Australian Broadcasting Control Board. I ask: Who was the man principally involved in the organisation appealing to the High Court? It was a person by the name of Cottee who is said to have influence within the Liberal Party. All I can say is that the Minister is deliberately ignoring the needs of the western suburbs of Sydney. Like the Commonwealth centre which was to be established in Paramatta, this matter has been deferred. It has been deferred against the interests of the people of the western suburbs. 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
The House notes with concern that  Mr James  McCrudden, a Sydney solicitor who was a Liberal candidate at the last election for the New South Wales Legislative Assembly electorate of Mount Druitt, apparently arranged for an American gangster known as Vincent Teresa to be met at the Sydney International Airport and to be accompanied to and through customs by Commonwealth Police without information concerning his arrival being provided to any other department or agency, State or Federal. 
-In the House last night I referred to a decision by the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  who arbitrarily and dictaatorially announced without any basic reason being given that he had rejected a decision by the Australian 
Broadcasting Control Board to grant a high powered radio licence for the north-western metropolitan area of Sydney to Prospect Broadcasters Pty Ltd. I pointed out that an appeal had been made to the High Court of Australia by MetroWest Broadcasters Limited, a principal of which is a  Mr Harold  Cottee of Cottee fame. I also pointed out that the decision of the Minister was made on 10 March 1977 and that a hearing was to be commenced by the High Court of Australia on 15 March 1977. The Minister is in the chamber tonight; I warned him that I would be bringing up this matter in the adjournment debate tonight. The hearing of the High Court was due to commence on 15 March 1977 but the Minister deliberately made this decision to abrogate and to short circuit the High Court of Australia for fear that there may have been a decision in favour of Prospect Broadcasters Pty Ltd. 
Since I brought this matter up last night further very interesting information has come to my notice. It concerns  Mr Harold  Cottee. Last night I knew only that he may be connected in some way with the Liberal Party of Australia. Who is this man who, it is alleged, has brought pressure to bear on the Minister to make this decision? He is a Federal councillor of the Liberal Party of Australia. He sits on the Mitchell Federal electorate conference of the Liberal Party of Australia, the area to which the licence refers. He is also a member- this is the allegation- of the Castle Hill Branch of the Liberal Party of Australia, to which area the licence refers. Furthermore- and this would be of great interest to the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  and the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman)-  he sat on the Hills preselection committee of the Liberal Party of Australia and was its  chairman  after the death of the late Max Ruddock. 
In other words, he is one of the powers to be and of the powers associated with the Liberal Party of Australia and is a member of its Federal Council, or Federal Executive, the policy making body of the organisation, to which the Minister bows. He is also a very great influence in the north-western suburbs of Sydney, the area to which this licence refers. One must ask oneself: What are the pressures being brought to bear on the Minister? One must ask oneself why the Minister is ignoring the interests of the north-western suburbs of Sydney and why he is deliberately abrogating and trying to circumvent the decision of the High Court of Australia. Why is he deliberately making sure that this licence is given to people who are connected with the Liberal Party of Australia? That is the Minister's intent. The evidence is coming out and the more this issue goes on, he will no longer be able to ignore this question as he did last night.He will have to face up to the House and give his reasons for the rejection of this decision of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board. 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the House takes note that: 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunicatons on 10 March 1977 announced that he had rejected the recommendation of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board that a high powered radio licence should be granted for the north-western area of Sydney to Prospect Broadcasters Pty Ltd, the first commercial broadcasting licence to be granted in the Sydney metropolitan area in 40 years; 
This decision was made at a time when legal proceedings concerning the issuing of a licence were before the High Court of Australia and due for hearing in a period commencing on 15 March 1977; 
The appeal to the High Court was initiated by MetroWestern Broadcasters Ltd of which a principal was a  Mr Harold  Cottee.  Mr Cottee  has been alleged to be: 
a Federal Councillor of the Liberal Party of Australia; 
chairman of the Liberal Party of Australia Selection Committee of the Hills State Electorate Council after the death of Max Ruddock, within which area the licence was intended to operate; 
a member of the Mitchell Federal Electorate Conference of the Liberal Party of Australia, within which area the licence was intended to operate; 
a member of the Castle Hill Branch of the Liberal Party of Australia, within which area the licence was intended to operate. 
It is also alleged that the Minister made his decision on 10 March 1977 to circumvent the High Court making an order to the Minister to grant the licence to Prospect Broadcasters Pty Ltd; 
The Minister, in not accepting the recommendation of the Broadcasting Control Board of Australia made after a public hearing at which all parties were legally represented has ignored the broadcasting needs of the north-western  suburbs of Sydney and has acted arbitrarily to protect the commercial  intersts  of the 6 commercial broadcasting stations which have existed in the metropolitan area of Sydney for over 40 years, or, in some other way, is setting out to favour the Liberal Party of Australia interests in regard to the issue of new, high powered radio licences. 
-In speaking to the One Hundred and Sixty-second Report of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts I want firstly to make it quite clear that I found myself in a very difficult position, when I joined the Committee at the beginning of last year. At that time all evidence in respect of the report had been taken. I would dearly have liked to have been in the position to cross examine some of the witnesses who appeared before the Committee. I could then have been in a far better position to make decisions. As it was I had to make decisions based on evidence that had previously been taken. This afternoon I draw attention to certain specific paragraphs in the report and comment on what they mean. Paragraph 669 at page 258 of the report states: 
The Committee has no doubt that the former Minister,  Mr Bryant  acted with compassion in regard to the poverty and suffering which he witnessed among the Aboriginal people and that he believed that the 'Public Service System ' was unable to respond quickly enough to such needs. 
I believe that is a very important section of the report because I think that anybody who has known the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant),  as I have known him now for nigh on 1 5 years, would know that he is a man of great compassion and sincerity. One can readily understand that he would have felt very frustrated when he found that he had to go through the normal Public Service system to meet the challenge of what was undoubtedly a very big job to improve the lot of Aboriginal people. For that reason, I think it important that attention should be given to that section of the report. 
I also think it important to trace through the report what we could say was the beginning of the misunderstanding between the head of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs and the then Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. It is interesting to note the Committee's comments on pages 240 and 241 of the report because they throw a great deal of light on the matter. Paragraph 625 on page 240 refers to the fact that  Mrs King,  a member of the former Minister's staff, sent a memo to  Mr Dexter  on 12 January 1973, just after the honourable member for Wills had become the Minister. Paragraph 626 outlines the reaction of  Mr Dexter.  It shows that at that point of time  Mr Dexter  already had great resentment. Even at that early stage he was resenting any instructions, particularly the instruction in question which had not been signed by the Minister but by an officer of his staff. Paragraph 626 reports  Mr Dexter  as saying:  . . The functions of my Depanment have already been determined by the Government. Its organisation, establishment and duties are matters for resolution between myself and the Public Service Board in accordance with the provisions of the Public Service Act and Regulations. I am not aware of any arrangement between the Minister and the Prime Minister limiting my responsibilities in this field . . . 
I would say that was the genesis of the misunderstanding between the former Minister, now the honourable member for Wills, and the head of the Department. I cannot help but feel that a great deal of responsibility for that misunderstanding rests with  Mr Dexter. 
I think that we should also look at paragraph 650 on page 252 of the report. It gives even further evidence in this regard and again shows the point at which this whole matter began. In part paragraph 650 states: 
It may also have helped to achieve a better understanding of the respective roles of the Minister and the Permanent Head regarding the Department's organisation if  Mr Dexter  had discussed the whole question with the Minister at the time. 
Instead of sending back that note, if he had any concern about it or any strong feeling about it the obvious thing for him to do was to have seen the Minister himself. 
I refer to the allegation by the honourable member for Wills that  Mr Dexter  had refused to discuss policy in the presence of the Minister's staff. This is dealt with in paragraph 634 on page 244. It is important to note also four other sections of the report which I will detail so that members can look them up. They are examples of incorrect evidence given by either  Mr Dexter  or departmental officers. The references are: paragraph 322 on pages 122 and 123 regarding the NACC elections; paragraphs 415 and 416 on page 164 concerning Captain Benson; paragraphs 593 and 596 on page 226 concerning the purchase of blankets; and paragraphs 60 1 and 605 on page 228 regarding the purchase of exarmy landing craft. Those paragraphs refer to incorrect evidence which was given by  Mr Dexter  or officers of the Department. 
I refer to other sections which could be said to indicate some financial incapacity on the part of the Department and, of course,  Mr Dexter  as the responsible head. I refer firstly to pages 36 and 37 and paragraphs 9 1 and 93, which relate to 3 adult officers who were appointed to the Department in July 1973. In August 1973 the former Minister, the honourable member for Wills, raised a query with the head of the Department as to what arrangements had been made by the 
Department to establish an internal audit section. In November 1973 in an explanation to the Auditor-General the head of the Department said that because of understanding and unexpected pressure arising from the NACC operation the Department had no alternative at the time except to divert officers from the internal audit team to assist in processing accounts. In other words, even though those audit officers were appointed in July 1973, they were not carrying out internal audit operations. 
I refer, too, to paragraph 89 on pages 70 and 71. It refers to Aboriginal housing and what amounts to a disregard of the Minister's terms of approval. It points out that a far better position would have been obtained had the Minister's terms of approval been followed. I refer also to paragraph 491 on page 189, dealing with the Commonwealth capital fund for Aboriginal enterprises. It points out that more caution was needed in funding new ventures such as Aboriginal and Islander Marketing Pty Ltd. I mention these sections of the report deliberately as examples of what could be termed some financial incapacity on the part of the Department. 
I turn to page 259, paragraph 674. It makes the point that one of the major reasons why the Department did not always know of the Minister's decision was that departmental officers in the field did not advise the Department when the Minister advised them of a decision he had made. That is also a very important aspect to bring before the Parliament. In other words, the departmental officers who were with the Minister when he made a decision did not telegraph that decision back to the Department and accordingly the financial arrangements were not made. As I say, I think that is very important. 
I refer now to the turtle and crocodile projects, which are dealt with on page 72. Let me make sure that the position is fully understood. I do not think that any lay person just looking at the report quickly would fully appreciate the facts. These projects were commenced, I think, in 1970 under the administration of the previous LiberalNational Country Party Government. I think the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  was the Minister at the time. In fact, it was the honourable member for Wills when he was the Minister who set to clean up the mess. Due credit should be given to the honourable member for Wills for his part as the Minister in setting to to clean up what was undoubtedly a very great mess. 
Finally I revert once again to page 258, paragraph 669, which refers to the compassion of the honourable member for Wills as Minister in setting to on a might task, an extraordinary task, of overcoming a very great problem, a very great blight on our society. The facts are that Australia has not done, and successive governments had not done, the right thing by the Aboriginal people of Australia. The honourable member for Wills being the man we know- as I say, I have known him for 15 years- and being a man of very great compassion, it is fully understood that he must have felt very frustrated. Paragraph 669 in the report is of very great importance because it gives in the cold pages of the report some insight into the humanity of the honourable member for Wills. I am glad to be associated with him as a man. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Wentworth)  adjourned. 
-The Opposition supports this Bill, although I think I would be expressing the attitude of most members of the Opposition if I were to say that there is a feeling that Australia could still do a great deal more in regard to overseas aid to developing countries. We have a commitment which could only be called a philosophical commitment- a commitment that is based on hard facts. We believe that the more we assist those countries to overcome their very great problems of development, the better it will be for Australia in the long-term. We believe that it is good insurance for Australia to assist these countries to obtain a far greater understanding between nations than previously existed, particularly between Australia and its Asian friends to the North. We support this measure as a measure which moves in that direction. 
Before dealing with the actual Bill, I quote one passage from the Asian Development Bank's annual report of 1 975. It states: 
The various means discussed above would help mitigate short-term balance of payments problems. In the longer term, the solution to the growing trade deficits on the DMCs lies in the expansion of exports to meet their import requirements - 
The DMCs are the developing member countries. The report continues: which warrants higher production in the DMCs on the one hand and access to markets of the developed countries at equitable prices on the other. An important achievement in 1975 was the practical recognition given by both the industrialised and the developing countries to their interdependence and also their general understanding on measures that place greater reliance on trade as a vehicle of growth. Various schemes were under consideration in international forums to increase the exports of the developing countries. 
I think this is the important thing: 
These included stabilisation of prices through various international commodity agreements, creation of buffer stocks, and removal of tariff and non-tariff barriers to exports from developing countries. Also, a proposal was made to create a new development security facility in the IMF, with substantial resources, to stabilise export earnings of developing countries. 
I think the important thing to remember is that when this report was brought down there was a $12 billion deficit in the balance of payment of the DMCs. Over a 10-year period the Bank will provide only $3.4 billion. 
As the honourable member for Banks said, it is a pretty big gap indeed. As the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart)  said earlier tonight, at present Australia is providing about 0.5 per cent- a very small amount indeed- of the gross domestic product. I believe that we should be at least moving into the area of providing about 1  Vt  per cent of GDP. One has only to visit various countries to see the great need for this. For example, I was in Indonesia in the middle of last year. I will not canvass various other issues in respect of the relations between Indonesia and Australia at present. I do not think this Bill provides the opportunity to canvass them. I came back shocked by 2 things- the health standards and the lack of assistance that we are giving to overcome the very great problems so far as those health standards are concerned. I was equally shocked by the great extremes of rich and poor. 
Complete and utter poverty on the one hand, and very great wealth on the other. 
As the honourable member for Hughes said, there are 2 extremes. I was deeply concerned at the population situation. I think the honourable member for Lang said that the population was something like 120 million in 1970. Last year the population institute at Jakarta was quoting to me a figure in the region of 130 million to 135 million at present. It could not see zero population growth coming to that country until well after the year 2000, on the most optimistic estimates. By that time we will be talking about something in the vicinity of 200 million people. We should consider this population increase in the context of the great problems that still exist in this region- problems such as the various tropical diseases, tuberculosis, blindness brought about by the lack of vitamin B in diets and so forth. 
The Indonesian Minister for Health pointed out that the health authorities have only one coaster- that is a small boat or ship capable of carrying about 3 people. This vessel is used to take a bare foot doctor and a sister from island to island in order to bring modern medicine to the people of those many many Indonesian islands. When I talked to the Minister about what type of aid Australia could give, he said: 'Give me more coasters; we only have one for all these islands '. He maintained that that was the greatest need that his country has at the present time if the deplorable health standards of Indonesia are to be improved. 
I have seen the health standards of other countries, as no doubt have other honourable members. But Indonesia brought in its first bare foot doctors only 2 years ago. Papua New Guinea has had this type of health service for many years. This practice operated in the days of the Australian Administration in that country. The standards of health care in China are far better than the standards in Indonesia. China has largely overcome the major problems of malaria, tuberculosis and so on. Venereal disease is rife in Indonesia. 
Yes, it was rife in China at one stage, but that is not so today. The Chinese have done a very good job in respect of this disease. One person- I will not give his name because sometimes the Indonesian authorities do not appreciate people putting different viewsmade the point very clearly to me that Indonesia did not want aid for defence, for arms or for aeroplanes but it needed aid to improve the health standards of its people. I think there is a lesson to be learned here- where there is a balance of payments deficit of $12 billion. Yet- I am not denigrating the Bill- we are to give only $3.4 billion over a period of 10 years. This contribution really makes one wonder what we are doing because it is only a flea bite compared with what ought to be done. Despite our standard of living and our health standards, which are the envy of other countries, we are still giving only 0.5 per cent of gross domestic product. I believe that 1.25 per cent of GDP would hardly be noticed. Such a level of assistance would make a tremendous impact upon the living conditions, the health and the future expectations of the people who live to the north of us. Also, it would be a very good insurance policy for Australia against the future. Whether we like it or not Australia will be the subject of great resentment and other countries will finally demand that we be a little more generous in our attitude towards assistance, particularly in the areas of health and of developing industry. 
The honourable member for Hughes makes a very good point. It is common sense to argue that there will be a greater demand for our products if the standard of living of these countries is increased. If this were to happen the terms of trade between ourselves and these countries would be very greatly expanded. I have outlined the reasons for our support of the Bill. We support it knowing that it goes a little of the way towards achieving the objectives of the philosophy of the Australian Labor Party. But we make the point that a great deal more has to be done. We cannot allow the degradation and despair which exists in many of the countries that surround us to continue in the belief that finally this will not have an impact upon Australia. We have the resources, we have the living standards and we have the facilities to do something about the problems faced by other countries. We should be prepared to move out and to give assistance to all the other countries which need help so greatly. 
The honourable member for Banks made the point that it is no wonder that so many of these countries are turning to communism. 
That is a very good point. The honourable members for Banks, Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  and Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  are in this place far more regularly than most honourable members. The honourable member for Banks made a good interjection, namely, is it any wonder that countries with these conditions turn to communism. That is something to which any thoughtful person would have to give credence and great thought. Unless we help these countries their future will be very bleak. 
I was pleased to see in the Minister's second reading speech that Australia's present subscription of $US256m, of which $US82m is paid in and the balance on call, is exceeded only by the subscriptions of the U.S.A., Japan and India. I am glad to see that Australia is far ahead of many other countries, but so it should be. The honourable member for Lang made a good point when he said that we should exclude from our figures for overseas aid subscriptions which we make to Papua New Guinea. After all, Papua New Guinea is almost morally part of Australia. It is our moral responsibility. We owe a great deal to that country for what it has done for us in years past. Unfortunately many Australians have reaped a great deal from that country- far more than should ever have been allowed. For that reason we have a moral responsibility to assist Papua New Guinea. As I have said, our assistance to that country should be something quite apart from our subscriptions in overseas aid. In other words, our assistance to Papua New Guinea should be something quite separate. I believe we should then go on to build up our overseas aid to at least 1  V&gt;  per cent of gross domestic product. We support the Bill. We are pleased that it involves an increase of $346. lm in the capital subscriptions to the Asian Development Bank, of which $34.6m is to be paid in and the remainder is to be at call. Finally, I impress upon the House that $34m is very small compared with the great development needs of all of the member countries concerned. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

Prime Minister 
Canberra 1 March 1977 
Dear  Dr Jenkins, 
I refer to your question without notice on the 23 February 1977 drawing my attention an article in the Melbourne 'Age ' of that date which alleged that soldiers were being recruited for the Rhodesian army in Australia and that the Australian Government was aware of these activities. 
The person referred to by Professor Roebuck is  Mr Anthony  William Bell who was unsuccessfully prosecuted in June 1976 for placing an advertisement in the Hobart Mercury seeking recruits for the Rhodesian army.  Mr Bell  who has served in the Rhodesian army apparently placed the advertisement on his own initiative. 

 Mr Bell has admitted to police that he recently contacted Professor Roebuck and handed to him papers associated with his activities last year, including a list of twenty names he had gathered. 
Inquiries reveal that  Mr Bell  has not undertaken any further recruiting since his prosecution in 1976 and there is no evidence that recruiting is taking place in Tasmania. 
I reiterate that the Government is opposed to the service of Australian citizens as mercenaries in the armed forces of other countries. This is one of the reasons why the Government is planning to introduce legislation to prohibit recruitment in Australia for such purposes. 
Yours sincerely, 
M. FRASER 
DrH. A. Jenkins, M.P. 
Parliament House, 
Canberra, A.C.T. 2600 
As has been mentioned, in his reply the Prime Minister reiterates the Government's attitude to the service of Australian citizens as mercenaries.  His  reply gives some basis for what is contained in this Bill. Clause 9 of the Bill provides for the Attorney-General to authorise recruitment for a specified armed force generally or in particular circumstances where that is considered appropriate by the Government. This sort of authorisation, this let-out, in the Bill by the AttorneyGeneral concerns me because I wonder who lays down the criteria and the tests for such authorisation. This country has been involved in a major armed conflict where there was no declared state of war. I am reminded of my son at the age of 14 years attending high school in the United States of America and attending a seminar of high school students at which the subject was Vietnam. At the seminar Justice William O. Douglas of the United States Supreme Court was asked:  Sir, what  is your opinion of the war in Vietnam? '  His  reply was: 'Well, as a constitutional lawyer, I have to say there is no war in Vietnam'. This son of terminology - 
One of my colleagues in the Victorian State Parliament raised the question on Wednesday 16 March, of Creations running a military training camp in Gippsland. He gave a description of occurrences there. In fairness, he said that he could not guarantee that that was what was occurring but there was certainly a lot of noise. There was shooting and there was strong suspicion that that was what was going on. That, indeed, is one of the things that I am told when I go into the community. I think that is something which should be stopped absolutely. There is no let out. There is no opportunity for such actions to be authorised. When the umbrella of our nationality is accepted such people should conform to the sort of standards we set. 
There are some other matters in the Bill which concern me. I refer to clause 10 which deals with prosecutions. I feel that the Bill needs to be redrafted because it goes too lightly in this area. Once again a great deal of discretion is given to the Attorney-General. I trust that the present Attorney-General will not feel too sensitive about that remark. I am not making a personal attack on him. But as the person who holds the office of Attorney-General he is being relieved of a good deal of responsibility by that provision. Sub-clause (5) of clause 10 reads: 
Nothing in sub-section (4) prevents the discharge of the accused if proceedings are not continued within a reasonable time. 
What is the meaning of that sub-clause? Is that the prime let-out? Does that provide some way in which persons can avoid the sanctions imposed under this Bill, nebulous though they may be, as my colleague the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith has pointed out? Those provisions need redrafting to give substance to the Bill. 
There are other things that flow from this sort of activity which should be considered. Recently there has been a spate of seizing of hostages throughout the world. When one reads accounts of these incidents one notices that most of them are carried out by national groups of some sort or another, purportedly for the cause of their particular nationality or their particular religious penchant. One recent international magazine referred to the seizing of hostages as the scourge of the 1970s. Unless we have in this country firm legislation to prevent any suggestion of recruitment or of grouping that could be used for overseas service we will find that next we will have the same sort of seizing of hostages for political reasons- not in regard to Australian politics but in regard to political events on the international scene. 
I take a fairly extreme point of view on this matter when I say that there should be no recruitment of Australians for service in forces of other countries. There should be no recruitment of them and no permission for them to go. I mentioned 2 exceptions to that previously, and I think they are proper and in accordance with our international responsibility. I agree with my colleagues who have said that while this Bill has provided a vehicle for debate-I might even accept the proposition that there was some goodwill expressed and a desire for it to be effectivein its drafting it has too many loopholes to prevent the sort of activity that Australians find so repugnant and wish to see prevented. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="104131197704192_62_5.jpg"></graphic>

To my knowledge, no reasons have been given for over riding the findings of an independent, expert and impartial body, but it is obvious that urban areas are being penalised to enable funds to be granted to rural areas far in excess of that recommended by the Bureau. 
That is the opinion of those democratically elected conservative councillors in my area where, fortunately, the people have the good sense to return Australian Labor Party members in both the State and Federal Parliaments. The councillors are expressing their opinion of what the Government is doing at the moment. They go on in other correspondence to support once again what we in the Australian Labor Party have suggested about this legislation. One just does not abolish an organisation like this. A further letter of 9 March states: 
The role, functions and responsibilities will have legislative authority . . . 
So the councillors are asking that we are not to take on trust the setting up and amalgamation of the 2 bodies by the Government. The proposed body will have no defined functions, no defined way in which examination in so many areas will be carried out and no defined way in which Parliament and the public will be able to examine the authority. The letter further states: 
The Bureau be independent, reporting direct to the Minister rather than being attached to or incorporated in the Depanment. 
Once again this reinforces what the Labor Party had to say. Time does not allow me to extend the argument any further. I have reiterated some of the arguments which I placed before the House previously. I have reiterated the attitude of the Labor Party on these matters. I have affirmed that by showing the attitudes of other bodies which could not be accused of political bias and which have reinforced the arguments which we, as an Opposition, have put forward in opposition to this Bill. 
Unfortunately, the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  during quite a large part of his speech made a petulant personal attack- in fact, one could even say a vindictive personal attackupon the Tasmanian State Minister for Housing, a man who has a good reputation as a Minister. I do not think it really becomes the honourable member for Denison to make this matter such an obvious personal issue between himself and the Minister. As I have said, the Minister for Housing in Tasmania,  Mr Holgate,  is a respected person. But the honourable member for Denison seemed to be able to see virtue only in those of his own political persuasion. He sees very great bitterness - 
The point I am making is that I think it belittles the honourable member for Denison to be so vindictive against his political opponents in the States sphere in Tasmania. I do not think his actions help the issue or, one might say, the rational consideration of this legislation. In addition, it tended to become a mutual admiration society between the honourable member and the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  who is sitting at the table. I thought that was rather a little ludicrous. I think that we on this side of the House could be excused for feeling that way. 
Secondly, I do not think honourable members opposite fully understand why we are critical of this legislation. We support the legislation but we are critical of the amount which it seeks to allocate. The reason for that criticism is that when the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les 
Johnson) was Minister for Housing in the Whitlam Government he managed to obtain the passage through this Parliament of legislation which increased the amount allocated for pensioners' housing from $5m per annum, as it had been from 1969 right through to 1974, to $ 10m per annum. In other words, he doubled it. That legislation was introduced for 2 reasons. Firstly, it ensured that more of those types of dwellings were erected and, secondly, it indexed the funds provided against inflation. But this amending legislation which has been introduced by the Minister simply maintains the figure at $ 10m per annum. It would have been logical and sensible at least to have indexed that amount against inflation and to have brought the figure up to date. Instead of that the allocation has been retained at $10m. In addition, it is very obvious from the text of the Minister's second reading speech that this will be the last occasion on which the operation of the legislation will be extended. The legislation is extended for one year only, providing an amount of $10m. The reason for this action is stated in the Minister's second reading speech where he said: 
The Government is closely studying the reports of the Task Force on Co-ordination in Welfare and Health and of the Committee of Inquiry into the Care of the Aged and Infirm. Both these reports present major reviews of Government policy in relation to the care of the aged. Extension of the existing Dwellings for Pensioners Scheme for one year will allow time for consideration of relevant recommendations of these reports and the introduction of changes considered necessary. 
In other words, it is quite obvious that the Government does not intend to continue this legislation beyond one year. Even then it is continuing it only to the extent of a grant of $ 10m for this one year. This expenditure is not indexed against inflation. This will mean that fewer dwellings will be built in this one year than were built last year, or the year before that or the year before that. In other words, fewer units will be completed. 
I think the Government should understand that this is why we are critical of the legislation. It is not that we are opposing the extension of the legislation in itself. We are critical of the legislation on 2 counts. We are critical because obviously the program of assistance is being wound down. Obviously the $10m provided for under this legislation will build fewer units than were built under the previous legislation. I would like to refer to an example- and I touch on this point deliberately- of the demand that aged people have for accommodation. I refer particularly to a statement made by the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  in respect of projects approved for funding under the Aged and Disabled Persons' Homes Act and the Aged Persons Hostels Act, which relate to homes for the aged. She pointed out that there are in the hands of her Department at the moment 900 applications for projects valued in excess of $340m to provide accommodation for 25 000 people. This statement was in respect of homes for the aged; it does not relate to pensioner dwellings such as the dwellings which are the subject of this Bill. In other words, the statement concerns the construction of hostels for the aged- homes of a hostel type for the aged. The Minister said that the Department of Social Security has applications before it to provide accommodation for 25 000 people in that area alone. This is an example of the demand that exists so far as aged people are concerned. This is an example of the mammoth problem which not only faces society at the present time but also which will face society in the years to come. 
Most of us appreciate that the proportion of aged people in our country is becoming greater and greater year by year. The position in another decade will be much more critical than it is today and funds must be provided to meet that situation. It is unfortunate today that young people do not look after the aged as previous generations did. For this reason there is a greater need for governments- all governments, Federal and State- to come to the party and to provide the necessary facilities and assistance. This problem is highlighted by the statement of the Minister for Social Security that her Department has applications for hostel type accommodation to house 25 000 people. Of course, it is not possible to satisfy these applications because of the cuts that have been made in expenditure by this Government. In fact, the Department of Social Security is now operating on a 3 year program. Applicants have to notify the Department 3 years ahead in order for something to be done in two or three years' time, and for the Department to get the necessary funds. There have been quite dramatic cuts in expenditure and quite dramatic cuts in the allocation of funds for the construction of hostel type accommodation for aged persons. 
I again mention the point that I made about the bigger and bigger proportion of our population that is becoming aged year by year. It is very important that all sections of our society should become aware of this fact and that provision should be made in the future for the facilities needed by aged people. Up to date this has not been done to the extent that I believe is necessary. I also suggest that the State governments which build pensioner units should endeavour to give greater consideration to allocating units or flats- whatever one may wish to call them- in areas in which the occupants can be near their relatives and particularly their families. There is nothing better for aged persons, be they grandfathers or grandmothers, than to be able to live near members of their family. 
Yes, as a matter of fact, as the honourable member for Hughes has pointed out, I am a grandfather, but only once. As a result I am beginning to understand these things. I am getting the wisdom not of the aged but of the middle-aged today. As I was saying, I think it is very important that we ensure that this accommodation is allocated to people in areas where they can be close to their families. A large number of units have been built for aged people in my electorate. However, in many cases they have to live many many miles from any of their relatives. This allocation causes loneliness. Therefore I believe that the humanitarian aspect needs to be taken into account by State authorities when homes are allocated. 
With those few words I would once again make the point that the Opposition supports the legislation. But it is critical of the Bill, particularly in 2 respects. First, the Opposition is critical because the Bill allocates only $ 10m which is the same amount as has been allocated in each of the last 3 years. Therefore the funds being allocated have not been indexed against inflation and as a result the actual number of units to be erected during the year would be less than in previous years. The second criticism that the Opposition makes is that obviously, from the very text of the Minister's second reading speech, the Government intends to phase out this legislation. The Opposition can be excused from making this criticism knowing the Government's history in the past, knowing its history since it came to office, knowing the history of broken promise after broken promise. We are suspicious that the Government intends to ensure that its responsibility for caring for the aged will be lessened in the future. These are the reasons for our criticism of the legislation. 
My question is directed to you,  Mr Speaker.  I refer, as the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition referred, to the Prime Minister's direction that all prices be frozen and to the fact that the Prime Minister on Tuesday of last week and the Treasurer the day before yesterday said that there would be no exceptions, not even in regard to primary produce. I therefore ask you: Are you aware that the price of bananas in the non-members' canteen has varied in recent days as follows: On Monday they were 10c each; on Tuesday they were 15c each; and yesterday they were 15c each. Is this not a very slippery decision? What steps will you take to ensure that the freeze is observed in its place of conception, namely here in Parliament House? 
-Once again in just over a year the question of possible Central Intelligence Agency activity in Australia has raised its head. I ask the House to recall that in February of last year I brought to its attention, as recorded in  Hansard,  a transcript of an  AM  program of 19 February in which a Ray Martin from New York outlined certain allegations. I am not necessarily making a point for or against those allegations. He alleged that the CIA was connected with the dismissal of the Whitlam Government. Once again this issue is very much to the fore in Australia, with allegations being made. I do not think we are in a position to advocate the truth or otherwise of those allegations at this time. I show the House today's Sydney  Sun.  Its publishers are hardly a young radical organisation. The newspaper is owned by the Fairfax family. The headlines read: 
CIA 'interfered in Australian unions' 
They also state: 
Defence man briefed Kerr. 
It is said that the briefing occurred on 8 November 1975. Allegations are again floating around Australia. They are of a very serious nature. So far as I am concerned it is a matter of not only whether the CIA is involved in espionage activities in Australia but also whether anyone is involved in the espionage activities of any country. It is time the Government took this issue seriously. It is well and truly time there was a full scale inquiry into espionage activities in this country. 
I said into the espionage activities in this country. 
Listen, mate, if you are concerned only about bananas when I am speaking to an important issue it is time that you set to and worked out precisely what is of importance to this nation. I have an  A Current Affair  transcript of an interview on 10 June 1976 between 
Mike Minehan, Gail Jarvis and Eric Butler of fame-the Eric Butler- in which Eric Butler says: 
The United Nations is, to informed people, an international front organisation. I in fact have just come from a most distinguished gathering in South Korea of the World Anti-Communist League- 61 nations represented- real experts on Communism. They all agreed of course the United Nations is nothing more than a haven for Communists. Has been from the beginning. 
This is a time when it is being alleged that the Liberal and National Country Parties are being infiltrated by extreme right wing elements. 
The Eric Butlers and company. 
He has a big influence in certain elements of the Liberal Party, and the honourable member knows it. For the reasons I have stated, we should be concerned at the activities of any extreme organisation in this country, be it an extremity of the Right or an extremity of the Left. In view of the latest accusations concerning activities of the CIA in Australia I call upon the Government to institute a full-scale inquiry into espionage activities in this country. It is time the Government moved in on this area. In February last year accusations were made about the involvement of the CIA in the dimissal of the Whitlam Government, and today similar accusations are made about the involvement of the CIA in the dismissal of the Labor Government. If the allegations are correct, the Government is falsely in control of this country. 
This evening I also wish to deal with the need for a manpower policy and the various policies being followed by this Government which must lead to more unemployment, particularly as the Government obviously does not understand or appreciate what is happening with employment with the impact of automation and new techniques. Unless the Government is prepared to have a full-scale inquiry to determine a manpower policy in this country, then although inflation may reduce, a large proportion of Australians will be left unemployed. For this reason I strongly support the amendment moved by the Opposition in this debate, which states in item (b): there is an urgent need for alternative policies of promoting a consumer led recovery by cuts in indirect taxes and appropriate stimulatory expenditure on job creation and manpower training programs, all done in a context of not increasing inflation by (i) phasing out the more extravagant business tax concessions - 
Of course we have a number of those. One is to come before the House next week which will cost the country another $340m. I am going a little carefully in my reference to it. I will not deal with the actual legislation. The amendment continues: 
increasing the money supply but not beyond the rate of inflation plus growth and (iii) instituting a more vigorous bond-selling program. 
Let me give the unemployment figures for 2 offices of the Commonwealth Employment Service in my electorate. In Blacktown at the end of March the grand total stood at 3241, of which 1671 or 5 1.56 per cent are people under the age of 18 years. This was a reduction of only 138 on the previous month. The decrease in the figures for this office and the other office I shall mention, Mount Druitt, was due to the recommencement of universities and colleges of advanced education and young people taking up scholarships. In other words, the decrease came about because people were going back to study, not because they had found jobs. In the Mount Druitt office, of a total of 3548 unemployed 1619 were under the age of 18 years. In other words, in that area over 45 per cent of the unemployed were young people. This was a decrease of only 143, which is a far smaller decrease than occurred in March of previous years. The reduction was due mainly to people taking up scholarships in colleges of advanced education and universities. 
This is a very serious position, but the important issue which should be looked at is what the future will be with the continued use of automation. Assume that an industrial organisation decides to go to the western suburbs of Sydney today. Of course that area is more affected by unemployment than most other areas in Australia. Whereas previously it would have had a fairly highly labour intensive industry, today it would go in for massive capital investment assisted by the investment allowances of this Government. Such organisations employ equipment and machinery which will maintain their labour force at a minimum. For example, I know of a food processing company which moved from the inner suburbs near the centre of Sydney to the outer western suburbs. When it moved that company flogged its land in the inner city and utilised that finance to put in equipment. The result is that in its new factory in the outer western suburbs it employs one-third of the people it employed when it was in the inner city. That is the pattern for the future. 
Let us assume that we come to the end of the inflation cycle. Let us assume that business profits increase even more dramatically than some have increased recently, as in the case of 
Australian Iron and Steel. We will still be left with the position where a very large section of our population will be unemployed. Very thoughtful analysis is needed to ascertain the reasons for this. What is causing it? How is it to be overcome? What new areas of employment should there be? In my belief, encouragement is needed for industry to go out into the areas of high unemployment such as the outer western suburbs of Sydney. In my view, that encouragement should take the form of tax incentives and low cost capital, and I believe the co-operation of both Federal and State Governments is needed to achieve it. If it is not achieved, the high rate of unemployment in these areas, particularly for young people, will continue. 
Instead of doing these things, this Government is carrying out a policy of deliberately increasing unemployment. It is deliberately cutting expenditure in employment-giving areas, and the best example of what has happened is the city of Canberra, where unemployment has increased from approximately 1 per cent of the work force when this Government took office to 5 per cent. That has occurred because the Government has cut expenditure in employment-giving areas, and that situation is occurring all over Australia. Unemployment in my area alone has increased by nearly 30 per cent since this Government took office. I make the point that there is a very great need for the Government to conduct the necessary inquiry to establish a sound manpower policy, a manpower policy which will provide employment for the future. In particular, I refer to the need for an unemployment relief scheme. On 2 days in succession this week, yesterday and today, I received correspondence from the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  refusing a proposition for the introduction of an unemployment relief scheme. 
It did originally. Once again, it has forgone another promise. The first instance relates to what is called the CYSS, the Community Youth Support Scheme. When the Minister requested me to do so, I called together the various interested parties at a meeting in Blacktown. Those people sat down and said: 'This scheme lacks teeth, but we will co-operate as much as possible and make the best use of it.' The net result was that they made certain recommendations to the Minister. Included in those recommendations was the need for an unemployment relief scheme in areas of high unemployment. Yesterday the Minister replied declining the proposition. In the second instance, the correspondence received today relates to a proposition by the Penrith City Council that the Minister should receive a deputation which would support the introduction of an unemployment relief scheme. Without even receiving the deputation, without even listening to the arguments of the Penrith City Council, a council which largely covers the area of the honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Gillard),  a Liberal member of this Parliament, the Minister declined to receive the deputation and declined to support the introduction of an unemployment relief scheme. 
Today we are throwing down millions of dollars in unemployment benefits and are receiving nothing in return for the community as a whole. With the introduction of such a scheme, at least we would get benefits in the form of projects of lasting value to the community, yet the Government refuses to do this. It ignores completely the impact upon the personality of the individual who is unemployed and instead brings up ersatz propositions such as the Community Youth Support Scheme. For that reason I say that it is well and truly time the Government realised that an unemployment relief scheme is essential not only to give people an opportunity to maintain their dignity because they have employment but also to ensure that the wastage of resources which goes on today does not continue. It is equally essential to introduce a viable manpower policy which will take into account the impact which new techniques are having today upon industry and upon employment, impacts which will be felt even more in the future. 
It is time, with the accusations of CIA involvement in Australia, that this Government realised that a full scale inquiry into espionage activity in this country is necessary. Twice now the accusation has been made that the CIA was involved in the dismissal of the Whitlam Government. In all conscience, and perhaps in an attempt to protect itself from such accusations, it is well and truly time that the Government conducted a full scale inquiry into these accusations, and for that matter into any espionage activity in this country, and I make that call. I believe that this country deserves protection, and it is the job of the Government to give the country that protection. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Dobie)  adjourned. 
I was concerned today to learn that the Government has decided to spend $ 1 50,000 on an advertising campaign for the poll on a national song, and that the Government intends to advocate  God Save the Queen  as the national song. I am not in any way implying anything against Her Majesty. I think she does a very conscientious job, and is a very courteous and gracious person. I believe that it is appropriate that  God Save the Queen  should be used on regal and vice-regal occasions, but I am concerned at the obvious way in which the Government is determined to have it used on all occasions and to exclude such songs as  Advance Australia Fair  by ensuring that the people do not vote for them. Already the Government is using the donkey vote by deciding that  God Save the Queen,  for some reason or other, shall be placed at the top of the ballot paper. 
That is what I am told. I cannot understand on what principle that is done. I have not heard of any draw to determine the position of the tunes on the ballot paper. And if there has been such a draw, I have not heard of any scrutineers being appointed. By logic, if the tunes were placed on the ballot paper m alphabetical order, in accordance with the electoral law of this country,  Advance Australia Fair  should be on the top of the ballot paper. But no, this Government has made a firm decision. It shall be  God Save the Queen  which is placed at the top of the ballot paper followed by the various other songs. 
Worse than that is the information which came to my hands today that the Government proposes to spend $150,000 of taxpayers money in advertising for the poll on a national song and that the purpose of this advertising is to advocate that  God Save the Queen  be chosen instead of  Advance Australia Fair.  I think these issues should be treated fairly. I have no objection to the people making a decision. That is their right. But I do not think there should be an attempt, as this Government is attempting to do through the type of ballot paper it is producing, with taxpayers funds, to gerrymander the decision. One could not call it anything but that. I ask the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  who is at the table to make a full inquiry into this matter. 
We gave them a very good choice. We asked people all over the country to make their submissions. Those submissions were made. At least we were conscious that Australia should have a national anthem which was truly Australian. At least we made sure that Australian sportsmen overseas knew that they were not Canadians or Fijians. We made sure that everyone at the Olympic Games knew, when  Advance Australia Fair  was played, that that was the Australian national anthem. I do not think that it is in the interests of this country for this Government, simply because of its old-fashioned extreme conservative attitudes, to attempt by using taxpayers money to gerrymander the decision by the manner in which it prepares the ballot paper. 
-Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  for the credit due to me. It helps my ego a great deal as no doubt it helps yours as well. In addressing myself to this piece of legislation I think the important thing to remember, with regard to the implementation of the Mathews Committee recommendations, is that the proposals contained in the legislation favour a very small section of the community. 
Such as those who are not normal taxpayers. The taxpayer will pay for these measures. The average guy in the street will pay the $360m involved in this legislation. 
Perhaps the honourable member for Dawson does not know that sales in one of the biggest retail complexes in Sydney have dropped since the beginning of this year by 20 per cent. 
The West Point shopping centre in Blacktown, an area where people earn their living; where they work for their living, unlike some of the people represented by the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Martyr),  unlike some of the people from the Democratic Labour Party. The honourable member for Swan used to be the State Secretary of the DLP in Western Australia. Furthermore, this is the Party that received its funds from Caltex. It was paid by the Central Intelligence Agency through Caltex to the DLP. That is what is happening in Australia today. The only difference is that the DLP does not get it. Today the Liberal Party gets the money. Furthermore, the National Country Party receives funds from Utah. It is paid also by the CIA through Utah to the National Country Party. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I assure you that I am only too pleased to do so but these people will be so provocative. Do you blame me for answering a question like that? When a question like that is posed, surely out of honesty and for the integrity of this Parliament I should answer it. So I answered it accordinglyUtah for the National Country Party, Caltex for the Liberal Party, all money originally coming from the CIA. 
I fully agree. I feel the same as you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  As I was saying, this Bill favours the selected few, and the selected few are those who have a quick turnover. This legislation provides that stock shall be valued at the beginning of a financial year and the figures shall be subject to a reduction based on 50 per cent of the increase in the consumer price index. 
I am quite sure, my friend. We had Treasury officials over to advise us in precise terms the other day. 
Really, the DLP member should not get so excited. Those companies which have a fast turnover will have an advantage. This legislation covers not only limited companies, companies registered with the stock exchange which are proprietary companies, but also companies which are not proprietary companies and sole traders as well. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, honourable members opposite keep referring to the CIA. 
Do you expect me to be provoked into referring to this matter again? After all, the honourable member who has kept referring to it and has provoked me used to be the West Australian secretary of the DLP a matter of only a little over 3 years ago. That Party is well known as an organisation in this country financed by the CIA. The money is channelled from Caltex oil company into the DLP. 
Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I sincerely hope that you will see that this provocation about the CIA and those sorts of things do not occur in the future. As I was saying, the Bill covers limited companies, proprietary companies, individual companies, sole traders and so on. 
As the honourable member for Banks mentioned, it covers partnerships as well. It means that those companies which have a quick turnover and which are able to dispose of their stock quickly, will receive a far greater benefit than those companies which cannot dispose of their stocks quickly. For example, a steel fabricating company has to retain its stock for a long period. Because of the nature of the manufacturing business a considerable time elapses between the manufacture of the material and the disposal of the material. That company will receive little benefit as compared- I make that point- with a company which deals with primary produce. Such a company would do its stocktaking at the end of the financial year. It would immediately value the stock. It would receive the same benefit; that is a valuation of stock less 50 per cent of the CPI increase for the year. Accordingly that company can then keep on turning over that stock as the year rolls by. I realise of course that the National Country Party would have had a great influence on this decision. I realise that it is of great advantage to primary producers. The influences in the Liberal Party would not receive quite the same advantage. Nevertheless, overall on the average this provision means that there will be a reduction of  5Vi  per cent in company tax. In other words company tax will be reduced by this legislation from 42 i4 per cent to 37 per cent- an appreciable decrease in company tax. 
Oh, yes. The Government has given every possible incentive but so far there have been no results. It has increased the number of unemployed. It has not managed to control inflation. The increase in inflation in my electorate alone has been almost 30 per cent since the date of the last election- all caused by the policies of this Government. There have been the tariff policies of this Government and the maintenance of the increased interest rates when they are no longer applicable, because this is a time of recession and not the other extreme. The facts are that altogether this Government will have given to the business community well over $1,000m-reaching on to $l,300m-by the end of this financial year. This will mean of course - 
-I am beginning to think,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you understand my personality. 
-I make the point that this concession to industry- to limited companies, proprietary companies, sole traders and individual traders- will cost in all $360m. The total concessions to the business community given by this Government are in excess of1,000mreaching up to $ 1,300m. It is the ordinary taxpayer who will pay for this. 
If my friend cannot add two and two and get four and not five that is his problem. Alternatively the Government could increase the deficit instead of making the ordinary taxpayer pay; one or the other. 
We agree that at this point in time there should be a small increase in the deficit to bring about the introduction of an unemployment relief scheme. 
Hold on my friend; I shall come to interest rates in a moment. The conditions exist today for you to decrease interest rates and you will not do so. 
-Do you have to blame me,  Mr Deputy  Speaker? For heavens sake, the provocation is coming from the other side of the House. 
But  Mr Deputy Speaker,  you should keep your side of the House under control. 
As I was saying, in this case the estimated cost to revenue will be $360m; but total concessions to the business community will exceed $ 1,000m and may reach $ 1,300m, which will increase the deficit. If these funds could be saved and an unemployment relief scheme introduced instead, unemployment relief could be made available in areas of high unemployment, such as my own area out in the western suburbs of Sydney. In that area a large number of people are unemployed, particularly the youth under the age of 18 years who comprise nearly 50 per cent of the people throughout that area. If an unemployment relief scheme were to be implemented in that area these young people and the older people could be given employment which would be of lasting benefit to the community. The Government should institute such a scheme instead of sending down the drain each year something like $300m in unemployment benefits. It could give man the dignity to work for his living and enable him to provide something useful to the community rather than merely paying him the unemployment benefit. The Government will not use that extra little bit of finance, which would cost between about $100m and $200m, to provide an unemployment relief scheme. It prefers at this point to give away the money to industry. The sole trader in particular will benefit because he will have a quick turnover of stock. If the Government were to provide finance of $ 100m to $200m, thereby providing employment for those masses of people who are losing all the dignity of life- the ability to work and the right to work which are fundamental human principles in this country- instead of allowing industry to benefit to the extent of $360m, it would be doing something for the community at large. Instead, the Government keeps on giving out special concessions to the business community. It gave them an investment allowance amounting to about $500m in one financial year. It gave the business community a reduction in company tax in the last Budget. 
For God 's sake,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  first of all get rid of the Democratic Labor Party out of your own Party. The DLP has caused trouble in lots of other organisations in the past and now it is hanging on to your Party. We got rid of the DLP and thank God we did. 
The honourable member for Swan is a oncer. He will not be a twicer. He may be a twicer by nature but he will not be a twicer as far as electoral history is concerned. I was making the point that there had been a decrease in company tax in the last Budget, that special benefits were given to the mining industry and then there was the investment allowance which has already been approved and which is giving great benefit to one section of industry. The Government is introducing new techniques in benefits but also is increasing unemployment, particularly in the mining industry which employs very few people. Yet the Government continues with this particular proposal to lose a further $360m in revenue, which amounts to a  5lA  per cent reduction in company tax. In other words, the Government has given away between $ 1 ,000m and $ 1 ,300m at the expense of the ordinary wage and salary earner who has to meet that taxation burden. That being the case, I believe it is time that we stopped giving these handouts, which obviously, as a matter of truth, have not been successful. They have not decreased unemployment and have had no effect upon inflation itself; in other words, they have not enabled the Government to succeed in implementing the policies with regard to 2 major promises which it made at the last general election. The first was to decrease unemployment and the second was to decrease inflation. The Government is not making an impact on those 2 factors by allocating up to $ 1,300m in concessions. Surely $100m to $200m would be far better spent on implementing an unemployment relief scheme which would give dignity to all unemployed. 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the House censures the honourable member for St George because in the notice of motion he gave on 26 April 1977: ( 1 ) he makes opprobrious references to  His Excellency  the  President  of Indonesia who is in amity with  Her  Majesty the Queen of Australia; 
he asserts that the Foreign Minister of Indonesia was reported to have made allegations against the  President  of Indonesia and the former Prime Minister of Australia which the Foreign Minister was not reported to have made; 
he asserts that the former Government was provided on 25 August 1975 with a document which the Department of Foreign Affairs certifies was never provided; 
he asserts that the Leader of the Opposition has not issued a public detailed denial of allegations whereas the Leader had issued such a denial; and 
he makes allegations against an honourable member who is constrained by the requirements of diplomacy and the interests of the nation from producing copies of letters and records of conversation to refute those allegations. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister who has overall responsibility for the security of Australia. Will the Prime Minister confirm or deny that the Central Intelligence Agency channels funds through Caltex Oil and Utah to the Government parties? 
-by leave-I also would like to pay respect to the other members of the sub-committee One could only say that the report was not only exhaustive but that it was also exhausting. The sub-committee was involved in a great deal of work and travelled the length and breadth of Australia. We had innumerable meetings which took up a great deal of time. I think that every member of the sub-committee gave everything he possibly could to it. I particularly pay respect to the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  who was  Chairman  of the sub-committee and, of course, to the other members of the subcommittee. I submit that the report ought to be known as the Hamer report. I believe this would be an appropriate name for it. Without a doubt he carried out his duties as  chairman  of the subcommittee with what I can only call very great application. I also pay respect to the research staff who helped us, namely, Ian Fleming, Malcolm Hills, Dan Barton and Annette Quinn and, of course, our stenographic staff who, once again, did a wonderful and exhausting job. 
The only dissent was expressed by the honourable member for Ballaarat  (Mr Short)  and one can understand that. He originally came from the Department of Treasury and naturally he would tend to express the same attitude as that from his environment in the Treasury. I am not making this personal; I make that quite clear. I have often said that Treasury has far too much influence on the Parliament. Nevertheless, the honourable member without a doubt sincerely believes in his attitude. He has based that attitude on paragraph 7.70. Incidentally, the last part of that paragraph was inserted by him. He believes in the approach he took on the shipbuilding industry and one must give him full credit for that. I mention the shipbuilding industry in which I took interest myself. I hope the Government will take note of the report and its recommendations for an inquiry to maintain the commercial shipbuilding industry, particularly the dockyards at Whyalla and Newcastle. 
We carried out exhaustive inquiries. It was not something taken off the top of the head. We went into it with great depth. I make the point that our recommendations were unanimous, with the exception of one dissenting vote, on that subcommittee. In other words, people from both sides of the House appreciated the need to maintain this industry. Finally, I pay full respect to and thank the other members of the subcommittee for the exhausting job which they did. It was a good sub-committee. We got to know one another very well and to understand one another's view points very well. I commend the report to the House. In doing so I suggest that the appropriate name for it would be the Hamer Report. 
-I believe that the question we are debating tonight is one of the most important issues of conscience that people in this country and throughout the world, wherever the debate is continuing, have had to face. I believe it is an issue which will affect not only this generation but many generations to come. I believe it is one about which the people of Australia and of the world should very carefully consider their attitudes and positions before making their decision. I am not so deeply concerned about the question of mining but I am deeply concerned, as a matter of conscience, about questions of waste and proliferation. 
I am referring particularly to plutonium. For example, on the question of waste, a committee of my Party in this Parliament recently had before it  Dr Hardy  of the Atomic Energy Commission, who was said to be a pro-uranium man very strongly in favour of nuclear energy as a source of power, and I believe he is. But as he went on during the afternoon, discussing this matter and answering questions- I want to make it very clear that I am not making a personal attack on him- I felt that he became one of the strongest advocates of a moratorium. The arguments he put up were such that he was strongly advocating the cause of a moratorium and of the world having to attack the issues of waste and proliferation. In regard to waste, he discussed the various methods of disposal. For example, France drops the waste into the deepest parts of the Atlantic in stainless steel containers. Lately it has been said that it should be placed in containers about 8 feet or 9 feet high and the containers should be buried in particular formations such as salt or granite 600 metres below the ground. In other words, there would be a platform 600 metres below the ground. When all the holes were filled with the containers they would be sealed off and guarded for a thousand years. That was his submission. He submitted that although plutonium was active for 250 000 years it was dangerous to man for only 1000 years and therefore it was necessary to guard it for only 1000 years. Who can tell us what the political situation in the world will be in 50 years time or 100 years time? 
Or in 50 days, as the honourable member for Melbourne Ports says; or in 500 years or 1000 years? How could such a guarantee be given? The honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  mentioned earthquakes.  Dr Hardy  said that the waste should be buried in areas whose history is free of earthquakes. Once again, we could never be sure.  Dr Hardy  also admitted that another proposal was floating around- I heard it first about a year ago coming from Japan and now it is coming from the United States- that those countries which sell uranium should control the sale and ensure that the plutonium is returned to them and buried in their own country. The north-west of Australia is one of the areas which has been mentioned. In other words, we would be the garbage dump for atomic waste. 
-I am speaking very seriously. These submissions were put before us by a very eminent atomic scientist in Australia. In answer to a question from me on proliferation and how it can be controlled, he said that that was something for the countries and governments of the world to handle by negotiation and agreement, and the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  will remember that. If I recollect correctly,  Dr Hardy  admitted that it was very difficult to get agreement between the various governments of the world on these issues. The point I am making is that this person, who was pro-uranium, was advocating the waste being buried roughly 2000 feet below the ground in special formations such as granite and salt. 
Yes, in geologically sound areas, and it should then be guarded for 1000 years to ensure that it could not be obtained for purposes of manufacturing atomic bombs and so on. Secondly, he was advocating that there should be agreements between the governments of the world in relation to proliferation. Quite frankly, I think he damned his own case. I know that he is probably very dedicated to his viewpoint but his viewpoint does not happen to be mine. I believe that in making those submissions he strengthened the case against the sale of uranium for nuclear energy purposes. For this reason I believe that there should be a moratorium. Some argue it should be for 2 years, others argue for 5 years. I personally believe that it should be an extended moratorium so that the debate can continue. At present the vast majority of people are still quite uninformed on this issue. Next Sunday in my electorate we are showing 3 hours of films covering both sides of the debate. 
-It is open to Party members and whoever they wish to bring along. It is open to the public. These films are being prepared by the National Executive of the Labor Party and cover both sides of the debate. 
-Strangely enough, my friend, they do, as well as the economic consequences and the alternatives. We must remember that nuclear energy can fill a gap of only 20 years. That figure is based on the known resources of uranium in the world at this stage, and that is what we are talking about. In other words, when petroleum starts to run out there will be a 2-decade gap which nuclear energy will fill. From that time on we will have to look to solar power. One of the great things about this debate is that it is not just occurring in Australia. It is occurring throughout the world in countries such as West Germany, Japan and the United States of America. I believe that the result of this debate will be to force countries to inject more capital investment into finding alternatives for petroleum and nuclear energy and to investigate sources of power such as solar energy. This is the basic reason that I support a moratorium. I support it because it will force a debate. It is a debate which has to occur. Unfortunately this Government is endeavouring to ignore the main recommendation of the Fox report. 
You have had no moratorium, brother. The Fox report came out only a few months ago. The Government wishes to move ahead straight away. I can say only this: I hope that the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Cotter)  will finally realise how far wrong the extreme Right has been time and time again. It was wrong in issues such as Vietnam. I believe it will find out as time moves on that it is also wrong on this issue. For those reasons I am strongly of the view that the debate should continue. We are aware that these days individuals who can obtain plutonium can make crude atomic bombs with the use of science magazines published in the United States. 
-As the honourable member for Hughes says, schoolboys could make such a bomb. Certainly terrorists could do so. In other words, in the future it will not be a case of hijacking aeroplanes. Terrorists will turn to making crude home-made atomic bombs. Honourable members opposite are not prepared to consider these issues. I submit very sincerely that they are issues of conscience which will not just affect this generation but can affect many generations to come. I am not normally looked on as a young radical. I am speaking on this issue tonight as a matter of conscience because I have a very strong and firm belief that we should be prepared to allow this debate to continue, and that the Government should be prepared to grant a moratorium on the mining and future sales of uranium. It should do this instead of introducing into the Parliament papers such as the one presented by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on 24 May 1977 headed 'Government policy on nuclear safeguards', which is basically window dressing to give him an excuse for further mining and to allow Australia to enter into further contracts for the sale of uranium to countries for nuclear purposes. 
-As the honourable member for Hughes says quite correctly, the paper was brought out a day before the presentation of the Fox report. The Prime Minister did not even have the decency to wait until the report was tabled in the Parliament. Having made those points which I think are very important, I submit very sincerely that a moratorium should be placed on uranium mining. There must be a debate on the subject. The debate is occurring throughout the world. It is important that the world be forced to face up to the fact that alternatives have to be found. I repeat that. I am deeply concerned not so much on the question of mining as on the issues of waste and proliferation. I am deeply concerned because they will affect many generations to come. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Construction, upon notice, on 30 May 1977: 
1 ) Did he write to me on 25 May 1977 concerning Paul Frederick McNamara, formerly Associate Director in the New South Wales region of the Department of Construction, who died in the United Kingdom on 24 April 1977 and whose death certificate stated the cause of death to be aplastic anaemia of unknown aetiology. 
What were the precise grounds of  Mr McNamara  's claim on 26 January 1977 for compensation arising out of or in the course of employment in respect of aplastic anaemia. 
What are the precise details of the grounds of the claim for compensation lodged on 3 May 1977 by  Mr McNamara  's widow. 
What are the precise details of the work he performed in respect of which he and his widow have made a claim for compensation. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 4 May 1977: 
Has a new Bentley car from Great Britain been ordered for the Governor-General. 
) If so, is delivery to be made shortly; if so, on what date. 
Will he provide a full description of this car, including its appointments. 
What would be the cost of such a car to an ordinary resident of Australia. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 30 May 1977: 
Have personnel on Naval ships travelling overseas had their postal charges increased to 45c; if so, what is the reason. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 23 March 1977: 
1 ) Was a contract let to Inter-city Security in respect of the New South Wales Repository of the Australian Archives at Villawood instead of arranging for Commonwealth Police to guard the Repository; if so, why. 
) What are the conditions of the contract. 
Who are the directors of the company. 
-I was a member of a parliamentary fact finding mission sent by this Parliament to the Middle East recently. I believe that it would be premature to give my personal impressions gained on that visit without first having discussed the issues and the questions with the other members of the mission and agreeing upon the report to be placed before this House. Nevertheless, I should point out that the mission visited Egypt, Lebanon, Syria, Jordan and Israel. We spoke with the leaders of all those countries. I think it would be reasonable to say that the report we are discussing here tonight- the report of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence- even though there might be some qualifications expressed in regard to the Palestinian question, is substantially correct in fact and opinion as evidenced by the fact that both sides in the Middle East criticised us. This surely shows its even-handedness. That is to say, the Israelis as well as the Arab states criticised us. As a member of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence I wish to congratulate particularly the Sub-committee of that Committee, of which I was not a member, upon a very sound and logical report. 
As I said earlier, whilst I do not express the views of the mission, it is public knowledge that the Arab states demand, firstly, that the Palestine Liberation Organisation be represented at the Geneva conference. I should mention that some of them are obviously prepared to negotiate on the precise form and timing of that representation, that is, whether it should be at the start of the conference or whether they should come in some time during the conference, such as towards the end when outstanding issues have been determined. They also demand a homeland for the Palestinians- not necessarily an independent State- but preferably a homeland on the West Bank of the Jordan River and virtually a province of Jordan. In this regard it should be remembered that there are approximately 2 500 000 Palestinians roaming Arab countries without a homeland and very often living in degrading conditions. But it should be remembered equally in Australia that those conditions are not as bad as some of the conditions under which our own Aborigines live. Surely that is an indictment of Australia itself. 
The Arab countries also demand the return of all areas annexed by Israel in 1 967-the Golan Heights to Syria, the Sinai Desert and Gaza Strip to Egypt, and Jerusalum and the West Bank to Jordan. But I must say once again that one gets the impression that some of the Arab states at least are prepared to negotiate on territories. It is also public knowledge that the attitudes of Egypt and Jordan are a lot more malleable- more soft line- than those of Syria in regard to their willingness to negotiate on territory and other matters. Also, they agree- I would include Syria in this- that a Geneva conference should occur this year. There is undoubted evidence that the Arab states will use the oil weapon in the event of another war. Whilst they maintain that the PLO is becoming more moderate, one is left with the impression that this still has to be proved and one cannot blame Israel for doubting whether that moderation is real or whether in the final analysis the PLO still wants to push Israel into the sea. 
Israel demands that the PLO should concede that Israel has a right to exist, which it does not concede at present, instead of stating that Israel will be pushed into the sea. There is no doubt that that is the attitude of the PLO at this point of time, although there have been some published reports recently that the PLO is adopting a different attitude and is prepared to accept the right of Israel to exist. 
My friend - 
Without a doubt, I believe that Israel has a right to exist. Without a doubt, I believe that Israel has a right to secure borders. That is the second point that Israel maintainsthat she should have a right to secure borders and - 
Oh, look - 
Go home to mumma and get her advice on your next Press story. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member for Phillip will cease interjecting. 
I would also say that Israel does not agree to the return of territories annexed in 1 967. She maintains that the West Bank was liberated and not annexed in 1967. I am referring to the present Government of Israel. She also maintains her right to continue to establish settlements on the West Bank with resultant misgivings by the Arab states and their lack of confidence in a secure Middle East settlement. But also I should make the point that Israel, naturally, has suspicions as to whether the PLO or the Arab states are genuine in their statements that Israel has the right to exist. One cannot blame the Israelis for that because the Arab states do maintain that they have time on their side. That is not only the statement by Israel. That is the statement of the Arab states themselves. 
I must refer here to the difference between the attitudes expressed by the Labour members in Israel and those who are associated with the Begin Government. I do not think there is any doubt that the Labour members are prepared to negotiate, do believe in a peaceful settlement and that the great mass of the people of Israelthose in Kibbutzim and elsewhere- believe that there must be some give and take and that peace is an absolute essential to the further development of the country. Unfortunately I must say that as far as Begin himself and those around him are concerned, the attitude is not one of the same moderation. 
From public pronouncements it is obvious that Vance, the US Secretary of State, has found that the Begin Government is intransigent- very hard line- compared with previous governments. I cannot but say that I believe it is a tragedy that there has been this change in administration, which makes the job of working for peace so much more difficult. I should add that the present Government- I emphasise that it is the present Government and not the mass of the people or the Opposition in Israel- does not accept the principle of a Palestinian home and also indicates a reluctance to negotiate on territory, which is a distinct barrier to United States attempts to find a peaceful settlement between the Arab states and Israel. This hard line attitude of the present Government could do damage to Israel's image as it could lose world sympathy and make the Arab platform more feasible and acceptable. 
I think we should look at the economics of the countries. Every one of the countries we visited in that area had inflation running at a rate of over 30 per cent. In the case of Israel 35 per cent of gross national product was being spent on defence. In Syria, which had two budgets- a current expenditure budget as well as a development budget-70 per cent of her current expenditure budget was being spent on defence with a proportion as well - 
If the honourable member wants to favour Syria he should do so. Also, a proportion of Syria's development budget was indirectly linked with defence. Obviously, peace is the only answer so far as these countries are concerned, to ensure that Israel does exist in the long term, and that the Arab states develop economically. I have not touched on the issue of Lebanon but without a doubt the situation there is a very great tragedy. The civil war continues in the south. Lebanon's economy is shattered. At one stage we were told that in the past two years an inflation rate of something like 200 per cent has prevailed. In Beirut outbreaks of violence occur regularly, week by week. There is no doubt that if the 30,000 occupying troops, 25,000 of whom are from Syria, were to withdraw tomorrow the Lebanese would be at it hammer and tongs again. There is no doubt that, though they state that religion is an issue, it is not. It is basically a war of the 'haves' against the 'have-nots', with religion being used as an instrument to get the smaller people involved in the private armies to fight this war. 
Israel must be given assurances of its right to exist. There must be acceptance by Israel of the principle of a home land for Palestinians, but not necessarily an independent state. The Palestinians must be given some voice at Geneva. Israel must be guaranteed secure borders and the Palestine Liberation Organisation must accept that Israel has that basic right to exist. The Arab states also must convince the world and particularly Israel that they believe in that right. Until these things occur, I believe, the insecurity, the dangers to world peace, the impossibility of reaching a final, just decision in the Middle East and the danger to the economies and to the peace of the world will continue to exist. 
That is the position, my friend. There has also been a recent devaluation. The assumptions in the Budget also state: 
Equally, exclusion from award wage adjustments of changes in the consumer price index attributable to  devaluaton  and oil price increases is essential if the desired effects of these changes are to be fully garnered. 
In other words, the Government accepts the assumption in this Budget that there will be further devaluations with the result that the cost of imports will increase and inflation will be given further impetus. At the same time, the Government will not pass on the effects of devaluation in the consumer price index in the indexation of wages nor will it make any allowance to the public for increases in the cost of petroleum. For that reason I think the people of Australia can look forward to a pretty heavy period in the coming year. 
I believe that, first of all, there must be a reduction of interest rates to give impetus to the economy. There must be an unemployment relief scheme to take up the slack of employment, particularly where if affects young people, semiskilled and unskilled people, a great mass of whom are unemployed today. I believe that we must follow the policies of governments overseas, such as those of Singapore, Germany and Switzerland. These governments go in for public investment to lead the revival in the economy. 
As the honourable member for Port Adelaide says, that is what Don Dunstan is doing. Not only is he holding elections, but he also knows how to fight them and give the right policies to the people to win those elections. These are the policies which must be implemented. They are the only sensible policies. 
Until they are implemented the Australian people are in for a very tight time. Honourable members opposite will be in for a tight time themselves. I ask and challenge them to bring on an election as soon as they can. The sooner we get them to the polls the better. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Jarman)  adjourned. 
-Like everybody else, I have watched very carefully the various criticisms levelled in the media, et cetera, against this Budget. These criticismsquite violent criticisms- continue until this day. For example, the very latest controversy surrounds the extraordinary disagreement between the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  as to how much the tax cuts are going to cost the country. We have the extraordinary spectacle of the two men quoting figures so different that, in effect, the Prime Minister claims that the cost will be double what the Treasurer claims it will cost. However, one of the most interesting criticisms I have read was written by Kenneth Davidson, Economics Editor of the Melbourne  Age.  I shall quote one or two points he made in this criticism and then go on to deal with those points. For example, he stated: 
The tax concessions favour those who have jobs, particularly those on high incomes, who have hardly been touched by the worst recession since the 1 930s. 
It provides little hope for the unemployed and. even worse, it lays the seeds of more instability in 1 978-79 so that the prospect of reasonable growth and job creation must be put off until 1980. 

 Mr Fraser has created a horrendous budgetary problem for himself or whoever forms the Government next yeat. 
I think that whoever read that statement would realise how very true it is. There is no doubt that the so-called tax reforms introduced by this Government will benefit the people in the high and higher-middle income brackets, and that they are basically to the detriment- particularly when one takes into account the petrol price increases- of the people in the lower-middle and low income brackets. 
We must have a very good look at the petrol slug because this Ilea gallon increase is the first of such increases which the Government will introduce each year from now on. In other words, the Government has capitulated to the oil companies for world parity prices. Paying world parity prices will mean that we will be paying the type of prices for petrol that are paid overseas; that is, $2.40 a gallon in Italy, $1.80 a gallon in Germany and Switzerland and $1.60 to $1.80 a gallon in the United Kingdom. This is what is ahead for the Australian motorist and the Australian wage earner. The reason for this is that the Government has been stood over by the oil companies, which have stated quite clearly that they will not continue prospecting for oil on the North West Shelf unless they receive world parity prices. Finally the Government has given way to the oil companies in this regard and the people are going to pay for it. As I said, the increase this year is 11c a gallon and that is what we can expect next year and the year after. We will have steady increases in the prices of petroleum products, which must increase inflation and must create a greater demand for wage increases. So Kenneth Davidson's point that this Government's tax concessions will benefit the people on high incomes is correct. A slug in petrol prices simply means that an indirect tax is being imposed, which hits the little man equally as hard as it hits the big man. 
Furthermore, Kenneth Davidson made the point that we cannot expect any improvement in the unemployment position. I shall cite the figures for my area. In Blacktown, unemployment has increased by 35 per cent and in Mt Druitt by 54 per cent since this Government took office. Furthermore, about 48.5 per cent of those unemployed are young people. Yet the Government flatly refuses to introduce any programs which involve investment in the public sector. I return to what Kenneth Davidson had to say. He said: 
As unpalatable as it may be to  Mr Fraser,  a major reason why the recession has been prolonged in Australia is because Government spending, particularly capital spending, has been curtailed. This has been in stark contrast to other western countries where it has been rising strongly in real terms to take up the gap left by the failure of private spending to rise sufficiently to create new jobs. 
One of the best examples of that is what was done by the Prime Minister's buddy, Lee Kuan Yew. Lee Kuan Yew takes the opportunity when there is a world trade recession to get on with spending in the public sector. This is the time when he is putting into effect his new housing schemes, building new hospitals and schools and providing jobs for his people. The same thing occurs in Switzerland. This is the time when Switzerland invests in the public sector by renovating all those glorious historic buildings in that country. This also is what is happening in Germany today, Germany too is investing in the public sector. So any country with a worthwhile economic policy realises that it must take up the slack by investing in the public sector and creating employment. Of course, this is what we should be doing too. 
Time and again the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  and other honourable members have raised the necessity to create employment. Time and again we have raised the issue of the nearly $800m paid by way of unemployment benefit for which the general community gets no return. We can no longer say as we could in the past that for every person receiving the unemployment benefit the country is getting something worthwhile in return. Until we are prepared to pay award wages, until we are prepared to give people employment opportunities, to build the necessary community facilities, unemployment will continue to grow. This is one of the greatest needs not only in my area and in the Robertson electorate but also throughout Australia, although it applies particularly to those areas which have large unemployment in unskilled and semi-skilled occupations. 
With regard to youth employment, the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly)  mentioned the community youth support scheme. It is peanuts. It is giving very little benefit to the community. It is oriented to teaching young people how to find jobs and not to providing jobs for young people. The Budget allocates funds to provide 8,000 jobs under this new scheme whereby the Government pays the employers to employ a young person- 8,000 people under the age of 24 years when there are over 150,000 young people of that age group unemployed throughout the length and breadth of Australia. So honourable members can see how very little the Government is doing towards creating employment opportunities. It is well and truly time that we introduced an employment policy which will give emphasis to providing job opportunities for our youth and give emphasis to providing job opportunities for the mass of unemployed which today stands at something like 320,000 and is expected to rise to as high as 430,000 next year. No wonder the Government is backing away from an election. The people realise only too clearly that this level of unemployment is going to be reached. Any honourable member who sits in his electoral office today and has parents coming to him concerned and worried about how young people are going to get a job in the new year knows that this Government cannot avoid its responsibilities because the people know how tough it is going to be for the youth of the future. 
I quote further from what Kenneth Davidson had to say. He said: 
On interest rates, Statement 2 of the Budget paperswhich tend to be a Treasury evaluation rather than a Treasurer's expression and therefore should be taken seriously- appears ambivalent. 
On the one hand it invites the reader to expect a reduction in interest rates but then it points out that the money supply growth target will be eight to ten per cent ( less than the rate of inflation) and as a consequence 'some increase in the velocity of circulation is expected '. 
Usually velocity picks up in response to a squeeze on the volume of money and this suggests upward pressure on interest rates. 
A fair guess is that interest rates will come down by Government edict before the election, whenever it is held, but speculators would be wide- 
I think he means 'wise'-  to take their capital gains quickly as the problems now looming for the 1978-79 Budget suggest that any fall in rates will be temporary. 
In other words, the Government if it is looking for an election in December will reduce the interest rate on Commonwealth borrowings in October knowing that after the election the pressure of monetary forces will then force interest rates up again. 
I quite agree- what election? If on the other hand an election were held in May- and since the redistribution of boundaries I realise that the Government is getting a little concerned about holding an election and is beginning to change its mind, particularly the National Country Party component of the Government which will find itself rather decimated after this election- the Government strategy is still clear. It intends to reduce arbitrarily interest rates prior to an election and then allow them to increase immediately the election is over. How dishonest can a government be? 
-The honourable member for Port Adelaide points out that this Government will not be in power. I believe that that will be the case and that this is becoming more evident as the voice of the people is heard. Another point which should be looked at is the 40 per cent investment allowance which is costing $500m a year. I have been speaking tonight about employment opportunities. The fact is that the $500m a year which goes into the investment allowance is reducing employment opportunities. The honourable member for Port Adelaide would know only too well that the more capital investment which goes into automation in industry- and that is what the investment allowance is all about- the less jobs there are throughout industry. Although the Government says that its policy is directly aimed at increasing employment, its whole strategy is aimed at reducing employment opportunities. Its strategy must lead to massive unemployment of up to 7 per cent of the work force at the beginning of next year. Incidentally, some places such as Blacktown already have up to 12 per cent of their work force unemployed. This is an extraordinary circumstance. It is interesting to read the Treasurer's assumptions at page 33 of his Budget Speech where he says: 
Private consumption expenditure is expected to grow at a moderate rate over the course of 1977-78, this being accompanied, as in 1976-77, by some decline in the saving ratio. 
The facts of life are that people today are saving more assiduously than they have ever saved in their lives. This is simply because of a feeling of insecurity. They know only too well that they could be thrown out of their jobs tomorrow. Accordingly, there is a considerable investment in Australian Savings Bonds, deposits in building societies, term deposits with trading banks and savings bank deposits. 
This, in turn, is accompanied by the Government's restrictions on lending. Today a person could go to any bank manager who would say that his discretionary limits have been largely withdrawn by his head office. He has to send everything to his head office for approval. He can no longer lend for housing in the way that he could lend in the past. He would say how interest rates must come down if private industry is to have the opportunity to develop. Anybody here who is a businessman would hesitate to invest in any new project with the cost of money as it is today. I repeat, any bank manager would say straight away that interest rates must come down. There must be a lifting of Reserve Bank restrictions on lending in all spheres, particularly with regard to industry, otherwise the restriction on employment will continue throughout the whole realm of society and the economy. Yet this Government stated: 
Private consumption expenditure is expected to grow at a moderate rate . . . 
How can it grow at a moderate rate when, at the same time, the banks are restricting their lending and, accordingly, directly stopping that growth occurring? The assumptions in the Budget Speech state: 
The recovery in overseas economies will continue at a steady, albeit moderate, rate and Australia's balance of payments will strengthen over the course of 1 977-78. 
Yet we have the spectacle of the recent devaluation of the Australian currency. Furthermore, the Australian dollar is still tied to the United States dollar which is falling dramatically in overseas markets, particularly in Berne and Bonn in Germany. The value of the Australian dollar is falling with it. 
I refer the Minister for Transport to a report that a businessman by the name of  Mr Peter  Lloyd has suggested that the New South Wales Government should approach the Federal Government to allow the aerodrome at HMAS  Nirimba  at Schofields to be used as a general purpose airport- in other words, for light aircraft. Will the Minister give an assurance that he will not permit the aerodrome at HMAS  Nirimba  in the western suburbs of Sydney to be used for this purpose? 
-Today appears to have been 'airport day' and tonight continues to appear to be so. Everyone seems to be speaking on this issue. The honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  and the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  quite understandably are concerned that there might be extensions to Mascot. I have received pretty firm undertakings from the NSW Government in response to letters I have written to the Premier and to the State Minister for the Environment that there will not be a second international airport or a light aircraft airport in the Western Suburbs of Sydney. However, I am concerned that as an alternative to extensions to Mascot - 
The honourable member for Prospect has said that it will not go on the North Shore. Of course, there is some argument for putting it there. After all, the vast majority of the people who use light aircraft come from the North Shore. Some 45 per cent of the people who use international airports come from the North Shore also. Yet they do not want the airport, or rubbish dumps, on their home ground. They are trying to put the airport in the Western Suburbs of Sydney- that plain running from Parramatta to the Blue Mountains. 
For this reason I asked the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  at question time this morning a question relating to a businessman,  Mr Peter  Lloyd, who has suggested that the NSW Government should approach and try to influence the Federal Government to allow the aerodrome at HMAS  Nirimba,  a naval depot at Schofields, to be used as a general purpose airport, in other words, for light aircraft. I asked the Minister whether he would give an assurance that he would not permit this depot to be used as a general purpose airport. The Minister waffled around, as usual, and did not give any firm undertaking. He referred to the  Major Airport  Needs Study. As I pointed out by way of interjection, everybody knows that that study relates to a second international airport for the Sydney region. 
The Minister probably has not even looked at it but he suggested that I had not looked at it. I have looked at it. I went along to the place in Goulburn Street and looked at the  Major Airport  Needs Study. I questioned the Department of Transport officials there. I found there were no State Government officials there whom I could question, only Federal officials. Each one of them set about telling me the sites that were being considered for a second international airport for Sydney if Mascot is not expanded. The honourable member for St George might be interested to hear and the honourable member for Hughes will be interested to hear that their first preference was for the expansion of Mascot, for the establishment of a parallel runway there. Officials of the Federal Department of Transport put that proposition when I visited the MANS display. 
I then asked them what other sites were being considered. Of course, nearly all of them are on the western plain of Sydney, including Marsden Park, bordering Riverstone and in the Mitchell electorate; Badgerys Creek; the Kemps Creek area; Galston, also in the Mitchell electorate; the Rouse Hill area, also in the Mitchell electorate and on the western plain west of Sydney; Prospect; Hols worthy and Richmond. Everyone of these sites which they mentioned is on the western plain running from Parramatta out to the Blue Mountains. Every one of them is in an area which uses international airports very little indeed. This is my concern. In other words, airports are like garbage dumps- nobody wants them, particularly the people on the North Shore of Sydney. They want to dump an airport in the Western Suburbs of Sydney in the working class areas. What areas would they affect- Badgerys Creek, of course, the Camden area, around St Marys and all the other areas right around the Western Suburbs, which are the housing commission areas of Sydney. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="106131197708255_67_2.jpg"></graphic>

The same remarks can be made about radio. Australia's 120 radio stations also had a big pretax profit in the previous financial year. It amounted to approximately $ 16.2m, an increase of 30.7 per cent over the profit for the previous year. Several things emerge from all these figures. Are our television and broadcasting companies charging too much for advertisements? Are they putting sufficient money back into the system by providing a greater Australian content within the industry? I noted the contents of a report that was tabled today by the Minister for Post and Telecommunications entitled selfregulation for broadcasters. This public inquiry has brought down a recommendation for increased Australian participation in broadcasting and television. It is a recommendation that the Opposition certainly would not oppose. It would strongly support such a position. 
However, I come back to the amount of profit that is being made by the media today and raise again the point as to whether there is not overcharging. For example, a company has just had an application before the Prices Justification Tribunal for an increase in the price of its commodities. That application for an increase in price was based purely and simply on the amount of advertising it was having to indulge in to sell its products. I mention in passing that I noted with very much pleasure that the Prices Justification Tribunal has told the Minister responsible- not the Minister for Post and Telecommunications at the table- that the Government did not have the power to intervene in the hearing and that the PJT was on the right track in carrying out the sort of inquiry that it was undertaking. It is pleasing to see the Tribunal stand up and tell the Government when it thinks the Government is wrong and to go on and do the job it was set up to do. I return again to these costs and exorbitant profits. When there are increases in profits of over 100 per cent over the profits of the previous year, as has happened in the case I have just mentioned, one has to ask the question: What is happening to these profits? It is obvious that industry and commerce which are using the media to advertise their goods are having to pay more for the time they are buying on the media. In turn, industry and commerce- not just the particular company I have mentioned and which I am not prepared to give a free plug by mentioning its name- are now passing on these increased costs in the cost of their goods. In actual fact, this is one of the things that is contributing to the inflationary spiral that is taking place in the country today. It could well be that the Government will have to look at whether the profits that are being made today are exorbitant and whether there should not be some toning down and cutting back in the levels of profit and in the cost of advertising today. 
In conclusion, I wish to state that one of the things that has been concerning me today is the way in which the Australian Broadcasting Commission in television is being pushed out of its coverage of national sporting events. My understanding of Press reports is that the ABC will no longer be broadcasting television coverage of the Olympic Games and that if it is to give any television coverage of the Games, the Commission will have to buy it off one of the private companies which has purchased the broadcasting and television rights. We also have the case of the Packer cricket circus, to use a term which I think everyone understands. I think that it will be a circus. I am not opposed to the players getting a fair go. I think that they have received a raw deal from the Australian Cricket Control Board in the past. They should have received more money for their skill as cricketers. The same remarks apply to footballers and other sportsmen. I think that golfers have done well out of media coverage of their sport. I believe that tennis has been destroyed as a competitive sport and a sport of interest to people. But so far as Packer and his organisation are concerned, what concerns me is the fact that- 
Rather than see the ABC become a second rate organisation in broadcasting sporting events, I would prefer to see it have the right to obtain sponsors in order to make sure that it can broadcast events such as cricket test matches, Sheffield Shield matches, rugby league matches in Sydney and particular sporting events in other places. That is my opinion. It is not necessarily the opinion of my party. As I said earlier, the Opposition does not oppose the two Bills and is prepared to allow them to go through. 
-Is leave granted? 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)The Opposition side of the House has concurred in the honourable member's request. Leave is granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

I find it a little difficult to understand the logic of the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman).  In his last statement he said that the Labor Party had changed its view. Is he suggesting that by not opposing a public debate-by making that decision- the Opposition has changed its view? It has not done so. The Labor Party has a very explicit view. I am speaking with moral conviction about this issue, one about which I have thought very deeply. The whole basis of our case is that there must be a public debate and that there must be a moratorium until that public debate has occurred. That is the principle behind the stand which we take on this issue. I could not quote exactly what the honourable member for Mitchell said but he went on to say in effect that the Australian government must act responsibly and provide energy resources to the world. In that way he believes Australia can influence world opinion. The only way in which we are going to influence world opinion on the question of proliferation and nuclear waste is to withhold the necessary uranium until such time as science and the governments which utilise uranium have faced up to the issue. 
I support the amendment moved by the Opposition. Basically that amendment draws attention to the fact that the policies of this Government, if carried through, amount to assistance to those countries and organisations, even terrorist groups overseas, which want to utilise uranium for the purposes of war. The amendment draws attention to the danger of the Government's policy on the question of proliferation. It draws attention to the fact that no answer has been found to the fundamental issue of the disposal of nuclear waste. It draws attention to the fact that we must safeguard the environment of the national parks and in particular we must protect Aboriginal rights. 
This Government has made a decision to export uranium without the required debate called for in the two Fox reports. It made that decision without public debate occurring. I would ask my friends on the Government side to give an example showing where this Government has provided the necessary finance to permit public dissemination of the pros and cons as far as uranium is concerned. This Government has utilised all the forces of government, all the resources of government, to put forward only one side of the debate, the side for the mining of uranium. It has not put forward the opposing case as called for in the concept of the Fox reports. Therefore there is a need for a moratorium to allow that debate to proceed. That is the only answer and that is what is advocated by the Australian Labor Party. That is the only way to force science and the uranium users, both here and abroad, to find an answer to the disposal of waste. 
At present science adopts the attitude that it has 100 years to find a solution to the problem of neclear waste and that in the meantime it can be stored. In a previous debate in this House, during the last session of parliament, I referred to a proposal put forward by an officer of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission. In fact it appears that he is now very upset, judging from the correspondence I have received. In effect he put forward the latest proposal for disposing of nuclear waste. The idea is that there be a platform 2,000 feet under the ground with a mine going down to it. 
He made the point that this should be in a very secure area geographically. The idea was that the waste be placed in various containers, about 8 feet to 9 feet high and roughly 2te to 3 feet wide and sunk into this plaform 2,000 feet under the ground. The containers were to be sealed with concrete. He made the point that whilst the waste would last for a quarter of a million years, it would be damaging to human life for only a thousand years. He maintained that we would only have to make sure that the waste was not used for a thousand years. It would only have to be guarded for a thousand years. Who can tell what will be the political situation in this country or throughout the world in 50 years let alone 100 years, 500 years or a 1,000 years hence, yet these are the types of proposals being put forward for the disposal of waste. It was suggested in the Press only this morning that nuclear waste should be buried in the deepest part of the Atlantic Ocean. It would take many, many years for waste to float to the surface and a lot of it would be buried under the silt. This was put forward by American officials. The idea is that you can take the risk. 
I would not put it in the honourable member's electorate because I would not wish it on the next honourable member for Riverina, Johnny FitzPatrick. I want to refer to one other matter which I think is very important. There is a fundamental right of any individual to demonstrate. There is a fundamental right of people to join together in free speech, to express an opinion. That is one of the most important rights which should be guarded by all men and women. I want to mention some of the most important examples which show how peaceful demonstration has had an impact on policies not only in this country but throughout the world. 
The honourable member for Hunter mentions the point I was about to make, the right of women to vote. My own grandmother was one of the leaders in that move. 
The erstwhile honourable member for Riverina says that that is where we went wrong. I ask the women in the Riverina electorate never to forget that statement- the quote of the week. The honourable member for Riverina has just handed over his seat to the present honourable member for Darling  (Mr FitzPatrick).  He has insulted every woman in the Riverina electorate. Then there was the suffragette movement, the movement for women's rights. The women of Ireland today are working for peace in Ireland. Possibly the honourable member for Riverina would not like it. Then there were the demonstrations against the Vietnam war. I think the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  would agree that when there were attempts by agents provocateur and those who did not understand politics and the ways and means of influencing people to introduce violence into those demonstrations, those who realised the immorality of our intervention in Vietnam found it very difficult to convince the public. However, once violence was removed from those demonstrations and emphasis was placed upon peaceful demonstration the tide of public opinion changed. Finally we had the situation where the vast majority of the people in Australia and in the world realised the immorality of the situation and the right behind the cause which Labor was then advocating. I make that point today and appeal to the over enthusiastic who tend to get over excited in a demonstration. I would not appeal to the agents provocateur because most of them are employed by this Government, but I suggest to this Government that it should not advocate violence by assisting agents provocateur to create that violence. 
There is a fundamental right to demonstrate and it must be guarded, but at all times demonstrations must be peaceful. In that way we will convince the vast majority of the people of the correctness of our cause. I wish to refer here to a good example of provocation of violence, in this case by the Premier of Queensland,  Mr BjelkePetersen.  He was repudiated by honourable members opposite only today. He accused members of the Liberal Party, such as the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  and the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil),  of being communist dupes because they wanted to go to Timor to investigate the Timorese situation on the spot. That man, whom these honourable members had to repudiate today in their personal explanations by saying that their actions were not communist inspired, is deliberately provoking violence in Queensland by refusing people the fundamental right to demonstrate on the question of uranium. The right to demonstrate and to explain is a fundamental issue. However, it must be done peacefully. 
This Government by its attitudes and by assisting those agents provocateur to create violence and the Queensland Government by its attitude of confrontation and provocation are the ones creating the situation that we have today. The fact is that this is a government of confrontation. This Government has deliberately made a decision to export uranium without the necessary public debate. It is a government of violence because it is deliberately invoking violence and creating confrontation and provocation in the hope that it will get some minor electoral advantage out of it. The issue goes far beyond politics. It is an issue involving the safety of many future generations not only of Australians but also of other people. The Australian Labor Party stands on the issue of morality. The Government is immoral in its attitude. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 18 August 1977: 
With reference to the Commonwealth-State Committee inquiring into Sydney's airport needs including the possible site of a second international airport, where do the members of the committee live. 
If a member lives in or near the Sydney metropolitan area, what is the name of the suburb in each case. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I preface it by referring to the Minister's calling for fresh applications for a radio station licence for the western suburbs of Sydney at a time when the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal is considering an application by radio station 2KA to upgrade its reception in that area. Does the Minister remember rejecting in March the recommendation of the former Australian Broadcasting Control Board for a licence to serve the same area, just five days before the High Court had scheduled the hearing of a challenge to the proceedings? Is his latest action another attempt to circumvent a hearing by the appropriate tribunal in the interests of Liberal supporters who did not find favour in the hearings? 
-I ask that the Minister for Posts and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  table all documents relating to the matter of radio licences for the outer western suburbs of Sydney. This request was made by  Senator Douglas  McClelland in another place in a question on notice, No. 323. The Minister refused the request because he has something to hide. I also ask that there be a full public inquiry into this matter because this scandal cannot be swept under the carpet indefinitely. Let us have a look at a little of the history of this matter. First of all the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal inquired into which company should receive a licence for a radio station for the outer western and north-western suburbs of Sydney. The result was that the Tribunal recommended to the Minister that the licence be awarded to Prospect Broadcasters Pty Ltd. 
Before the licence was awarded Metro- Western Broadcasters Ltd, one of the other applicants, took out an injunction in the High Court to restrain the Minister from awarding the licence. The principal of Metro- Western Broadcasters Ltd is Harold Cottee, a federal councillor of the Liberal Party of Australia, president of the Mitchell Federal Electorate Conference of the Liberal Party, a member of the Castle Hill branch of the Liberal Party and, furthermore, he was chairman of the Liberal Party of Australia Selection Committee when Max Ruddock, who was the State member for the Hills electorate, died. On15 March that injunction was due to come before the High Court to be heard. It is obvious that the Minister received legal advice that Cottee 's injunction would not stand the test of the court so, on 10 March, the Minister rejected the decision of the Broadcasting Tribunal. In other words, he circumvented the High Court. 
After that we find that radio station 2KA, Katoomba, asked for permission to alter the strength of the station and to move its aerial so that it could then beam across the outer western suburbs of Sydney. That matter went to the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal last week. Who was the person who sat taking notes throughout the whole proceedings? It was none other than 

 Mr Cottee. After the hearing the Tribunal reserved its decision. Yet we find that last Saturday in an advertisement in the  Australian  the Minister called for fresh applications for a radio station for the outer western suburbs of Sydney. In other words, not only did the Minister seek to circumvent a decision of the High Court of Australia but also he sought to circumvent a decision of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal. 
It does indeed. It should also be known that the week before last the  president  of the Parramatta Chamber of Commerce,  Mr Rock  Davis- I understand he is also connected with the Liberal Party- came to see the Minister. I ask honourable members to keep in mind that the week before last the Minister told  Mr Davis  that he, the Minister, would be calling applications for another licence.  Mr Davis  was able to go back to Parramatta before any advertisement had been lodged in the Press and tell people in Parramatta- of course, this came to my ears- that the fact was that an application for a licence was to be called. When we see this situation is it any wonder that I say once again that there must be a full and open inquiry into this matter. The Minister must table all the related documents. He must realise that he can no longer evade the issue. He was asked to come in here tonight. He is not here because he wants to evade answering. He must be made to realise he can no longer keep on sweeping this scandal under the carpet. 
-I claim to have been misrepresented. 
I do. Last night on the adjournment debate I spoke on the matter of radio licences for the outer western suburbs of Sydney. The honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  spoke on the same matter. I claim to have been misrepresented by him. On page 1073 of  Hansard he  stated: 
I believe he  is  doing what he has done tonight - 
He was referring to me-  with a very sinister motive in mind and it is to take away the obvious benefit that will derive to the western suburbs from this decision and to confuse the matter in the minds of the people by creating a smokescreen of allegations and innuendo. That is what he seeks to do. 
As my speeches in this House, my Press releases on this subject and all my actions in this matter reveal, I have consistently advocated a radio licence or licences for the western suburbs of Sydney. My recent statements in this Parliament have merely been by way of objection to the way in which the Government is trying to circumvent judicial authorities to grant a licence to Liberal Party supporters, which would be a scandal. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 23 August 1977: 
1 ) Did he say in answer to Senate Question No. 997 (Senate  Hansard,  8 December 1976, page 2866) that civil employees of his Depanment numbered 38,341 as at 30 June 1973, 35,202 as at 30 June 1974, 34,152 as at 30 June 1975 and 33, 1 88 as at 30 June 1 976. ' 
Did Budget Paper No. 4 1975-76 (pages 75-78 and 49) show that the average number of civil employees for his Depanment was 32,096 in 1974-75, Budget paper No. 4 1976-77 (pages 95-98 and 49) show 30,751 in 1975-76, and Budget paper No. 4 1977-78 (pages 89-91 and 49) show 29,969 in 1976-77. 
If so, what is the reason for these apparent discrepancies. 
Is the Minister for Health aware of reports that the Federal Government and private health funds are endeavouring to encourage private nursing home patients to join private health funds? Would he agree that pensioner patients in such nursing homes would not only have nothing to gain by joining a private fund but would actually lose because they would have to pay the necessary contributions to those funds? As there is so much confusion on this matter, particularly among pensioner patients in nursing homes, will he take action to repudiate reports that the Government is trying to encourage nursing home patients, particularly pensioners, to join public funds? Will he give publicity to the fact that it would be a disadvantage to pensioner patients in such homes if they joined those funds? 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 13 September 1977: 
With reference to his answer to my question No. 1251 of 18 August 1977  (Hansard,  8 September 1977, page 997) particularly his answer to part (2) of that question, and accepting that members of the Commonwealth State Committee inquiring into Sydney's airport needs are entitled to privacy in respect of their private addresses, will he advise if those members who live in Sydney live in the northern, southern, western or eastern suburbs and, if in the northern suburbs, the north-western area, and, if in the western suburbs, the outer or inner western suburbs. 
I ask the Prime Minister: Did he some time ago give a background briefing to selected journalists conveying the Government's intention to reduce interest rates? At the time did the leak allow money market dealers to make speculative gains in anticipation of increased bond prices? Did this not break a long-standing convention that Government leaders do not forecast interest rate changes in this way which allows speculative profits to be made? Did not the leak also infringe Loan Council arrangements to the effect that such Loan Council matters are not to be the subject of public comment? 
I wish to deal with the subject of nursing home benefits. I point out, first, that approximately 70 per cent of people who are inmates of nursing homes are pensioners. Secondly, I refer to the decision of the Government, as announced by the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt),  that private hospital and medical funds and not the Government will pay benefits to nursing homes in respect of patients who are insured by them. The Minister, of course, uses the argument that this will shift some of the responsibility to what he calls the private sector. He also uses the argument that this decision will help to utilise some of the large reserves held by some of the funds. However, I would submit very firmly that this is actually an excuse and that in reality the private funds will increase the fees paid by their members. In other words, far from charging the extra cost of the subscriptions to nursing homes to their own reserves they will simply increase their fees. Accordingly it will not be the private sector- in other words the private hospital and medical funds- that will bear the costs; it will be the public itself. The Minister has used an around-about method to shift some of the responsibility for financing private nursing homes from the Federal Government on to members of the public. This responsibility has been shifted onto members of the private funds. 
Much more important is the campaign being carried out by the private funds and the nursing homes themselves- unfortunately, according to reports, these actions have been aided and abetted by the Federal Government- to try to entice pensioners to join private funds in the belief that they will get some advantage from doing so. In fact, they would not receive any advantage. Far to the contrary, they would be greatly advantaged if they were to join private funds. 
On 20 September, I asked the Minister for Health this question without notice: 
Is the Minister aware of reports that the Federal Government and private health funds are endeavouring to encourage private nursing home patients to join private health funds? Would he agree that pensioner patients in such nursing homes- 
And I repeat that 70 per cent of patients in such nursing homes are pensioners- . . . would not only have nothing to gain by joining a private fund but would actually lose because they would have to pay the necessary contributions to these funds? As there is so much confusion on this matter, particularly among pensioner patients in nursing homes, will he take action to repudiate reports that the Government is trying to encourage nursing home patients, particularly pensioners, to join public funds? Will he give publicity to the fact that it would be a disadvantage to pensioner patients in such homes if they joined those funds? 
I do not want to be rude, but to be frank the Minister gave a rather confused reply in which he kept on referring to the choice of a doctor. In fact pensioner patients in private nursing homes are visited by their own doctors. They do not have to join a fund to obtain that privilege. Also, at this stage all pensioner patient contributions are paid by the Federal Government. Therefore they would not receive any further benefits if they joined a private fund. Far to the contrary, they would be very greatly disadvantaged by having to pay subscriptions to the funds. In other words, they would pay subscriptions to the funds and receive nothing whatsoever in return. 
The Minister for Health said in reply to my question- and I fully agree with him on this point- that he was aware of a great deal of confusion among nursing home patients because of a campaign that was launched by some private health funds. But I do not think the Minister realises that the nursing homes themselves joined in that campaign or that the funds have used the name of this Government and the Minister for Health as being party to the campaign. I make quite clear that I do not think the Minister was a party to it. Nevertheless, this was done. As a result I received phone calls in my office and visits from pensioners and the relatives of pensioners in nursing homes who expressed their deep concern about what was happening. I think it is still a matter of some confusion. I have issued Press statements in my own area which clearly establish that there is no advantage whatsoever to be gained by a pensioner patient who is in a nursing home joining a private fund. To the contrary, it is a disadvantage to them because they will not receive any more financial assistance and in fact will have to pay subscriptions to the private fund. I ask the Minister to issue a Press statement clearly establishing that the Federal Government is not encouraging pensioner patients to join private funds in order to obtain coverage for nursing home treatment. It should also clearly establish that pensioner patients are fully protected now by the funds paid by the Federal Government to nursing homes. The Minister would have a right to put in that statement that he has recently appreciably increased the subscriptions paid by the Federal Government to nursing homes. He should also make the point that the nursing homes should reduce their fees to pensioners. Most nursing homes take the whole pension and in addition ask relativessometimes it is the patient's wife, who is also a pensioner- to pay $6 or $8 per week extra out of a very small pension. 
Now that there has been this appreciable increase in benefits paid to nursing homes it is time for nursing homes to cut out that nefarious practice of charging pensioners, even a woman who has her husband in a nursing home, up to $ 10 per week to cover various necessities such as laundry costs and this type of thing. The Minister should make it clear in such a statement that the Government is not a party to this fraudulent campaign which has been conducted by the private funds to entice pensioners to join the funds when it would be of no benefit but rather a distinct disadvantage to them if they did so. 
Finally, I deal with the question of funds for the community health program. Last year, if I recollect the figure correctly, a polyclinic at Mount Druitt had its funds for operating expenses reduced by some $100,000. The clinic had three speech therapists who were a great necessity in Mount Druitt. As one retired or resigned the clinic was not able to replace that therapist without special approval from the Department. The polyclinic at Mount Druitt is the biggest and one of the finest community health centres in the country and one of the best examples of preventive medicine in the true sense of the word, particularly in respect of paediatric services. It is unfortunate that the block funds which were distributed to the States last year for the maintenance of necessary standards were not indexed against inflation. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Jarman)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
Progress reported. 
I want to speak tonight about a former member of this Parliament, a person held in the greatest respect in this Parliament. Very few people knew him well when he came into the Parliament. He had a tremendous industrial background. He is a former executive member of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. In a very short time he became a Minister in the Whitlam Government as a result of what might be called a by-election for a Cabinet position. He is a person of whom everyone in the area in which he lives speaks with respect. He is a person of whom even those who would normally vote for the Liberal Party speak with respect. 
Do not get uptight, I will tell the House in a minute. Unlike Rex Connor he did not have to wait until he died for supporters of the Liberal Party to speak well of him. 
I am speaking about Joe Riordan, the former honourable member for Phillip and the next honourable member for Phillip. Without doubt Joe Riordan is a man held m the highest personal repute, a person who when he left Parliament was unable to go back to his former position. So with his great personal capacity and ability he built up an industrial consultant's practice and today people from all walks of life consult him and ask him to represent them- the industrial movement, industry, the lot. 
He will have another 20 years in Parliament. He will be returned at the next election as the honourable member for Phillip and I believe he will stay here for another 20 years. More than that, I am sure that the former honourable member for Phillip - 
-I must agree with the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Jull)  in regard to citizen band radio. Its indiscriminate use is reaching quite chaotic proportions. I have received many complaints and petitions in my office. I have sent them to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson).  I might mention that they have been with him for some considerable time and I sent reminder letters only last week because I have not received any replies to them. I suggest to the Minister that he look at this matter because, frankly, it is reaching chaotic proportions. Citizen band radio is a plaything today. It is a thing which parents give to their children and they have the time of their lives with it. I have no doubt that I would have loved one myself when I was a kid. But, after all, the basic use of citizen band radio is for such things as safety. What is decided today by the Minister in regard to CB radio could result in a loss of life. Citizen band radio is essential for safety purposes in regard to boats and so on. 
The main matter about which I wish to speak tonight is the proposal to issue a radio licence for the western suburbs of Sydney. I have referred to this matter before. As the Minister knows, I have referred to it as a scandal. I have made the point that on two occasions he has circumvented decisions of a judicial authority. In the first instance, he circumvented a decision of the High Court of Australia. He knew that the decision of the Broadcasting Control Board had been challenged before the High Court; that is to say, a writ had been issued to restrain the Minister from acting on the recommendation of the Board. He knew that it was to go to court on 1 5 March. Accordingly, on 10 March he cancelled the decision of the Board because he knew from legal advice that he had received that the High Court would not uphold the writ for an injunction which  Mr Cottee  had taken out. The Minister made that decision. 
Later, of course, there was the inquiry into whether radio station 2KA could move its aerial further down the mountain, increase its power and so fan out over the western suburbs. That matter went to the Broadcasting Tribunal. Virtually on the day the inquiry started the Minister announced to the Tribunal that he had decided to call for fresh applications for a radio licence for the western suburbs of Sydney, thereby once again indicating to the Tribunal that a licence was to be issued. In other words, he was indicating to the Tribunal by direct inference that it should not grant the application made by 2KA. That is another example of deliberate circumvention of a decision of a judicial authority. And at whose behest?  Mr Harold  Cottee, of Cottees drinks fame, is a very prominent member of the Liberal Party, has direct access to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and works directly through  Senator Carrick.  He has direct access to the Prime Minister, and he does his day to day dealings with  Senator Carrick.  The Minister for Post and Telecommunications, who is sitting at the table, is merely a pawn in the game, the messenger boy who is doing the bidding of the Prime Minister and  Senator Carrick.  It is well known throughout the industry that the licence has been promised to  Mr Cottee. 
The Minister is well aware of this and without a doubt it is a scandal. There is no doubt that it is a deliberate attempt by the Liberal Party of Australia to get direct control of a radio licence in this country- in the western suburbs of Sydney. That is the whole of the motivation behind everything that is being done. As I have said, the Minister is only a pawn in the game. He has been told- so it is stated throughout the industry- by the Prime Minister that Cottee is to get the licence. Cottee 's main contact day by day is through  Senator Carrick,  who is a former general secretary of the Liberal Party. Of course, the Minister is said to be going to do his bidding. 
Let us have a look at what has happened. On 10 September there was an advertisement in the  Australian  newspaper calling for fresh applications for a licence for the western surburbs of Sydney and stating that the radio station should be sited, if I recollect the words, at or in the proximity of Blacktown. The advertisement statedkeep in mind that it was put in an obscure section of the  Australian  newspaper and was not advertised generally- that applications would close on 7 November. Fortunately, there were a few people who had their eyes opened. My wife happened to spot the advertisement in the  Australian.  It also was announced that the inquiry was to take place on 22 November. I repeat: The advertisement appeared on 10 September; applications close on 7 November and the inquiry starts on 22 November. It is stated that this is going to be the fastest inquiry of all time and that the Government is not going to allow legal representation at the inquiry. One of the motives is that the Government hopes to get the recommendation of the Broadcasting Tribunal through before the election so that the Minister can grant the licence. If it is correct, as the stories which are circulating in the industry indicate, that he will not allow legal representation on the excuse that there is a good deal of cost involved in legal representation, it will mean that some of the applicants for the licence will not be properly represented. An inquiry of this nature is a judicial inquiry. It is a highly complicated matter. It is a matter which requires trained minds to put a case. If there is to be no legal representation it will be a complete disgrace. 
I say that the Minister has been dodging this issue. He has not been prepared to reply to the statements I have made in the past. For example, he has refused to table the papers. I call upon him again tonight to table all the papers relating to this whole matter of a licence for the western suburbs of Sydney and the papers relating to the application for a licence for the north-western suburbs of Sydney. I call upon the Minister particularly to table the minutes of the last meeting of the Broadcasting Control Board. They win show just what a scandal this whole matter is and the nefarious activities of the Minister himself in regard to it. I call upon the Minister quite firmly to hold an open and public inquiry into this whole matter, so that all the facts can be revealed, and particularly to take action before that inquiry to table those papers and particularly the minutes of the last meeting of the Broadcasting Control Board before he got rid of it. I believe that a very interesting story is to be found in those papers. 
I repeat that this whole matter is a scandal bordering on corruption. It is time the Minister, instead of endeavouring to duck the issue, refusing to reply to statements that are made, refusing to give adequate reasons for cancelling the recommendations of the former Broadcasting Control Board and then later calling for fresh applications, answered all of these things. I believe that he must be quite frank about it. The facts are that it is right through the industry that he has promised the licence to Harold Cottee, who is a prominent member of the Liberal Party, who has direct access to the Prime Minister, who is dealing directly day by day with  Senator Carrick-  a Minister in this Government and a former general secretary of the Liberal Party. The Minister himself is only a pawn in the game. 
-For some considerable time there has been a subcommittee of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence- 
Apparently the Minister for Construction  (Mr McLeay)  did not know anything about it. The sub-committee has been investigating the level of industrial back-up required from Australian industry for the Defence Force. As the honourable member for Wills said, evidently the Minister at the table did not know about it, although a report has been brought down in this Parliament. He should have read it, but evidently he did not. Evidently his own advisers did not even bother to let him know about it. The fact is that the interim report was brought down in this Parliament. It dealt with a number of scenarios which could happen in this country. The honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  will agree with that. The report works on the assumption contained in the defence White Paper, which is that Australia no longer can depend upon 'powerful friends' for protection. In fact, Australia is in the same position as the Minister's adopted country, South Africa. South Africa no longer can depend on powerful friends. 
I would like to deal with some aspects of the report. One section of the report dealing with the electronics industry still has to be presented to this Parliament. Naturally I will not disclose any specific references in that section, but I will speak about the electronics industry itself. First of all, I will deal with the shipbuilding industry. Quite frankly, to date the reception from the Government, particularly the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  has been anything but what was desired. The Committee's report- this is a report of the full Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence because the sub-committee's report has been adopted by the full Committee- has recommended the maintenance of two of the large shipbuilding yards in Australia, at Whyalla and Newcastle, based on their being economic propositions. 
The great problem for Australia, as far as the shipbuilding industry is concerned, is that there has been a world-wide recession in the large shipbuilding field and countries such as Korea and West Germany, which have been building large tankers, have gone into the production of smaller ships to keep their highly efficient yards going. They of course, are more efficient. Because there has been very little capital investment in the Australian shipbuilding industry for many years, countries such as Japan are able to produce ships more economically. What is required is what is happening todayin Malta- tiny little Malta with 300,000 people. It currently is establishing a new shipbuilding yard which will be able to build, if I remember correctly, ships of up to 1 10,000 tonnes. 
It is a good achievement from 300,000 people. It will be a computerised and efficient industry. The future of this industry in this country rests purely on it being economic. We should not shore it up with false assistance. 
We should ensure, as is recommended by the Committee whose report has been tabled in this Parliament, that the industry is an efficient and economic industry, that the necessary capital investment is ploughed into it, that it becomes computerised in its activities and that in this way it can then compete on equal ground with overseas countries. It is anticipated that the recession in the large shipbuilding industry- the building of large tankers and so on- will end in the early 1980s. It is at that time that those countries that concentrate on smaller ships, particularly those up to 45,000 tonnes, will come into their own, subject to the industry being efficient and economically viable. For that reason I am concerned that the Prime Minister in his correspondence virtually wiped this matter off. I am deeply concerned that the reaction to date of the Minister for Defence has been virtually negative. For this reason I think the Government needs to have a very serious look at a very comprehensive report. Evidence was received in camera as well as publicly; as the honourable member for Wills mentioned, visits were made throughout the length and breadth of this country, to every shipbuilding yard; and opinions were received from throughout the country. The same applies in regard to the aircraft industry, and I have no doubt that if the honourable member for St George speaks in this debate he will have something to say about that. 
The report on the electronics industry has not been brought down as yet, but I would like to make some comments on the industry itself. Apparently it is now accepted by government, in accordance with the White Paper and in accordance with evidence received, that Australia no longer can depend necessarily on outside assistance. That is to say, we could be placed in a situation where some sort of conflagration arises and the United States, for example, may not wish to be involved. It may wish to be impartial. It may say: 'You are both friends. You are having a fight and we do not want to get involved '. If that is the case, we will find ourselves in a peculiarly difficult position because we are becoming less and less self-sufficient year by year so far as defence equipment is concerned. For example, it was stated by one company that Australia in 1939 had the capacity to produce 80 per cent of the electronics technology then available in the world. That is to say, in 1939 we had the technical ability to produce 80 per cent of the technology then available in the world. By 1973 - 
We are not talking about tanks or motor cars. We are talking about electronic equipment. By 1973 that percentage had been reduced to 45 per cent. Today it is down to 25 per cent. That is a serious situation for a country which has always prided itself on its technical ability. The future of this country, with such a small population and such a vast area, lies in having great technological ability. That is the only future for Australia. For example, the job being done in the Weapons Research Establishment is magnificent. We should be making sure that the young scientists working there are given the same opportunities as the older scientists were given to go overseas and learn the technology of other countries, instead of having this ridiculous restriction which has been imposed upon travel. 
-As the honourable member for Prospect said, we cannot even fix the tote. I am not a racing man, but I understand that Amalgamated Wireless Australasia Ltd built a computerised automatic totalisator for the Sydney racecourses, it was installed in May or June last year and it has broken down innumerable times. For two race meetings recently it could operate for only three of the races. That is an example of how our technical capacity in these fields has been reduced. The fact is that there is not an industry policy. We need to have a policy so that industry knows where it is going. We need a policy so that industry will be prepared to invest in the future. At present industry is not prepared to invest in the future because it does not know what its future is going to be. Governments of all colours must be prepared to bring down an industry policy so that those sections of industry in which we intend to intervene will be protected. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drummond)  -Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- There is no point of order. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 6 October 1977: 
With reference to his answer to question No. 1255  (Hansard,  20 September 1977, page 1360; and, in particular, in respect of part 3 (b) of that answer, will he advise: 
precisely what categories of employees are involved whose salaries are charged against appropriations or trust accounts other than appropriations within the Defence vote; 
precise details of those appropriations, or trust accounts other than appropriations within the Defence vote, in respect of which salaries of employees mentioned in part (a) are charged against, and 
precise details of 'certain inoperative staff. 
I rise tonight to deal with the question of pressures that have been brought to bear on both the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  and the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  and, of course, their two departments, to allow the airport at HMAS  Nirimba  to become a general purpose airport. Of course, this pressure has been coming from aero clubs and the like for some considerable time. The position as I understand it is that whilst it was receiving some encouragement from the Department of Transport the proposal was strongly opposed by the Department of Defence on defence grounds because HMAS  Nirimba  is, of course, a defence establishment. But this has not deterred the aero clubs from pursuing their cause. I was very perturbed to read a letter I received only this week when I came back to Canberra from the Schofields Flying Club Ltd inviting me to be among the official guests at the Schofields Silver Jubilee air show to be held as an official part of the Silver Jubilee commemorative celebrations at Schofields aerodrome- that is the HMAS  Nirimba  defence establishmenton the weekend of 12 and 13 November 1977. What shocked me most of all was this unity ticket. The letter states: 
The Minister for Defence, the Rt Hon. D. J. Killen, Esq., M.P., has kindly consented to be the Patron of the Air Show and will be presiding at the opening ceremony on Saturday morning. Also, the Rt Hon. P. J. Nixon, Esq., M.P., the Minister for Transport, is Co-Patron of the Air Show and will be present on the Sunday to make the official presentations. 
Further on, the letter states: 
The Air Show has been likened to a 'mini-Farnborough' or 'mini-Oshkosh'. Although mainly oriented towards light and general aviation, emphasis is also being given to all other facets of aviation. 
In other words, there is or there would appear to be a unity ticket between the two Ministers with the object of converting to a general aviation airport this aerodrome at a defence establishment at which the movement of private planes has been very carefully kept down to a low level because of defence requirements. A high level of aircraft movements would interfere not only with the Schofields Aerodrome itself but also would interfere with air traffic at HMAS  Nirimba  and also with movements from the Royal Australian Air Force Base at Richmond. As I have said, this letter appears to be undoubtedly a unity ticket between the two Ministers to allow the Schofields airport to be used for general aviation purposes or, in other words, to become another Bankstown Airport. This is a quite ludicrous situation. Schofields borders on Blacktown, Mt Druitt, Marayong, Riverston and Doonside. All of these areas have a high population density. Of course, we know that the aviation position at Bankstown is such that it is already dangerous to the general public. The situation would be compounded if a general purpose airport were established in the Schofields area. There would be greater danger to the general public. 
I have already sent urgent telegrams to both Ministers asking them to take action immediately to ensure that their acceptance of this invitation as co-patrons does not mean that this airport is to be used for general aviation purposes. 
I think an example of the concern which this Government feels about unemployment- we submit that there is a need for new economic policies to reverse the Government's record of increasing unemployment- is evidenced by the fact that two quite insignificant back benchers opposite, who are well known to be oncers who win not be returned to the Parliament, will be speaking in this debate. 
There is only one in the House now. As soon as the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Sainsbury)  finished his speech he left the House. The only other member here now is the honourable member for Henty  (Mr Aldred)  who is a oncer and is insignificant, just like the honourable member for EdenMonaro. As I said, I think that is evidence of how much concern this Government has for unemployment. Even though a matter of public importance has been brought forward this afternoon by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  the Government does not even have the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street),  who is responsible for this matter, in the chamber to reply. We are to hear only from two insignificant oncers. That shows the degree of the Government's concern. An article which appeared in the Melbourne  Age  of 31 October reads: 
The Federal Government had shown 'sensitivity and concern' for unemployed Australians, the Prime Minister,  Mr Fraser,  said yesterday. 
He said unemployment was a severe problem, but it would not be solved by money alone . . . 
He said the Government's policies tackled the 'real causes of unemployment and, at the same time, provided creative solutions to immediate problems '. 
According to the article, he called on the Liberals to get out and persuade employers to hire young unemployed people under the Government's $65 a week subsidy scheme. That is what the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said, according to an article which appeared in the  Age 

 Financial Review of that very same day, 31 October, an article which reads: 
The Prime Minister,  Mr Fraser,  has cancelled a $ 100m job creation scheme because of the unexpectedly low 2 per cent increase in the September consumer price index. 
Soon after the Budget, the Cabinet, on  Mr Fraser  's prompting, decided to announce in November a new $100m jobs plan. 
The Prime Minister intended to go ahead with the new program but pulled back because of the unexpected small rise in the CPI. 
The cancellation reflects the effect the low CPI increase had in hardening the Government's attitude to increasing expenditure. 
This is the crunch: 
It also shows  Mr Fraser  's confidence that the electoral benefit derived from falling inflation far outweighs any loss of votes from high unemployment. 
That shows the insensitivity of the Prime Minister on the question of the unemployed. Today's  Sydney Morning Herald  carries a report of some remarks made by  Dr Andrew  Robertson, clinical supervisor of the Parramatta Psychiatric Hospital. The report reads: 
About 350 people in Blacktown Municipality - 
I represent the Blacktown municipality- aged 14 upwards, try to kill themselves each year and in a high percentage of these cases unemployment is an important factor. 
The article goes on to say that  Dr Robertson  has studied 235 cases listed as attempted suicides for the year ended 30 September 1976, but he estimates that the total number is close to 350. The article continues: 
Unemployment is a major stress factor which has set the stage for a large number of these attempted suicides, ' he said yesterday. 
His survey found that 72 males and 163 females tried to commit suicide, mainly through taking overdoses of prescribed medicines. 
I think that is a very good example of the social impact that the unemployment is having upon our community. Yet we have reports such as the one I have just referred to coming out at a time when the rate of unemployment is rising rapidly- the very time the Prime Minister decides to scrap a $ 100m job opportunity program. Does that show the Prime Minister's - 
The honourable member for Hunter mentions also the Newcastle dockyard. The Prime Minister has also decided to scrap that, despite a recommendation of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence of this Parliament that the dockyard should be maintained. Does that show the Prime Minister's so-called, to quote the  Age,  'sensitivity and concern' for unemployed Australians? It shows a complete lack of sensitivity to what is occurring in the area of unemployment. 
I shall refer to what is happening in the BlacktownMount Druitt area, which is the area concerned with the survey carried out by  Dr Andrew  Robertson. The number of unemployed registered in Blacktown at the end of September this year totalled 3,088; in Mount Druitt the number was 3,692. In other words, more than 6,700 people were unemployed in those two areas as at September this year. Almost half of those people are under the age of 21 years. Furthermore, we can add to that list, as from the beginning of next year, some 2,000 school leavers. That will give some idea of the figures that will pertain about the end of January or February next year. Furthermore, sources from within the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations indicate that in the area covered by the Blacktown office of the Commonwealth Employment Service, 8.05 per cent of the labour force is unemployed, and in Mount Druitt 17.4 per cent of the labour force is unemployed. That is a massive figure. Yet at the same time this Government refuses to allocate the necessary finance to establish job opportunity programs. As late as 3 1 October the Cabinet decided that a job opportunity program which was to cost $100m was to be cancelled. As I have said, that is an example of the Prime Minister's 'sensitivity' in relation to this important issue of unemployment, and particularly youth unemployment. 
The matter of public importance brought forward today calls for new economic policies to overcome the unemployment situation in this country. The major economic policy which needs to be introduced is to reverse the decision by this Government to cut back public expenditure. The Government has adopted the Milton Friedman policies of giving everything to the private sector without realising that government is the biggest purchaser from the private sector. When government expenditure is cut back, when expenditure on the public sector is cut back, that has a very big impact upon the private sector and accordingly creates unemployment not only in the pubUc sector but also in the private sector. It is time that the Government's POliCY was reversed. Surely, after two years of following that policy the Government must now realise that it has failed. Also there is a very vital need to inject funds into job opportunity programs. I believe that when the people go to the polls on 10 December they will demonstrate that the 
Government's policies have been a failure and that these new policies must be implemented. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Did the Minister for Transport tell the Parliament yesterday, in answer to a question, that he had no knowledge of the activities of the Department of Administrative Services in relation to the purchase of land for the Omega base in his electorate? If that is the case, why did the Minister seek through his Department to have a local stock and station agent appointed to act on behalf of the Government, contrary to normal Australian Government practice, with the comment that the principal should not be revealed? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 2 1 September 1977: 
When does the Government intend to introduce legislation to prevent tax evasion through the use of family trusts. 
-I would like to convey congratulations to the honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Millar)  and to refer particularly to the service given to this Parliament by the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock).  I have served for some years as a  Deputy Chairman  of Committees in this Parliament with the honourable member for Lyne who has served both as a  Chairman  of Committees and as a  Deputy Chairman  of Committees. I can vouch for his knowledge of the Standing Orders and parliamentary practice and can say that his respect for the impartiality of the Chair is absolutely paramount at all times. I think it is a great pity that apparently, because of clashes with one or two people- all honourable members remember that time he clashed with the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)-  his time had to come. 
The Government Whip as well. That is quite correct. However, I pay particular respect to the honourable member for Lyne. I was tempted myself to gain nomination for the position this afternoon but out of respect for the honourable member for Lyne I declined to do so. I would like also to back up the words of the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones).  Only six more votes were needed for the honourable member for Lyne to have been elected here this afternoon. I think that if that telegram had been read out it would have made a very big difference indeed. 

 -Although Mr Speaker is not in the chair this evening I take this opportunity to congratulate him on his reelection as  Speaker.  Quite frankly, I am sorry that the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  is not the  Chairman  of Committees. As I said here the other day, I served with him and I think he did a very good job in that post. He had an excellent knowledge of the Standing Orders. For that reason I am indeed sorry that he is not in that position. I take this opportunity to pay respect to him for all the service he has given this Parliament over so many years. 
For a start I wish to read a few extracts from the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare entitled: Drug Problems in AustraliaAn Intoxicated Society? I make the point that this was a six-man committee comprising three people from our side of the House and three people from the Government side. I will read a few extracts and then seek leave to have the introduction incorporated in  Hansard.  I have already spoken about this to the Minister for Home Affairs  (Mr Ellicott)  who is at the table. I think that the report is very important in relation to the type of debate that is going on on this issue. I will give some very graphic examples of the damage that is being done to young people in this country. The opening paragraph says: 
The drug use debate has brought forth extremist views. Arguments are often biased, many cannot be justified, nearly all are emotional. In supporting calls for particular actions - 
I emphasise the following words-  some contributors to the debate have been quite ready to distort or misrepresent facts. Even research has not displayed desirable objectivity or aimed at an impartial search for knowledge. 
The report goes on in the third paragraph to say: 
The poor standard of the debate itself has contributed to the level and nature of drug use. One doctor has called it 'the drug problem problem'. It is important that the community understands not only all the issues but also the need for more community responsibility and involvement in this debate. Unless the standard of debate improves appreciably, we shall not even begin properly to comprehend the problem, let alone move towards its alleviation. 
I make the point again that this was an all-party committee of six people- three from each side of the House. Whilst later in the report some dissenting views were put forward, I understand that there was no dissent whatsoever about the  words I am using. I repeat the words in the first paragraph: 
. some contributors to the debate have been quite ready to distort or misrepresent facts. 
I seek leave to have the introduction of the report incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

The reason I dealt with that issue is that some stories have appeared in the Press this week. The first article states: 
Western Sydney 'drug capital' . . . and Blacktown is seen as its hub. 
This headline appeared last Monday, 20 February, in the  Sydney Morning Herald,  I regret to say. It started the whole debate. We have always understood the  Sydney Morning Herald  to be proud of the fact that it was a newspaper which had some considerable standards of what might be called responsibility. This article started a debate in the Press. I would expect such a headline from the  Daily Mirror,  but I would not expect it from the  Sydney Morning Herald.  I am not helping myself by making this statement because reporters can get very upset when they are criticised. 
Of course, this situation goes back to the establishment in Blacktown of a bureau of the  Sydney Morning Herald.  Reporters have been put out there to find stories. They are given plenty of good stories which will help and which build up the area. They are stories which will do something for those young people. In this area there are more young people per capita than anywhere else in this country. It is these young people who represent the future of this country. But young people are being rubbished today in a way which is a disgrace to the media. If reporters want a story which has a little bit of drama in it, which they know will sell a few extra newspapers, they print another story about Blacktown. This was the situation in relation to Green Valley and Bankstown. Now it is Blacktown and Mount Druitt. No consideration is given to the human issues involved or to the problems which are created for young people because the facts are distorted. Such things have been printed daily and weekly in recent times. As I say, I regret that that story started in a newspaper which had previously congratulated itself for what it styled its responsibility. 
That is only one of many such articles, not just on this issue but on many issues, which have been printed about that area in recent times. But if one gives a newspaper a good story it is  ignored. For example, a joint statement was made by the Mayor of Blacktown and myself calling for assistance and for the subscription of funds for the restoration of St Bartholomew's Church at Prospect Hill which is one of the oldest churches in Australia. It is registered as part of the National Estate. It is in a disgraceful state. Public subscriptions are needed for what is, after all, a part of Australia 's history. 
A reporter telephoned me to get another story on kids. He did not get what he wanted. I said: Here is something which will help the district, why not print it?' Of course, that story did not get printed. I go on about these articles in the newspapers. The 'Mirrorview' editorial in the  Mirror  of Monday states: 
Western Sydney has been named as the drug taking capital of N.S.W. and probably Australia. An area where dope is readily available and freely taken. 
That was last Monday. Also last Monday in the  Mirror  another article appears. As I say, I expect this from the  Mirror.  It has that reputation. The headlines are: 
The 'disaster' suburbs. 
How to tell drug symptoms- wallchart in centre. 
Drugs tragedy in West. 
So the story goes on once again. I turn now to the  Mirror  of Tuesday, 2 1 February. It states: 
Two sides of life in a town divided. The teenagers of Blacktown admit drugs are big in the area. 
Another article states: 
Our kids are just like all the others. 
It goes further. But that situation does no get much publicity. It does not get the same headlines as the other articles to which I have referred. The bad parts get big, screaming headlines. The part which does not get the screaming headlines states: 
The kids of Blacktown are not all bad, despite official figures which show it is the drug centre of Sydney. 
In a moment I shall show that that is not correct. The article continues: 
Police today praised most of Blacktown 's teenage population as 'good, law-abiding citizens'. And this view was shared by local businessmen. 
The police agreed that a bad element existed. It exists everywhere. It exists on the North Shore, in the beach suburbs and in the Eastern Suburbs. Everywhere there is a bad element. The article continues: 
They agreed a bad element existed, but said the figures gave a false picture of lifestyles in the area. 
This is a big, young area', a police spokesman said. 'The more teenagers you have, the more trouble they will get into.' 
I turn now to the  Sun  which acted as a responsible newspaper. In an article on Tuesday 21 February the newspaper carried a chart showing the actual convictions. It shows that Blacktown, per capita of population, is not the drug centre of New South Wales or of Australia. The editorial in that newspaper states: 
Poor Blacktown, wrongly convicted once again of being roughly the civic equivalent of an anti-social drop-out. 
One of the advantages of staying in old Sydney is that anything new and nasty can safely be blamed on the western suburbs. 
Yesterday, Blacktown 's shame as the place with most drug offence convictions was being trumpeted around the City-oriented media. 
The simple fact is, as The Sun shows today, that Blacktown is high on convictions because it is high on people. 
A lot of people live there. 
On a per capita basis, the drug problem as defined by court convictions remains at its worst in the inner Sydney and Waverley areas. 
That last remark is probably wrong too. We in the Blackstown area are fed up with being rubbished by a lot of people who do not live in the area but who come in to chase a story so that they can get a few lines in the Press. These people have no understanding of the fact that the area has a younger population on a per capita basis than any other part of Australia. What is called Blacktown is a municipality covering areas from Seven Hills right through to Mount Druitt. The Blacktown municipality happens to be the largest in area and it is also the largest in terms of numbers. Blacktown may get 200 convictions for drug charges but that should be compared with a pocket municipality somewhere which may have only 50 convictions. In actual fact those 50 convictions, on a per capita basis, could represent a far worse situation than the figures for Blacktown. Representatives of the newspapers should come out and see what is being done by the people of Blacktown and Mount Druitt. There are mass Housing Commission areas. Some of the nicest Housing Commission homes and private homes in the country have been built there. Why do the newspapers not write about that? Why do they not write about the maginficent schools and of the tremendous effort being made by the teaching profession in looking after these young people? Some primary schools have 2,000 pupils. A magnificent job is being done by the teaching profession in looking after the young people. Why do the newspapers not write some stories about the area to give it a build-up instead of rubbishing it at every possible opportunity? If young people from the area are asked where they live and they say that they live at Blacktown or Mount Druitt they are immediately rubbished. People say to them: 'Why do you live there?' 
Stigmatised, as the honourable member says. That is quite correct. 
If the honourable gentleman does not know he had better get a dictionary. The area now has a high unemployment rate amongst the young people. I will give the figures in a few minutes. One of the reasons for that high rate of unemployment is the Press campaign that has been waged against the area. As soon as employers know that prospective employees come from Blacktown or Mount Druitt they say that the area is too far away and that those people cannot be employed. They say that they need someone who lives nearer. This has come about because of the distortion which has appeared in the Press. This has been brought about by people who do not know the area, and have no desire to know it, by people who do not understand the area and have no desire to understand it. These people want to get a few flash phrases in a flash newspaper. I quote once again those words from the newspaper report: 
Some contributors to the debate have Deen quite ready to distort or misrepresent the facts. 
Every one of these articles, with the exception of that editorial in the  Sun,  has distorted the facts. They just took the number of convictions and disregarded the population, the number of people living in the area. Under those circumstances, Blacktown is not the so-called drug capital of the State, or anywhere else. 
One of the most important things which the Government must face is the mass unemployment which exists in this country. Prior to the last election campaign, and during it, we estimated that by the end of February 1978 unemployment would be near the 450,000 mark. As of the end of January, it was 445,000. I have with me figures on just what the situation is in that area. In the Commonwealth Employment Offices of Blacktown and Mount Druitt a total of 8,256 persons are registered as unemployed. Of these, 4,306 are what are termed juveniles, young people. In other words, they represent more than 52 per cent of the total. In the last few months those figures have increased dramatically: The situation is reaching disaster proportions. If the Government is so lacking in morality, in human values, in understanding that man must have dignity, that the right to work is an inherent right of the individual, it is indeed a government which is both amoral and immoral. 
The Budget Estimates provided for nearly $800m to be spent on unemployment relief efforts. From what has been spent in the first six months of the financial year it appears as though the actual figure will be near the $ 1,000m mark. If, on the other hand, there were a regional unemployment relief scheme in areas of mass unemployment- and in some it is as high as 1 3 per cent of the work force- and award rates, let us be quite clear, were paid and people given a job to do, the Government could undertake the great amount of work which needs to be done, for example, the community facilities which have to be established, in the western suburbs of Sydney particularly. 
People rubbished the Regional Employment Development scheme, but it was one of the greatest unemployment relief schemes that ever existed. We got done in a few months work what it would have taken us at least 10 years to accomplish. We gave people work, but all the Government does is talk about dole bludgers. Under the RED scheme, if a man did not work, if he left the job, he did not receive his unemployment benefits. That finished it for him. It gave people a job to do, and it meant that the community got something for the money that it expended. Today we are seeing almost a thousand million dollars going straight down the drain and the community getting nothing in return. Is it any wonder that we say this is a government which does not understand basic human values, the dignity of work, the tremendous impact the ability to work has upon an individual. By contrast, a young person who spends three months looking for a job without success, going from place to place, begins to lose all incentive, lose all faith in himself, or in herself. Then of course because of that shame that young person does not want to go outside the door. Those are the issues which have been created by the economic policies of this Government- policies directed purely at inflation and not at the social effects of the unemployment that they are creating. I call upon the Government very firmly to introduce in areas of high unemployment a regional unemployment relief scheme. I call upon the Press of this country to adopt a more responsible attitude in regard to the young people who live in the western suburbs of Sydney and to stop rubbishing those suburbs. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
If ever there was an example of an honourable member tilting at windmills, it is the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume).  He made the statement that the Opposition has been saying that unemployment is worse now than during the Depression. The Opposition has never said that. It has said that unemployment today is the worst since the Depression. I want to make that quite clear. The honourable member goes further and uses the most extraordinary imagination, or even a complete lack of knowledge of when the great Depression occurred, to say that the Depression was not taking place during 1933. Anybody who knows very much about what went on in those days or who has any understanding of it would know that in 1933 we were still well and truly in the Depression. 
The honourable member should educate himself. He should start reading, get rid of the academic nonsense he talks and get a bit of common sense. The fact is that the Depression was of very long duration. There was a further very solid recession in 1937 and unfortunately it was not until the War commenced that everyone really went back to work. For that reason I think that the honourable member is using an extraordinarily fertile imagination in making those statements. I clarify the situation: At all times the Labor Party has been making the point that this is the worst unemployment since the Depression. 
I want also to make the point that the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  and I had an agreement here a little while ago. We have found time and time again when speaking on the adjournment debate that incessant points of order are taken. The honourable member for Holt  (Mr Yates)  and the Government Whip are particularly adept at this procedure. I issue here and now a straight out challenge. If this is to continue we will utilise all the forms of the House to make sure that honourable members opposite find it equally difficult, in fact a lot more difficult, to speak. They deliberately use points of order as a means of stopping us from having our democratic rights as members of this Parliament and putting our case before the Parliament. This was done in the last Parliament time and again. 
There is another matter I wish to bring up while time is available. The Department of Social Security should be required to deduct income tax from pensions and unemployment benefits when they are taxable instead of the present procedure of simply deducting tax when requested. A lot of people do not realise that they are liable to tax. The Department is fully aware from the files as to whether they are liable. Under the pay-as-you-earn system every employer is required to deduct tax from wages and salaries. But the Department will do this only when requested. 
I have seen cases of great hardship when people on unemployment benefits or pensions, and with very small incomes are suddenly faced with a big tax bill. This creates a great deal of hardship for them. It is incorrect that different values are set for a government department, in this case the Department of Social Security, and individual employers. The law requires an employer to deduct tax. The Department says that it will do so when requested. As I said, this results in a great deal of hardship for a lot of people who would much rather know what their liability is and take account of it. I am talking about pensioners who have incomes ouside the pension. I suggest that Liberal members should look at this matter in the Party room. 
I further suggest that in future this business of taking invalid points of order when we have only five minutes in which to speak should be stopped. It is being done deliberately to stifle discussion in the Parliament. It is being led by certain honourable members on the Government side and it is being directed particularly at certain individual members on this side. It was a general practice in the last Parliament. It created a great deal of uproar, but that is nothing compared with the uproar which will occur. The Labor Party will use all the Standing Orders and the legalities of this Parliament if it continues. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. I preface it by making the point that he would know of the details being sought in the question I am about to put. Therefore there would be no reason to place the question on the Notice Paper, as he suggested the honourable member for Grayndler should do. I ask: Is it a fact that the Government closed submissions of clarification of specifications for the Australian Bureau of Statistics computer contract on 9 February, some four days short of the deadline of 13 February, as set out in the letter the Prime Minister sent to  Mr Moyes  of IBM Australia Ltd on 17 January, as well as in the letter sent by  Mr Low  of the Australian Government Stores and Tender Board seeking clarification on four areas of the tender? Why was the deadline moved forward? Further, is it a fact that IBM submitted the requested clarification of specifications before or on 9 February and that Facom Australia Ltd, the original successful tenderer, had not at that time made a new submission? 
I shall speak for only a short time. I realise that the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  wishes to reply to the debate and I shall keep an eye on the clock. I support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  particularly that section which points out that the Opposition deplores the failure of the Government to have a medium or long term strategy, including a viable manufacturing policy, upon which to base the general and consistent guidelines necessary for, among other things, the proper functioning of the Industries Assistance Commission. I think that this is one of the greatest faults of the Government. From the commencement of the 1970s Australia has suffered from not having what one could call a viable manufacturing policy- a policy under which industry, the trade union movement and employees knew where they were going. I remember serving on the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence when it was looking at the industrial back up necessary for the defence forces. The point was made strongly to it by the electronics industry that its great problem over a number of years has been that Australia simply did not have any long term objectives- what it called an industry policy; a policy under which the industry knew where it was going. 
I think that the Opposition's shadow Minister in this field- the honourable member for Adelaide- spoke excellently tonight on the problems and the future of industry as a whole. During the 1950s and 1960s Australia in effect lived beyond its means. As a nation we spent more than we earned. To make up for our foreign currency deficits we depended on the importation of capital. We were known as the country of opportunity. I can recall stating in this Parliament time and again, including when I was first elected as the honourable member for Mitchell in 1961, that the day of reckoning had to come and that we could not continue, by directive from the Treasury to the Reserve Bank, to encourage the importation of capital as eventually it would mean that we would have two basic problems: Firstly the impact upon our reserves of the withdrawal of capital; and, secondly, the big increase in invisibles caused by the repatriation of profits. That has occurred. Australia will have an endemic balance of payments problem for some time to come. Today multi-nationals are not looking at us as the country of opportunity. They are finding today that in countries such as the Philippines, Singapore and Indonesia they can build their factories much more cheaply, that they do not require the same sophisticated equipment that is required here and that they can utilise cheap labour in the manufacturing process itself. Accordingly, today capital in effect is going from Australia to those countries. That in itself means an export of Australian jobs. We are suffering from this because of our over dependence on overseas capital during the Menzies era of the 1950s and 1960s. I am very sorry that this is the situation. 
Is the honourable member for Fadden, who formerly was the honourable member for Griffith, starting these antics again? 

 Mr DEPUi i  SPEAKER  (ur Jenkins - 
Order! The honourable member should return to the subject matter of the Bill. 
Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I do not think the honourable member knows yet what electorate he represents. 
The position is that Australia is today reaping the rewards of that period. I put the point very strongly that there will be very big changes to industry in Australia. These will come about because of the problems that we have and the competition that we will experience from countries to our north. As they develop and as their populations increase the competition for Australia will increase. It is well and truly time that Australia had a full inquiry into our future manpower policy and the needs of industry so that we can establish a firm industry policy for the future. Once again I make the point that I strongly support the amendment. I hope it will be carried by the House. 
Has the Prime Minister seen a report to the effect that the Federal Government has ordered Commonwealth public servants not to co-operate with the New South Wales Royal Commission into Drug Trafficking? Is that report correct? If it is not correct, will the Prime Minister ensure that the necessary action is taken to facilitate the production of evidence to the New South Wales Royal Commission into Drug Trafficking? 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Defence. I refer the Minister to the statement he made last October regarding the purchase of torpedoes for Austraiian Navy Oberon class submarines. Is it a fact that in total only 12 torpedoes were to be purchased for the six Australian submarines? Does the Minister still support the statement that the Oberon boats with only two torpedoes each will have 'an underwater fighting capability at least equal to the most advanced conventionally-powered submarines in the world'? Further, is it a fact that only two dummy torpedoes were purchased, that is, one among three boats? If so, what arrangements will be made to share this equipment among the boats? What procedures exist for target delineation and firing authorisation in respect of all those torpedoes? 
-I rise tonight to speak of the MANS interim study on the future airport needs of Sydney. It is a study about which I am very concerned. Altogether it has eliminated more than 120 sites for a second airport for Sydney and in the process it has given us reasons for the elimination of only one site, Holsworthy. Others such as Duffy's Forest, which has always been rumoured to be a very hot favourite, have now been ignored although the vast majority of the people who use airports come from the North Shore where Duffy's Forest is located. In fact I have heard that those people have disbanded their anti-airport committee and they do not know what to do with all the money that the Committee has. I am very concerned indeed that this report does not give us the reasons why so many sites have been eliminated. The MANS study recommends that there should be a transfer of F27s and general aviation to Bankstown. Naturally the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  would be opposed strongly to any such proposal. Bankstown Airport has already reached saturation point. Of course the study does not recognise that logically because Bankstown has already reached saturation point something should be done about the traffic that is handled already by that airport. It is obvious that the authorities are looking at either Camden or Schofields. There is already a very great division between the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  and the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen).  On the one hand  Mr Nixon  has stated in correspondence to me that he wants to divert general aviation traffic to the Navy depot, HMAS  Nirimba,  at Schofields; and on the other hand  Mr Killen  has stated in correspondence to me that he violently opposes the proposal and that he will stick by the opposition. In other words, there is a distinct division between these two Ministers of the Government. Of course,  Mr Killen  is correct in saying that the diversion would interfere with our defence arrangements. At Schofields great investment has been made for the training of personnel. There will also be an effect on the Royal Australian Air Force airport at Richmond. 
The report eliminates the possibility of the site being located at Holsworthy where there is a firing range with danger from buried mines, bombs and so on. Three areas are then leftMaraylyaMarsden Park, Londonderry-St Marys and Bringelly. Airport development at the first two areas would have a serious impact on the effectiveness of the RAAF airport at Richmond. I imagine that the Department of Defence would have a few words to say about that. The fact is that there will be a tremendous impact on any one of these three sites. The basic proposal that has been put is that either a parallel strip will be constructed at Mascot or a second international airport will be established at one of these three sites. All of these sites are in the outer western suburbs of Sydney but we should keep in mind that most of the traffic that uses international and interstate airports comes from the northern suburbs, around the Duffy's Forest area. The construction of another airport would have a tremendous impact in noise and danger on areas such as Blacktown, Mt Druitt, Riverstone, Windsor, Richmond, St Marys, Penrith, the lower Blue Mountains and surrounding areas. Look at the electorates that would be affected. 
As the honourable member for Parramatta says, his electorate would also be affected. I have been authorised by him to say here tonight that he and I join in opposing any proposal to establish the second international airport or general aviation traffic anywhere in the outer western suburbs of Sydney. Mass development is taking place in that area, and that development is growing year by year. I think it is very important indeed that the honourable member for Dundas  (Mr Ruddock),  the honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Gillard)  and the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman)  should each come out of his rabbit warren, face the people and join with the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr John Brown),  the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  and myself in our opposition to a second international airport being located anywhere in the outer Western Suburbs of Sydney. Furthermore, it is time that the Government gave the people of the outer Western Suburbs the right to express their own view on this matter. It is time that a referendum were held in the outer Western Suburbs to gain the viewpoint of the residents. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-This matter of public importance brought forward today by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  is in effect a motion of censure of the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson).  But where is the Minister? I understand that he is in the precincts of the Parliament, but he is not in the chamber to answer the criticism levelled against him. He is not even on the list of speakers, as I understand it, to answer that criticism. Instead of doing that, he sends in his boss, the Treasurer  (Mr Howard),  to do it for him. The reason for doing that is so obvious. Neither the Treasurer nor the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has confidence in the ability of the Minister for Finance to answer the criticism levelled against him. 
It is a complete disgrace that the Minister is not here this afternoon to answer this matter of public importance which is, in effect, a censure against him.  His  absence is a disgrace to the Parliament, because he is completely ignoring the Parliament itself. In fact, it is being said around the lobbies today that the appointment of the Minister for Finance to that office is most refreshing, because he brings to it a complete lack of knowledge of government finance and budgetary policy, not to mention economic policy; that never in the history of this Parliament have we had a Minister so lacking in knowledge of his portfolio.  His  statements on the deficit and on employment statistics show his confusion and inability to appreciate just what is happening to the economy as a result of his, and his Government's policies. An example is provided by his answer to a question in this Parliament on 6 April in reply to the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  one of his own colleagues in the Government ranks. Firstly, instead of answering the question, he started off with a tirade against intellectuals until, finally, the  Speaker  himself had to pull him up and tell him to get on and answer the question. Admittedly, I can understand that he would have an inferiority complex on that subject; he is not renowned for his own intellectual capacity. He went on to answer the question, and when he had been hauled in by his own advisers, who pointed out that he had not answered it properly, I understand that he then altered the 'greens'. I quote from a report of the incident in the  Age,  which apparently got information on the matter: 
He said it was 'perfectly clear' that there had been employment growth this financial year. 
But apparently he later found it was not so clear. 
His office struck out of the  Hansard  record of his answer this reference to 'perfectly clear'; it also changed his statement that a growth in employment 'has occurred' to 'is occurring'. 
That is the action of the Minister for Finance. He answers incorrectly a question in this Parliament and then changes the  Hansard  'greens'. That is quite a serious allegation against the Minister. While I am about it, I quote from the figures of the Bureau of Statistics because the Minister, as we can see, stated quite unequivocally that there had been a growth in employment. In normal terms, the work force grows by 1 !6 per cent per annum. That is the norm, in normal times. Needless to say, that is not happening today. For example, from July to December 1977- and I am quoting the Government's own statistics- the number of people in private employment, seasonally adjusted, fell from 3,255,600 to 3,250,000. Of course, this has been directly brought about, by the policies of this Government, policies supported by the Treasurer and strongly advocated by the Minister for Finance, who stated here that employment was increasing. Government employment is increasing, but that is because of the activity of the State governments, especially the Government of New South Wales which, realising the lack of direction of the economic policy of this Government, and the impact that that is having upon employment, has deliberately put into effect employment creation policies. The employment figure in that sector has gone up from 1,458,400 to 1,486,300. 
But in the manufacturing sector, a most important sector of the economy, the seasonally adjusted figures show that the employment figure fell from 1,148,600 in July 1977 to 1 , 1 4 1 ,800 in December 1 977-thanks to the policies of the present Federal Government. That is an adequate answer to the statement of the Minister for Finance that employment is increasing. That is the statement by this Minister who obviously does not even know what he is talking about and certainly does not understand his portfolio. As I have said, it is quite refreshing to have a man come to that high office with such a complete lack of knowledge of that subject, or the Department that he is administering. 
As the honourable member for Parramatta says, it is apparently a good criteria for advancement in the Liberal Party, but perhaps I should not be too hard on the Minister for Finance. There is, after all, less to him than meets the eye, but I do think that this matter is very important. We go on to the question of the deficit where, once again, the Minister shows his lack of knowledge of the situation. The Treasurer today admitted that the deficit would be higher than had been forecast in the Budget. 
Why did the Minister for Finance say, in answer to a question the other day, that it would be on target? Where are we going? Is it any wonder the people are confused, that Parliament is confused, when we have the Treasurer saying one thing and the Minister for Finance saying another? Yes, in that joint statement the Minister made with the Treasurer he said that, but then he came into Parliament and said something different. That is the reason why in effect we have this censure motion before us today; that is its whole basis. It is generally predicted that the deficit will be some $600 million over the original target. The  Australian Financial Review  reports on the other hand, that the Government is looking forward in the next financial year to a deficit of in the region of $6 billion. One could hardly call that publication a young, radical organ. It is generally accepted as one that is very responsible in its attitudes. That statement appeared in an article in the  Australian Financial Review  of 3 April. 
These are the reasons that we, as an Opposition, are deeply concerned that we should have a Minister for Finance who is so obviously confused, who has obviously so very little understanding of budget finance, who is in such a responsible position yet, because of his lack of knowledge and understanding, has to accept the policies and advice given to him by either the Treasurer or his other advisers in the Department. As I have said, his attitude is typified by the fact that although we have before us today a matter of public importance, which is in effect a motion of censure against the Minister, he is stopped from coming here to answer it. 
The Prime Minister obviously, and the Treasurer stopped him. The Prime Minister sent the Treasurer in to do the job instead. 

 -Mr Speaker has received letters from both the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  and the honourable member for Kingston  (Mr Chapman)  proposing that definite matters of public importance be submitted to the House for discussion today. As required by Standing Order 107,  Mr Speaker  has selected one matter, that is, that proposed by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, namely: 
The urgency of full Australian support for international disarmament and arms control initiatives and the failure of the Government to inform the Parliament on these matters. 
I call upon those members who approve of the proposed discussion to rise in their places. 

 More than the number of members required by the Standing Orders have risen in their places- 

-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the three measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
-Is the motion in writing? 
My question without notice is directed to the Prime Minister. Is it normal practice for the Government to provide windfall profits of $40,000 to its political supporters as a result of land purchases by Commonwealth departments or authorities? What procedures exist to ensure that land bought on behalf of government departments and authorities is not bought from land speculators who have access to inside information? 
asked the Leader of the House, upon notice: 
How many questions without notice (a) were asked and (b) were answered in the House of Representatives during each (i) year and (ii) session in the past 10 years. 
2 ) What period of time was allowed for questions without notice in the House of Representatives during each (a) year and (b) session in the last 10 years. 
-Basically the Opposition supports this legislation but, as the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr 
Willis) mentioned, we will move amendments in the Committee stage so that all tax avoidance schemes involved in this legislation will be made retrospective to 1 July last year. The legislation provides that retrospectivity only in respect of the Curran scheme and it will be backdated only to the Budget date of last year. When some loopholes were closed last year the tax avoiders immediately became involved in the Curran scheme and other schemes. I compliment the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  for introducing this legislation, my only complaint being that on a number of counts it does not go far enough. Not enough tax avoidance schemes have been closed. Furthermore, we are concerned that this legislation should be backdated to 1 July last year for all tax avoidance schemes. The Opposition is supporting this legislation because we wish to establish a precedent- a precedent which Labor in office will follow- that whenever a tax avoidance scheme is discovered it will be legislated against and backdated to 1 July, in other words, to the beginning of the financial year. This will be a signal or a warning to all the tax avoiders and tax dodgers to beware that when they hop from one scheme to another they will find themselves caught. That is the basis of the Opposition's principle on the matter and that is why we will be moving amendments. It is one area in which we disagree with the Government. 
The honourable member for Gillibrand mentioned that during the Committee stage the Opposition will be moving amendments to back date to 1 July last year all of these proposals being legislated today. It could be argued quite validly that retrospectivity is not involved because this is being done in the income year or in the financial year in which the schemes were discovered. Various estimates have been made of the amount lost to revenue through tax avoidance. The Treasurer in his second reading speech referred to the Curran tax avoidance scheme involving some hundreds of millions of dollars. We have heard it suggested that $ 1,000m could be the amount of tax which will not be collected in this financial year alone. This will be the sum avoided by the wealthy, not the ordinary guy who has to pay his taxes. All these schemes are schemes designed for the wealthy. The  Small Business Newsletter  speaks of 25 tax avoidance schemes. It asks its readers to take its advice on such schemes. Family trusts are included as an example of these tax avoidance schemes. We had an example of the use of family trusts given to us by the former Treasurer, the present Minister for 
Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch),  who himself engaged in a family trust to avoid taxation. It was a tax avoidance scheme. 
There is no doubt about it. That has been shown to be the case right throughout. The Minister engaged in that scheme for one purpose. The chief tax gatherer of the nation, the man who made sure that he had wrung every single penny of tax out of the ordinary person, was engaging in a tax avoidance scheme in his own financial affairs, by the use of a family trust. We also have an example of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  himself. Honourable members may not remember an article that appeared in the  Nation Review  back in November 1975. It is called 'The Fraser Connection'. It points out what happened with the establishment and how a very involved group of companies and firms are closely interwoven. Some of the names mentioned are very interesting. A solicitor concerned was a man named Rupert Hamer, the Premier of Victoria. We have the Prime Minister, his wife and other people involved in this matter. After reading this article, I thought that at a later stage I would try to get the matter updated. I had a few searches made at the Companies Office or the equivalent of the Companies Office in Melbourne. I have some of the documents with me now. It is interesting to note that at the time the newspaper article was written the financial returns of the company known as Fraser Properties Pty Ltd - 
It was known as Fraser Properties Pty Ltd. There are quite a number of companies. The financial returns of Fraser Properties Pty Ltd were submitted to the office and therefore could be searched and become public information. But as from the time of that article, section 165 of the Companies Act 196 1 of Victoria- that is the audit section- was utilised to ensure that the financial returns of the company would not have to be lodged and therefore could not be made public. In other words, from the time that article appeared the shutters were put down. In the following financial year, 1976, it was not possible to obtain a copy of the company's financial returns. I would like to quote one or two statements in respect of this matter. Some people might say that the Prime Minister would not do such a thing. But I wish to quote from a transcript of the  PM  radio program of 23 November 1977. The Prime Minister was asked: 

 Mr Prime Minister, do your private family companies and private family trusts have the effect of lowering the rate of income tax that you pay? 
The transcript shows that the following answer was given: 

 Mr Fraser: Family trusts are designed to help keep the family's assets together, yes. 
The Prime Minister used the word 'yes'. That was an admission by the Prime Minister that he is utilising these family trusts to reduce the amount of tax that he pays. I have before me some interesting documents. They include a search of the Nareen Pastoral Co. which, of course, is interwoven with Fraser Properties Pty Ltd. At that stage, the people who had ceased to carry on the business in the business name was Una Arnold Fraser and Harry Vincent Samson. The persons who commenced to carry on the business did so in the business name of L.J.W. Nominees Pty Ltd. L.J.W. Nominees Pty Ltd is an interesting company. Of course, the persons who previously registered the company and who continued to carry on the business were John Malcolm Fraser, Tamara Margaret Sandford Fraser, Sandford Robert Beggs and Rupert James Hamer. Honourable members can see that it is very much a case of the establishment staying together. These are the people who avoid tax in this country. These are the people who make sure that the little person pays his tax but who utilise every possible angle they can to avoid paying tax themselves. 
I would be very happy to table them.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I seek leave to table the documents. 
-The Opposition supports the proposition that this legislation should be retrospective. In this case the legislation is to be retrospective only to the last Budget. We believe that it should have been retrospective to 1 July of last year, which was the date set out in the amendment moved by the Opposition at the second reading stage. In fact, we believe that all the measures involved in this legislation concerning tax avoidance should have been retrospective to 1 July, that is, the beginning of the financial year. There is a reason for that. When loopholes were closed up in the last financial year many people immediately hopped into the Curran scheme and other schemes. 
They are really helping me. They do not realise what is to come. The fact is that those people who oppose this legislation being retrospective, whether they oppose it because of some high-flown principle or not, are supporting the tax avoidance industry. Like it or not, there is no doubt that basically they are supporting those wealthy groups in the community who believe that as they are born to rule they have a special right to be able to avoid tax. It does not matter whether one says it is tax avoidance or, to use the latest phrase, tax evasion, it is still the same thing. Some people are evading or avoiding or evading and avoiding tax and for this reason we believe that tax loopholes, as soon as they are discovered, should be closed. We believe many loopholes should be closed such as family trusts, the averaging system and so on. 

 - Mr Chairman, I thought you were going to do that. 
In fact, I anticipated it,  Mr Chairman.  I appreciate your advice. I was not going to mention the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  or anybody this time. Nevertheless I was just making the point that all methods of evasion or avoidance should be closed. I am rather surprised that some people for whom I have considerable respect, such as the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon),  should come down on the side of the tax evader, the tax avoider, whatever one may call him, on the basis of some high flown principle. I come back to the point. There have been a number of speakers on the Government side - 
I quite agree with the honourable member for Prospect- too many. It is very obvious that as the Opposition is supporting the measure the Government now has the numbers to pass this legislation through this chamber. Government supporters need not talk it out any longer, so might I suggest that the clause be put to a vote so that we can get it over with. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. I refer to the Government 's decision to purchase two Boeing 727 aircraft for the Prime Minister's personal use in travelling about the world. Is it a fact that the two aircraft are to be fitted out with private eating and sleeping quarters for the right honourable member and his wife? Will the aircraft also have fully equipped offices with telephone and teleprinters, plus seating accommodation for some 40 other passengers? What is the estimated additional cost of this extensive refitting program for the two aircraft? 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the four measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering both measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
-I support the amendment. In fact as I indicated earlier, I second the amendment moved by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  which is: 
That all words after 'that' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: whilst not opposing the passage of the Bill, the House (a) rejects the new federalism on which the Bill is based and ( b ) notes the failure of the 1 976 formula for determining the level of financial assistance to the States and directs attention to the likely failure of the new formula '. 
I was rather staggered, to say the very least, to hear the speech of the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman).  I know it has been rumoured around the lobbies that he still talks whilst swimming under water across Bass Strait, but his speeches are not noted for their wisdom or the conclusions which they draw. Tonight we had the spectacle of him opposing the attitude of the honourable member for Gellibrand which did not oppose the Bill but which drew attention to the shortcomings of the new federalism policy. In so doing, the honourable member for Denison, like it or not, is in effect arguing against his own State of Tasmania. 
He is arguing against Tasmania because under the propositions I shall outline later, under the terms enunciated by the Australian Labor Party and which in fact were carried out by the Australian Labor Party in government, in real money terms Tasmania would receive more funds from the Commonwealth. Yet we have the honourable member for Denison standing up in this chamber as a socalled upholder of the rights of Tasmania and in effect arguing against his own State. He knows what the facts are. He is really well aware of them, but he has probably been cowered by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  into supporting this legislation. When the honourable member for Denison speaks of the funds that are being allocated to the various States under this legislation, he is well aware that they represent only 40 per cent of the total funds allocated by the Commonwealth to the States. 
It is not only a complete misrepresentation, it goes much further than that: It is fraud. We have heard a lot recently about frauds such as those involving family trusts, tax dodging by Prime Ministers and former Treasurers and so on. But the fact is that in this particular case it is a complete fraud. What the honourable member omits to tell the people of Tasmania and the people of Australia is the very simple fact that all the other funds allocated- loan funds and special purpose grants- have been cut right across the board. 
The honourable member for Mitchell says 'No'. He ought to know the facts. What about the massive cuts in real money terms to the funds allocated to the child care area? These funds have not been updated against inflation. Consequently, how many new projects are getting approved these days in the child care area? 
The honourable member for Sydney says 'None'. Compared with what happened in those glorious days of the Whitlam regime, virtually none are being approved. During the Whitlam days we of course did obtain large scale grants, particularly capital grants for child care and children's services. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drummond)Order! The honourable member for Denison has had his opportunity to speak. I call the honourable member for Chifley. 
Thank you for protecting me like that,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  but I can assure you that the honourable member for Denison is no real threat at all, in fact I like him. These cuts have been made not only in the child care area but in the areas of transport, housing and so on. When we are speaking of funds allocated under this so-called new federalism legislation we are speaking of only 40 per cent of the total funds allocated by the Commonwealth. As I said, the remaining 60 per cent is coming from special purpose grants and loan funds which have not been indexed against inflation over the years. The result is that in real money terms, the States are worse off now than they were previously. One can understand then why I say that, in reality, the honourable member for Denison is speaking against his own State of Tasmania which had everything to gain from the policies which Labor proposed. 
Whilst speaking on this Bill, I wish to deal with the general question of the so-called new federalism policy. If ever there were a thimble and pea trick, this is it. It is a thimble and pea trick for the simple reason that it is an attempt by the Prime Minister to hand over the responsibilities of the Commonwealth as regards income tax to the States and to try to force the States into the position of imposing a double tax. 
Government supporters may not like those words but the facts are that this is a double tax. The very immature young honourable member for Hume has just suggested that the States should increase taxes. 
He also said that they could decrease taxes if they were levying income tax. 
You must admit,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that I am being sorely provoked. 
I was dealing with the new federalism policy. As I have said, under this policy the Prime Minister is trying to force the States to take over taxing powers. He has said to the States that they will get X amount at this stage. I am talking now of the second stage of his new federalism policy which, as the honourable member for Gellibrand said, we will oppose at every possible opportunity. 
The Prime Minister also seemed to suggest that people such as the Premier of New South Wales supported these double taxation proposals. Far to the contrary, it was one of the major issues upon which  Mr Wran  fought the New South Wales State election. It was one of the major issues that assisted the return to power of the Labor Government in New South Wales.  Mr Wran  made it quite clear that he was opposed to this double taxation which the Fraser Government advocated and that he would not agree to any such proposal which would force him into that situation. The Prime Minister is now trying to foist that situation not only upon the States, but the people of Australia. The facts are that if the Prime Minister continues to fail to up date the total revenue grants to the States, and I am including here not only the grants under this legislation, that is, the personal income tax grants but also the special purpose grants and loan funds- the other 60 per cent of the total funds allocated to the States, Anally the States will reach the situation where they will be forced into increasing charges. That is what the Prime Minister wants to do. He wants them to force the States into a position where they have to levy a second tax, a double tax, an income tax. Honourable members opposite agreed to the proposal. 
They agreed to the proposal. They support a proposal Uke this. It is a shocking thing that they support a double tax on the people of this country. We must look also at the impact that would have upon the question of future economic planning. Australia has less long-term economic planning than probably any other country. Countries such as Japan, West Germany and the United States leave us for dead when it comes to economic planning. One of the essentials when it comes to planning the future of the economy is that the national government should have power over the raising of a levy. Without that power the national government must lose control of the reins so far as the economic future of the country is concerned. If you are going to hand over the right to levy tax or raise revenue, move more and more to hand that over to the States where six different systems operate in the six States, it is more difficult for a national government adequately to control the future destiny of this nation. This is one of the basic reasons that we oppose the new federalism proposals of this Government. We oppose them simply because we believe that the national government should be the major revenue raising organisation in this country. It is a tragedy that the Fraser Liberal-Country Party Government has decided to go backwards, to hand back those revenue raising powers to the States for the sole purpose of avoiding its own responsibility- in other words, for political gain so that it will not be seen to be increasing taxation or not reducing it adequately. For that basic purpose it is handing back these powers to the States. From an economic planning point of view this is a very great tragedy. 
I refer also to local government. It would appear that local government is receiving a very fine share of revenue through the Grants Commissions of the various States. What local government forgets is that when Labor was in office- do not forget that it was the Whitlam Labor Government that first gave financial assistance to local government in this way- we gave financial assistance to local government, firstly through Grants Commission by way of untied funds, and secondly, for the areas of mass development, such as in my own area in the outer western suburbs of Sydney. These areas were neglected completely year by year by consecutive conservative governments with the result that they were completely without the necessary community facilities to protect and uplift the quality of life in those regions. 
Of course you would expect a North Shore-ite to think it is funny. It is not funny for the people of the western suburbs of Sydney. It may be all right for people like the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Carlton)  who lives in areas which have always received the best because of consecutive conservative governments. I refer to the North Shore-ites and all that crowd. When it comes to the outer western suburbs of Sydney it is essential that they receive Federal Government assistance to overcome the backlag in community facilities brought about as a result of continuous conservative governments refusing to give us that assistance. But it was given under the Labor Government. It gave that assistance, firstly, as I said, by way of grants under the Grants Commission direct to local government. They were untied grants for topping up purposes so far as finance was concerned. Secondly, finance was provided under the urban development programs, which meant millions of dollars to my electorate alone. 
I make the point that under the RED scheme alone we received $3m. For example, the Blacktown Municipal Council received in a period of three years over $ 13m in all in non-interest bearing non-repayable grants, with the result that today its financial position has been restored. Within the area of that municipality we now have the ovals- and keep in mind that I represent an electorate which has more young children in it than any other electorate in the whole of Australia. It has often been said that I have the most fertile electorate in Australia. Accordingly the need was there. The need was seen and the need was met. In that way we were able to go ahead and provide very much needed facilities. Those funds are not coming these days. 
All you are getting now are direct united grants through the tax sharing arrangements under the State Capital Grants Commissions. 
There is a great need in that area. We are getting practically nothing at all. Added to that we are not getting other funds - 
Yes, $2m for Blacktown compared with $13m in three years. Up-date that against inflation and you will soon see why we say we are not getting enough. The honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman)  knows that is right. He did better out of the Labor Government than he has ever done under the Liberal Government. For these reasons I support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis).  I say that it is very important indeed that the second stage of the so-called new federalism policies should not be implemented. We do not oppose this Bill, but in our amendment we make the point that while not opposing the passage of the Bill we reject the new federalism on which the Bill is based. As stated by the honourable member for Gellibrand, when that comes forward it will be opposed through every means at our disposal. 
I wish to reply seriously to the comments made tonight by the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  about Stephen Fitzgerald. Stephen Fitzgerald is a very great Austraiian. In the interests of this country he performed a great service as Australia's first Ambassador to China. It was Stephen Fitzgerald who brought about greater understanding between the two nations. 
As the honourable member for Hunter said, it was based on greater knowledge. At the time the Labor Government, in accordance with its policy, initiated the action which brought about the exchange of diplomatic representation between Australia and China there was no man in Australia with such a great depth of knowledge of China. For this reason he was chosen as Australia's first Ambassador from outside the Public Service. That was a rather unusual action but, after all, an unusual action had to be taken in respect of this most historic move. Unfortunately there are still a few, not many, in the community and on the Government benches who apparently do not accept the reality of that step. The vast majority of honourable members do. The extraordinary change of heart that has occurred within the Government since those days when we first took action to exchange diplomatic representatives is surprising. 
The facts are these: China has 25 per cent of the world 's population. It is ridiculous to suggest that China should be kept in isolation from the rest of the world and not be brought into the councils of the world. It is ridiculous for anyone to oppose the idea that China should get to understand the attitudes of other countries and that other countries, including Australia, should get to understand the attitudes of China. It is important in the interests of world peace that there be this exchange and this friendship between the two countries, and it is most important to realise that it was Stephen Fitzgerald, together with the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr E. G. Whitlam),  and this will probably be remembered in history as one of" his greatest actions, who went out into these new fields and brought about so much understanding between the two nations. That understanding now has been accepted by the present Government. It was not accepted at the time by the Government parties but it is today and I am glad that they have accepted it. For those reasons, I submit that Stephen Fitzgerald is a great Australian. 
I wish to grieve about two matters today. The first one concerns the very important issue of Question Time when questions are asked in this Parliament without notice. I refer to the long period that Ministers take in answering questions and the contempt by the Executive, particularly by some Ministers, for the Parliament itself- and I make that point very clearly- in that they ignore repeated requests from the Chair to shorten their answers. I do not say that with disrespect to the Chair. As I am one of the Deputy Chairmen of Committees I have the greatest respect for the Chair. However, I have noticed that successive Speakers have appealed to Ministers to shorten the length of answers to questions and I have seen, despite frequent requests from successive Speakers, those appeals completely ignored. For that reason I think it is important that we ought to have a look at what has been happening. 
In 1968, the Parliament sat for 66 days. In 1968 the average number of questions each sitting day was 20.2. In 1977 the Parliament sat for 68 days, two days more than it sat in 1968. In 1 977, the average number of questions a day was 15. Those figures do not include questions which were ruled out of order. Quite a number of questions have been ruled out of order in recent times not because of the attitude adopted by the  Speaker  but because of the inexperience of members. The reason that so few questions are able to be asked during Question Time is that Question Time is being utilised by Ministers to make statements in respect of which leave should be asked after Question Time to make a statement to the House. Virtually on every occasion leave would be granted for a Minister to make such a statement. Lengthy answers by Ministers are a method which is used to stifle honourable members asking questions which may be embarrassing to the Government so that the longer the answer given by a Minister the less likelihood there is of embarrassing questions being directed to the Minister who is making a lengthy reply or to one of his colleagues. 
I submit that this Parliament steadily is becoming an instrument of the Executive which of course means that the Executive is no longer under effective scrutiny of the back bench. I again state that there is a growing practice of contempt on the part of the Executive here in this Parliament and outside it for the processes of Parliament itself. I think this is a very serious situation because, after all, Question Time is the only opportunity for backbenchers on both sides of this Parliament to scrutinise the activities of the Executive. The only other way is to put something in writing. Usually we get back the typical Public Service reply which dodges the basic issues which have been raised. It is here in this forum through the cut and thrust of debate that the greatest opportunity exists for us to obtain answers and information. I do not say that this problem is peculiar to this Government. I want to be quite honest about this. This also occurred when we were in office. I was concerned then at the fact that a steady deterioration in Question Time was occurring so far as the number of questions which were being asked. Of course the fact is that today Ministers instead of addressing themselves to the question that has been asked tend by using the thimble and pea trick to turn the question onto a different issue altogether and answer, if you like, a different question even though they may claim it has some relevance to the question that was originally asked. 
As the honourable member for Parramatta says, they do it all the time. I believe that it is well and truly time that the Standing Orders in regard to the relevance of answers to questions in this Parliament were updated in order to avoid this use of a Standing Order in a way that at times is quite disgraceful. I do grieve about this matter. I think it is very important indeed that we should face up to it as a Parliament otherwise this Parliament will no longer be an effective check on the Executive and what is occurring behind the scenes. 
The other matter I wish to deal with is the question of Norfolk Island. I have been shocked to read reports that Norfolk Island is to stay as a tax haven at a time when the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  has been announcing that he is going to close all tax loopholes. He has announcedand I give him full credit for this- a number of instances of loopholes that are to be closed, including the Curran scheme. There was some minor disagreement so far as the Labor Party was concerned in that we wanted the tax avoidance legislation made retrospective to an earlier date than the Government proposed, but the Treasurer did not agree with that. Nevertheless we applaud the fact that at least some schemes are to be closed. However, there are at least 14 other loopholes which have not been closed. Norfolk Island is a recognised tax haven. I first raised this in 1970. 1 raised in 1971 and in 1972 the fact that Norfolk Island and the New Hebrides were being used as tax havens by the wealthy in this country. People have come down here from Norfolk Island- people with a conscienceto point this out to honourable members. Yet in the new arrangements which apparently the Minister for Home Affairs  (Mr Ellicott)  has announced in Norfolk Island the Island still will be a tax haven for Australians. It will have a different taxation system from all other Australian territories. It will have a taxation system under which a much smaller rate of tax will be levied. It really is quite extraordinary when one considers that the Treasurer, having announced that he is going to close all these tax loopholes, in reply to a question asked the other day by my colleague from Western Australia, the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Dawkins),  said that he would not agree to closing that extraordinary rank of the tax loophole of family trusts. The reason was that very prominent people- people in the establishment in this country- are involved in family trusts. 
Not only members of this Government but also the Premier of Victoria. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony),  and the former Treasurer are all on record as being involved in family trusts, which is one of the most effective ways to avoid tax. The Treasurer used a new phrase the other day in reply to a question asked in this House. He did not say 'tax avoidance'. I cannot recall his exact words but he said something to the effect that this is a way of cutting down your tax. 
-' Minimising '-that was the word. It is called minimising tax. It is not tax avoidance; it is a minimising of taxation. The facts of life are that all the wage and salary earners in this country cannot minimise their taxes. They all have to pay tax on their full incomes. If they fail to declare one tiny bit of income a tax inspector will go out, bring them into the Taxation Office and put them under investigation and interrogation because they may have tried to reduce their tax by $10, $20 or $30 in a year. Apparently when a Prime Minister, a Premier of Victoria, a Deputy Prime Minister of this country and a former Treasurer who is at present a Minister are involved it is no longer tax avoidance; it is tax minimising. For that reason, I ask that this Parliament itself, and in particular the Treasurer, should give serious consideration to this question. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drummond) 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 3 May 1978: 
Why do ex-servicewomen fail to qualify for Defence Service Homes loans when they fulfil the same criteria as exservicemen who are eligible under the Defence Service Homes Scheme. 
-I will ask the honourable member for Blaxland to withdraw that remark but in doing so I would like to point out that on one remark about the Premier of New South Wales made during the speech of the honourable member for Macarthur I was about to pull him up but decided against it. In this instance I would ask the honourable member for Blaxland to withdraw his remark. 
The issue is quite simply that the present glut is the conscious result of Federal Government policy, both in trading and the management of the domestic economy through cutbacks in BHP steel production. They are the major reasons. Yet these humbugs come into the House today suggesting that it is the fault of the New South Wales Premier. In fact, the New South Wales Premier came back from overseas, not with the forebodings of the Minister for National Resources who announced cutbacks and announced some business, some contracts with the United States- that is in contradistinction to the failure of the Federal Government- to try to get New South Wales working. So honourable members opposite can eat their little hearts out. There is no way that they will defeat him at the next election or in subsequent elections. He has the thing won before he has started. We will be developing Port Kembla; we will be expanding the capacity of the New South Wales coal mines and coal loading facilities in due course, in line with market demand, and we will note and communicate to the electors of St George the views of the Government parties and their members that they want to develop the Botany Bay coal loader. We will make that abundantly clear to them. 
We reject out of hand the nonsensical and foolish proposition raised by the honourable member for Macarthur which is typical of the kind of slipshod propositions, propagandist propositions, that he raises in this chamber. It is unworthy of him as a supposed representative of the Illawarra region of New South Wales. My colleague the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr West),  who will follow me in the debate, will make quite clear where he stands relative to Port Kembla and Botany Bay and where the Opposition in this House stands. We stand firmly behind the New South Wales Government which is embarking on policies which are conducive to the ongoing development and expansion of the New South Wales coal industry and the coal loaders. The reason for this present glut is not the industrial dispute, which may have aggravated it but which has been now settled by the New South Wales Premier; the reason is the failure of Federal Government policy to get BHP back on its feet, to get steel produced in the BHP steelworks sold in Australia and to sell this massive stockpile of contracted tonnages- this is not production which is available- in relation to which the Japanese should have been obliged to honour their agreement. Of course, the Minister for National Resources failed to sell it to them because he lacked the gumption and the wherewithal to impress upon them the viability of the New South Wales mines. Honourable members opposite should not put forward these kinds of propositions again in this House. They are unworthy of them and they are unworthy of the House. We reject them completely. 
-On behalf of the Opposition, I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: whilst not opposing the Bill, the House is of the opinion that it fails completely to provide the necessary stimulus to the Australian economy, and represents the continuance of ultra-conservative policies which have considerably deepened economic recession in this country, created high and increasing levels of unemployment and reduced the living standards of the Australian people. 
In moving this amendment, I wish to refer to various aspects of Government policy on this matter. In particular, I wish to refer immediately to the issue of unemployment and the very high levels of unemployment that now exist. Previously, the Government has been endeavouring to denigrate the figures issued by the Commonwealth Employment Service and to utilise the figures of the Australian Bureau of Statistics. Next, it will be wanting to use even the figures of Gallup polls to provide an indication of unemployment in this country. How on earth Gallup polls could give any reasonable assessment of the unemployment position is beyond my comprehension. I refer at this stage to the very latest unemployment figures which are for April 1978. The figures for the Australian Bureau of Statistics show that 401,700 people are unemployed whereas the figures of the Commonwealth Employment Service show that 402,500 people are unemployed. In other words, today the difference between the two sets of figures is less than 1,000. The Government has lost its excuse in its attempt to try to avoid the facts of life, that is, that unemployment in this country today is at record levels- higher than at any time since the Depression- and is steadily growing. 
I will give an indication of how unemployment is growing. Once again, the Government has tried to evade this issue by ceasing the publication of seasonally adjusted figures. It has stated that it will issue only the raw figures. Only yesterday, 23 May, the  Australian Financial Review-  hardly a young radical newspaperpublished estimates of the seasonally adjusted unemployment figures. I will cite the figures for the four months since January of this year. In January, the seasonally adjusted unemployment figure was 374,000 people; in February, the seasonally adjusted figure was 388,000 people; in March, the seasonally adjusted figure was 402,000 people; and in April, the seasonally adjusted figure was 407,000 people. That seasonally adjusted figure for April 1978 compares with the seasonally adjusted figure in April of last year of 326,000 people and with a seasonally adjusted figure for April 1976 of 271,000 people. In other words, in the three years since 1976 the seasonally adjusted unemployment figures for the month of April have risen from 271,000 people to 407,000 people. Between January last year and January of this year unemployment had increased from 289,000 to 374,000 persons. That is a massive increase. 
Of course, it cuts right into the principles of our society- the dignity of man, the right of man to work, the very question of the deterioration that occurs in a person as an individual, as a human being, in his attitude to life when he does not have work. Yet we have a government which is quite cynical, quite irresponsible, and which has deliberately followed a policy of increasing the level of unemployment in what it terms its battle against inflation. Today it is saying that its battle against inflation is succeeding. An examination of what is happening in other countries reveals that the rate of inflation in this country is being reduced at a rate lower than that experienced in comparable countries such as Japan, the United States, Switzerland and Germany. 
Let us look at the history of the inflationary cycle which has beset the world. Let us keep in mind that Australia has a tendency always to catch up much later than other countries. Basically the inflationary cycle was started when the United States set about financing the Vietnam war by printing money. It introduced virtually no restrictions at home; it superimposed a wartime economy on top of a peacetime economy. It then virtually set about printing money. The United States dollar was a very important currency and that action had an impact right around the world and created inflation right around the world. That process caught up with this country in the early part of this decade. Because the rate of inflation is reducing in other countries, so it is reducing in this country. The Government tries to claim credit for that. In other words, there has been a worldwide movement which was brought about in the first instance by the United States virtually printing money to finance the Vietnam war. That created inflation throughout the world as the United States dollar is a world currency. The resources boom also generated inflation. Today inflation in countries with economies comparable to our own, such as Japan, is reducing at a far faster rate than it is in this country. After all, Japan is our major trading nation. As far as Australia is concerned, Japan is the major trading nation of the world. Inflation in that country is reducing far more quickly than it is here in Australia. But the Government takes the credit for that situation. 
The Government's approach to economic policy has been an extraordinarily simplistic one. Its approach has been this: 'Right, we will increase unemployment as our way of fighting inflation'. That is a very cynical, heartless approach which has no respect whatsoever, as I said earlier, for the right of a man or a woman to work or for the dignity of men and women. That approach reduces demand, that very essential ingredient which I mentioned in the amendment which I moved earlier in my remarks. After all, if we are to have more than 400,000 people unemployed in this country- that is 400,000 subsisting on the unemployment benefit instead of receiving reasonable wages, not necessarily as high as average weekly earnings- then naturally demand will be reduced. Once those people return to work, straight away they will go to the shop; straight away the shop owner will go to the factory; and then the factory owner will go to the labour market, just as the shop owner will go to the labour market. Accordingly, people will once again be employed. 
The Government has lost sight of this fact. It does not seem to realise that the reduction in the rate of growth in the Australian economy has been brought about by its own foolish policiespolicies which must create more and more unemployment. I refer, for example, to the Government's own cutbacks in expenditure. In cutting back its own expenditure it has forgotten the very basic fact that government is the biggest single buyer from industry. When government ceases to buy or dramatically reduces its volume of purchases from industry that immediately has an impact upon industry and creates unemployment. 
I return to the figures to which I was referring earlier. I have cited the seasonally adjusted figures published by the  Australian Financial Review.  They show quite clearly that as from January 1 976 when this Government took office, unemployment has risen, on seasonally adjusted terms, from 289,000 to 374,000 persons. From April 1976 to April of this year, the number of unemployed, on seasonally adjusted terms, has risen from 271,000 to 407,000. 1 have also shown that the Government can no longer say that it would rather believe the figures produced by the Australian Bureau of Statistics than those produced by the Commonwealth Employment Service. The figures produced by the Commonwealth Employment Service indicate quite clearly- these are raw figures and are not on seasonally adjusted terms- that the number of unemployed as at April of this year was 402,500, whereas those produced by the Bureau of Statistics indicate that the number of unemployed was 401,700. In other words, the difference between the two sets of figures is only 800. For that reason the Government can no longer fall back on those figures. It has to face reality. Let us return to the figures for 1976. The Commonwealth Employment Service figures show that there were 268,000 people unemployed in 1976, compared with 402,500 unemployed as at April of this year. In other words, the number of unemployed has almost doubled. That is a pretty dreadful state of affairs indeed. 
The Opposition makes very clearly and very forcefully the point that the Government has to adopt a new approach, that it has to set about stimulating our economy. The only way in which the economy can be stimulated is by government action. While the Government adopts its present policy of virtual strangulation of the Australian economy, business and industry will not gain the necessary confidence to improve the position. They will not take the risk of employing more people. For that reason it is very important that the Government take the initiative to give that stimulus, to increase the deficit. It could do so, for example, by bringing in an unemployment relief scheme, because between January of this year and the end of this year the Government will spend something of the order of $ 1,000m on unemployment benefits. If the Government were to spend $300m on an unemployment relief scheme the Australian taxpayers, the people who have to foot the bill, would see something in return. They would see the necessary community facilities and public works- both State and Commonwealthimmediately come to fruition. Instead of the money being thrown down the drain it could be used in a far more effective way. 
I wish to deal with a couple of other matters. The first relates to an extraordinary thimble and pea trick- the Government's family allowances. If ever a thimble and pea trick were played on the Australian family man and woman it was done by his Government when it decided to cut out the tax rebate for dependent children and introduce family allowances. The situation is made all the worse by the fact that had the tax rebates for dependent children continued they would have been indexed. Family allowances are not indexed. They are static and will remain static. I will give some examples here and now. The tax rebate for a person with one child would have been $4.80 a week. The child endowment, under Labor, was 50c a week. The cumulative total would have been $5.30 a week. The family allowance for a person with one child is now $3.50 a week, instead of the 50c a week. In other words, had the tax rebate been still operative and had it been indexed as the Government undertook, a person with one child would have been getting $4.80 a week compared with $3.50 a week today- a loss of $1.80 a week. For a second child a person would have received $9.60, compared with the $5 received now. So the comparison goes on. 
It is a simple matter of arithmetic. A person who received previously a tax rebate as well as a family allowance- the tax rebate would have been continually indexed- today receives only a fixed family allowance and accordingly is much worse off. I will outline the extent to which the people involved are worse off. A person with one child is $ 1.80 a week worse off; a person with two children is $2.60 a week worse off; a person with three children is $3.40 a week worse off; and a person with four children is $4.45 a week worse off. A person with six children is $5.30 a week worse off. That is why I say it is a thimble and pea trick which the Fraser Government played upon the ordinary family men and women of this country. It made them feel at the time that they were much better off. If they sat down and looked at the matter logically, had their tax rebates for dependent children been indexed as the Government had undertaken to do, they would be far better off than they are today. 
I think the House should look at the speech that the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon)  made yesterday in this Parliament. I mention the speech because he outlined how he got into Cabinet. In referring to a debate in which apparently he maintained he did so well he said: 
After that speech I was invited by  Sir Robert-- 
That is  Sir Robert  Menzies-  to join the Cabinet. I had to wait for some weeks, during which time I was informed on a couple of occasions that somebody else might be appointed in my stead. Then I received advice from a Cabinet Minister. I went to Ezra Norton of the  Daily Mirror  and sought his support. 
-Of course not. This gives an example of the outside influences that permeate the Liberal and National Country parties. The right honourable member said: 
I went to Ezra Norton of the  Daily Mirror  and sought his support. Within a couple of days I became a member of the Cabinet. 
This is a perfect example of the outside influences which are put on this Government. The right honourable member, instead of going to the Prime Minister and seeking his support or going to other members of his parliamentary party and seeking their support, went to the proprietor of the  Daily Mirror  and sought his support. Apparently his support was far more important at that time than was the support of the right honourable member's own colleagues. 
The honourable member for Melbourne Ports said: 'He went to the boss'. Of course, the boss looked after him. I do not know what the payoff was or whether there was any payoff. I have not the slightest doubt that Ezra Norton from that time on was in a position of having some considerable persuasive powers over the right honourable member for Lowe. We can imagine the result of that support when, as the years rolled on, the right honourable member somehow or other- I do not know how- became the Prime Minister of this country. 
I raise two other questions with the Government. A deserted wife on a pension receives fringe benefits. 
Fringe benefits. The honourable member may now know what fringe benefits are. If he wants to cast aspersions against the womanhood of this country, it is his business. I will not make such assertions. I would not suggest under any circumstances that any deserted wife should go to the honourable member for Bendigo, the Government Whip, for instance. I make the point that the fringe benefits to which I refer are those received from the Department of Social Security, from State departments of transport, from Telecom Australia and so on. As I said, deserted wives on pensions receive fringe benefits, and so they should. 
I now ask: Why should deserted husbands not receive the same benefits from the Department of Social Security, from Telecom, from State departments of transport and so on, as deserted wives do? Equally, why is it that no funeral benefit is paid in the case of a recipient of a widow's pension whereas it is paid, and quite rightly so, to a recipient of an invalid or age pension? Those are two questions that I raise today in this Parliament, and I think that the Government will need to consider them if common justice is to be restored. I refer now to the Government's taxation policy. In recent times the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  has brought in legislation relating to tax avoidance schemes. 
I agree with the honourable member for Melbourne Ports, only on some schemes. That legislation has been used by the 
Government to endeavour to indicate to the public that it is prepared to clamp down on tax avoidance. Never before has such a hypocritical attitude been taken by a government. What it amounts to is that the Government is catching the small schemes but is missing the big schemes. For example, the Government's policy in relation to Norfolk Island, which was announced in the  Sydney Morning Herald  on 9 May, indicates that Norfolk Island will continue as a tax haven. I spoke in the Parliament on this matter in 1970 and 1971, calling upon the then LiberalCountry Party Government to do something about it. The Government had a great opportunity to move in and do something about the situation, but it has ignored it. Let us consider the legislation the Government has introduced in relation to the averaging of tax for primary producers. It is valid, it is just, that a primary producer whose income varies greatly year by year should be able to average his income for taxation purposes. But it is unjust that a person who is a doctor or a prominent member of the Bar, for instance, a person earning great income and wealth in this country is able to buy a farm, no matter how dilapidated, and then say: 'I can now average my income in the same way as a primary producer'. That is being done, and it is being done by supporters of the Fraser Government. No wonder it is being done, in view of some of the influences that we see on the Government front bench. 
Then we have the ultimate, the question of family trusts. The other day the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Dawkins)  asked whether the Treasurer would legislate against family trusts. The Treasurer gave the extraordinary reply that family trusts did not amount to tax avoidance, they were merely tax minimisation. What is the difference between so-called tax minimisation and tax avoidance? Why is it that the Government will not legislate against these ramps, ramps that are costing thousands of millions of dollars a year in revenue? The ordinary guy has to pay his tax. He cannot get out of it. He has to pay every penny that he owes, but those with wealth can form family trusts, those with wealth can buy a farm and average their income, those with wealth can utilise Norfolk Island as a tax haven and avoid paying taxes. The reason for this is that involved in these swindles of the Australian purse are prominent members of this Government, particularly in relation to family trusts, and I refer to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the former Treasurer and now Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch),  and the  Deputy  Prime 
Minister  (Mr Anthony).  How can the Government stand up and say that it is trying to overcome tax avoidance schemes when the major members of the Government are avoiding tax at every possible opportunity? The matters that I have outlined are the reasons why I have moved this amendment on behalf of the Opposition. 
-Is the wish of the House to have a general debate covering both measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
-Is the amendment seconded? 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
-I think the Deputy Leader of the Opposition is moving a little bit beyond making his point. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
-Two weeks ago, on 1 1 May, the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  circulated a written reply to questions raised in this House about land purchased by the Australian Postal Commission at Bundall in Queensland. As one of the questioners, I received one of the replies. The House was given no opportunity to debate this matter although the report was leaked to the Press two days earlier. These tactics do not obscure the omissions, errors and inconsistencies in the Minister's sloppily laundered account of this shady land deal. Let us look at the Minister's reply. On the second page he states: 
On 15 October 1976 Australia Post learnt that the Bundall land had been sold to Ron McMaster Pty Ltd. 
It is a pity that the Minister failed to read the minute of  Mr Spratt,  the Managing Director of the Commission, a little more carefully.  Mr Spratt  records the situation differently. In referring to a telephone conversation of 4 January 1977 with the then Minister for Post and Telecommunications,  Mr Spratt  says: 
I made the following points: The Commission would like very much to acquire the site under sale to  Mr McMaster. 
I repeat that according to  Mr Spratt,  the land was under sale and not sold when the Postal Commission was interested in purchasing it. Who was telling the truth? If the present Minister had wanted to find out the facts, all he had to do was read the documents tabled on 5 May in this House by the honourable member for Batman  (Mr Howe).  These documents- the ValuerGeneral's notification of change of ownershipreveal that on 18 October 1976 Ron McMaster took an option to buy the land in question from Watkins Ltd. I repeat that he took an option on the land. He did not buy it until three months later in January 1977; nor did he pay for it. The Minister's reply is wrong. The land was not sold to McMaster in October 1976. In fact, he did not buy it until after he had discussed the matter with his local member, his friend. 
It was the then Minister for Post and Telecommunications, the honourable member for McPherson  (Mr Eric Robinson).  Why is the present Minister hiding the truth? Is it to protect his predecessor? Is it to obscure the fact that McMaster bought the land only when he knew that he could make a $40,000 windfall profit from its resale? These are the things that this Parliament needs to know. 
Let us have a look at the various accounts of how the Postal Commission first became interested in this block of land. The Minister stated in his written reply: 
On 23 August 1976, Australia Post was informed by Watkins Ltd that it had for sale at $240,000 a piece of land 
The reply continues: 
On 25 August Australia Post advised the Chief Property Officer, Department of Administrative Services, Queensland, that this land met all of its requirements and to concentrate on an early acquisition. On 15 October 1976, Australia Post learnt that the Bundall land had been sold to Ron McMaster Pty Ltd. 
During that period from 25 August to 15 October- 714 weeks- the Postal Commission had been unable to secure the land. Did the Commission actually try to secure it during that period? We just do not know from the Minister's reply. There is a gap, a blank, in his record of events. But we do know the situation of the real owner of the land. The  Australian  of 5 May 1 978 contains the following report: 
A spokesman for Watkins Ltd said last night that the company had no knowledge that the Government was interested in the land before it sold it to McMaster. 
Watkins did not know that the Postal Commission wanted the land, but it looks as though McMaster did. How did he find out? Finally, a report on the Australian Broadcasting Commission radio program  PM on  4 May quoted the Acting State Manager of Australia Post,  Mr Athenden,  as saying: 
We came across this piece of land rather unexpectedly. 
Nowhere does the Minister's reply leave this impression. Rather, we are expected to believe that the Postal Commission under the then Minister acted slowly and cautiously.  Mr Athenden  says differently and, if he is telling the truth, and there is no reason to suspect his story, the Minister's statement is a tissue of fabrications. 

Order! The honourable gentlemen's time has expired. 
-My ruling is that the Bill deals with the Trade Union Training Authority. Honourable members should associate their remarks with the Bill. If the honourable member for Franklin, in developing his argument on the Bill, wishes to deal with some specific examples which he feels reflect the intention of the Bill, he will be in order. But if he wishes to use the Bill to embark on a general debate on industrial affairs, that will be out of order. 
I pay full respect to the honourable member for Ballarat  (Mr Short)  for having quite a comprehensive knowledge on this subject. But I suggest that he misunderstood the point which the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  was trying to get across in speaking to his amendment. The point he was trying to make is that in effect  Mr Witteveen  has said that getting the inflation rate down should not be the only objective of member countries of the International Monetary Fund. He said that they should also concentrate on economic growth and that the two go hand in hand. That is the very point which the honourable member for Gellibrand was making. 
Our criticism of the Bill and the reason for our amendment is that this Government is out of step with the policy enunciated in the IMF. It has a fetish with the inflation issue in itself. It has thrown overboard the need to bring about economic growth. This has caused the level of unemployment to rise particularly in seasonally adjusted terms. As I outlined in the House the other day, since January the level of unemployment in seasonally adjusted terms has grown each month. I am not talking about this financial year, I am talking about January, February, March and April. This is having a very decisive effect upon demand and economic growth. Unless the Government gets rid of the present state of stagnation the economy will not get moving. Inflation and economic growth go hand in hand. That is the basic viewpoint which has been expressed in the IMF. That is the basic viewpoint of the Australian Labor Party. Unfortunately, it is not the basic viewpoint of this Government. Accordingly, the Government is out of step. I make that point to the honourable member for Ballarat because I feel that he misinterpreted the attitude of the honourable member for Gellibrand. He claimed that the honourable member for Gellibrand said virtually that the Managing Director of the IMF,  Mr Witteveen,  had stated that inflation was no longer an issue. I do not think the honourable member for Gellibrand said that at all. He made the point that the question of reducing inflation and the question of economic growth  go  hand in hand. That is the attitude which the Opposition takes. 
A number of aspects are contained in this Bill. The role of gold is to be gradually reduced by member countries in the international monetary system. The Fund now recognises that the old system of fixed exchange rates has been taken over by a floating exchange rate system and that most of the major countries have adopted the new system. I have some doubts about the wisdom of this. I am personally concerned that this leaves the position wide open- I think the honourable member for Ballarat himself expressed some reservations in this regard- for speculation and, accordingly, for a lack of ability of countries to plan their economies effectively. We should remember that when member countries had fixed exchange rates they had to go to the IMF for approval to vary their exchange rates. It may be pure coincidence- I do not think it is- that in those days the world economy as a whole was far more stable than it is today. The Bill also deals with exchange rate policy and the need for member countries to fit in with the requirements laid down by the IMF and to ensure that the economic policies which they follow are consistent with the requirements of the IMF. The Bill goes further. It also automatically increases our subscription to the capital of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. 
I want to deal with one or two other matters. I think this Bill gives me an opportunity to do so. One is the over-reliance by the Government on overseas capital, and I am talking about private capital. It has not adopted a selective approach to the induction of overseas capital. Overseas capital can be very beneficial to this country if it brings with it new techniques and manufacturing capabilities which we are not getting in any other way. But a vast amount of the overseas capital which has been attracted by the policy of this Government and of former conservative governments is not beneficial. A conservative government altered the correspondence which was sent out by the Reserve Bank of Australia saying that no commitment would be given by the Reserve Bank as to the repatriation of capital. The government added that nevertheless, no application for repatriation of capital had yet been refused. From the time of that variation in policy a large influx of capital of various kinds has moved into the country including vast amounts of speculative capital in real estate. This had a big impact upon the real estate boom in this country which in turn brought about a recession. There is very little benefit in people overseas moving funds into this country purely for that type of speculation. It builds up reserves at the time but the day of reckoning must come. 
I can recall warning about this matter in this Parliament in 1962 and 1963. I think I mentioned it in my maiden speech. In 1963-64 net invisibles, that is currency exported from this country, stood at $542m. In 1972-73 the figure was $ 1,447m. In 1976-77 it was $3,0 16m. That is nearly double. The figure rose from $2, 572m in 1975-76 to $3,0 16m in 1976-77. In other words, the growth is very dramatic indeed and this, of course, is the hour of reckoning, which has resulted from the unbridled, completely nonselective induction of private capital from overseas. That eventually had to catch up with us as income has, in accordance with Government policy, been repatriated. I do not see how that policy could ever be varied; I think it is a correct one. If we decided not to allow the repatriation of income we would have no capital coming to this country, including capital which could be of benefit because it would bring with it new techniques. 
Property income stood in 1963-64 at $399m. In 1976-77 it stood at $ 1,725m, an increase over the figure for 1975-76 of $l,556m. One can see the dramatic growth in the repatriation of income from property. I cannot see any basic benefit from that, so far as this aspect is concerned, to this country. The finance, the capital to develop our own property within our country, to own our own country can be provided here, from our own resources. Capital can be of great benefit if it brings new know-how and technique. That type of capital, however, does not do that. 
In regard to official government borrowings overseas, I recall that the former Labor Government was seriously criticised when it wished to raise $2,000m to buy, in effect, Australia's own assets, its minerals, so that we could develop our own resources. The then Opposition, whose supporters are now on the Government side, were highly critical of that action. The details of overseas borrowings by this Government, from March 1976 to the present time indicate that the total now stands at $ 1 ,948.736m. In other words, this Government has almost exceeded the $2 billion figure- the very thing for which it criticised the former Labor Government. Moreover, this Government has done so not for the laudatory purpose of controlling Australia's resources, but simply for the purpose of maintaining this country's exchange rate against the effects of the unfortunate policies of previous conservative governments. 
I make that point because it is very obvious that Australia has now entered a period of endemic balance of payments problems. That will be accentuated by the growth of invisibles which has resulted from overseas investment policies which have not been selective and have, accordingly, forced the Government on to the international market to raise funds from official sources to overcome the problem. 
I want to deal with one other matter that I think is most important. That concerns the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Those of us who remember the days of the Bretton Woods agreement will recall that it was a Labor government that took Australia into the International Monetary Fund and into participation in the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, or World Bank. That was, of course, a Rooseveltian conception, whose whole objective was to assist what we now call the developing, or underdeveloped, nations. It was advocated that this would, of itself, increase the terms of trade throughout the world; that it would mean a greater flow of goods around the world; that it would produce great humanitarian benefits, benefits which Roosevelt had very much in the forefront of his mind. It is to the everlasting credit of the Labor Party that when in government, under first  Mr Curtin  and then  Mr Chifley,  we became participants in that endeavour. I make that point because the IMF and the World Bank have not fulfilled by any means the ordinary, original aspirations of the Bretton Woods agreement- aspirations directed towards uplifting the standards of living and the development of the economies of the backward countries of this world. 
We should keep in mind that the development of those economies, and the improvement of living conditions in them, would be of great benefit economically to this country. For example, a one per cent increase in the standard of living in the people of Indonesia or of India would bring great commercial benefit to Australia. It would mean that far greater trade would flow between the two countries. For this reason I take the opportunity to state that I believe strongly that we must give as much aid as possible to the developing nations. It is a pity that the whole concept of Bretton Woods has never been fully realised. It is to be hoped that future governments will endeavour to prosecute policies to that end. 
I support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  and earlier outlined my reasons for doing so. That amendment, of course, is: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: whilst not opposing the Bill, the House is of the opinion that the policy approach advocated by the Australian representative at the recent International Monetary Fund meeting at Mexico City was contrary to that needed to generate world economic recovery and was accordingly against the best interests of this country'. 
The amendment makes the point that the Australian representative was out of step with the policies enunciated by the IMF, which emphasised not just the reduction of inflation levels, as this Government is doing, but also the fostering of economic recovery, development and growth. I therefore support the amendment. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. I refer him to the Australian Government's recent overseas loan raising of $US250m in the New York bond market. Is it a fact that the interest rate on the 1 5-year bonds is 9.17 per cent? Further, was the interest rate on securities with maturities between 5 and 1 8 years for the May conversion loan only 9. 1 per cent? In the light of these interest rates, does the Treasurer regard the rate on the latest overseas loan in the same way as the March $US350m 
Eurodollar loan as being 'particularly favourable to the Commonwealth'? 
-I support the amendment to this legislation moved by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  which is: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: this House condemns the Government's proposed Federal financial arrangements, on the grounds that 
the real level of payments to the States will be reduced; 
the States will be forced to introduce a State income tax; 
there will be cuts in employment opportunities offered by State governments, thus adding to the unemployment problem; 
capital works will be further reduced with damaging effects on the building and construction industry, and 
the standard of services offered at the State level will decline'. 
In supporting that amendment we make it very clear that the Opposition strongly opposes the introduction of stage 2 of the so-called new federalism. Some of the arguments offered here tonight are very specious indeed. The honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly)  tried to make the submission that the States had agreed to stage 2 of the new federalism concept. Nothing is further from the truth. All States, with the exception of Western Australia, strongly oppose it. 
It is a different thing for the States which have said: 'This is forced upon us. We strongly oppose it'. New South Wales and I think Tasmania have said that they will not co-operate in the proposal at all but if it is introduced they have outlined 35 basic points of agreement as to what is necessary for the scheme to work. That is a completely different thing from agreeing to the scheme. To the contrary, they strongly oppose it in every State with the exception of Western Australia. 
Let me deal with some of the comments that have been passed. An old friend of this Government is the Premier of Queensland,  Mr BjelkePetersen.  What has he said? I read from the  Canberra Times of  13 April: 
Both  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  (Qld) and  Mr Dunstan  (SA) had earlier referred to the stage-two proposal as 'a three-card trick' . . . But  Mr Dunstan  went on to explain, 'The Prime Minister is trying to use the States as an instrument of his policy to reduce government expenditure, and to make us take responsibility for it'. 
That is the basic issue. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is endeavouring foist onto the States responsibility for his policy of reducing government expenditure in various fields of welfare and so on. Let me read what Tasmania had to say. In the  Mercury of 4  May we read: 
The Acting Premier and Treasurer,  Mr Batt,  said yesterday he would write to all senators appealing to them to reject Fraser Government legislation which will give States the power to raise their own income tax. 
But he said that if the legislation went through, he could give no guarantee that, eventually, Tasmania would not be forced to impose a State income tax. 
That is a double tax and that is what I will come to shortly. The government is putting forward some extraordinary arguments to make it appear that this is not a double tax. In the  Sydney Morning Herald  of 1 7 April we read: 
The NSW Government will not co-operate with the Commonwealth over the introduction of legislation for the second stage of the Fraser Government 's new federalism policy. 
Instead, it will seek a review of existing tax-sharing arrangements between the Commonwealth and the States. 
The Premier,  Mr Wran,  sent Telex messages yesterday to the Prime Minister,  Mr Fraser,  and the five other Premiers expressing total opposition to stage two of the arrangement and calling for the review. 
Next we come to Victoria. In the  Canberra Times  of 1 8 April we read: 
The Victorian Premier,  Mr Hamer,  has rejected speculation that his government will introduce a State income tax. 
He made it quite clear. The report continues: 

 His comments followed a statement by the NSW Premier,  Mr Wran,  that his Government would oppose the introduction of stage-two. 
South Australia has made its attitude very clear, as have New South Wales, Victoria and Tasmaniaright across the board until we come to Western Australia. At this time that State is in favour of it. It will wake up. 
Let us look at the second reading speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Howard).  At page 2818 of  Hansard  Tor 3 1 May 1978 he is reported as saying: 
Before turning to the detailed provisions of the Bill I wish to deal with the constant assertions of our political opponents that the Stage 2 arrangements amount to some form of double taxation'. 
He goes on to say: 
The first point to be made, of course, is that this legislation puts absolutely no compulsion on the States. It merely provides the framework to enable the States, as they may choose to pick up taxing or rebating options. 
This is an extraordinarily specious argument- 
Only when a State chooses to impose a tax or to allow a rebate, and legislates accordingly, will this legislation be brought into use. Some Premiers, as is well known, have urged the Commonwealth to reduce income tax. The enactment of this legislation will allow those Premiers to reduce income tax in their States. 
A typical Fraser smart Alec reply. The facts are mentioned in the Treasurer's second reading speech. He said: 
In this connection, honourable members will recall that the House recently passed an amendment Bill which is currently in the other place and which provides for the States to receive a fixed amount of $4,336.1m in 1977-78 and for their tax share from 1978-79 onwards. 
The operative word is 'onwards', from then on  to be 39.87 per cent of the preceding year's collections. 
Taking into account that Government's policies in respect of tax indexation it means that the States' share of income tax will be steadily eroded over the years because their share will not be updated in terms of inflation. So sooner or later they will be forced into the situation of having to impose a double tax, an income tax of their own. It is the concept behind this legislation and honourable members opposite know it only too well. They are deliberately a party to it. They are trying to force the States into this situation. As was also mentioned by the honourable member for Gellibrand, of the total revenue which the States receive from the Commonwealth only 40 per cent comes from taxation, the remainder being provided by way of specific purpose grants from the Commonwealth, which have not been indexed against inflation in any respect. So the States' share of Commonwealth revenue is steadily receding and it will recede even further under this legislation. 
Every honourable member will have received appeals from the parent organisations of the various local government bodies throughout this country that the Government lift the total share of tax revenue given to local government to 2 per cent. We are all well aware of the very cogent argument set out in correspondence to us from the local government organisations. At present local government is receiving a little over 1.5 per cent of tax collections- I forget the exact amountand it is asking for 2 per cent. Yet this Government is endeavouring to make a big thing out of its decision to give local government a little more than 1.5 per cent of total tax revenue. Under the Labor Government, taking into account the various schemes which that Government financed for local government and bearing in mind that this was the first time in history that local government had had direct access to the coffers of this nation, local government received 2.3 per cent of total tax revenue. This figure included the financial assistance that local government received under the urban improvement program, the capital grants scheme and the various schemes which were operated under the previous Labor Government's Department of Tourism and Recreation. If we add to that the funds which local government received under the Regional Employment Development scheme, local government received in all 2.8 per cent of total tax revenue. Local government is now asking only for 2 per cent instead of the 1.5 per cent or a little more of tax revenue that it receives today. This is not an unreasonable request. 
Local government is beginning to realise only too well that this is a three card trick and that it has been caught up in it. In the beginning many local government organisations thought the federalism policy was a great idea until they realised just how badly off they were under it. The honourable member for Barton  (Mr Bradfield)  placed a great deal of emphasis on his argument that this policy decentralised administration. That is utter nonsense. The Whitlam Government set about decentralising administration in relation to local government when it introduced the regional council concept to give greater autonomy to local government. Who was it that squealed the most when that happened? The conservatives in this country, the then Opposition, the present Government. They squealed the most because it would have taken away full control of local government from their friends who at that stage controlled most of the States. This was particularly so with Queensland and the Government's friend,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen. 
The argument put forward by the honourable member for Barton was completely erroneous. 
I turn now to the argument in the Minister's second reading speech and set out in the explanatory memorandum that the Government's proposal will not involve double taxation. That is arrant nonsense. The amount which the States receive from the Commonwealth will gradually be reduced in real money terms because of the lack of indexation against inflation and the States finally will be forced to impose an income tax. They will resist doing so as long as they can. Five out of the six States undoubtedly will resist it, Western Australia being the only exception. However, sooner or later they all will be forced to do it or reduce the level of services which they at present offer. This is spelt out in the amendment which was moved by the honourable member for Gellibrand. It will also mean a reduction in employment and a reduction in State capital works. All this must occur unless the States decide to introduce an income tax of their own, and that in itself will mean the end of the one tax system we have known. 
Did the honourable member say that we have never had uniform tax? 
-It has been in relation to income tax and that is what I am referring to. The honourable member is well aware of that. I suggest that he not try to wriggle around the issue in that way. I am talking about uniform income tax. Uniform taxation was one of the great reforms introduced in the early war years. It was a reform that was guarded jealously by previous Liberal-Country Party governments, including the Menzies Government which made sure that the High Court did not agree to any proposal by any State to end uniform taxation. The Treasurer when introducing this legislation presented the very specious argument that this does not mean the end of uniform taxation. He argued this on the ground that there will be only one tax collecting authority, that people will receive only one income tax assessment and that that assessment will show the amount of State tax and the amount of Federal tax. The fact is that it means the end of uniform taxation because from now on the Commonwealth will lose basic control over the revenue policies of this country. We could have a situation where in New South Wales there was one level of income tax levied and in Western Australia, South Australia or 
Queensland a completely different level of tax levied. So for all intents and purposes, no matter how honourable members opposite try to play around with technicalities, this legislation means two things: An end to uniform taxation as it applies to income tax - 
The honourable member says 'good '.  Sir Robert  Menzies would turn in his grave if he could hear what honourable members opposite are saying. It also means the introduction of double taxation and, without a doubt, the States Will be forced in the years to come to levy a second income tax. This in turn will mean not only that it will be much more difficult to have a planned economy in this country but also that the people will suffer because if the States do not do it the services which they offer, the capital works which they undertake and employment by the States, will be dramatically reduced. That will occur in any event because the States will naturally resist the temptation as a result of the political problems involved in introducing double income taxation. For those reasons I strongly support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Gellibrand. The Opposition is violently opposed to this retrograde step by the Government which is taking us back to the 1930s. We strongly oppose stage 2 of the so-called new federalism. We hope that in another place somebody will use a little sense and reject it. 
I refer the Minister for Transport to a statement he made on 3 1 May in which he stated that financial assistance to Victorian dairy farmers should not be achieved by increasing milk prices. I ask the Minister whether he is aware that the Prime Minister, when addressing the conference of the Victorian Farmers Union on 6 July 1 977, said: 
Many of the dairy farmers now in acute difficulties would be in no difficulty if Victorian liquid milk prices were higher. 
Did the Prime Minister, in the same address, go on to advocate - 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the four measures? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I think it is time that the good names of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  were protected in this Parliament. Anybody who listened tonight to the program  This Day Tonight - 
Yes, tonight. Members would be rather interested in the transcript I have of that program. Under the headings 'Skit' and 'Carter', referring to President Carter, the transcript states: 
Yeh we 'II take care of that situation right away, in fact I '11 get Cyrus Vance, my Secretary of State, to do it. Sorry, I've got a call here on my red phone, so you'll just have to hang on. Hello. What did my brother Billy do? He drank what? How much? Oh that much. Well, give him some salted peanuts and send him back home. 
That was his brother, not Bjelke-Petersen. That was someone else. I think that this is a very serious skit. We have to look after the good name of the  President  of the United States and his brother as well. The transcript continues: 
Yeh. Thanks a lot. Bi bi. Sorry about that. Now, who are these guys? Yeh there is John isn't there? You know, John Fraser. Oh, it's Malcolm. But I called him John last time. Oh. Did he really say that? Well, who is John? Is that that other guy? You know, the one with the suntan. Oh he 's not John either. Well, who is John? 
Obviously it is referring to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. 
He is over there too. It goes on: 
Oh, there is no John, but you've got a George. What Georgio? What's he do? Oh, he writes John's, I mean, Malcolm 's speeches. Well who writes for the little suntanned guy? Oh no-one? He's just the Foreign Minister, I see. Well, what are they doing here anyhow? Oh I must have missed that. Yeh. Well I'm glad we've sorted that out. Yeh. That's good. Alright, peace and laughin ', God bless you, bi bi. I 'm sure there was a John in there somewhere. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, I want you to know that my name is John and I want it to be clearly understood that I had nothing to do with this. It was not I they were referring to. After all, we know that the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs are in the United States at the present time. We realise that the  President  of the United States did not even know they were coming. We realise that they are not making much of an impact upon the United States. I also notice that the Prime Minister has a room at the top- right at the top- for about $241 a night; but I still make the point- I am sure the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  would agree with me- that the good name of the Prime Minister of this country and the good name of the Minister for Foreign Affairs should not be maligned in this way. We know that they are both lightweights, but we have to cop that. Unfortunately, the people made that decision, and we have to try to back them up as best we can, even though that is a very difficult job indeed to do. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 3 May 1978: 
Why are female employees of the Commonwealth Banking Corporation not eligible for Officers Homes Advances, keeping in mind that the male employees are. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 6 April 1 978: 
Is it a fact that an amount of $6.2m allocated for a program of assistance for industry to decentralise is to be provided in areas outside designated growth centres, including metropolitan areas such as the outer western suburbs of Sydney. 
-During the last week the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones),  the honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin),  and tonight the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  have eulogised the recently retired honourable member for Werriwa. I wish to join them tonight and take the opportunity to make a special announcement in respect of his retirement. On 1 September in the Bowman Hall of the Blacktown Civic Centre, which I have dubbed the Temple of Victories, there will be a dinner attended by some 800 people to pay their respects to and to show their appreciation of the former Prime 
Also present at this function will be artists who are great names in this country. They will be giving their time free out of appreciation for what Gough Whitlam, as Prime Minister of this country, did for their profession. I think that it shows the great respect, although it goes much deeper than that, that people have for this man. I am pleased to have been associated with Gough Whitlam, having met him when he first entered this Parliament. At that time I was not a parliamentarian; I was a member of the State Executive of the Australian Labor Party. Right throughout that period, during the period that I was Assistant General Secretary of the New South Wales Branch of the Australian Labor Party and during the period leading up to when he bacame the Leader of the Party, I was very closely associated with him, proud to be associated with him and proud to fight to see him become the leader. For that reason I am proud to be the person associated with the organisation of this very important dinner for him so that people can express their thanks to a man who did so much for this country and who was such a great Labor leader. 
He has received criticism, but he had a glorious wit. Sometimes it was misunderstood. Sometimes his gloriously facetious remarks were deliberately misinterpreted to make him appear vain, but I know from my association with the man how humble he could be. I believe, as the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  has stated, though I think in different words, that when history is written Gough Whitlam will go down as the great reformer, the man who set out to reform this country and whose ideas and ideals will be something the people of Australia will always appreciate. For i7 August 1978 REPRESENTA J. IVES 515 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder! The honourable member's time has expired. 

-This Government is the most heartless, corrupt, dishonourable and dishonest government that this country has ever seen. How hollow today is the promise of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in 1975 to the people of Australia that there would be jobs for everyone who wants to work. That was his promise then, but look at the action that this Government has taken ever since, action deliberately designed to increase the level of unemployment in this country. It is quite obvious from the speech just made by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street),  who is sitting at the table, that the Minister does not understand that there is such a thing as a man's and woman's inherent right to work. What we are concerned with is the very important and fundamental issue of the maintenance of the dignity of man and woman. 
I come, of course, from the western suburbs of Sydney. In terms of unemployment this area is suffering more than most other parts of Australia, if not any other part of Australia. This area is suffering particularly from the policies of this Government. I would like to give a few figures. At the end of last month 6,693 people were registered as unemployed at the Commonwealth Employment Services Offices of Mount Druitt and Blacktown. Of that number, 2,99 1 were what are termed young people. In August 1977 there were 5.3 per cent of the work force unemployed, according to the figures of the Australian Bureau of Statistics, and 333,978 people were unemployed, according to the figures of the CES. According to the Australian Bureau of Statistics, which is a government body, the number had increased from 5.3 per cent to 6.2 per cent in August of this year, which was an increase of 90,000. I would like honourable members to note the discrepancy between those figures and the figures released by the Commonwealth Employment Service. According to the CES, 337,391 people were unemployed in July of last year and 393,378 people were unemployed in July this year, which is an increase of 55,987. In other words, the CES says that the level of unemployment has gone up by only 55,000, whereas the Bureau of Statistics says it has gone up by 90,000. As the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  said, the reason for the discrepancy is that people are dropping out. They are losing heart, they are giving it away and they are no longer registering. In particular, the women who are unemployed are no longer registering. If we adjust the unemployment figure for the outer western suburbs of Sydney by using the ratio of 1.6, that being the difference between the Bureau of Statistics figures and the CES figures, we find that the level of unemployment in that area would be not 6,693 but 10,720. In other words, the real unemployment figure in that area, which is made up of just two major suburbs of western Sydney, is in excess of 10,000. Also, about half of those people are young people under the age of 21 years. This is a disgraceful state of affairs which cannot possibly be allowed to continue. 
The policies of this Government are contributing towards the unemployment situation. The Government has just announced that it will introduce word processing machines into the Commonwealth Public Service. These machines will take the jobs of stenographers. I know of a local government council which has introduced word processing machines, with the result that a staff of 30 stenographers has been reduced to three. This is the dramatic effect that such changes can have. As I have said, the Federal Government is proposing to introduce such equipment. However has the Government carried out any inquiry into the impact that such a proposal will have in terms of redundancy within the Public Service? Has it carried out an inquiry into the impact it will have on young people, particularly young females, entering the Public Service? Of course it has not. The Government says: 'Oh, here is a new technique; we will embrace it; it will cut back our pay bill'. However, no consideration whatsoever is given to the impact that such a change will have on young people seeking employment. 
The Government has tried to introduce other changes which will have an effect on employment. It took the Telecom dispute to make the Government realise that there was such a thing as new technology and computerisation. The Government has now decided to set up an interdepartmental committee to report on this matter. The Minister just said that the Government will have the report in November. However, the trade union movement for years has been pointing out what would happen. In 1 967 the Telecom people warned what would happen. However, the Government has done nothing. The Telecom dispute has done one good thing for this country- it has drawn people's attention to the fact that new technology is entering this country; that it is not just around the corner but is already here, and that it will result in further massive unemployment. It looks as though new technology will be responsible for the unemployment of about one million people by 1981-82. This Government is not facing up to the issue. 
When Labor was in office the western suburbs of Sydney received the benefits of the urban development scheme and the Regional Employment Development scheme. We also had the children services program, but today virtually no money is available for the program. All of these schemes provided finance. They provided much needed facilities for the area. At least of equal importance, they also provided jobs. We know that the RED scheme had its teething pains. It is well and truly time that this Government woke up to the facts. 
It is time that the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, who is sitting at the table, woke up to the fact that the Government should introduce an unemployment relief scheme that will give people work. They have an inherent right to work. I say quite explicitly that it is well and truly time that the Minister realised how massive this problem is. It is not an issue which can just be swept under the carpet. It is not an issue which can be overcome by cosmetic activities, such as a few of the schemes implemented by the Minister. I ask honourable members to have a look at what has been done to the Special Youth Employment 
Training Program. In the recent Budget, assistance under that scheme was cut from $65 to $44. An employer gets $44 a week if he employs a youth who has been unemployed for a period of four months. But what happens, of course, is that as soon as the time expires for that benefit to be paid that person is sacked. 
It is not wrong. I ask the Minister to come into the western suburbs to see it. 
I invite the Minister to come to the western suburbs to talk to officers of his own Department. I am quite happy to have him there and we will show him what is happening. 
The scheme is militating against employing young people who have been unemployed for less than four months. I have had complaints at my office from mothers who are very deeply concerned. Their boy or girl has gone along for a job and has been told: 'Sorry, you cannot have a job. You have not been unemployed for four months yet. When you have been unemployed for four months I will employ you and collect the $44 a week handout from the Government'. That,  Mr Minister,  is occurring. The Minister is sitting in his little citadel down here in Canberra. I ask him to come to the western suburbs and to Wollongong in the electorate of Cunningham. He will see what is really happening. The Minister should get his head out of the sand. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I stated yesterday, and I will state it again today, that this is a dishonest, corrupt and dishonourable Government. It is a Government led by a devious and dishonourable Prime Minister. In fact, he is one of these unfortunate people who even looks crook. 
-I wish to raise two or three matters this evening. The first deals with the benefit for supporting fathers. Unfortunately in the society in which we live today such a benefit is becoming more and more important. There was a time when one seldom saw a father deserted by his wife and having to take care of his children. Today, unfortunately, such an occurrence is becoming more and more prevalent. A deserted husband in my electorate has had to leave work to look after his five children. Accordingly he applied for and received a supporting father's allowance. However, this allowance is not treated as a pension such as the pension received by a deserted wife. 
A deserted wife who is left with five children can obtain what is known as a widow's pension. Sometimes it is called a deserted wife's pension. If she meets the income qualifications she is also entitled to receive fringe benefits such as a medical card from the New South Wales State Government and transport passes. In my municipality she would not be charged rates. I think that she would be required to pay half rates to the Metropolitan Water, Sewerage and Drainage Board. These concessions are of great benefit to a person who is left in this position, be that person a widow, an age pensioner, an invalid pensioner or a deserted wife. However, a deserted husband does not receive these fringe benefits because this Government considers that he is not in receipt of a pension as such but only a benefit. The Government takes the view that he is lucky to receive the benefit at all. 
I give full credit to the Government. I spoke in the House a number of times some years ago on the need to assist supporting fathers. I have seen the numbers growing year by year. I knew that it was something which we had to face. The chap to whom I have referred has five children under his care and control. Although he receives a deserted husband's allowance he is not treated as a pensioner and as such he cannot receive fringe benefits such as a medical card, local government rating concessions and so on. As a result he is placed in a very disadvantageous position. It is for that reason that I have brought this matter up tonight. I ask that this matter be looked at by the Government and that the deserted husbands ' allowance, which involves the same amount of money as the deserted wives pension, be treated as a pension and not in effect as an ex gratia payment. That is how it is being treated today. Accordingly the ruling has been given that deserted husbands are not entitled to various fringe benefits such as a medical card. I make that appeal tonight. 
While I am on this subject I might point out that I think it is well and truly time that the table which determines whether an invalid pensioner, an age pensioner, a deserted wife and the like shall receive fringe benefits should be reviewed. This table has not been reviewed since 1973. As honourable members know, the table contains a cut-off point of total income at which people can no longer receive fringe benefits. Therefore I make the point that it is well and truly time that this table were reviewed. People who receive an increase in their superannuation from, say, the railways or the Miners Pension Branch suddenly find out of the blue that their income takes them above the limit. They lose their fringe benefits. The benefit they receive in order to index them against inflation in respect of the superannuation payment is far less than the value of the fringe benefits which they have lost. This is very unjust. It can be rectified only by reviewing the table. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
I wish to support the attitude expressed in this chamber tonight by the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes).  He made the point very validly that the full details of the Estimates are not submitted to this chamber, although they are submitted to the Senate, and that if we want a copy of them we have to go on bended knee and virtually purloin one from the Senate in order to find out the full details of the funds expended by this Government. This is the chamber in which the Budget is introduced and in which the Estimates are introduced; so surely it is common sense and sound government to have the details of the Estimates supplied to us. 
I also want to deal with the extraordinary loss of revenue which is occurring with regard to the Department of Finance and the impact this is having upon the policies of the Treasury as well. Unfortunately, at present a lobby is in existence which is bringing a great deal of pressure to bear upon the Government in regard to the foreign tax credits Bill. This legislation has been brought down with the full intent of taxing foreign-source income of Australian resident companies and individuals so as to ensure that there is tax equity. This applies in particular to discourage companies from going off-shore and thereby reducing Australian employment, at this time of very high unemployment in this country. 
The other day we heard a question directed to the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  by, if I recollect correctly, the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon)  the answer to which indicated quite clearly that the Government is having second thoughts with regard to this legislation. In other words, the lobbies, particularly the lobbies representing the individuals and companies utilising tax havens overseas, are working. This applies particularly to those companies which have gone off-shore and which have been going off-shore continually but particularly over the last three years because they can get special tax holidays and lower tax rates in other countries. They have no concern whatsoever for their own country. They are concerned purely about the profit or the extra profit they can make and the lower tax they will pay by taking their business overseas. This, of course, is being encouraged by the Government if it goes back on its own word on this very important legislation. It is caving in to the lobbyists who are operating in this Parliament and in the lobbies of this Parliament. They are operating with the express purpose of endeavouring to maintain their present tax evasion or avoidance schemeswhatever one likes to call them. 
As the honourable member for Parramatta says, they are rip-offs. I am very surprised indeed that a person such as the right honourable member for Lowe, who has been in this chamber for so long, would lend himself to these lobbyists who are operating in the corridors of this Parliament. 
Whether the honourable member for Eden-Monaro likes it or not, he is a twicer in more ways than one, and everyone knows that.  Mr Deputy Chairman,  this legislation is a very retrograde step. I think it should be looked at very carefully indeed. Without a doubt, this is a government which at present is claiming great credit for closing tax avoidance loopholes; yet when pressures are applied to the Government it immediately buckles. 
Let us look at a few of these schemes. The other day I dealt at length with a particular avoidance scheme, that is, the family trust There can, of course, be genuine family trusts set up for the purpose of protecting the interests of a family as a result of a death in the family, whereby the assets of the parent who died are willed to the children or the grandchildren. Such family trusts can be utterly and completely valid. But the vast majority of the trusts which are being set up in this country today are set up purely for the purpose of income splitting, for tax avoidance purposes. For example, by dividing the income from a property of, say, $60,000, which normally would attract tax at the rate of approximately 60c in the dollar, amongst four members of the family, the income is reduced to $ 1 5,000 for each of those members, which would attract a tax of 15c in the dollar. This is the method used for tax avoidance purposes. 
The Treasurer  (Mr Howard),  in answer to a question from the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Dawkins)  one day as to whether the Government would take action on this, the most blatant tax avoidance scheme in existence, to close up this loophole, said that it was not tax avoidance, it was tax minimisation. Can any member of this chamber tell me the difference between tax avoidance and tax minimisation? What it amounts to is that both of them are simply legalised tax avoidance schemes. The Government knows it exists. It is losing about a thousand million dollars a year because of such loopholes and it will not close them up. Why will it not close them up? It is because too many people on the Government side are indulging in this tax avoidance. That is what is behind it all. 
Let us look at a few of the people involved. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the  Deputy  Prime Minister and Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony),  the  Deputy  Leader of the Liberal Party and former Treasurer, with his land deals and family trusts, are all involved in tax avoidance. I have not the slightest doubt that the  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party also would be involved in this racket. That is all it can be called. There has been a complete cover-up of it by this Government. Time and time again I have endeavoured to table - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drummond)  -Order! There is no substance in the point of order. 
The  DEPUTY  CHAIRMAN-Order! Does the honourable member for St George wish to take a point of order? 
The  DEPUTY  CHAIRMAN-Order! Did the honourable member for Corio accuse the honourable member for St George of lying? 
I have sought leave to table in this Parliament documents resulting from searches of the records of the Corporate Affairs Commission in Victoria which show quite clearly and beyond doubt the activities of the Prime Minister of this country with regard to tax avoidance. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- There is no substance in the point of order. It is a very free and wide-ranging discussion on these appropriations. 
I was dealing with losses of revenue and that relates to the estimates for the Department of Finance and for the Treasury. These obvious attempts to interrupt this debate tonight by taking points of order are another example of an attempt by the forces in this Government, because of its corruption and its dishonesty, to have another cover-up. They are frightened that the real facts will be brought out in this Parliament. The facts are that leading members of this Government are tied up in this ramp. It is time that that ramp was ended. It is time that this Government took action to legislate against this tax avoidance ramp. 
Consideration interrupted. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drummond)-  Order! It being 10.30 p.m., I shall report progress. 
Progress reported. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I claim to have been misrepresented. In reply to the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon),  I accept his explanation completely and unreservedly. But I would like to make this point as to the reason why I made that statement. I was present in the House when he asked a question of the Treasurer  (Mr Howard).  I formed the distinct impression- and I am absolutely confident on that impression- that the Treasurer himself is going very quiet on the foreign tax credits Bill - 
Yes. I wanted to make that point. At the time I had the impression that it was a Dorothy Dix question to the Treasurer. Evidently it was not a Dorothy Dix question. I accept completely the explanation of the right honourable member for Lowe. But I am still completely satisfied that the Treasurer himself is going soft on this legislation which can have a big impact on employment in Australia. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering both measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
-In view of the admissions by the Prime Minister that he has a family trust - 
I preface my question to the Prime Minister by referring to the Government's announced intention to legislate against various tax avoidance schemes. Accepting that there are genuine family trusts, does the right honourable gentleman agree that the Government is losing massive revenue as a result of the widespread use of family trusts and interlocking companies as an income-splitting technique for tax avoidance purposes? Will the Government legislate to close this loophole in the Act and will the Prime Minister require members of his Ministry to set, and will he himself set, an example to the community by ceasing to use this loophole for tax avoidance purposes? 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 23 August 1978: 
1 ) How many Family Courts were operating in New South Wales as at 30 June 1978, and what were their locations. 
How many staff were employed in each of those Courts as at the same date and what were their classifications. 
How many judges of the Family Court in New South Wales were there as at 30 June 1978. 
How many additional judges have been appointed to the Family Courts in New South Wales since 30 June 1978 and how many more are still to be appointed. 
What will be the total number of staff employed in these Courts after the extra judges have been appointed and what will be the classifications of these staff. 
I refer the Prime Minister to his remarks yesterday on family trusts. My question is straightforward and I would request a straightforward answer. Will the Prime Minister reassure this House and the Australian people that he has not used his family trust for tax minimising and avoidance? As a demonstration of his credibility in this matter, will he, as the Deputy Leader of the Opposition has done, make public a statement of his assets and those of his family, as well as his taxation return last year? 
I rise tonight to pay respect to one of the great veterans of the Labor movement who passed away last Monday at the age of 89 years. His name was Dai Davies. During the period 1926 to 1932, he was the General Secretary of the Miners Federation. He was also the first Vice-President of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. He was a man I had known for I do not know how many years. He was one of the people who, when I was a young man, gave me a tremendous amount of help. I have not the slightest doubt that but for his help I would not be in this Parliament today. He was probably the man who helped me and taught me more than anybody else did. He lived to a ripe old age, but unfortunately he passed away last Monday. 
I could tell many stories about Dai, but possibly one of the best is about the infamous lockout in the 1920s. Dai had to appear before the court. There were two young barristers in the case- one named R. G. Menzies, who was appearing for the mine owners, and the other named H. V. Evatt, who appeared for the Miners Federation. I will not go into the full details of the case, which concerned technical problems dealing with the Federal Executive of that organisation and the Broken Hill miners. Finally, Menzies subpoenaed the minutes of the Federation. Dai had to travel from Sydney to Newcastle to get those minutes and then had to appear in court the next morning. R. G. Menzies opened up to the right page of the minute book and looked up from under his eyebrows, his eyes twinkling, as if to say to Dai Davies: 'You blighter'. Dai later said: 'After all that, I was absolutely exhausted, because it took me all night to rewrite those minutes'. That is only one of the many stories I could tell about him. I think this is the appropriate time and appropriate place to pay respect to someone for whom I had a tremendous amount of respect. 
While I am on my feet I would like to deal with another matter. All honourable members have heard of the study being made by the  Major Airport  Needs of Sydney Committee. The proposition, put in simple terms, is that either Mascot airport should be extended or a second international airport should be established. So far the MANS Committee has looked at sites for a second international airport only in the outer western suburbs of Sydney, even though there are many other sites it could look at. I would like to tell the House, because I think it is important that the people should know, that an organisation has been formed in the western suburbs of Sydney. At this point in time it comprises 10 municipal councils- it will comprise 1 1 councils and after that more will be joining- and what we might call community organisations which have been set up specifically to oppose the siting of a second international airport anywhere in the western suburbs of Sydney, be it the north-west, the west or the south-west. The community organisations are SWAAG, the Galston Action Group, the Northern Action Group and the Rossmore Progress Group. 
The organisation is moving ahead very well indeed. It gives warning that if this Government endeavours to site that second international airport in the western suburbs of Sydney it will have to fight a pretty powerful organisation. So far only a couple of the councils in the area have not done the job they ought to be doing. We will name them later if it is necessary, so that the people in the area will know which councils they are. 
-The honourable member for Barton  (Mr Bradfield)  obviously still believes in fairy tales. He still believes that this surcharge will be applied for only one year. We have seen what has happened to surcharges in the past. He seems also not to recognise that he is part of a government which is dishonest, dishonourable and disreputable. It is led by a dishonest and devious Prime Minister - 
Which one,  Mr Deputy  Speaker? 
Politically this Government is dishonest and dishonourable. This comment was made by the Government when it was in opposition. It attacked us often enough but it does not want to cop it itself. 
I withdraw the direct reference in this instance but it does not affect the reputation of this Government as stated by myself. Why is it a dishonourable and disreputable Government? The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  went to the people last December and promised them tax cuts to operate from February of this year. It was on that basis that the Government was elected. Then, as soon as the election was over, the tax cuts were reimposed on the people in this Budget. In other words, the tax cuts have been wiped out completely for those in the lower and lower-middle income groups but not for those in the higher income groups. The Prime Minister made sure he protected his own. I intend to refer to a few examples of this but before I do so I will mention some of the other promises made by the Prime Minister during the last election and the election prior to it which have been broken, as instanced by this legislation. I refer to the home loan interest deductibility scheme. In the election campaign of 1 975 the Prime Minister gave a firm promise and undertaking that it would not be affected; that under no circumstances would it be touched. After the election the first thing he did was to emasculate it and to make it available only to those who were buying their first home. Then he went one step further. In this Budget and in the legislation we are discussing today it has been completely wiped out. Once again a promise has been utterly and irrevocably broken. Dishonesty! Then, of course, we have the question of long service leave and holiday pay which was dealt with by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis).  For a long while rumours have been going around that action would be taken in regard to long service leave and holiday pay. Honourable members may remember that reports appeared in the Press. 
As the honourable member for Cunningham said, there were leaks. The Budget measures are to apply not only to long service leave and holiday pay but to superannuation as well. I warn the people of Australia that that is next on the Government's list. Superannuation will be taxed at a rate of 33.5 per cent. 
That has been recommended to the Government by the Treasury. The Government decided to go for only two of them in this instance, that is, long service leave and holiday pay. Instead of only 5 per cent of lump sum payments for unused long service leave and holiday pay being taxed, these amounts will be taxed now at the rate of 33.5c in the dollar. We are at the half way house at the moment. Because of the public outcry that occurred when news about the taxing of lump sum payments at the standard rate was leaked to the Press, the Government has introduced it in respect of only long service leave and holiday pay and left the taxing arrangement for superannuation benefits unchanged. But, of course, we will see superannuation benefits subject to normal taxation in the future. It too will be taxed at the rate of 33.5 per cent in accordance with the leaks which appeared in the Press prior to the introduction of the Budget. 
I return now to the income tax surcharge. As a result of this surcharge a taxpayer without dependants earning $200 a week, which is pretty well the average, will pay an increase of 8.03 per cent. For a person earning $2,000 a week the increase is only 4.75 per cent. For a person on $200 a week the difference between the 1 November tax increase and the 1 February tax reduction will be a reduction of 15c in take home pay whereas a person on $2,000 a week will be $62.32 better off. That is an extraordinary difference. For a taxpayer with dependent spouse and earning $1 14 a week the percentage increase in taxation is 98. 1 per cent. For a person on $200 a week it is 1 1.3 per cent and for a person on $2,000 a week it is only 4.8 per cent. Is it any wonder that we say that this is a government for the big man, that this is a government which is setting out deliberately to assist the people in the high income bracket? Why is the Government raising this levy? It says that it is raising it because it needs the revenue. Why does it need the revenue? One of the major reasons is that it will not close off one of the most important means of tax evasion in this country, that is, family trusts. In an editorial entitled 'A matter of trusts' the  Australian Financial Review  of 29 September states. 
Consultant Allan Carroll, of Business International, has pointed up the revealing statistics . . . 
I will quote those statistics. In 1973-74 payasyouearn taxpayers paid $4,238m whilst nonPAYE taxpayers paid $ 1,252m. In 1975-76 PAYE taxpayers paid $6,07 lm and non-PAYE taxpayers paid $l,643m. In 1976-77 PAYE contributors paid $8,529m and non-PAYE contributors paid $2,525m. In 1977-78 PAYE contributors paid $9, 639m and non-PAYE contributors paid $2, 490m. The estimate for 1978-79 for PAYE contributors is $ 10,341m and for non-PAYE contributors $2,599m. Between 1973-74 and 1978-79 PAYE contributions have increased 2? times whilst non-PAYE contributions have only doubled. The article continues: 
There is no suggestion that professionals and other selfemployed have suffered such a massive revenue loss as to justify the recent decline in tax receipts from non-PAYE contributors. 
As a proportion, tax receipts from non-PAYE people have slipped from a proportion of one in three of PAYE contributions to one in four. 
If one looks at the figures that I have quoted one will see that in 1976-77 non-PAYE taxpayers contributed $2,525m and that in 1978-79 they contributed only $2,599m. To where has the tax gone? It is very obvious that the family trust mechanism is being used as a means of avoiding taxation and that this is costing this country many hundreds of millions if not thousands of millions of dollars in revenue. 
I am not going to deal today with the tax avoidance schemes of the Prime Minister, the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  or the  Deputy  Leader of the Liberal Party. I am dealing with this matter so far as it affects revenue and the reason why the Government has imposed this taxation surcharge. It has done so because it is losing such massive amounts in revenue from the use of the family trust mechanism as a means of avoiding taxation. The Government has refused to close it up because to do so would hurt too many of its own people, including its own members from the very top right down through the reaches. Is it any wonder that I have said that it is a dishonest, dishonourable Government- a devious Government. Of course, I will not repeat what I said about the Prime Minister. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I did not say anything wrong. I said that I would now like to deal with the question of lump sum retirement payments for long service leave and holiday pay. I would like to give one example of how this procedure is to operate. I though that the honourable member for Gellibrand explained the situation very clearly and constructively when he cited the case of the building and construction worker who goes from job to job and then eventually becomes unemployed. In the past a building and construction worker who became unemployed could utilise accumulated pro rata long service leave to tide him over during his period of unemployment. Now, of course, that person will have to pay taxation at the rate of 33.Sc in the dollar on that accumulated pro rata long service leave. 
Let me give another example. I refer to the average person who receives a wage of $200 a week and who is entitled to four weeks holiday a year. If that person chooses to save up his holiday pay he will be able to accumulate leave to the value of $800 a year. If he does it for five years he will accumulate leave to the value of $4,000. In the past he was taxed on only five per cent of that $4,000. In other words, he was taxed on only $200 and he would have paid in the vicinity of $66 in tax. However, he will now have to pay tax at the rate of 33.Sc in the dollar on the whole $4,000. Therefore he will pay tax of $1,340 out of the $4,000. That is how the legislation will hit the ordinary person. That is how it will hit the average individual who is earning $200 a week. Is it any wonder that the Opposition opposes this proposal to increase the taxation payable on long service leave and holiday pay. Instead of five per cent of the amount accrued being subject to tax the Government now proposes to tax the lot of it at the rate of 33.5c in the dollar. 
Next on the list is superannuation itself. Claims to this effect were leaked before the Budget was presented. The Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  made denials. He led everyone up the garden path. But he did not mention long service leave and holiday pay. We should watch what will happen next year in respect of superannuation. The Opposition opposes very strongly the imposition of such a measure. The Opposition opposes strongly the proposal to impose a tax surcharge. It believes that such a proposal is inequitable. It is one that can assist only those people in the high income brackets and it is to the detriment of those in the lower and middle income brackets. Added to that, the proposal is dishonest because the Government gave a firm undertaking at the last election that it would reduce taxation in accordance with the 1 February tax cuts. Now, as soon as the election is over, a surcharge has been introduced and taxes have risen. 
As I said at the beginning of my speech, the honourable member for Barton is living an Alice in Wonderland existence if he believes for one minute that the Government will impose this surcharge for only one year. It is here to stay. The Government has put forward this measure in this way so as to ensure that it hits the middle and lower income groups and not the big men. For this reason the Opposition opposes these propositions. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister and is supplementary to that asked by the honourable member for Port Adelaide. Why did the Prime Minister choose to give his evidence in secret to  Mr Justice  Bowen 's inquiry on pecuniary interests? In the spirit of the Bowen inquiry, will the Prime Minister declare now his sources of income, apart from official salary and allowances, and his tax payments? If the Prime Minister will not do this and will not even state in public his views on pecuniary interest declaration - 
-Is the amendment seconded? 
-We are dealing tonight with the estimates for the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations, yet where is the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)?  We will tonight almost, if not absolutely, complete consideration of these estimates, yet the Minister has not even shown his face in the Committee. Where is he? This shows how much concern that man has for his own Department. It shows how ashamed he is of the policies that he has to implement in his Department on behalf of his Government. That little man has to implement the policies dictated by none other than the Prime Minister,  Mr Fraser.  Where is the Minister? Why is he not in this Parliament tonight to answer the criticisms that have been made of his Department? Instead, we have in the chamber one of the most junior Ministers, the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom),  dealing with one of the most important issues facing this country, that of unemployment. It is a disgrace. This Government is a cruel, heartless, dishonest and dishonourable Government. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr MartinThere is no substance to the point of order. 
That is not a point of order. If the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations is in the Cabinet room there is no reason why, as other Ministers have done, he should not have come out of the Cabinet room to at least answer here the criticisms that have been made of his Department and his Government, to stand up here and protect his portfolio.  His  failure to do so is a disgrace to this Parliament; it is a disgrace to this Government. I repeat, this is a cruel, heartless, dishonest and dishonourable Government. The Minister himself knows that and is frightened to come in here and face up to the criticisms that have been levelled here tonight. The honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  earlier tonight mentioned the  Speaker  of this Parliament. After all,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  he is one of our colleagues. You, as a  Deputy Chairman  of Committees, and I, as a  Deputy Chairman  of Committees, have respect for the  Speaker  of the Parliament. In the Liberal Party room yesterday he was outspokenly critical of this Government. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Martin)That  is not a point of order. 
The honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  was not in the House earlier tonight when that matter was referred to by the honourable member for Burke and when the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr N. A. Brown)  confirmed that these discussions did occur in the Liberal Party room yesterday. They were not denied. The honourable member has confirmed by his very words, and the whole intonation of his address and interjections, that it happened; that is, that the  Speaker  of the Parliament, because of the importance of this issue to the nation, stood aside and entered into the political controversy surrounding the economic policies of this Government, stating that it was time that more funds were pumped into the public sector so as to revive employment in this country. When that happens, when the divisions within the Government are so great that a  Speaker  has to come out, come  away from the traditions of the position of Speaker and enter the party fray, we know how serious the position is. 
I represent an area of the outer western suburbs of Sydney which has one of the highest rates, if not the highest rate, of unemployment in the whole of the country. It is suffering from the policies of this Governments, cruel, heartless policies which take no cognisance of the need to do something for the future generation, the young people of today. Look at the patchwork of programs that the Government is introducing. I am surprised at the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly).  We often have quiet, personal chats and I am surprised to hear tonight that the honourable member for Bradfield would back up the Community Youth Support scheme. I ask him not to run out of the House. I am not going to embarrass him. I am surprised that he stands up for the Community Youth Support scheme. He knows as well as I do that it is a patchwork scheme which is not really doing very much for the people of this country, particularly the young people. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr MartinaBe fore the honourable member for Bendigo raises his point of order I remind all honourable members, including the honourable member for Bendigo, that there is a difference between a point of order and a point for debate. I hope for all members' sakes that from now on they take proper points of order. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- That is not a point of order. 
Quite contrary to the attitude of the vast majority of Government members, I have continued to chair the local electorate committee for CYSS in my electorate. That is more than the vast majority of Government members have done. The minutes of that committee- they are available for public dissemination- record my qualifications. I am recorded as having stated that it is a patchwork scheme which does not measure up to the requirements in overcoming this massive problem of youth unemployment, particularly in the outer western suburbs of Sydney. I am particularly concerned that this scheme is too often loosely administered. I hope that one of these days the  honourable member for Bradfield, as Chairman of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts, might look at that aspect. 
Tonight we heard the honourable member for Bradfield mention that now there are proposals for what he called a job creation scheme. That is a new term for it; it is no longer called an unemployment relief scheme. He said that the Government is giving consideration to such a proposal. We read that in the newspapers two days ago. An amount of $ 100m is to be shared by the Federal Government, the State Governments and local government. 
It is kindergarten stuff. That amount is peanuts. If we are to introduce a real unemployment relief or job creation program, instead of throwing all those hunderds of millions of dollars- getting up towards $ 1,000m- down the drain in unemployment relief, in order to provide some worthwhile community facilities we should be talking about the Federal Government providing between $300m and $500m. Then we might have a worthwhile scheme, a scheme which would help to overcome unemployment, particularly youth unemployment, in this country and we would do something worth while for the nation. 
Instead of that the Government is continuing to play around with these patchwork proposals, such as the Community Youth Support Scheme and the Special Youth Employment Training Program. Under that program the Government pays an employer to employ a kid for a few months and at the end of that he gets the sack and all his human expectations are destroyed overnight because the employer is using greed instead of acting in accordance with the intent of the program, which is to give the kid a job, train him for that job and keeping him in that job. Instead the employer sacks the kid at the first opportunity and takes on some other cheap employee. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Progress reported. 
-Today I wish to deal particularly with the lack of cooperation that the Defence Department is giving Sub-Committee C of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. That subcommittee is charged with the responsibility of inquiring into the defence procurement programs of the Department of Defence and into the question of coastal surveillance, keeping in mind that we now have a 200-mile economic zone sea limit. As a result of that, the Committee under the chairmanship of the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter),  proceeded to Alice Springs, the North West Cape base and Darwin. In Darwin it heard public evidence. At the end of the public evidence I made a statement so that it would be placed on record in the public documents in  Hansard.  I shall quote from that statement shortly. 
Before I deal with that I want to make one or two points. I can only say that from what I sawwithout going into detail, because I do not think it is in the interest of Australia to go into the precise detail of this- I was absolutely shocked at the complete lack of defence in Darwin, the most forward part of this country. Furthermore, I formed the impression- I know other members of the Committee formed that same impressionthat today we once again have a Brisbane line in existence where the vast majority of our Air Force, Navy and Army forces are around Brisbane or south of Brisbane. This is a very serious situation because it means that Darwin has not only an ineffective defence force but also an inefFective surveillance force. I quote now from  Hansard  record of the public hearing in Brisbane. I then said: 
My comments relate to concern at the question of cooperation of the Department of Defence with this Committee. Some members of the Committee will remember that I was going to come straight to Darwin, and that I very nearly did not go to Alice Springs and the North West Cape base. This was as a result of receiving a copy of the letter dated 27 September from the Minister to the  Chairman  of this Committee which stated, amongst other things: 
When I say 'Committee' I mean subcommittee 
As I am sure you will understand there are, under these procedures, certain constraints upon the access in briefing that can be given.' 
Having read that, having gone to Pine Gap- I think it was six years ago- when I was very dissatisfied with the type of briefing that I received then, having understood during the course of the previous Government that the standards of briefing were to be improved - 
That is, to parliamentarians-  and having myself agreed to that proposition in my own Caucus, I had believed that we would get at least some basic understanding of what the facility was all about. I just want to say this: The briefing I received this time was fundamentally no different from the briefing I received approximately six years ago. I feel it is rather an insult to the intelligence that such a briefing should be given. 
It was particularly insulting to Sub-Committee C of the Joint Committee of this Parliament. I continued: 
I am naturally not going to put on this tape the details of that briefing. In the previous briefing, which I think was actually in  Hansard,  we were told that it was purely a research organisation. But the basic difference, I would say, between this briefing and the previous one was simply that previously we were not allowed to go into the briefing room and this time we were. Last time we were shown the toilets and the bedding facilities and so on. Apart from that the information was much the same. 
I believe that this Committee is a privileged Committee. It is a Committee established by the Parliament. If we are to be able to investigate and carry out our duties properly and bring down meaningful reports I think it is necessary that the Committee should be given the information which can assist it in that regard. For that reason- and I want to make this quite clear-I would be quite happy to get a security clearance provided that, if there was any suggestion that I did not qualify, I would want to know why. 
That is logical. Otherwise the authorities would say: 'Sorry; he does not get a security clearance'. On asking why, I would be told: 'I cannot tell you'. As a member of this Parliament, I think that is a quite reasonable offer. I am prepared to go through with it. The record continues: 
In other words, this would be for proving purposes. I believe that that particular visit was virtually useless. I add to that that when we went to the North West Cape base it turned out that the base is quite wide open for everyone there, including staff, and the briefing included the fact that the base did convey signals to submarines, including Polaris submarines. We were told in answer to a question from me that the base had never been classified and yet we always understood in the Parliament that it was always classified. 
This time we received information which everyone had known about- you could read it anywhere- except you could not be told it in the Parliament. I believe that there has to be a far more realistic approach on this matter by the Department of Defence. 

 CHAIRMAN- Mr Armitage, perhaps you would like to have this matter disscussed by the major Committee. 
I think so. 
CHAIRMAN- Thank you. 
I want to make one point,  Mr Chairman.  I reserve the right to comment on this matter in other places. 
Once again, before the full Committee, when I reported I reserved that right. The fact is that on the very day after we visited Pine Gap- Tuesday, 3 October 1978- there was an article in the  Australian  headed: 
Next arms talks for Moscow. 
It stated: 
In a speech marking the 20th anniversary of the founding of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA),  Mr Carter  publicly acknowledged for the first time that the United States had used other than 'national technical means' to monitor Soviet activities- especially in respect of the SALT agreements. 
One can pick up a science magazine in the United States and read what Pine Gap, the North West Cape base, et cetera, are all about. One can go to the Parliamentary Library and, as I did, take out articles, which I display here, on Pine Gap and the various other facilities in this country. I would have no objection if, for example, Pine Gap were being used for surveillance of the Soviet Union. I would have no objection if the United States were under surveillance by the Russians. After all, under the principles of the Strategic Arms Limitation Talks arrangements that would be for the good and peace of the world. It would make sure that neither party could gain a benefit over the other through lack of knowledge or early warning devices in relation to nuclear war. 
I think this is a ridiculous situation. I have been told a simple thing which I shall not state clearly here, in the interests of this country. I believe that I know completely what Pine Gap is all about, just as I have always known- despite the lack of information from successive Ministers for Defence in the Parliament- what the North West Cape base is all about. One simple sentence could have been used and the Committee would have known what it was doing and where it was going. The fact is that the Committee is not being given the co-operation of the Department of Defence. Therefore I cannot see how it can usefully carry on its inquiries, until there is a complete reappraisal of the attitude of the Department to the Parliament, to the representatives of the people and especially, of course, to the committees which are placed in a particularly privileged position- these committees that are inquiring into special defence aspects of this nation. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Jarman)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
Progress reported. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services. Will he table in this House a list of the names of all passengers who have used Commonwealth Government cars in the Sydney area during the past year on the authority of the Minister for Primary Industry? 
-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Jarman)Does  the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
Yes. As the only member of Sub-Committee C of the Joint Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee in the chamber at the present time, as one who levelled some criticism at the Department of Defence for its lack of cooperation with the Committee during the debate on the Defence estimates, and in view of the remarks of the Minister for Construction  (Mr McLeay)  here today when he said that some members of that sub-committee were being parochial and, inferred we were being political - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! Was the honourable member specifically named by the Minister? 
I am just indicating where I was misrepresented. I want to make it quite clear - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! Was the honourable member personally mentioned by the Minister? 
The Minister spoke about criticisms by members of that sub-committee in this House. As one of the members of that subcommittee I want to make it quite clear that it is exceptionally apolitical in the real meaning of the word - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member will confine himself - 
As a member of that subcommittee I say that the criticisms came from both sides of the Parliament about the lack of cooperation. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN -Order! 
From the Department of Defence. Both sides of the Parliament - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  -Order! The honourable member, as a  Deputy Chairman  of this House, knows quite well that he was not personally misrepresented. 

 - Mr Deputy Chairman, I am very sorry. The Minister mentioned what members of that sub-committee said in the House. I happen to be one of those members who did speak. The  Chairman  of that Committee and the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  were also present. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member will resume his seat. 
Postal and Telecommunications Department 
Proposed expenditure, $178,1 80,000. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 10 October 1978: 
Will he explain the circumstances surrounding the transfer of  Mr Latham  from the  Major Airport  Needs of Sydney study group. 
-I wish to grieve concerning two matters today. The first deals with a typically devious action of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in respect of the question of the interest rate drop. I quote from the  Laurie Oakes Report  of 8 November 1978. Under the headline 'Fraser knew interest rates would drop' the following appears: 
The Prime Minister,  Mr Fraser,  already knew trading banks had decided to cut overdraft interest rates when he criticised them in Parliament for failing to move rates down. The banks had told the Reserve Bank of their intention on Monday, 23 October- the day before  Mr Fraser  made his grandstanding comments in the House of Representatives. It was a skilful political ploy.  Mr Fraser  made it look as though he was influencing a decision which in fact had already been made. The plans of the banks were disclosed at the monthly meeting between the Reserve Bank Governor and trading bank chief executives. According to reliable sources,  Mr Fraser  was notified- which means his answer next day to a question on interest rates from Labor's  Mr Clyde  Cameron was carefully calculated. 
When one sees an action of that type, one so dishonourable, one so politically dishonest, so typically devious- the Prime Minister is a very devious individual- is it any wonder that the people feel they can no longer trust a man who plays such dirty tricks, simply to make it appear that he is influencing a situation with which he has had nothing whatsoever to do? 
The other grievance to which I wish to address myself deals with activities of what might be termed some of the smaller companies. This matter has become the subject of increasing concern in the community. I refer to the proper conduct of directors and other officers of companies- not just the big, listed companies, whose actions are subject to all sorts of scrutiny but the smaller, non-listed companies, whose activities should not be overlooked. My attention has been drawn to certain actions of one such company in the acquisition of a property in Sydney that is apparently unconnected with its general business activities. The property in question is a substantial house located at 3 1 View Street, Woolahra, which as most honourable members would know, is what is regarded as a rather exclusive address in Sydney. This house was purchased in 1976 at a cost of $53,000-it was an upper bracket house purchased on 1976 money values on any standards. But according to my information in addition to that purchase price some $30,000 has been spent subsequently on this house. That conservatively puts the value of this property at well in excess of $80,000. That makes it a considerable investment for a medium-sized non-listed company, especially when its main interests are in rural production. 
One would expect that such a company would require as a minimum that an asset of this size either generate revenue or save cost to the company, for example, as a substitute for other forms of casual accommodation. There could be circumstances where such an investment could represent a fringe benefit for a director or executive of the company. According to my information, the house is tenanted but on a no-cost basis. 
That is correct. In other words, an asset valued at more than $80,000 incurs a company costs rather than generates revenue. I have no specific information about the costs of the debt servicing, rates, maintenance and so on that would be involved but there is no doubt that they would be substantial. These items, of course, are at the expense of the shareholders of the company concerned. The acquisition of this property seems to me to be an extraordinarily extravagant action particularly as the company is said to have suffered substantial defalcations. It is a mysterious matter. That company is the Sinclair Pastoral Company, whose activities are centred in the New England district of New South Wales. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 24 August 1978: 
1 ) Where is the centre of the telephone charging zone in the metropolitan area of each mainland State capital. 
What is the radial distance of the (a) inner and (b) outer zones from the centre in each case. 
What percentage of the (a) inner and (b) outer zones is over (i) land and (ii) water. 
-Order! The honourable member for Macarthur has already spoken. I suggest that he contain himself. 
The money is to be used to finance meat research. We have to acknowledge that the future of the industry, to a large extent, depends on the sophistication of the manner in which we carry out research. If we are not prepared to invest in research we will not progress and compete with other countries. The other problem in relation to research is that cattle research is necessarily long term and the people who are running research projects have to be assured of some continuity of funds. Therefore the increase in the slaughter levy and the export levy is justified on these grounds. Unfortunately there has been a decline in the number of sheep slaughtered and this has reduced the amount of income that is available for research programs. This has been accentuated by inflation. 
I would like to talk briefly about the actual programs and look at their histories because over the years they have been steadily reduced in line with reductions in real income. For example, in the sheep industry program of the Australian Meat Research Committee- including the projects which are carried out by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation at Cannon Hill and about which honourable members have spoken- 73 projects were being undertaken in 1972 but only 42 projects were being undertaken in 1976. In the cattle industry program, of a total of 236 projects that have been commenced since the fund was instituted 15 years ago, only 72 projects are still being supported. Obviously some of them have been concluded successfully while some have been abandoned as being unfruitful. Changes in emphasis have also occurred in the beef industry so that the research is directed more towards containing costs rather than the original emphasis on increasing production. 
Funding has also increased on the marketing side of the industry. An increase in the export charge on animals being exported live will assist with the projected accelerated marketing initiatives. Of course there is an urgent need for additional research in several areas. For instance, in the sheep industry program there is an urgent need for large scale research to be conducted into the genetic control of the blowfly. This is a very important area of research because it bears on the labour costs of controlling blowflies. Internal parasite control in sheep is an arduous and expensive exercise. A large co-ordinated program is needed to overcome the problem of resistance to drenches. The reduction of farm costs of course is a problem for all primary producers. Many new projects should be funded in this area to save costs of transport, bruising, the lowering of quality, the handling of produce, slaughtering techniques and market research. Carcass classification of course is a very crucial area. There is also a possibility of research into the development of computer selling of livestock 
Another interesting item is the mini-care sheep program. Because of the decline in the availability of stockmen there is a need to develop a program to produce sheep by genetic means which will require less care. Sheep, through genetic breeding, may not require drenching and may not be susceptible to worms. There are other programs such as a co-ordinated program relating stock to crop growth programs or wheat research programs to determine which sorts of crops should be grown in conjunction with sheep or cattle. The lucerne aphid project requires a lot of very expensive and time-consuming work in the genetic breeding of aphid-resistant lucernes and the development of biological controls against aphids. Work is going on in this area but it needs to be maintained and stepped up. 
In the cattle industry program exciting work is being done at Cannon Hill with electrical stimulation of carcasses. This sounds rather esoteric but I understand that this method produces more tender meat which is lighter in colour and is more easily boned. I wish they would send some of it down here so that we could try it out in the parliamentary dining room. Also work is going on at Cannon Hill to relate meat properties, such as tenderness, to genetic determinants. It has been found that animals with what is called double muscling have weaker connective tissues and therefore yield meat that is less tough. This is a very scientific approach to improving the industry. It is very time-consuming and very expensive but I think we have to face up to the fact that we have to bear the costs of this sort of research if we are to keep up with the rest of the world in producing top quality beef. 
I want to refer briefly to the Livestock Diseases Bill 1978 which concerns the Australian Capital Territory. This Bill ensures that there will not be legislative bottlenecks if some emergency occurs or if there is some outbreak of a very serious disease. People might think that it is of no interest to the Australian Capital Territory but they might be surprised to know that there are 18,000 head of cattle and 150,000 head of sheep in the Territory. They do not have votes but their owners do. I am sure that they would support this legislation because they would want to have the benefits of the protection of any disease control measures that are taken within the Commonwealth. Of course we do not want the ACT to be an enclave where cattle can be moved into the 
Territory and out of it in order to evade some livestock disease control legislation. Of course the Canberra Abattoirs is situated in the ACT and the holding paddocks are in my electorate. Large numbers of cattle come into and go out of the ACT. It is quite important that these provisions of the Livestock Diseases Bill should be extended to cover the ACT in case of outbreaks of foot and mouth disease, bluetongue or any other exotic disease which can be extremely serious. A lot of people travel into and out of Canberra. So it is quite important that we have this legislation. I am sure that the small numbers of producers in Canberra would support this type of legislation. 
I want to pass a few remarks about the beef industry in the Northern Territory because I think it is in a very vulnerable position in relation to the beef industry in the rest of Australia simply because its domestic market is extremely restricted and it is very dependent on the export market to the United States of America, a fairly unpredictable market and one which is subject to severe cyclical changes. It is also dependent to some extent on livestock exports to South-East Asia. This market was developing into quite a profitable venture until the advent of the bluetongue scare which fortunately did not develop into a disease although the presence of the virus was found. This has had a very detrimental effect on the exports of live cattle from the Northern Territory. They almost stopped. They are starting again in a very limited way but we are still feeling the effects of the scare. It pointed up the inadequacy of our research faculties. It pointed up the inadequacy of our diagnostic services because we had to send samples of blood overseas and wait for several months before we knew the results. We were very fortunate that there was not an actual outbreak of the disease which could have swept over the whole of Australia. It could have been disastrous. That would have been made easier because we did not have adequate research and diagnostic facilities available in Australia 
One of the biggest problems in the Northern Territory is that the meat processing facilities are in the hands of a couple of private operators. Hooker's, I think, and Vesteys own the Katherine and Wyndham meatworks. They also own about 30 per cent of the land and the beef cattle in the Territory and are able to manipulate the market. They are able to nominate a price for livestock at their killing works and people can take it or leave it; they have no choice. They can go to either Katherine or Wyndham, but both meatworks are owned by private enterprise people, who naturally are more concerned with maximising their own profits from their own herds than with looking after the interests of the smaller producers, who feel very vulnerable. There is no competition in the market, and if a Mafia exists anywhere it is certainly in the Northern Territory. I do not know what the position is in New South Wales, but I think what my colleague, the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr John Brown),  was attributing to  Mr Cassell  may apply quite well to the Northern Territory, from my knowledge of how the system works there. The producers there have had a very rough time. The live market they were building up quite nicely has practically disappeared and they are fighting very hard to get it back. I think that the Government could be much more active in re-promoting that market, sending people overseas to assure buyers that there is no real danger of bluetongue, that it was only a potential danger and that they can buy livestock from Australia with confidence. Some of the countries are doing that; others are still playing safe and will not have anything to do with our livestock. 
It is good to see that the industry is recovering. It will go through its cycles again, but there is no doubt that while the producers were having a tough time the processors were really having a picnic. They made a lot of money out of the very low prices that the producers had to contend with for many years, and I hope that for a few years now the boot will be on the other foot and we will see the producers getting a better share of the profits available in the market. As a result of our investment in research, we hope that the consumer will get a better quality product at a reasonable price. For those reasons, the Opposition supports the legislation. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 18 October 1978: 
When will the MANS study group recommend to the Government whether there should be a second international airport for the Sydney region and where it might be sited. 

 -Mr Speaker has received letters from the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  the honourable member for Indi  (Mr Ewen Cameron)  and the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  proposing that definite matters of public importance be submitted to the House for discussion today. As required by Standing Order 107,  Mr Speaker  has selected one matter, that is, that proposed by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, namely: 
The Government's failure to debate the implications of the issues now before the Multilateral Trade Negotiations. 
I call upon those members who approve of the proposed discussion to rise in their places. 

 More than the number of members required by the Standing Orders having risen in their places- 

-The honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  foreshadowed in his speech earlier this afternoon that he would be moving an amendment to the motion that the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill (No. 2) be read a second time. I point out that this is a cognate debate and the proposed amendment relates to the Bill listed on the blue sheet as order of the day No. 2.I wish to outline the precise nature of that amendment, which reads: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: whilst not opposing the Bill, the House: 
is of the opinion that: 
despite the passage of considerable legislation designed to close off tax avoidance loopholes, the Government has failed to legislate against various well-known tax avoidance schemes; 
the continued operation of a large scale tax avoidance industry is creating grave inequities in the incidence of taxation, substantially reducing Government revenue, providing a substantial administrative burden for the Government, and imposing an increased legislative burden on the Parliament; 
the process of countering tax avoidance schemes by the continual passage of complex legislation is cumbersome and inefficient; 
d ) the income tax law has already reached a state of exceptional complexity, and 
continued resort to the present means of countering tax avoidance will add greatly to the complexity of the tax law, and 
therefore calls on the Government to redraft the income tax legislation with a view to increasing its simplicity and efficiency, to institute an effective annihilation provision based on Section 260 of the Income Tax Assessment Act, and to implement other general provisions designed to deter and restrict tax avoidance'. 
Because this is a cognate debate and that amendment has been foreshadowed, these are the areas of concern to which I wish to address my remarks. Undoubtedly the dramatic growth of the various types of tax avoidance schemes has created a very difficult situation particularly for the taxation office which has to counter such schemes. Unfortunately the Office has not been helped by the High Court which in a number of cases has found against the Office and in favour of those organisations or companies which themselves have been conducting what could only be called the most outrageous tax avoidance schemes. I would like to cite a few of these cases which have come before the High Court and in which the Court has ruled against the Office and in favour of the tax avoider. One case involved the Curran scheme, another concerned South Australian Battery Makers Pty Ltd, with which I will deal in a moment. There was also the Cridlands case in 1977. Another was the Slutzkin case in 1977. In those last two cases the Court held that the provisions of section 260 of the Income Tax Assessment Act did not apply. 
I wish to deal particularly with the minority judgment of  Mr Justice  Murphy in the High Court in the case of the Commissioner of Taxation, the appellant, and South Australian Battery Makers Pty Ltd, the respondent. The Acting Chief Judge was Justice Gibbs. The other judges were Justice Stephen, Justice Jacobs, Justice Murphy and Justice Aickin. I will quote from Justice Murphy's judgment one or two paragraphs which I think are of vital importance. All members of this Parliament, and particularly the Executive arm of the Government, should take note of them. The judgment says: 
Literal interpretations of the Act have allowed tax avoidance devices to succeed and have encouraged their growth. While the Act is read literally, no amount of legislative amendment will be able to stem the proliferation of such devices which are inconsistent with the general legislative intent. The strictly literal approach departs from the traditional respect of the courts for the legislative will. 
In his minority judgment Justice Murphy also said: 
Literal compliance with the terms of an Act is not enough if the real result is contrary to the general intention of the legislature. This approach should be taken to tax Acts. 
The appeal should be allowed. 
That was the appeal by the Commissioner of Taxation. As I said, the High Court itself for some reason or other has departed from the practices of the past when it did take account of the legislative intent. But now, time and again when the Court has to decide a case between the Taxation Office and some organisation which has been involved in some very blatant tax advoidance schemes- the Curran scheme is one very good example- it finds in favour of the tax avoider. I think that the Court should take into account that there is a legislative intent and that legislative intent should prevail. It is obvious that the Executive wishes to get rid of these tax avoidance schemes. Accordingly, the will of the legislature should apply. 
I particularly wish to deal with paragraph (2) of the proposed amendment to the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill (No. 2) As I said, the amendment will be moved later by the honourable member for Gellibrand. Paragraph (2 ) of the amendment reads: 
therefore calls on the Government to redraft the income tax legislation with a view to increasing its simplicity and efficiency, to institute an effective annihilation provision based on Section 260 of the Income Tax Assessment Act, and to implement other general provisions designed to deter and restrict tax avoidance. 
When the Act was first printed it comprised 90 pages. Today it is over 700 pages. I invite honourable members to have a look at the large number of amendments now lying on the table simply for the purpose of closing some of the tax avoidance loopholes. If the changes keep going at this rate it will be no time at all before the Act will comprise about 1,000 pages. The Act is getting more complicated every day and it is a lawyer's feast. It is well and truly time that the Government woke up to the fact that there can be only one final answer to this issue and that is to re-draft the Act and to re-draft it in such a way that no court can obviate or get around the will of the legislature. 
I also want to deal with that part of the proposed amendment which says that the Government has failed to legislate against various well known tax avoidance schemes. I will cite very good examples of this by referring to the  Hansard  records of 26, 27 and 28 September. I asked the Prime Minister questions regarding family trusts. I have pointed out in this House on a number of occasions that family trusts are one of the main tax avoidance schemes operating in this country today. Unfortunately they have been given some element of respectability because they are indulged in by some senior members of the Government such as the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  and the  Deputy  Leader of the Liberal Party, the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch).  On 26 September I asked the Prime Minister a question. The Prime Minister's answer is recorded at page 1352 of  Hansard.  He said: 
There are many people throughout this community  , . who believe that a family trust is necessary for the best discharge of their own family responsibilities, and the Government will not move away from that position. We are not going to be in a position of denigrating any person with any family trust, no matter what the circumstances may be. 
I repeat the words 'no matter what the circumstances may be'. In other words, no matter whether it is a family trust for tax avoidance purposes, whether it is a family trust which in the past has been used by people, including the Prime Minister himself, to avoid death duties the Prime Minister will not have the loophole plugged. He went on to say: 
Quite plainly, a family trust serves many purposes and it ought to be stated quite plainly that this Government has been very concerned about the breaking up of family farms. It has been very concerned about the breaking up of family businesses and, in a high tax situation, especially when there was low profitability in many small businesses and on many farms- under those circumstances - 
I emphasise this- many people introduced family trusts to enable their assets to be held together, their farms preserved . . . 
I will refer to this again later. The Prime Minister used those same words in a statement he made to his electorate on 8 October this year. Incidentally, I have quoted that part of the Prime Minister's answer as a good example of his straightout, flat refusal to correct the large scale avoidance of tax and death duties in the past by the use of family trusts and these involved interlocking companies that he himself has such as Fraser Properties Pty Ltd, the Nareen Pastoral Co. and L.J.W. Nominees Pty Ltd. These are the types of propositions that are involved in this instance. The Prime Minister went on to say: 
I admitted at the time of the last election that I have a family trust, and there is no reason why that should not stand. 
That is what the Prime Minister said on 26 September. 
At page 1354 of  Hansard.  On 27 September he is reported at page 1430 of  Hansard  as saying: 
Before the last election I never hid the fact that I had a family trust. I made it perfectly plain also that the purposes of family trusts have generally been to hold a family's assets together . . . 
Those remarks will be seen also in the speech made by the Prime Minister on 8 October. He went on to say: 
Does a trust mean that less tax would be paid than otherwise would be the case? That is the general result of trusts. 
I emphasise that the Prime Minister said: 'That is the general result of trusts'. In other words, he admitted it. He went on to say: 
I do not know of any trust which has been established to look after the family interests which does not also have that result. 
At page 1484 of  Hansard  of 28 September the Prime Minister is reported as saying: 
There is no doubt, if we are prepared to face what had been occurring plainly in Australia, that the tax laws of this country- the weight of taxation, the punitive nature of death, estate and gift duties- had caused people in small businesses of many kinds, whether in country towns, in the cities, or on farms, in an effort to hold those businesses together and to leave something to their children - 
I emphasise that- to enter into a degree of complication - 
One can say 'complication' again. One ought to see how involved are these intricate series of companies and trusts that he himself has. The Prime Minister continued:  in their affairs especially in a low income situation which has been typical of many small businesses, whether on farms or otherwise. 
I would now like to quote what the Prime Minister said in his electorate talk on 8 October. He said: 
Repressive and unfair taxation is the breeding ground for tax evasion. 
He went on to say: 
Punitive taxes forced many small businessmen and farmers into a situation - 
I emphasise this- where they were obliged to make arrangements to ensure the continuity of their enterprises. 
I ask honourable members to note the similarity of what the Prime Minister said on this occasion and what he said in the House. The Prime Minister in his electorate talk went on to say: 
Many of the complex arrangments which people entered over the years were simply designed to keep family farms and businesses together. 
Is that not what I read from the  Hansard  record? In other words, not only was the Prime Minister avoiding income taxation by this extraordinary complex series of companies and trusts that he has but also he was avoiding death duties. Is it any wonder that this government moves so quickly to abolish death duties, gift duties and the like? Is it any wonder that we on this side of the House speak of the need for members, and particularly members of the Cabinet from the top right down, to declare their pecuniary interests? It would be very interesting to have those pecuniary interests made public because then we would know whether members of the government, not matter what party were in office, were acting in the interests of the mass of the people as a whole and not in their own individual interests. 
It is very obvious, I think, from what I have shown this afternoon that the Government's actions in legislation on death duties and gift duties and its refusal to close up the loophole in respect of family trusts have been taken in the interests of individual and senior members of the Government itself. Have a look at some of the names involved in the Nareen Pastoral Co. They are John Malcolm Fraser, Tamara Margaret Sandford Fraser, Sandford Robert Beggs, Rupert James Hamer, Una Arnold Fraser and Harry Vincent Sampson. These names are listed in a statement of change of persons in relation to whom a business name is registered. This information was obtained as a result of a search carried out at the office of the Commissioner for Corporate Affairs in Melbourne. The names associated with the L.J.W. Nominees Pty Ltd are as follows: 
Fraser, John Malcolm; Fraser, Tamara Margaret; Sinclair, Andrew Ian- that is not the Sinclair to do with the scandals of the moment. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! I think the honourable member has strayed a little from the Bill. 
I withdraw that. Let me say that it does not relate to the controversial matters that are before this Parliament at the moment. We have also got a fellow named Frank Lewis Birch, and then Hugh Sandford Beggs. Once again, they are part of the establishment around the Fraser family. We also have in this organisation Rupert James Hamer, the Premer of Victoria. He is also tied up with the establishment, with the Fraser family. After that we have Fraser Properties Pty Ltd. First of all, we have the Nareen Pastoral Company, which is the profitmaking organisation. Then we have L.J.W. Nominees Pty Ltd, which is a party to that organisation. That has a trust behind it. Then there is Fraser Properties Pty Ltd, which one might say is a holding company for the property and I understand would be worth about $ 1.5m. 
Yes, my word. We are dealing with big money with this mob, do not worry about that. Once again, in Fraser Properties Pty Ltd we have John Malcolm Fraser, Tamara Fraser, Una Fraser, the Sinclairs - 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 19 September 1978: 
What are the respective sections of the Act and Regulations which (a) empower Telecom to authorise the approval of equipment for connection to its network and (b) determine the criteria by which this equipment is judged as suitable for connection to that network. 
Was the Minister for Primary Industry instrumental in appointing his close friend,  Mr Harry  M. Miller, to the Board of the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation? He is an entrepreneur. He is very good at song and dance acts,  Mr Speaker. 
asked the Minister for Finance, upon notice, on 17 October 1978: 
1 ) What payments were made to  Mr Jonathon  Gaul and businesses operated by him during (a) 1975-76, (b) 1976-77 and (c) 1977-78. 
) For what purposes were the payments made. 
Have payments been made or are payments to be made during 1978-79. 
What are the purposes of the payments. 
Are any debts outstanding in relation to sums paid during the period 1 July 1975 to date. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 19 September 1978: 
1 ) Is Telecom bound by the provisions of the Trade Practices Act or its Regulations in regard to the question of competition. 
If so, what are the relevant sections of the Act or Regulations. 
If not, why is Telecom excluded from the competition provisions of the Act and/or Regulations and what are the relevant sections of the Act and/or Regulations which exclude it. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 15 November 1978: 
What are the staff ceilings of both civil and uniform establishments of the Department of Defence (Navy). 
-I give notice that at the next sitting I shall move: 
That this House is of the opinion that no Minister should continue to discharge his ministerial duties upon becoming the subject of an official inquiry where, in the opinion of the House, the issue of the propriety of the Minister's conduct arises and the Minister should remain suspended until the inquiry is completed and the matter determined. 
-I give notice that at the next sitting I shall move: 
That all members of this House be required to disclose arrangements they have entered into for the purpose of minimising their tax liability, and that full details of such arrangements be recorded in a register available for public inspection, as a means of ensuring that the decision making process is not utilised for a personal pecuniary benefit 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering both measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
Does the Prime Minister recall his undertaking given in his 1975 election policy speech- I nearly said 'screech'- that 'The real value of pensions will be preserved'? Does he not realise that his Government's decision to abolish the six-monthly indexation of pensions and to replace it with 12-monthly indexation means that the real value of pensions has not been preserved? Will he therefore give an undertaking to reintroduce six-monthly indexation of pensions? 
-A quorum is required. Ring the bells.  (Quorum formed) 
In the time remaining to me in this debate I just want to make a few points. The reduction in funds for public transport shows the Government's lack of commitment to co-operative federalism. The Fraser Government gives firm assurances to the States one day and withdraws them the next. It is no wonder that all the States are in financial trouble under this new federalism. It is no wonder that they are all seeking to sell off their resources- selling a bit of the farm, as a former Country Party Leader used to say. It is no wonder they are threatening to retrench public servants around Australia. It is no wonder they are warning against increased State taxes. It is because we have these broken promises, as I have mentioned, including the firm election commitment of the Prime Minister to additional funds for public transport. We have established that that promise was broken. Many promises under the heading of federalism are being broken. 
The failure of the Government to include in this amending legislation the escalation provision which was incorporated in the original 1973-78 assistance scheme introduced by the Labor Government means that Commonwealth contributions to approved programs remain constant, which, of course, simply means that the States have to pick up the tab. The State governments will have to find the extra money to complete the programs, the costs of which have increased because of inflation. Inflation is eroding the purchasing power of 1978 dollars at around 8 per cent and indications are that inflation will continue at a rate of 7 per cent to 9 per cent for the remaining five years of the program. Consequently the value of the limited Commonwealth transport grants is whittled away, firstly, by the deferment of the payment of $25m from the first and second years of the five-year program to the last two years and, secondly, the failure to include an escalation provision for approved programs. This, of course, plays absolute havoc with planning and all the States will suffer as a result. 
For example, under the 1978 Act New South Wales was to have received $14m per annum plus a share of $20m a year to be determined on a needs basis. The New South Wales Government reasonably expected to obtain $6m per annum from the $20m allocated for special needs. Under this Bill New South Wales will get only $ 1 4m. There has been a 30 per cent cut back in Commonwealth allocations to New South Wales. This year $6m worth of planned projects will be delayed. It is unreasonable to expect the State Government to make up the Commonwealth Government's deficit. Already the New South Wales Government is providing $207m this year in its $ 1,000m public transport capital investment program. This does not take into consideration the $442m provided in the New South Wales Budget to meet the deficits of the various State public transport enterprises for which the Commonwealth Government makes no direct contribution. 
It is equally unreasonable to expect the State Government to make up for the increase in the cost of approved programs due to inflation. In case it may be thought that the 1978 Act provides a more generous offer than the Labor 
Government's five year program it needs to be recalled that the original offer of the Federal Labor Government in 1973 was quite generous. It provided $500m at 1973 values over five years with compensatory escalation provisions to maintain the purchasing power of the grants. Between 1974 and 1978, Commonwealth urban public transport grants to New South Wales amounted to $56m, a sum which would have been greatly expanded if full advantage of the generous offer had been taken by the LiberalCountry Party coalition prior to 1976. 1 refer to the governments of Askin, Lewis and Willis. 
Under the new scheme, New South Wales will get $78.75m and a proportion of the need allocations for the years 1980 to 1983, the purchasing power of which is reduced by inflation. Using constant 1978-79 prices and an annual inflation rate of seven per cent for 1979-82, the value of the allocations to New South Wales under the current proposals is $68.5m which is only marginally more in purchasing power than was received under the 1973-78 program when, as indicated, the then New South Wales coalition Government failed to take advantage of the program that was offered to it. 
In total terms, the purchasing power of the allocations under the 1978 Act have been reduced by $4.6m- using again an assumed annual rate of" inflation of seven per cent- by this amendment Bill. Some $4.6m has been lost to the starved public transport systems throughout Australia because of the Government's decision to defer the payment of $25m to the States. We see retrograde steps being taken over the whole transport area, whether relating to urban public transport or the provision of much needed facilities in the country. It is an unhappy situation. As I see the legislation it is not much more than a thimble and pea trick. One thing is decidedly certain, and beyond any controversy: There will not be any apparent improvement in public transport as a result of this legislation. In fact there is everything to indicate that we will see a retrograde situation develop in the five years covered by this legislation. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 12 October 1978: 
Will the Overseas Telecommunications Centre at Doonside, New South Wales, be phased out and replaced by satellite communication, if the latter proposal is finally adopted by the Government. 
If so, what are the Government's plans for the property on which the Overseas Telecommunications Centre at Doonside is established. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 10 October 1978: 
Is he able to state whether the  Mr Harold  Cottee whom he announced on 22 September 1978 had been appointed as a Commissioner of the Overseas Telecommunications Commission (Australia), is the same  Mr Harold 
At the perimeter fence other than the southwest corner. 
Cottee who (a) was the principal of an organisation known as Metro- West Broadcasters Limited which was unsuccessful in its application before the now disbanded Broadcasting Control Board for a radio transmitting licence for the north western areas of Sydney, (b) brought proceedings in the High Court against two previous Ministers for Post and Telecommunications to restrain those Ministers from issuing the licence to the applicant recommended by the Broadcasting Control Board, (c) was also the principal of Metro-West Broadcasters Limited which was also an unsuccessful applicant before the Broadcasting Tribunal for a radio transmitting licence for the western area of Sydney and (d) has been, or is, holding prominent positions in the Liberal Parry of Australia. 
If so, has this appointment to the Overseas Telecommunications Commission (Australia) been given to  Mr Cottee  as a consolation. 
I should have thought that, in view of its history in this field, the Government would have been more concerned about and more reticent than it has been in bringing up issues of foreign policy. I say this because its memory must be very short if it forgets some of the issues of the past. An honourable member on the Opposition side mentioned a while ago how the 1966 election campaign was fought with pamphlets showing arrows coming down from the Red Chinese, as it was put. 
It is in the past. That was the attitude. That has been the attitude until very recently. That was a campaign fought by members of this present Government. I had to withstand such a campaign myself in 1963. The fact is that when the former Labor Prime Minister,  Mr Gough  Whitlam, as Opposition Leader went to China to lay the foundations for the diplomatic recognition of China when Labor assumed office, he was called the friend of communists, et cetera by those in the Government ranks today. 
Honourable members opposite did. 
When  Mr Whitlam  went to China in 1972. 
There is plenty of it in  Hansard.  Added to that are the attitudes and policies of the present Government when it was in government prior to 1972 in respect of Australia's involvement in Vietnam, an involvement which did great damage to Australia and its reputation in the Third World countries and right throughout Asia. 
'Rubbish', says the honourable member for St George. We would expect such a comment from a warmonger of his kind. The fact is that this is history. That is why I say that I should have thought that the Government would have been more reticent in its attitudes in bringing forward some of the viewpoints which it expressed today. 
However, that is not the matter with which I wish to deal now. I can say that I agree particularly with that part of the address given this afternoon by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  when he stated that the position in the world today is very serious indeed. The situation is the most serious that the world has faced in the Middle East, in Asia and elsewhere for a long while. I agree with him. It is therefore rather difficult to understand why the Government is still delaying the re-equipment of our forces- the new fighter replacements and so on. When one considers the attitude expressed by the Minister today, it is very difficult to understand why there is still further delay after delay after delay. As was mentioned previously, the facts are that the Labor Government introduced nearly all of these policies concerning defence. The main action of this Government has been steadily to put back the acquisition of replacements time after time. 
Let us have a look at the position particularly so far as Indo-China is concerned. Let us face it. There is, of course, the Sino-Soviet dispute. There has been a steady deterioration in relationships between Vietnam and China. This deterioration started with the death of Ho Chi Minh. In the middle of last year there was the expulsion of about 150,000 ethnic Chinese from Vietnam. Last November there was the treaty of friendship and co-operation between the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and Vietnam, which of course has certain military commitments within it. China, the middle kingdom, which has always been deeply concerned on the question of encirclement saw that as a direct threat- as a direct encirclement by the USSR to the north, the west and the south. Finally there was the Vietnamese invasion of Kampuchea. Nobody, as the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  said this afternoon, could possibly support the Pol Pot regime which probably would be one of the harshest regimes in the history of the world. There is no doubt that in time there will have to be an endeavour to find some way of overcoming the existing situation. Accordingly, it is understandable in the light of all those happenings that China eventually felt it was being encircled. Undoubtedly it was for that reason that it then took what can only be called an extraordinary risk in invading Vietnam. 
I want to make it clear that we of the Opposition believe there must be a withdrawal of Vietnamese forces from Kampuchea. Equally we believe there must be a withdrawal of Chinese forces from Vietnam. Ultimately this is the only proposal which can guarantee peace or which can give some opportunity for the world to enjoy peace. I believe that it will be very difficult to get the withdrawals. There is a very difficult period ahead for the world because of the tensions on the China-Soviet border. I think it is very important that the United Nations should be involved. I understand that the Secretary-General of the United Nations has offered his personal intervention to try to bring about some formula to restore peace in the region. We should also be very thankful at this point in time for the restraint displayed by the USSR because when China invaded Vietnam everyone was concerned that there could be immediate intervention by the Soviet Union. However, that intervention has not occurred and it is to be hoped that the USSR will continue to exercise that very good restraint that it has exercised to date. 
In looking at this subject one has to go back a little into history and, as was mentioned by the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes),  remind honourable members that in the peace negotiations  President  Nixon offered Vietnam $6,000m in aid. Finally that offer was repudiated by  President  Ford. Had that offer been continued and had the United States injected massive aid into Vietnam there would no doubt be in Asia another Yugoslavia. That is to say, there would be a non-aligned communist country- a country not aligned with the Soviet Union or with China. Accordingly, it would have been, very much a force for stability throughout this region. That great opportunity was lost. It was lost by the US because of its refusal to inject massive aid to assist Vietnam. This Government has cut off aid to Vietnam which means that it now has no influence whatsoever in Vietnam in being able to negotiate, which also is a tragedy in itself. The countries which really are giving aid on a large scale apart from the USSR- I think they include Norway, Denmark and Sweden- are more deeply concerned with the Middle East situation than they are with the situation in Asia. They are the countries which could probably influence Vietnam more than any other country. 
I come back to the point that I mentioned earlier. I think that this conflict is a tragedy. I want to make it clear that the Labor Party was the party, when it was in government and in opposition in this country, which furthered the relationships with China that finally led to the diplomatic recognition of that country. It was the Labor Party which opposed the war in Vietnam during the term of the previous Liberal-Country Party Government. It is the Labor Party which today understands the concerns of China on the question of encirclement and asks that there be a withdrawal of Vietnamese troops from Kampuchea. I believe that eventually in Kampuchea there must be a national front type of organisation- an organisation, a government or a regime not imposed on Kampuchea from outside the country. As I said, there should be a withdrawal of Vietnamese troops from Kampuchea and at the same time a withdrawal of Chinese troops from Vietnam. 
I make one other point. I believe that this Government has to have a look at its policies as far as the member countries of the Association of South East Asian Nations are concerned. I believe that ASEAN countries are working very hard to find an answer to the present problems facing Asia so far as the Vietnamese-Chinese conflict is concerned. But the cheap air fare policy announced by the Minister for Transport  (Mr 
Nixon) has inflamed the viewpoints of all of the ASEAN countries because the policy has introduced a means of bypassing these countries. Accordingly, there are strong reactions against Australia now. I ask honourable members to recall that when Labor went out of office Australia's relations with the whole of the Third World countries, including the ASEAN countries, had never been better. Today they have probably never been worse. If one adds to that the relationships of this Government with the ASEAN countries on the question of trade and the refusal to meet legitimate demands in order to bring about a greater freedom of trade between ASEAN countries and Australia one can see that it is well and truly time that this Government reassessed its policies as far as the ASEAN countries are concerned. Otherwise a serious deterioration in our relationships with them must occur in future. 
Order! It is rather difficult for the honourable member for Parramatta to be heard because of the high level of conversation at the table. 
This is just one example of a successful promotional campaign involving dairy produce. Others have been launched to promote a variety of products including cream, long life milk and a spreadable butter mix. The success of such campaigns gives a much needed fillip to the dairy industry. The definition of 'dairy produce' should be as wide as possible to allow the Australian Dairy Corporation to promote as wide a range of dairy products as possible to help the industry recover from its present depressed state. On those grounds, on behalf of the Labor Party, I support the Bill. 
-The Opposition does not oppose the provisions of the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill. However, we submit that they touch only the tip of the iceberg. There is a long way to go on the whole question of tax avoidance. As is mentioned in the explanatory memorandum to the Bill, this legislation contains three main provisions. The first concerns prepayment schemes under which taxpayers seek to achieve deductions in excess of net outlays on deductible items. The second provision is designed to overcome a decision by the High Court of Australia that the existing trust provisions in Division 6 of the Income Tax Assessment Act have application only to Australian sourced income from trusts. As the law now stands because of the High Court decision, people can defer or escape completely the payment of tax on foreign sourced income accumulated in trusts for their benefit. 
The third set of provisions is designed to counter trust stripping schemes which attempt to pass income derived by trusts to beneficiaries in a tax free form. While on the question of the High Court, I draw attention to a minority judgment concerning the Commissioner of Taxation as appellant and South Australian Battery Makers Pty Ltd as respondent. It is a minority judgment by  Mr Justice  Murphy. I touch particularly on two statements that he makes within this judgment because I believe that the courts should  take notice of the legislative will when it comes to tax avoidance. I think that it is generally accepted throughout the legal profession and in the Taxation Office itself that this minority judgment of  Mr Justice  Murphy is an outstanding judgment. He states: 
Literal interpretations of the Act have allowed tax avoidance devices to succeed and have encouraged their growth. While the Act is read literally, no amount - 
I ask honourable members to keep that in mind-   of legislative amendment will be able to stem the proliferation of such devices which are inconsistent with the general legislative intent. The strictly literal approach departs from the traditional respect of the courts for the legislative will. 

 Mr Justice Murphy goes on to say: 
Literal compliance with the terms of an Act is not enough if the real result is contrary to the general intention of the legislature. This approach should be taken to tax Acts. 

 Mr Justice Murphy concludes: 
 The appeal should be allowed. 
Without a doubt time after time the High Court of Australia- there have been some quite worrying rumours as to the motives in some cases- has upheld the tax avoider against the Taxation Office. Of course in the ulitmate this means that the average wage and salary earner has to pay more tax so that the Government obtains revenue. I have quoted from that particular judgment because I think that it is very important. As I said, so far what the Government has introduced touches only upon this vast empire of tax avoidance which exists in this country. 
This afternoon we heard the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  quote from a document which I gather must have fallen off the back of a bus. It is a memorandum of the Australian Taxation Office itself. I will repeat first of all one particular section because I think it is very important. Later I will quote another section which was not quoted by the honourable member. The section to which he referred states: 
The proliferation of the use of inter-vivos trusts for the purposes of tax avoidance prompted the Deputy Commissioner in Melbourne to say in his memorandum dated 7 January 1977, 'The inability to deal with the problem of tax avoidance through the agency of trusts under the existing taxation laws is causing considerable concern in this office. The trust arrangements being entered into at an ever increasing rate are considered to be a negation of the intention of the law and completely nullify any equity as between individual taxpayers, particularly in regard to businessmen and salary and wage earners'. 
The memorandum continues: 
The  Deputy  Commissioner's observation of the proliferation of trading trusts is, of course, consistent with the information being obtained from other States . . . and warrants immediate legislative action being taken. If the use of trading trusts continues to proliferate, it is inevitable that salary and wage earners will have to bear the burden of meeting the loss of revenue from partnership and private company sources. The effects of such a redistribution of the taxation burden would be extremely far-reaching in terms of overall consumption demand, would provide a disincentive to the salary and wage earner to earn higher wages, and, most importantly, would give the entrepreneur and businessman an unfair and inequitable tax advantage over the salary and wage earner. 
This is from a document prepared by the Taxation Office itself on this question of trusts and tax avoidance. Let us look at the recommendations which were made. The memorandum states: 
In conclusion, it is recommended that the following legislative amendments be made: 1. (a) The repeal of the s. 102 requirement that the beneficiary's parent must have 'created ' the trust. 
Nothing has been done about that. The memorandum continues: 
Alternatively, a statutory provision inserted into s. 102 deeming that contributions to the trust estate by different persons are to be treated as the creation of separate trusts. 
Nothing has been done about that. The memorandum continues: 
Where an Australian beneficiary is presently entitled to foreign-source income, that income should be subject to tax in his hands. 
Yes, that has been done. The memorandum continues: 
Where no beneficiary is presently entitled to foreign source income accumulating in an Australian trust, the income should be taxed in the hands of the trustee. 
Yes, something has been done on that. I ask honourable members to keep in mind that this document is dated 3 November 1977, which is not just a few weeks ago. It was prepared in 1 977. The memorandum continues: 
Income paid to overseas institutions or for overseas purposes should be excluded from the operation of s. 23 unless that institution is expressly exempted from paying Australian income tax. 
Nothing has been done about that. The memorandum continues: 
Unearned income of minor beneficiaries should be taxed at a rate determined by notionally adding his income to the income of the parent with the higher income. 
That was the fifth suggested amendment. Nothing has been done about that. The reason of course is that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  and the  Deputy  Leader of the Liberal Party  (Mr Lynch)  are all doing just that. The memorandum continues: 
The rate of tax calculated under s. 102 (2) should be calculated by adding both incomes under the trust for other child beneficiaries and amounts derived by the subject child under other trusts to the income of the parent. 
Nothing has been done about that. The memorandum continues: 
The Commissioner should be required to examine the facts surrounding the operation and control of a trust in order to ascertain whether the remuneration or share of profits received by the beneficiaries was commensurate with their services and/or capital or property contributions. 
Nothing has been done about that Is it any wonder I say that what they have touched upon is only the beginning of this empire of tax avoidance. They have left the great mass of the empire alone because their own friends are involved. 
The memorandum concludes: 
The allocated share of income which was not 'earnt' by the beneficiary should be treated as a gin for gift duty purposes and should be subject to a deterrent rate of tax as recommended by the Asprey Committee. 
Nothing has been done about that. Of eight recommendations, only two, which are virtually tied in together, have been implemented. As I said, this is a memorandum prepared by the Taxation Office itself on tax avoidance which makes recommendations, particularly in regard to what should be done about the question of trusts. The Government has virtually ignored it. Then the Government claims that it has a great policy so far as tax avoidance is concerned. 
Let us look at the figures quoted by the honourable member for Gellibrand. In 1973-74 there were 447,461 partnerships rising to 471,871 in 1975-76, an increase of 5.5 per cent. Net income is up by 15.4 per cent. Let us look at trusts. In 1973-74 there was 123,618, rising in 1975-76 to 144,488. This is an increase between 1973-74 and 1975-76 of 16.9 per cent. Net income rose from $388. lm in 1973-74 to $7 10.4m in 1975-76, an increase in those years of 83.1 per cent. The number of taxable companies decreased by 8.3 per cent, with taxable income rising by 18.8 per cent. So, honourable members can see the impact, 83. 1 per cent as far as the net income of trusts is concerned. Now let us have a look at some of the statements which have been made by members of this Government. Honourable members will know that I have raised the question of trusts and particularly family trusts in this Parliament time and again. I have asked the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  when he is going to close the loopholes in regard to family truststrusts generally- which are used as a means of tax avoidance. He denied that trusts were used for tax avoidance. He said that it was only tax minimisation, not tax avoidance. Is it any wonder that the recommendations of the Taxation Office have not been implemented. Once again I say that it is because it affects people in whom the Treasurer is interested, people he accepts his orders from in this Parliament- the 
Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  and the  Deputy  Leader of the Liberal Party  (Mr Lynch). 
During an interview in  PM  on 23 November 1 977 the Prime Minister said: 
I think it is entirely appropriate for people to have family trusts . . . 
That was the Prime Minister himself. The  Deputy  Prime Minister is quoted in the  Sydney Morning Herald  on 24 November 1977. The article states: 
He told a Press conference the trust was intended to ease the burden of estate and death duties. 
It is already stated that he was not seeking to evade tax through the maintenance of a family trust which he admitted; he was only wanting to avoid death duties, et cetera. He is reported as saying: 
It is not a tax avoidance device, it is a device to enable your family to become part owners in your property. 
What a way to try to twist the law and twist the facts. That was the Deputy Prime Minister. The Prime Minister in answer to me, as reported in Hansard of 27 September 1978, said: 
Before the last election I never hid the fact that I had a family trust. I made it perfectly plain also that the purposes of family trusts have generally been to hold a family's assets together. 
He further states: 
. Does a trust mean that less tax would be paid than otherwise would be the case? That is the general result of trusts. 
This is the Prime Minister speaking. I am quoting from  Hansard,  quoting his own Prime Minister who said: 
That is the general result of trusts. I do not know of any trust which has been established to look after the family interests which does not have that result. 
The result is tax avoidance. 
The honourable member for Barton may not agree with the Prime Minister but they are the words of his own boss, bis own leader, who made that statement in  Hansard  on 27 September 1978. On 26 September 1978 in this place the Prime Minister said: 
I admitted at the time of the last election that I have a family trust, and there is no reason why that should not stand. 
In the Prime Minister's electorate talk of 8 October 1 978 he stated: 
Repressive and unfair taxation is the breeding ground for tax evasion. Punitive taxes forced many small businessmen and the farmers into a situation where they were obliged to make arrangements to ensure the continuity of their enterprises. 
Further on he states: 
Many of the complex arrangements which people entered over the years . . . 
And believe me, his is complex- 
. were simply designed to keep family farms and businesses together. 
I am quoting the Prime Minister. Like it or not, it is their own Prime Minister making these statements, one after the other. The honourable member for Batman  (Mr Howe)  this morning was speaking in this Parliament on the issue of the Rural Finance and Settlement Commission and its advance of something around $240,000- keeping in mind that the Premier of Victoria has to approve advances of more than $20,000, and that the Premier of Victoria is  Mr Hamer. 
My question is addressed to the Acting Treasurer. In view of the statements of the Prime Minister over the last few days concerning his personal financial affairs, will the Treasurer introduce legislation to prevent tax avoidance by the artifice of income splitting through the use of family trusts and other forms  of trusts 
Unfortunately once again I have to raise the matter of a section of the Fairfax Press which is rubbishing the western suburbs of Sydney. This has happened once before. The  Sydney Morning Herald  did this once before. In that case I must say that since I raised the matter in Parliament that newspaper has been far more reticent in its attitude to the western suburbs of Sydney. Now it is the  Sun Herald.  Strangely enough, as was the case last time, it is the Sydney  Sun  which has put the correct story. After all we expect this sort of activity from some sections of the yellow Press but I do not expect it from the Fairfax Press which has always prided itself on its respectability. We find this sort of headline: 'How the West was Blundered' and we have some of the worst statements we could possibly find. There are statements in this article by an Alderman Peter Quirk, Chairman of the Western Sydney Regional Organisation of Councils. Alderman Peter Quirk is Chairman of that organisation but I think the first thing he has to learn to do is to stay in one job for a while. He is having difficulty in doing that. He is quoted time and time again throughout this article. The classic quotation for him is: 'We need a wonder boy- a hustler- to promote the area'. Of course, the inference right through the article is that this wonder boy is Alderman Peter Quirk. 
No, he would not dare do that. The fact is that this article, while it tries to give the western suburbs a pat on the shoulder every now and again, the next thing it does is bring out a sledgehammer for the head. This happens throughout the article. I will give the House an example. Under a photograph the following appears: 
A western suburbs fibro: hot in summer and cold in winter. Will it stand up to a second generation of use? 
On the other hand we have the Sydney  Sun  today stating: 'Four bedrooms and a pool for $46,000'. I ask honourable members to have a look at the house. It is a very fine home and that is the case with the majority of homes throughout the area. What I think has to be realised is that the facilities in the western suburbs are as good as they are in the Illawarra area. There are sporting facilities, club facilities and homes. This area has more children in it than any other area throughout the length and breadth of Australia. I suggest to the reporter named Harry Robinson who wrote the article rubbishing the western area that he have a heart for the children there because he does not realise the damage he is doing with this sort of rubbishing article to all those kids who are being brought up in the area. They are the future generations of Australia. Blacktown is the biggest municipality in Australia and it is shortly to be declared a city. 
I would say within the next week or so. The facts are that the municipality of Blacktown has more young children than any other area in Australia. It is time some newspapers did the right thing for these areas. A newspaper may have a new editor who has been told to take a hard line to increase sales, but it is time he took a moral attitude and realised the damage he is doing not only to this generation but also to the young kids who are growing up. It is not only to the older people but also to the younger people. They are to be the future generations of this country. For that reason I think these newspaper people should be ashamed of themselves. 
-Is the amendment seconded? 
I direct a very simple question to the Treasurer. I make it very simple so that he will understand it and will not be able to avoid answering it. 

 -Mr Speaker has received a letter from the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  proposing that a definite matter of public importance be submitted to the House for discussion, namely: 
The failure of the Government to provide an assurance that it will not permit any exploration, testing or mining on or in the vicinity of the Great Barrier Reef. 
I call upon those members who approve of the proposed discussion to rise in their places. 

 More than the number of members required by the Standing Orders having risen in their places- 

-In 1973 when a proposal came before this House to legalise abortion on demand or abortion on requestthey are both the same- in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory, I voted against it. I still hold that view as I believe that terminations of pregnancies cannot be utilised as another method of birth control. However, I also made it clear at that time that there were exceptions such as rape, incest and the life of the mother, et cetera. However, the Lusher motion goes far beyond this to an extreme. I therefore cannot support it. It provides for an abortion only in cases where the death of the mother in imminent. It does not even cover rape or incest, and there are other exceptions apart from those. 
The honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  has had three bites at the cherry. The first motion he put on the notice paper provided for no exceptions whatsoever. He withdrew that and replaced it with another that gave the only exception as the imminent death of a mother. I emphasise the word 'imminent'. He also withdrew that motion and replaced it with his latest motion that still provides for an abortion only if the life of the mother is at risk. Can he not make up his mind? Without doubt abortion on demand is being practised in some States, but this can be overcome only by the State legislatures concerned. That falls within the jurisdiction of the State legislatures. 
It is therefore difficult to understand why the advocates of the Lusher motion always concentrate their efforts on Canberra when they should be calling upon the State governments either to challenge the Levine and Menhennitt rulings in the courts or to call upon those governments to legislate to outlaw abortion on demand by statute. They must know that even if the Lusher motion is carried it has virtually no chance of being put into practice. As the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Ellicott)  said: 'Its intentions are administratively impracticable'. One could only say that it would create an administrative maze. This has been confirmed in discussions I have had with Department of Health officials. Why, then, do these people concentrate on the Federal Parliament when they should be concentrating on the State Parliaments? Is it that they like trips to Canberra? On the other hand, the honourable member for Hume talks of the cost to the Federal Government of item 6469. Yet he does not mention that his proposal would mean that women would go to the public hospitals and obtain abortions free of charge in public wards. He does not mention that the cost of this would mean even more expenditure of funds by the community than under the present procedures, as the Federal and State governments have to bear the costs of the public hospitals. In other words, the carriage of the Lusher motion would not reduce the number of abortions on demand. 
I must say that I am rather attracted to the amendment moved by the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman).  However, unfortunately, it does not provide for the severe impairment of a mother's mental health, particularly a mother who has a family already. Let us take the case of a woman who has, say, three young children, who becomes pregnant again and is then deserted by her husband. I would say that this type of case is an inhuman case. Unfortunately such cases are far too prevalent today. The worry from this additional pregnancy is such that the mother's mental stability and physical health is so seriously affected that soon her three young children will not have any parent to care for them. What would happen in such a case? What about the case mentioned yesterday by the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)the  case of a girl of 16 years of age who came to him, pregnant by her father? What should be done about that case? 
There is another very important matter about which I wish to speak. Supporters of the Lusher motion speak of the cost to the Federal Government of terminations under item 6469 and the abortions on demand which are funded under that item. As I said before, abortion on demand is a very regrettable action which can be stopped only by the State legislatures. But what about providing those very important support services for pregnant women in need? What about providing an adequate living wage, counselling services and so on, for the mother on her own? Is this not one of the best means of ensuring that women do not have abortions and that they keep their children? But when the Whitlam Government provided the supporting mothers benefit for single women, conservatives in this community- the wowsers- went around saying that we were encouraging women to have children out of wedlock. To the contrary, we were helping young women to keep their children. We were helping to stop them being driven to having abortions. But can honourable members imagine this Government providing funds to improve and increase the support services for pregnant women? Of course not. To the contrary, only this financial year this Government cut down from 75 per cent to 50 per cent its allocation of block funds to the States for the community health program, the very program which provides some of these support services. That is the attitude of this Government, yet we have had this hypocrisy being spoken during the last two days in this Parliament. 
Yes,  Mr Speaker,  As I said before, I cannot support the Lusher motion. I consider that basically it is a dishonest motion. It is not looking at the real facts. It is trying to hide behind the question of cost the basic issue of abortion, which is not within the legislative province of this Parliament. For those reasons I will not support it. To the contrary, I will look very carefully at the various amendments which come forward in this Parliament. As late as just before I rose to speak in this debate a further amendment was distributed. I wish to look at it as well as the others that have come forward before I make my decision as to which amendment I will support. 
-Is the motion seconded? 
I rise on a matter of privilege which concerns the alleged misconduct of a member of this Parliament in terms of Erskine May, nineteenth edition, page 144 in the third paragraph under the heading 'Other forms of misconduct'. I ask that this matter be referred to the Privileges Committee. It relates to a telex which is presently circulating in the Press Gallery. 
I support the remarks of the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  on this issue and at the operation of the legislation committee last night. 
I have attended two meetings of legislation committees on two issues. At the first meeting, whilst some propositions were accepted from Government members, none were accepted from the Opposition. When the Opposition agreed to the whole principle of legislation committees it was in the belief that they would work along the lines of joint parliamentary committees such as the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Foreign Affairs of which I am a member, the Joint Parliamentary Committee of Public Accounts, of which I was a member, and so on where there is, as the honourable members for Adelaide put it, a joining together of the minds and where members are able to sit down and even though they come from different political parties reach some consensus. But last night we had the experience of one member from the Government side in an interjection frankly stated 'yes we admit we had a meeting', and the whole proceedings were determined on Party lines. 
This, in my belief, was not the intention of the legislation committees. To the contrary, the whole purpose of legislation committees was to get a broader viewpoint which would be listened to by the Minister and listened to by his advisers who I gather would go back to reconsider the matters. Nobody would object to that course. I do impress on honourable members that the honourable member for Adelaide has put in a tremendous amount of work, thought and consideration on this Bill and on the amendments which he has moved. I know that. They were not frivolous propositions in any way whatsoever. They were very serious propositions which dealt with the whole basic question of maintaining teeth in the legislation and I would have thought that more serious consideration would have been given to them. I draw to the notice of the House particularly to pages 16 and 17 of the  Hansard  record of last night's meeting where, for example, the Right Honourable member for Lowe,  Sir William  McMahon, after he said that he had made this statement, said: 
If it were ordinary people and not politicians I would accept your point of view. 
He was referring to the point of view of the honourable member for Lalor,  Mr Barry  Jones. The Right Honourable member for Lowe went on to say: 
But you are playing politics and we have to play politics too. 
Later, when I raised this issue with him and said that this was in effect an attack on the Parliament, he replied: 
It is not the Parliament; it is a committee. 
I said: 
Then this Committee does not represent the Parliament. 

 Sir William said: 
It obviously does not. 
I think that in itself illustrates the attitude of some Government members have to this Committee system. I had very great hopes that in legislation Committees we could sit down, just as we do in joint committees of the Parliament, and be able to give serious consideration, have a meeting of the minds and that we would be able to reach a consensus on basic issues. But last night's affair- I could only call it that- makes it very difficult to believe that this can ever occur. That has been my experience now on two legislation committees and I do not think it is to the credit of the committee, to the credit of the Parliament or the intention behind the establishing of these committees. 
-The telex reads as follows: 
The Chief Justice of NSW,  Sir Laurence  Street today called an MP action in personally intervening in a case a  grave impropriety '. 

 Sir Laurence said the MP,  Mr Reg  Gillard, Federal Member for Macquarie had written to him personally, presumably to 'influence the outcome' of a case concerning a Bathurst solicitor who was struck off the roll. 
Vincent Francis Gordon was struck off by the Solicitors' Statutory Committee because of trust fund offences and had appealed to the court of appeal against this decision. 
His appeal had been dismissed. 
In his letter to  Sir Laurence, Mr Gillard  said, 'It would be sincerely appreciated if some leniency could be extended to  Mr Gordon  in this matter'. 

 Sir Laurence said today that he had no doubt  Mr Gillard  was well-intentioned in writing this letter and he accepted  Mr Gordon  had no part in it. 
The regrettable fact however is that a personal communication was made to me presumably with the intention of influencing the outcome of the case. It ought to be a wellknown and jealously observed precept that no person should ever attempt to influence because of justice - 
I think it should be 'the course of justice'. 
. by making a private approach to a judge. 
Justice is administered in open court and in reliance upon evidence and arguments publicly presented, the Chief Justice said. 
It goes further: 

 Sir Laurence said of course the letter would not affect his judgment but he was embarrassed at receiving it. 

 Sir Laurence made copies of the letter available to the Press and it says that  Mr Vince  Gordon had been known to  Mr Gillard  for 20 years and that  Mr Gillard  had admired his (Gordon) community work. 
The letter continues: 
I am aware of the action which has been taken against  Mr Gordon  and knowing him as I do I feel that the penalty imposed is extremely harsh. I believe it would be far better if he were allowed to continue working in - 
It says* He- his profession. 
That is what the letter said. 
I am reading the telex. It states: 
Gordon and his partner John Wilson, who practised in Bathurst, Orange and Blayney were struck off the roll on March 1 by the Solicitors Statutory Committee for trust fund offences. 
There are other telexes which are circulating around the Press Gallery now on this matter. I raise the question in terms, as I said, of Erskine May's  Parliamentary Practice,  19th edition, page 144, third paragraph, under the heading Other Forms of Misconduct'. I ask that the matter be referred to the Privileges Committee to determine whether there has been a breach of privilege. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, tonight we have heard a most extraordinary attack by a member of this House and member of the New South Wales Bar, upon the Chief Justice of the - 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I rise on a point of order. I refer you to Erskine May's  Parliamentary Practice,  nineteenth edition, at page 428 under the heading 'Reflections on the Sovereign etc. 'It reads: 
Unless the discussion is based upon a substantive motion, drawn in proper terms (see page 367), reflections must not be cast in debate upon the conduct of the sovereign, the heir to the throne, or other members of the royal family, the Lord Chancellor, the Governor-General of an independent territory, the  Speaker,  the  Chairman  of Ways and Means, Members of either House of Parliament, or judges of the superior courts of the United Kingdom, including persons holding the position of a judge, such as a judge of a Court of Bankruptcy or a county court, or a recorder. Nor may opprobrious reflections be cast in debate on sovereigns and rulers over, or governments of . . . 
We also have Standing Order 75. Whilst I have much respect for you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I find it extraordinary that an attack of this nature is permitted upon the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of New South Wales, a person whom nobody here could claim has loyalty to the Australian Labor Party or anything of that nature. This is a matter of the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of New South Wales being attacked and not being protected in this Parliament. Such a bitter personal attack upon him is quite uncalled for. 
On the point of order, I ask you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  to give the reasons for your ruling that Standing Order 75 and May's  Parliamentary Practice  do not apply in this instance. 
If you could give the reasons to the House perhaps we could understand what you are about. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I will speak not on your ruling but on the action tonight by the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Birney).  That issue has nothing whatsoever to do with your ruling. I think that it was a most disgraceful action on the part of the honourable member for Phillip to attack the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court. The honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Gillard),  to say the very least, was extraordinarily foolish. Possibly his performance reflects only his lack of experience in the Parliament. But the facts are that he took that action. The facts are that tonight a member of the New South Wales Bar came into this Parliament to attack the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court. 
-Tonight I walked into the Library of this Parliament and quite frankly I was shocked to see a publication entitled  Australian Parks and Recreation.  On the front page there was a photograph of the honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem). 
I would never reflect on the honourable member, I can assure you of that,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  On the front page the honourable member for Canberra is shown squatting in a pair of shorts, a shirt and long socks. Opposite him is a very attractive young lady, with nothing on, nothing whatsoever. 
-It being 10.30 p.m., I propose the question: 
That the House do now adjourn. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
-I wish to support this motion of condolence and to express my sympathy to  Mrs Maureen  Stewart, her family, and Frank's family. I first met Frank Stewart in 1953 when he had just gained pre-selection for Lang. I was introduced to Frank by John Armstrong, a former Minister in the Chifley Government and a former  Deputy  Leader of the Labor Party in the Senate. He was also a former High Commissioner to London and a former Lord Mayor of Sydney. Frank was a very close friend of John Armstrong throughout John's life. When I first walked into this chamber this afternoon I wanted to check today's date. I involuntarily turned around to the seat behind me, as I have been in the habit of doing so many times in the past for the purpose of checking some details. It is at a time like that that his passing comes home to me. Most of what I wanted to say has already been said today. I refer to Frank's tenacity, his fundamental belief in the place of the family in our society and his determination to fight for the place of family in society, irrespective of the cost. 
As has been mentioned by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  and others, and has also been mentioned to me by  Senator Reg  Bishop, Frank Crean and Gough Whitlam, there was no Minister in the Whitlam Cabinets who went into a meeting better briefed than Frank Stewart. No one read his papers more assiduously. Thus he had the ability to fight tenaciously for what he believed was the correct decision. That has all been said. It was fundamental to everything about him.  His  loyalty to his church, his loyalty to the Labor movement and, equally as important, his loyalty to his mates have been mentioned. I think that those are important facets of any man's beliefs and of any man's makeup. Frank had those very great attributes. Once again I wish to express my sympathy to Maureen Stewart and her family. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the two matters? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
-Is the amendment seconded? 
I preface my question to the  Minister for Defence by referring to reports that the permanent head of the Department of Defence may shortly retire. Is it a fact that the Minister is considering appointing a lady in his place, to continue the example set by the Minister in having a lady jockey, Linda Jones, ride his horse Pay The Purple' when it won the Labor Day Cup this weekend? 
-! have looked at this notice of motion given by the honourable member for Denison and have to rule that there is no substance to the point of order raised. The honourable member is not discussing specifically the particular matters mentioned in the notice of motion. 
I would like my grievance to be registered. Unless we do something to prevent the sort of thing that happened in Sydney in relation to building societies, something more important might happen, something which might cause a greater civil disorder. We have only to look back to the thirties to realise the power of propaganda. The little lie, oft repeated, becomes accepted publicly. I would like the House to think very responsibly about the effect that this rumour had upon home owners or prospective homeowners in Sydney when it started, a rumour exaggerated beyond all comprehension. The figures, as I have pointed out, are incredibly important. There was a shortfall of $97m in one month. 
-This afternoon during Question Time in this Parliament we witnessed a rather unseemly attack upon the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  by way of a Dorothy Dix question which was addressed by the honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Gillard)  to the Minister for Unemployment. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 2 May 1979: 
Is it a fact that New Zealand steak can be sold cheaper in Australia than Australian steak; if so, why. 
Did the Treasurer tell the Parliament on 15 August 1978 that an income tax surcharge would be ' a temporary measure for 1978-79 only'? Does that commitment still stand? 

Does the Treasurer wish to make a personal explanation? 
-We have just listened to the Deputy Prime Minister of Australia. 
I would like to have him in the House while I deal with him. 
Sitting suspended from 5.58 to 8 p.m. 
Did the Deputy Prime Minister state on 3 September 1975 that the coalition parties were 'opposed to this levy on coal exports. We will review it when we are returned to office. It is a retrograde, irresponsible and shortsighted measure'? Now that his Government has reneged on its commitment to abolish it, what is his attitude to the levy now? 
-Mr Acting  Speaker,  when the sitting was suspended two and half minutes early for the dinner recess, I had risen but was not allowed to speak. I wanted to deal with the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony),  and I would not have needed more than two and a half minutes. When the  Deputy  Prime Minister, the Leader of the National Country Party, was speaking a quorum had to be called because not even the members of his own party were present. I wished to raise the matter dealth with in the statement of the Treasurer (  Mr Howard)  relating to tax avoidance. All honourable members know that the  Deputy  Prime Minister has a family trust for the purpose of incomesplitting and tax avoidance, yet the House was adjourned two and a half minutes early and before I could raise that matter. 
I think I should have been permitted the opportunity to speak, instead of being sat down, squashed, gagged when I wanted to raise the very issue of the tax avoidance being carried out by the  Deputy  Prime Minister of this country, of all people. However, such a practice is natural because we know that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has done the same thing for the purpose of tax avoidance and for the avoidance of estate duty. The  Deputy  Leader of the Liberal Party  (Mr Lynch)  has undertaken the same sort of activity. Yet the Government dares to mention the question of tax avoidance in the statement we are debating, an issue which is fundamental so far as raising revenue in this country is concerned. The honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  and I tried to table a document which had been read out, a document prepared by Taxation Office officials, and which came off the back of a truck. This document shows quite clearly that the most rampant taxation avoidance scheme in this country is that relating to family trusts. How many members on the Government side of the House are involved in this tax avoidance racket? That is what the Opposition wants to know. How many millionaires are there? 
I understand that the latest estimate shows that there are 2,472 millionaires in Australia. We know that the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Bradfield)  is one of them. We know that the  Deputy  Prime Minister is one of them. We know that the Prime Minister is one of them. How many more members sitting on the Government benches are in that category? Is it any wonder that the policies carried out by this Government are directed deliberately towards making the rich richer and the poor poorer? I wish to deal now with a few other matters. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
1 ) Has the Government appointed  Mr Harry  M. Miller as a special advisor for work preparatory to the setting up of a national organisation to develop the bicentennial celebrations in 1988. 
Was  Mr Miller  at one time associated with a festival held in Canberra, known as 'Festival Australia', 1975; if so, (a) what were the precise terms of  Mr Miller's  engagement with that festival and (b) what was the specific nature and extent of his contribution to the festival. 
Were the organisers of the festival completely satisfied with  Mr Miller's  services. 
What payment did  Mr Miller  demand for his services, what did he receive and under what circumstances was the payment made. 
) Was this sum agreed with  Mr Miller  at the outset and did payment occasion any embarrassment to the organisers of the festival. 
Does this more recent appointment as a special advisor mean that  Mr Miller  will be, or has been, appointed by the Government to take charge of all arrangements for the 1988 celebrations. 
Were applications called for this position. 
Are there other persons in the theatrical entrepreneurial field at least as equally capable as  Mr Miller;  if so, nave they been, or will they be, considered for the important task of organising the celebrations. 
Is this the same  Mr Miller  who is also a member of the Board of (a) Qantas and (b) the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation; if so, when was he appointed to those Boards. 
Can he say whether  Mr Miller  is a constituent and a friend of the Minister for Primary Industry. 
1 1 ) Is he able to say if the Minister for Primary Industry in any way contributed to the appointment of  Mr Miller  to (a) the Qantas Board, (b) the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation or (c) any other Government instrumentality. 
12) Is there any possibility of conflict of interest between  Mr Miller's  private business operations and the Government appointments he now holds and those of the future. 
-I think the position is that at the time the honourable member was drawing attention to the interest rate component in respect of recent advances. But I quite agree that the honourable member for Parramatta will need to address his remarks to the Bill before the House. Of course, in arguing on the contents of that Bill the honourable member may have to introduce some remarks that would normally be a little bit extraneous. 
Pontius Pilate-like, the Wheat Board took recourse in formality and requested the Government to order it to do the foul deed. The Government, in its turn, also conveniently, had recourse to the formal procedures which would allow it to pass the buck further down the line. The Minister for Primary Industry is the person legally empowered to order the Board. He was understandably reluctant to do so. The electoral repercussion from such an unpopular decision must have weighed heavily on his mind. In fact, I believe we could almost hear the agonising groans coming from the honourable gentleman when he announced in this House on 10 May that this would be the case. Metaphorically, the Prime Minister and the Treasurer were standing behind him, pushing his arm painfully up his back. 
Returning to the promise of lower interest rates, which is the gist of the matter before us today, the unequivocal assurances of the Prime Minister began to totter as his Government lurched from one mistake to another, failing to engender confidence in the business community, failing to stimulate the economy with thoughtful planning in the public sector, failing to halt inflation rates and, most tragically, failing to halt the terrible unemployment rate. The Prime Minister knows he is cornered. He is under attack daily in the media for his failure to manage the economy. His electoral stocks are at an all-time low personally, and the Liberals, as a party, are floundering in a quagmire of their own making. 
This latest amendment to the Wheat Board's charter is one way in which we see him kicking back. Let us not assign all the oppobrium to the Liberals. Let us look at the other party in this shady coalition. The Country Party, or the NCP, or the National Party- call it what you willexhibits the greatest degree of chutzpa in its espousal of a philosophy. It screams socialism whenever any government intervention in its profit-making concerns is threatening it. It screams socialism whenever governments try to help the less fortunate in our society. But it is strangely quiet about dreadful socialism when it is in its own interests. To a Very large degree, the ordinary taxpayers funds socialistic programs for the rural sector, as they are in this case when commercial banks have been involved in payment of wheat farmers first payments. We see this type of hypocritical double talk surfacing in respect to this latest business with the Wheat Board. 
In 1973, when  Senator Wriedt,  who was then the Minister for Agriculture, issued instructions to the Board, the Country Party accused the Labor Government of using an 'iron fist' and called it 'an abuse of power'. We now see a situation where it is in the interest of the Board, or more precisely the Wheat Board  Chairman, Sir Leslie  Price, to pass on the buck to the Government and have it give instructions to the Board. But where are the yells of 'iron fist' or 'authoritarianism'? All is strangely quiet on the rural front. The circumstances of the Board's cave-in are extraordinary if not reprehensible. The wheat growers to whom most of its members are nominally responsible should be seeking an explanation. In the week after the Board's cave-in  Mr Sinclair  answered a question in Parliament which further damaged its credibility. He admitted on 8 May that the Board had, in fact, suspended first advance payments between 23 January and 2 February. This pulled out the rug from under the Board's General Manager who had gone to great lengths to give the opposite impression. Indeed, he had explicitly denied to at least one prominent financial journalist that payments had been suspended. Part of the cover-up strategy was a story put out along the bush grapevine that the cause of an apparent delay was a computer breakdown. Lo, what a tangled web we weave when first we practise to deceive. One of the hardest bitting indictments of the Government appeared in the March issue of the heavyweight economic newsletter  Syntec  under the heading 'Mistakes' and 'Poor Management'. I will not quote that article but it is worth reading. It is hardly a socialist tending publication, but it contains rather a strong indictment of what the Government has done. 
The cave-in of the Wheat Board has done nothing to raise the stature of the  Chairman, Sir Leslie  Price. He meekly complied with Government requests and went along with its orders. A less trusting person than myself might suggest that there were more of those well-known, furtive, behind the scenes, Fraser phone calls hectoring the  chairman.  Beholden to the Prime Minister who had him knighted and the Government who appointed him, he backed off. This Bill ratifies the agreement between the Board's  Chairman  and the Government. The wheat growers have been sold OU by their representatives, the Wheat Board, on the altar of the Government's short term convenience in economic misplanning. 
Of course, the Wheat Board is not only under fire from its wheat grower friends, it is also under fire in another area from the Section 92 Association. If I can read an article on that matter it may help honourable members to understand the position. The arch-priests of private enterprise among the wheat farmers are objecting to the Wheat Board having control of the sale of wheat. There was a meeting in Moree, I believe, a couple of weeks ago. The real free enterprise lunatics had a field day and cast tremendous aspersions on the Wheat Board for its efforts to stabilise the wheat industry, to organise it, to secure overseas sales and to guarantee payments to the Wheat Board. I am pleased to see that at least some of them with a memory going back beyond the last three or four years of enormous prosperity in the wheat industry can remember the good work the Wheat Board did in other areas. I would like to quote one farmerobviously he was a farmer with a sense of decency. He said: 'A lot of the very efficient and capable men who are yelling out for the return of free trade are not old enough to remember what happened to their forefathers during the depression '. 
I would like to think that the Wheat Board is able to stand up to these people and to see that the efforts which they are making at the moment to ensure that its powers are reduced fail. The Wheat Board, which has admirably served the wheat industry and a great bulk of the farmers who constitute it, has done a great deal towards helping the Australian wheat industry to the prosperity which it enjoys today, and which we on this side of the House applaud. We hope that the Board is able to continue to prosper and to serve Australia well. 
When we were in government we supported the Wheat Board. As I mentioned earlier, we instituted the five-year wheat stabilisation plan which has brought a great deal of prosperity to the wheat farmers. They are now flushed with their own success and are trying to buck the Wheat Board. I hope that the Minister in charge of this Department, the Minister for Primary Industry, will see that the powers of the Wheat Board are not divested, that it continues to maintain strong control over the wheat industry, but that it is not used in a cynical way, as it has been in the past, to implement the misguided economic policies of the Government. The Prime Minister is responsible for the breakdown in the nation's economy, not the Wheat Board. We on this side of the House want to see the Wheat Board used for the reasons for which it was instituted and to see that there is continuing prosperity in the rural industry. While there is continuing prosperity in the wheat industry and other areas of agriculture, there is continuing prosperity for the whole of the Australian community. 
-I have stated before- I will state it again- that this Government is the most distrustful, dishonest, untruthful, corrupt and discredited government that this country has ever known. It is led by a deceitful and dishonourable Prime Minister. One of the reasons I say this is that wherever one goes people are now starting to say: 'When will a promise given by the Prime Minister on behalf of his Government be honoured?' It is impossible nowadays to find any that have been honoured. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. 

 Government members interjecting- 

I wish Government members would remain quiet. I ask whether the Prime Minister stated on 2 1 November 1975: 
Australians are sick and tired of having their taxes wasted by politicians just scattering money around like chaff. 
If so, what is the estimated cost of having the artist Bryan Westwood flown from Seattle in the United States to paint the Prime Minister's official portrait? In the current climate of economic austerity, why cannot the Prime Minister make do with an artist living in Australia? 

Order! It being 10.30 p.m., I propose the question: 
That the House do now adjourn. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
-Is leave granted? 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="114131197906040_56_0.jpg"></graphic>

In the case of the William Angliss Hospital, the obtaining of funds for capital works has been a political issue for some years. I am very pleased that I have a brief to present to the Minister tonight. I thank him for the co-operation with the 
Victorian Hamer Government. I know that the member for Monbulk,  Mr Borthwick,  in the Victorian Parliament has been instrumental in those negotiations whereby the next stage of the building program at the William Angliss Hospital has been approved. Clearly that work could not have gone ahead if the Commonwealth Government, through the Minister, had not been prepared to participate in the hospital sharing arrangement for the William Angliss Hospital. I say this to the Minister without any equivocation: The William Angliss is one of the finest hospitals in the Melbourne Metropolitan area. It is providing a tremendous service - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-One would anticipate and expect that the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume)  who, of course, has been tied up with the tax avoiders of this country - 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drummond) 

The question before the Chair is: That the question be now put. Those of that opinion say 'aye ', to the contrary 'no'.I think the ayes have it. 
I raise a point of order - 
-I give notice that, on the next day of sitting, I shall move: 
That this House is of the opinion that the Treasurer should introduce legislation to outlaw the use of family trusts for tax avoidance purposes through the artifice of income splitting as practised by senior members of the Government - 
Did the Minister for National Development leak the Cabinet decision on the moratorium on the Great Barrier Reef to journalists last Thursday? If so, did he have the Prime Minister's authorisation to do this and breach Cabinet confidentiality? 
-I naturally agree with the point of order that was taken on the previous  speaker  and with the decision that was given at the time. I ask the honourable member for Shortland to address himself to the statement. 
As I recall it, the Minister for Productivity carried out backroom briefings of the Press on how he was losing out, and how the aircraft surveillance guidelines and the tender documents which were being drawn would exclude the Nomad aircraft. The Minister responsible was unable to persuade his fellow ministers to utilise the Australian product. At that very time I was at the Farnborough Air Show. I inspected the Nomads on display. I was there on the afternoon that the Belgium and Netherlands police forces were to be given demonstration flights in the use of that aircraft for police surveillance work. I returned to Australia a week later and learned that there was a solid campaign in this country by the senior ministers of the Government- not by the junior boy, almost the lowest ranking minister, but by the heavies- to exclude the use of Nomad aircraft in aircraft surveillance around the Australian coast. 
Let us put to rest the bleating and complaints of the Minister for Productivity about his Government's attitude to the Nomad aircraft. The record shows that it was an unwanted aircraft. It was an orphan aircraft. It was not until the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  got involved as a result of pressure by the Opposition and the public and media attention that a compromise was made. The record shows that the tender document guidelines were changed so that the aircraft could be used whereas under the original guidelines it could not have been used. I say that the Opposition from the beginning has always supported the development, manufacture, marketing and utilisation of this fine Australian-built aircraft. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! The honourable member for Bendigo will resume his seat. He has been warned by the Acting  Speaker  time and again about taking frivolous points of order. 
-I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 
In the debate last night I took exception to the remarks of the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume).  As far as I was concerned, his remarks were insulting in that they imputed improper motives to my activities in this chamber. As such, I asked for them to be withdrawn. It was so ordered and they were withdrawn. Unfortunately, they have been compounded today by the honourable member for Macarthur, particularly in his reference to me as a  Deputy Chairman  of Committees. I would say that when I am in the chair I conduct myself with the utmost impartiality. That is my position whether I am acting as an Opposition member representing the Opposition or as a  Deputy Chairman  of Committees or  Deputy Speaker.  When I am in my place in the House I am in a different position altogether from that which applies when I am acting as  Deputy Speaker.  When I am no longer in the chair, I am the member for Chifley and, as such, it is my job to represent the electors of Chifley. I do that with whatever little ability I have. 

 Mr BAUME (Macarthur)- I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 
I direct a question to the Prime Minister. Does the 48 per cent increase in the consumer price index from 1975-76 to 1979-80 mean that the value of family allowances for a family with two children has declined by $3.70 over the last five years? Does the Government's failure to index family allowances mean that the Government is being dishonest with families? 
-The Bill before the House seeks to amend the Commonwealth Inscribed Stock Amendment Act in such a way as to allow the adoption by the Government- with the approval of the Loan 
Council- of a new system of marketing government securities. Having carefully evaluated the advantages and disadvantages of the proposals contained in the Bill the Opposition has decided not to oppose the Bill but to keep a careful watch as to its operation in order to ensure that the proposals are not manipulated to the disadvantage of the public. I will explain the reasons for this shortly. 
Until now government borrowings from the Australian public have been by way of a cash and conversion system, that is, the government periodically has invited subscription to government loans at specified rates of interest and dates of maturity. Sometimes loans were on a conversion basis only, that is, the new loan was open only to holders of government bonds which would mature as the new loan commenced. On other occasions cash conversions were invited. This was particularly necessary if the government wished not only to keep the currently subscribed funds bedded down but also to attract additional funds to cover further requirements. In addition, notes which were short term securities- usually for a maximum term of six months- were available to financial institutions seeking to park funds for a short period with absolute security and reasonable facility of ready conversion to cash. 
What is now proposed is a change in this system to what is termed a tap and tender system. The tap system is one where government bonds are on the market on a continuous basis, similar to Australian savings bonds, and may be purchased on a day to day basis. The difference between these and the Australian savings bonds is that they cannot be redeemed on demand after a month's notice. If the funds are required before the date of redemption they have to be sold on the market. Originally the Loan Council, at its meeting last April, gave approval in principle to the tap system, subject to the Loan Council continuing to determine interest rates and maturity dates, but only by setting interest rates within a band- for example, a band of plus or minus 0.25 per cent for securities with a maturity of more than five years. However, the Commonwealth would have had the power to set the interest rates within that band, based on standard periods of maturity. But, surprisingly, at the Loan Council meeting on Friday, 29 June of this year, the Premiers overturned the decision of the April meeting of the Loan Council, that is, that the Commonwealth could change yields under the tap system only within an agreed band of rates, thereby giving the Federal Government greater flexibility on overall monetary policy. 
In this regard I quote from an article in the  Australian Financial Review  of 2 July which states in part: 
The Federal Government last week won approval from the States to alter yields on new Commonwealth bonds without having to seek Loan Council approval. 
At Friday's meeting of the Loan Council, the States reaffirmed their 'in principle' decision given in April of the present system of regular Commonwealth bond issues with a tap 'system. 
But unexpectedly, they agreed on Friday to overturn their decision in April that the Federal Government could only change yields under the tap system within an agreed band of rates. 
Under the April Loan Council accord, the Federal Government was required to obtain Loan Council approval before the band could be altered. 
The article goes on: 
At Friday's meeting, the State Premiers and the Treasurer,  Mr Howard,  had before them a Commonwealth-States officials' report on the size of the band, which recommended that: 
A band plus or minus 0.S per cent be adopted for bonds with a maturity of S years or less; 
A band of plus or minus 0.25 per cent be adopted for securities with a maturity of more than 5 years. 
The article went on to state that the Treasurer unexpectedly called on the Premiers to overturn their decision, and that was done by the Premiers. I think those remarks deal adequately with the tap system. We can now say that there has been a major alteration in that the band is no longer to exist. That alteration has been made since the introduction of the Bill. 
The tender system relates to short term Treasury notes. They are to be sold by periodic tender, with the result that the market will determine the interest rate; that is, the Government will need to decide on the volume of notes issued from time to time to maintain some control over interest rates. I shall deal now with the advantages and disadvantages of the two systems. The advantage of the tap system is that the Government will have the flexibility to adjust to market conditions insofar as interest rates are concerned. General speculation is avoided and there will be a smoother movement should there be a need to adjust interest rates. 
I am capable of writing. The honourable member for Kalgoorlie can look at my notes; they are in my handwriting. He would not have a clue about it. He has not learnt to look after his pocket money since he started kindergarten. Furthermore, for those wishing to invest in bonds there will be more ready and immediate access to them without having to wait  for new issues. The advantages of the tender system are that the amount to be placed on the market is more easily controlled by the Government and the Government may more easily manipulate interest rates, thereby preventing undesired fluctuations in interest rates. The disadvantage of the tap and tender systems is that they allow the Government to vary interest rates without the same extent of public scrutiny as exists at present. That is to say, the money market operators will be aware of the Government's activities in this regard, but the public largely will not be, at least until some time later when they find that interest rates on housing et cetera are rising or falling. 
Having stated the advantages and disadvantages of the tap and tender systems and having carefully reviewed this whole project in our committees and in our party meetings, the Opposition has decided not to oppose the legislation. But we do emphasise that we will keep a watchful eye on how the scheme operates, as I am sure the Premiers will be required to do because they have given the Government quite considerable power. In the event of its backfiring it will b ackfire on the Loan Council and accordingly on the Premiers themselves, as well as on this Government. 
I am coming to that. Therefore, we will carefully vet the system to ensure that it is not manipulated to the disadvantage of the people, to the disadvantage of  Mr Average.  We will be doing so because we do not trust the Government. It has such a wonderful record for broken promises and for refusing to consider the best interests of the people as is evidenced by the Budget brought down in this House last night. That is a very good reason why the integrity of this Government must at all times be doubted and why every action it takes must be vetted very carefully in the interest of the Australian people. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
-!* leave granted? 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

I refer the Treasurer to the  statement of 26 July this year in which he announced changes to the taxing of trust income of dependent children. Did he in that statement refer to 'tax avoidance through trusts'? Did he also show that a taxpayer with an income of $40,000, who would normally pay $16,320 in tax, could reduce this by almost $7,000 through the use of a trust? If so, has the Treasurer advised Government Ministers who have been utilising this form of tax minimisation that he considers this a form of tax avoidance? 
-At Question Time this morning we heard the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  refer to the infiltration of extreme right wing elements in the community into the Liberal Party by way of Lyenko Urbanchich. We also heard a reference to it tonight by the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  and the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding).  I have some documents in front of me. The first is a copy of the Diplomatic and Consular Missions Act 1978, which prevents the improper use of diplomatic and consular signs and titles; in other words, to close the so-called Croatian embassy. This was assented to on 24 August 1978. I also have a copy of the  Spremnost Hrvatski tjednik,  which is a Croatian newspaper. It says that it is the first Croatian newspaper in Australia. It is the issue of 6 March 1979 and the dateline of the report to which I wish to refer is: 
SYDNEY- Friday, 2nd March, 1979. 
I ask honourable members to please note the date. This is after this Government had already abolished, in effect, or ordered the disbandment, of the Croatian embassy. The report reads: 

 Mr M. Despoja Charge d 'Affairs Croatian Embassy Guest  Speaker  at Macquarie Federal Electorate Conference. 
It continues: 
An official welcoming party from the Macquarie Federal Conference was at Mascot Airport to greet  Mr Despoja  and Miss Sidic upon their arrival from Canberra. 
It goes on to say: 
The others - 
These are the others who welcomed him- were  Mr Geoffrey  Ferrow, a member of the Federal Council of the Liberal Party of Australia,  Mr Thom  Beram and  Mr Drago  Tafra, both members of the Macquarie Conference. 
The report continues: 
Whilst about one hundred other passengers and friends looked on,  Mr Despoja,  Standing next to a Croatian flag, thanked Alderman Saunders and the Liberal Party for the invitation which he said 'was the most important the Embassy has yet received '. 
I have also an article from the  Penrith Press  of 1 4 March 1979, after the Government had ordered the closure of this embassy. It reads: 
In spite of almost continuous rain almost 1000 people turned out last Sunday for the barbecue the Liberal Pany held in honour of guest  speaker, Mr Mario  Despoja, 'Charge D 'affairs ' at the Croatian Embassy. 
The barbecue, which was held at the property of  Mr Ron  Dunbier - 
He was a former Liberal State member for Nepean - 
He also opposed Gough Whitlam once, and of course I think he was out of the Labor Party; we got rid of him - was attended by leading Liberals in the area including the Federal member for Macquarie,  Mr Reg  Gillard who welcomed  Mr Despoja, 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member for Chifley will resume his seat. I would remind honourable members on my left that it makes it extremely difficult for  Hansard  to record the proceedings when the honourable member for Chifley turns towards the microphone in order to speak above interjections. I would suggest that honourable members given some thought to the honourable member for Chifley. 
-The report goes on to say: 

 Mr Despoja said that the weekend was an historic occasion. 
It was the first time that he had been invited to speak at a meeting of any political party in his official capacity as Charge D 'Affairs' at the 'Croatian Embassy'. 
We then go on to the final document. It is the  Blacktown Weekly News  of 14 March 1979. It gives a full account of the barbecue. What a wonderful time was had by all. It says: 
Liberal Member for Macquarie  Mr Reg  Gillard was another guest of honour. 
Former Mayor of Penrith  Mrs Cammack  presided during the speeches and presented  Mr Despoja  with a book as a memento of his visit. 

 Mrs Cammack was a Liberal candidate for Penrith against Minister Ron Muloch of the State Labor Government of New South Wales on two occasions, and is a former Liberal Mayor of Penrith. This is ample proof of the infiltration of this Government and the Liberal Party by these extreme right wing elements in the community, and is a very good reason why the Government has to start looking at itself. If this is allowed to continue this country has a lot of trouble in front of it 

Does the honourable member wish to make a personal explanation? 

 Mr Baillieu; I wish to do that. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 7 March 1979: 
What are the full details of funds provided to  Mr Harry  M. Miller by the Federal Government to date, specifically including funds for (a) accommodation, (b) staff, (c) use of cars, (d) use of aircraft, (e) telephones, (f) telex facilities and (g) other facilities. 
Who authorised the provision of all the facilities and did they have the approval of the relevant Minister at the time they were authorised. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 4 June 1 979: 
1 ) Would an increase in the use of lower octane rating petroleum and a corresponding reduction in the level of consumption of the higher octane premium grade petroleum result in a reduction in Australia's oil consumption. 
Which 1979 model motor vehicles generally available in Australia will operate (a) at maximum efficiency, (b) satisfactorily and (c) unsatisfactorily on (i) the present standard grade and (ii) the proposed intermediate grade petroleum. 
Can he say which motor vehicle manufacturers propose modifying their products to enable them to operate efficiently on the lower grade petroleum fuels. 
-Although this Budget appears on the surface not to be especially harsh, if we look deep under the surface, particularly at Statement No. 2, we find that it is a Budget which continues the broken promises of this Government. That has been the case ever since the Government first took office in 1975. The Budget continues the thimble and pea tricks of the past in robbing Peter to pay Paul. For that reason, I say that this is a basically dishonest Budget brought in by a basically dishonest government. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! I am obliged to draw the honourable member's attention to the statement of recent date made by  Mr Speaker  from this chair and his insistence that the decorum of this House be maintained and that any reflections, imputations of dishonesty or comments of that fashion should not be made. 
I keep a copy of all the rulings of  Mr Speaker  which are given each week. I will refer at a later date- I do not want to take up my time in this debate- to rulings that  Mr Speaker  has given to the effect that one can refer in the way in which I have referred to the Government as a whole but not to individual members of it. We have to be consistent in these matters. That ruling was given on a number of occasions. Copies of all  Mr Speaker's  rulings are kept in files in my office. I would like to deal in particular with some aspects of Statement No. 2 of the Budget. Statement No. 2 refers to a Budget deficit of $2, 100m. This compares with the deficit after the mini-Budget which, from recollection, I think was $3,300m. That reduction in itself shows that this is a restrictive Budget. The domestic deficit in 1978-79 was $2,200m. In 1979-80 it will be $900m. Statement No. 2 anticipates that average earnings throughout the year will increase by 9 per cent. It also anticipates that tax collections will be up by 1 5 per cent. It shows that the inflation rate at present is around 10 per cent. It indicates that it will peak at the end of the year at 1 1 per cent to 12 per cent and will come down to around 10 per cent in June next year. Whether we can trust those figures is very doubtful when we consider that in last year's Budget it was stated that inflation would be 5 per cent at 30 June this year. Instead it was in excess of 8 per cent. The Budget Papers anticipate that the inflation rate will be 10 per cent at 30 June next year. On that basis we can anticipate that it will be 13 per cent or 14 per cent when we look at the record of the last Budget. 
Budget Statement No. 2 states that employment as a percentage of the work force will rise by 1 per cent. I am referring to the Government's own Budget Papers and not to some propaganda or anything of the type. Statement No. 2 also states that the work force will rise by two per cent. That means an increase in unemployment as a percentage of the work force of 1 per cent for the year. We can anticipate that by January next unemployment will rise to around 550,000 people. 
As the honourable member for Werriwa says, the figure will be 60,000 more. These are the reasons why I say that this is a restrictive Budget. I now refer to taxation which is very important to the average person and the average family in this country. The average tax payable is now 20 per cent of income. It will be about 33 per cent of income by the end of the year because of the lack of tax indexation. We have seen what has happened to the price of petrol. In February of this year it cost $14 to fill the tank of a Holden Kingswood. Today it costs $20. It has been stated by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)-  I shall outline this laterthat this Government now has a branch office of the Taxation Department at every petrol bowser. This is where the rob Peter to pay Paul principle comes in. The Government collects revenue through an indirect and unfair tax because the incidence of the tax falls equally upon the wealthy, the poor and the middle income earners. For that reason, it is a grossly unfair tax. The Government then says that it will reduce income tax by cutting out the surcharge. For a person earning $25,000 a year this will mean a tax saving of about $500 a year whereas the little guy will be lucky if he receives $100. That indicates how unfair is this system of indirect taxation which is creeping upon our community today. 
This Budget will not last six months. I am not the first to say that. I have not the slightest doubt that that will be the case. The reason is the oil levy. The Government started to phase in the oil levy in the Budget before last. It was to be phased in over a number of years. Suddenly, in the 1978 Budget it was introduced in full purely for revenue purposes. In adopting the prices of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries, 30 per cent of the revenue goes to the oil companies and 70 per cent goes to the Government. Even though the costs of production of oil in this country have not increased dramatically, the public has been hit with the latest OPEC increase of 3&amp;c a litre. From that increase the Government will receive this financial year alone 70 per cent of that increase or $800m. Through its decisions in this Budget and in the 1978 Budget in all it will collect from the travelling public whether poor or rich, $2,020m in this financial year alone. Of course, there will be more increases. The OPEC countries meet in December this year. There will be another increase from next January. They meet in June of next year so there will be another increase from next July. The Government will collect all the increase at the end of this year in tax. 
In March, April or May of next year it will introduce another mini-Budget. It might even give partial tax indexation, but that will be paid for from the funds which it has collected from the travelling public in petrol tax. Once again those people on high incomes will benefit from tax indexation. Those people on the lower incomes will benefit very little. But whether they are on low, middle or high incomes they will pay the same amount in extra petrol tax, because this Government has adopted the world parity price for petroleum, irrespective of whether that petroleum is imported or whether it is produced in Australia. In Australia today we produce 70 per cent of our crude oil needs. We produce 90 per cent of our petroleum needs. The cost of production is not rising at anywhere near the rate at which the OPEC countries are increasing their prices. So the Government keeps on collecting this windfall from the travelling public, irrespective of their income. It then gives a little of that money back to the public and says: 'What good guys we are'. That is the type of policy which the Government is implementing. 
It is very obvious that this Budget will not last six months, because the Government has a very deliberate and dishonest intention of bringing in another Budget- a mini-Budget- which will reef money from the public by way of petrol tax. It will then give a small amount of that money back to the public by way of partial tax indexation. As I said, the Government will then say: 'What good guys we are'. Is it any wonder that today there is a branch of the Taxation Office at every petrol bowser. Is it any wonder that today it takes $20 to fill the petrol tank of a Holden Kingswood, whereas it took only $14 in February of this year. 
I also wish to deal tonight with the question of tax avoidance. In this year's Budget the Government has set aside an amount of $250m to account for further tax avoidance. That figure represents only a small proportion of total tax avoidance. It is estimated by Taxation Office officials that the various tax avoidance schemes which are operating in this country are costing the taxpayer somewhere in the vicinity of $3,000m. That amount has to be met in the way of taxation payments by the average wage and salary earner. The little fellow who pays his taxation as he earns- the PA YE tax contributor- is not the one who can avoid tax; only the big man who receives his income from property or other sources can do that. In fact, that is the sort of person who is avoiding paying tax. 
I do not want to indict the Minister. The Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  made a statement on 26 July about what one could call the abolition of the system whereby family trusts could be used as a tax avoidance measure. I think you will be aware,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that I have been carrying out a campaign on this very issue in this Parliament for a period going on for two years. I recall asking many questions and making many speeches on this subject in the Parliament. I recall that on 9 May 1978 my colleague, the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Dawkins)  asked the Treasurer a question about the use of family trusts for tax avoidance purposes. I have before me a copy of the  Hansard  report of the Treasurer's reply. The Treasurer, in his reply, said that income splitting by the use of family trusts was not tax avoidance; it was tax minimisation. I had pointed out already that a number of Ministers, including the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  had indulged in that system of tax avoidance. 
Now the Treasurer has decided that the use of minor children in family trusts for income splitting purposes is a tax avoidance measure and that it will be outlawed. However, he still allows family trusts for husband and wife for income splitting purposes. That is tax avoidance. I will give an example. In the case of a man who earns $40,000 a year and who has a family trust consisting of himself and his wife, the tax liability is reduced by almost 30 per cent or $4,600 per annum. That is straight out tax avoidance. Of course, we now have the example of the Treasurer, having been forced by a consistent campaign waged by the Opposition, finally making some decision on this matter, even though he goes only halfway. At the caucus meeting of the Government parties held in the last week of sitting there was a revolt from the back benchers and the National Country Party. An article which appeared in the  Daily Telegraph  on 30 August this year stated: 
A group of backbenchers yesterday called on the Federal Government to review plans to clamp down on family trusts as the tax debate raged inside and outside Parliament. 
I'll say it is raging inside and outside the Parliament. It has only started. It will be the major issue in this country in time to come. It is a matter in relation to which we can point to individual Ministers who have been engaging in these forms of tax avoidance. I say to the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  who is in the chamber tonight that I do not have any evidence in my archives about him as yet. The article went on to say: 
Several backbenchers claimed the Government was alienating its traditional supporters with the proposed clamp down. 
The article continued: 
Several MPs including former Prime Minister  Sir William  McMahon,  Mr Ian  Wilson (Lib, SA) and  Mr Jim  Bradfield (Lib, NSW)- 
It should be noted that two of those members are in very marginal seats-  are understood to have complained that the proposal was inequitable. 
Members argued that many people had set up family trusts to avoid death duties and probate rather than inocme tax. 
What is the difference? In what other way is the Government trying to rook the general public? The wealthy get out of paying tax while the poor pay. That is the type of situation we have. Tax returns are being made deliberately more difficult to compile year by year with the result that more and more people are being forced to go to tax agents- the tax avoidance industry. If people are on a high income they are told which particular system of tax avoidance they can utilise so as to rook the public. Is it any wonder that that is the situation? Let us look at some of the people who have been involved in family trusts. They include the Prime Minister, the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony),  the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch),  the Minister for Administrative Services  (Mr John McLeay),  the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife),  the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon),  the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  and the Minster for Veterans' Affairs  (Mr Adermann). 
Not very many. These are but a few of the members of this Ministry who have been indulging in this method of tax avoidance. The Treasurer today admits- even though last year he would not admit that it was tax avoidance; he said it was tax minimisation- it is a tax avoidance measure. Is it any wonder that this is a government which favours the tax avoidance industry? 
I also wish to deal, in the little time available, with a very vital question concerning this community, and that is the family and the way in which it is being hit. After all, the family is the cornerstone of our community and of our society. We should look at the effect on the family of the tax increases which will occur over the coming year as a result of the increase in average weekly earnings and the increase in the inflation rate which is engendered by this Government. In the ultimate, the family will pay more taxation. I have already dealt with the rate of inflation and with the fact that tax collections will increase by IS per cent in the coming year. I have dealt with the domestic deficit. Let me cite some figures. A taxpayer who has dependants and who is on $8,000 a year in 1978-79 will go onto $8,720 when the increase in average weekly earnings is taken into account. His tax will increase from $778.84 to $999.28-a rise of 28.3 per cent. With the increase in average weekly earnings, a person on $ 10,000 will go up to $ 10,900. His tax will go up from $1,448.84 last year to $1,720.21 this year- a rise of 1 8.7 per cent. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER  (Mr  MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Is the amendment seconded? 
-On 28 August there was reference in this chamber to the infiltration of extreme right wing elements of the community into the Liberal Party, particularly in New South Wales. At the time I referred to articles which appeared in a local newspaper as well as in  Spremnost Hrvatski Tjednik  which claims to be the only Croatian newspaper in Australia. These articles referred to a barbecue which had been organised by the Macquarie and Chifley Federal Councils of the Liberal Party of which the main organiser, of course, was the honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Gillard).  There were present at that barbecue persons who hold very prominent positions welcoming the so-called charge d 'affaires of the socalled Croatian embassy, an organisation which has been outlawed by this Parliament. The socalled charge d'affaires,  Mr M.  Despoja, was the guest of honour at this barbecue at which, it was said, something like 1,000 people turned up. 
Also present at that barbecue were other prominent members of the Liberal Party and I include here such people as the former Liberal State member for Nepean,  Mr Ron  Dunbier, and Alderman  Mrs Cammack,  the former Liberal mayor of Penrith. 
I want to make it quite clear that the vast majority of the Croatian people who live in Australia are some of the finest citizens this country could have. As a matter of fact I think it is a great pity that there is a tendency to refer to the extreme organisations as the extreme Croatian organisations. Actually the reference should be more Ustashi-type organisations. Unfortunately, the sins of the very few are visited on the vast majority of the Croatian people who, as I said, are some of the finest citizens that this country could have. Similarly the sins of the few in the Irish Republican Army are visited on the great majority of the Irish people, who are some of the warmest and most lovable people one could possibly meet. My mother was Irish so I can understand that. 
I have already quoted from the local papers and the  Spremnost Hrvatski Tjednik  of 14 August. On 14 August the  Spremnost Hrvatski Tjednik  published a photograph of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  with  Mr Josip  Bogdanovic at Faulconbridge in the Blue Mountains, where  Mr Fraser  planted a tree. The paper says that  Mr Bogdanovic  explained to the Prime Minister why Croatians in Australia wanted to keep their Croatian 'embassy'. The paper adds: 

 Mr Fraser said to  Mr Bogdanovic  that the sincerity and honesty of Croatians in Australia impressed him greatly and that he understood why they are fighting. 
As I said, it is not the vast majority of the Croatian people living in Australia, but just a small minority who are visiting their sins upon the vast majority. They are the extremists who import the problems and the politics of their country into this country and have created a great deal of disturbance. They interfere very seriously with Australia's relations with other countries. Because of that, the Government outlawed the socalled Croatian 'embassy'. 
-I wish to make a personal explanation,  Mr Speaker. 
In the first instance, I gather that the letter is from a  Mr Taylor,  not from the honourable member for Macquarie (MrGillard). 
Who wrote the letter? 
Yes. The point I wish to make is that it has been suggested that I had wrongly made an imputation against the honourable member for Macquarie. The position is to the contrary. I am quite happy to table these documents. I have here three Press reports, including one with a photograph of the honourable member for Macquarie with  Mr Despoja. 
The very point I wish to make is that when making the statements in regard to the honourable member for Macquarie I had before me Press reports from  Spremnost Hrvatski Tjednik  the newspaper which is said to be the only Croatian newspaper in Australia. I wish to make it clear, as I did last Thursday night in the adjournment debate, that only a very few of the extremist elements are infiltrating the Liberal Party and not the great mass of the Croatian people who are very fine citizens. 
Well, I wish to make that clear otherwise I could be very seriously misrepresented. I also have reports from the Penrith Press- from the honourable member's own electorate- showing a photograph of the honourable member with the so-called charge d'affaires of the Croatian Embassy, which was outlawed by the honourable member's own Government. I also want to make the point that I recollect that in Press reports at the time it was said that a Minister of the Crown was to attend that barbecue but declined to do so because of the embarrassment the presence of the so-called charge-d 'affaires would create for the Government. But evidently that did not apply to the honourable member. 
I have one other newspaper article. It shows quite clearly that this gentleman was welcomed to the function by the honourable member for Macquarie. If that is not direct association with these extremist elements, I do not know what is. If the honourable member wants to invite others, such as supporters of Adolf Hitler and Mussolini - 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 2 May 1979: 
How many errors similar to the case of a  Mrs L.  Myers of 13/5 Iwunda Road, Lalor Park, who received a telephone account for $718.16 which was reduced by $630.00 as she had been overcharged 7,000 meter registrations owing to a clerical error emanating from incorrect meter readings being recorded on her telephone service 624 8836 during the February accounting period have been made by Telecom and what are the full details of those errors. 
-Is leave granted? 
-I would suggest to the honourable member for Fremantle that he should not refer to an individual member of the Ministry. If he is referring to the Ministry collectively it is another aspect. I would ask the honourable member to be careful about how he handles that aspect because it is correct that, without a substantive motion, a member cannot attack the credibility of another member of the House. 
In recent times, we have had the precedent of the Prime Minister seeing fit to stand down four Ministers during the term of office of this Government. First of all we had the instance of the sacking of  Mr Garland.  Subsequent to that we had the sacking of  Mr Lynch.  In that case his sacking was clearly as a result of personal impropriety in relation to his own private business dealings. Subsequent to that, we had the suspension of  Mr Eric  Robinson and subsequent to that we had the sacking of  Senator Withers.  Now, once again, we have in scandal-ridden Government another Minister who is under a cloud. Indeed, I think it is important, if we are to look at the propriety of the Government as a whole, for us to look at the standards which those Ministers individually set for their own conduct, including conduct in relation to their private affairs. 
This House is being asked to approve the expenditure of approximately $10.5 billion. If this House is to agree to the proposition that it should pass Appropriation Bill (No. 1 ) and Appropriation Bill (No. 2) and thereby approve the expenditure of $10.5 billion and, if we are to say that that money should be appropriated in such a way that Ministers in charge of departments are able to disburse it in certain ways, I think that we should have absolute confidence in those Ministers. We ought to be assured that those Ministers will not engage in any misappropriation. As a case in point let us refer to the Department of Primary Industry. We find in Appropriation Bill (No. 1) and Appropriation Bill (No. 2) that the Department of Primary Industry will receive $160m to spend. Quite naturally that will be placed in the control of the Minister for Primary Industry. I think we have to be persuaded that that Minister will not engage in any misappropriation of those funds. 
-I must once again remind the honourable member for Fremantle of the rulings which have been given repeatedly from the chair. In effect, the first ruling which was given by  Mr Speaker  is quite definitely borne out by the Standing Orders, namely, that one must not refer to an individual member of the House in a derogatory manner or in a manner which affects that member's integrity. However, I make the point that under Standing Orders it is possible to refer to a government or a ministry collectively. Although  Mr Speaker  has requested on a number of occasions in recent times that references to the Opposition or to the Government on a collective basis should be restrained. I ask the honourable member to please take note of that. 
Let us say- taking a quite hypothetical casethat it came to our attention that a Minister engaged in some form of misappropriation. What should be the attitude of this House at that time? Surely we should call for that Minister to be stood down. The point is that if in that hypothetical case it were shown that some misappropriation had taken place and that our assumed Minister had been the ultimate beneficiary of that misappropriation- say, in the order of $700,000- we would expect that Minister to be stood down until such time as those charges were either proved or disproved. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! I remind the Minister that it would not be in order for the honourable member for Fremantle to move an amendment. The only way to move a substantive motion at this point in time would be to move an amendment to motion for the second reading of the Bill, because an amendment has already been moved by the honourable member for Gellibrand. In the first instance I make the point that the honourable member could not do that. I say to the honourable member for Fremantle that he is flying very close to the wind. I ask him to make sure that his remarks do not transgress beyond the rulings I have already given and which are quite clearly covered at pages 367, 368 and 428 of May's  Parliamentary Practice.  I will not go into the details of that and take up the honourable member's time. 
-I call the honourable member for Macarthur. 
The point I would like to make is that the honourable member for Gellibrand is a man of honesty and integrity. He sought to move this motion because he felt that the criticism was valid. He is not, I believe, a man who was responsible for the indolence of the previous Government, the Whitlam Labor Government, which introduced no anti-tax evasion measures whatsoever. But I think it is also important to recognise that in the speech today by the honourable member for Gellibrand, which I hope is required reading for every member of the House, he outlined why a Labor government would return to the sorts of economic policies which caused such chaos only five or six years ago. He saw nothing wrong with big deficits. He was all in favour of them. He saw nothing wrong with flooding the market with government securities in order to push up interest rates. The speech of the honourable member was in fact a disaster. It underlines the disastrous policies that once again would be adopted if the Labor Party came to power. I am reminded that the honourable member for Gellibrand as the economic spokesman for the Labor Party in this House is the person who only last year said that one of the major problems facing a prospective Labor government would be to restore the size of the public sector and to increase taxes necessary to pay for it. Clearly this policy of higher deficits still remains, of higher interests, of flooding the market with government securities and of endeavouring to convince the public that they should pay higher taxes to pay for an even faster expanding public sector, which means the Government spending taxpayers ' money. It is extraordinary to think that this is still the policy of the Labor Party and that it was again stated in this place today. One would think that there are no lessons to be learned from the events of the 1973-75 period. 
May I state how fortunate we are that, at a time when we are facing the same sorts of problems that did emerge internationally in 1974 and which caused such terrible havoc in Australia because of the policies being employed here at home, those policies which are being pushed this instant by the Labor Party are not in fact being pushed by this Government. This Government is employing policies which are very much contrary to those which caused us so much trouble five or six years ago. Yet exactly the same sort of international crises are now happening. Our inflation rate is 3 per cent less than it is in the leading nations, the members of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, instead of so much more as it was under Labor. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. I call the honourable member for Reid. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs been drawn to that section of the report on the drug inquiry by the New South Wales Royal Commissioner,  Mr Justice  Woodward, which strongly criticised the Commonwealth for its lack of operation? 
Government members- Oh! 
Well, it is serious. Did the Minister authorise, as the only means of evidence by the Federal Narcotics Bureau to the New South Wales Royal Commission into Drugs, written answers submitted through a Commonwealth solicitor? Did the Minister approve a policy which  Mr Justice  Woodward described as the Bureau 'avoiding giving evidence', which gravely hampered and restricted this Commission's inquiries into heroin trafficking'? If the Minister did not authorise this policy, who did? 
-I could take a point of order. This matter is so grave. I understand that the Whip's Office has advised the honourable member and the Minister for Administrative Services  (Mr John McLeay)  that I intended to bring up a very grave matter this morning. The matter is so grave that it requires immediate investigation by the Parliament and by the Minister for Administrative Services. There is no way that can be done unless the honourable member's name is brought into it. If I could just continue my point of order - 

 -Mr Speaker has received letters from both the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  and the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly)  proposing that definite matters of public importance be submitted to the House for discussion today. As required by Standing Order 107, he has selected the matter which in his opinion is the most urgent and important, that is, that proposed by the honourable member for Prospect, namely: 
The Government's repeated changes to health insurance which have destroyed the community rating principle and will mean that the elderly, large families and the chronically ill will be unable to afford adequate cover. 
I therefore call upon those members who approve of the proposed discussion to rise in their places. 

 More than the number of members required by the Standing Orders having risen in their places- 

-Copies of three overseas phonograms have come into my hands which indicate the existence of a miniKhemlani affair. They also indicate that a member of this Parliament has been wrongly using his electoral office facilities for private business purposes. It is a mini-Khemlani affair because the cables indicate that the member concerned has been endeavouring to raise loans totalling $6m from Arab sources. The cables implicate other unidentified Government members. It is a misuse of a member's electoral office facilities in that the cables were sent from Brisbane telephone numbers 2217917 and 2252163 for which the subscriber is the Australian Parliamentary Offices in Brisbane. The matter is so grave that I call upon the Minister for Administrative Services  (Mr John McLeay)  to investigate immediately this whole issue and report to the Parliament. I will now read from the cables. The first cable states: 
Subscribers name: Australian Parliament Offices, City Subscribers telephone number.2252163 Dated: 3 October 1979 Charge: $71.00 
The cable is sent to: 
Zubaidi Trading Company Wata El Musaitbeh Cor.El Mazraa Beirut CR35179 Lebanon 
It states: 
Please refer to discussions with your Beirut office on Wednesday 19 September in presence of your  Mr Youssef  Hakin with - 
It refers then to the honourable member's name- 
And myself wherein you agreed as an act of good faith on your pan (because of past situation with Australian borrowers where no loans were concluded after fees had been paid by Australian borrowers) to grant 3 loans without fee (nominated as Pacific Islands Paradise Aust dollars three million Lockyer Valley Aust dollars two million drummon)- 
Then the honourable member's name is given again- 
Aust dollars one million total Aust dollars six million) these three contracts were signed together with additional contract Holt Aust dollars one million for which a Chase Manhatten Beirut branch bank certified cheque amount Aust dollars 6750 covering your refundable fee was paid to you. You advised at that meeting you would arrive in Australia between 1-5 October 1979 with Bank of America bank cheques to effect drawndown of these four loans (plus Jasch and one million loan) all totalling Aust dollars eight million against first mortgage security. You further requested- 
The cable mentions the honourable member's name- 
Assistance towards seeking for yourself residential status in Australia to which he agreed to assist. I have discussed above text with - 
It mentions the honourable member's name- 
Who confirms appreciation detailed above is fact accordingly your todays telex is not understood particularly as you make no reference to your impending visit to Australia to conclude these five loans. 
The phonogram states that the honourable member then- 
Undertook trip at personal expense and we hope you will honour undertaking to come to Australia to keep faith with Australian borrowers. We await your response telex 41954. 
Kindest regards John McKennariey 
The second phonogram states: 
Subscribers name: Australian Parliament Offices, City Subscribers telephone number: 2217917 Dated: 19 October 1979 Charge: $45.63 
FadyGemayel 
-In 1977 when the proposition was put to the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence for this reference to go to the sub-committee, I asked then that my name be recorded in the minuteswhich it was- as having very decisive reservations on such a decision. The reason was that I foresaw the type of recommendation which would be forthcoming, such as is contained in paragraph 65, and for other reasons. I pointed out then in the Committee that if this was to be taken to its logical conclusion, Australia would be placed in a situation where great pressure would be brought to bear on this Parliament and on the Committee to carry out similar investigations in respect of a large number of countries, very many of which are friends of Australia. 
Australia could be put in the position where it would not have very many friends left. I do not think one has to use much imagination to understand that, and I am certainly not going to compound the error which I feel has occurred by nominating individual countries. I will mention two only. 
What would our position be if we were to inquire into the question of civil rights of the negro minority in the United States? On the other hand, what would be the position if we were to have some other country decide to carry out investigations into some occurrences here in our own country in respect of Aborigines; in respect of some happenings in the States of Queensland and Western Australia? One could go on from country to country within our region and find that there could be very good causes for such inquiries to be held in respect of those countries. Therefore, Australia would be placed in a situation where it would not have many friends left. This country is in a very sensitive situation. It is very large in area. It is a very rich country in resources but very small in population. It is of paramount importance that in future we take every action we can to use the utmost diplomacy to maintain as friendly relations as we can with all countries around us and, for that matter, with all countries throughout the world. I see that as being of paramount importance. I consider that friendly diplomacy is more important than anything else in maintaining the future of this country, and it is this country in which I am really interested. 
I do not always agree with the Department of Foreign Affairs, but in 1977 I was aware- as most committee members would have beenthat the Department of Foreign Affairs was opposed to the reference of this matter to the sub-committee and on precisely the same sorts of grounds as I have just mentioned. I think I am being very consistent in opposing it again today as I did then. I concur particularly with the statements made by the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes),  and statements that no doubt will be made also by the honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett)  today, but there are two aspects in this report which I particularly wish to emphasise. In the first paragraph of the reservations we state: 
We accept on the available evidence that there are serious denials of human and civil rights in the USSR, particularly with reference to minorities. 
In the second last paragraph we state: 
We would reiterate our view that based on the substantial evidence available the civil rights of certain groups,  especially minorities, in the Soviet Union are seriously infringed and fall below that which should be expected in any civilised society. 
But we also go on to state in the second paragraph: 
Nevertheless we are of the opinion that the Parliament does not do itself justice nor are Australia's international relations advantaged - 
That is the crux-  by the conduct of inquiries by its Committees into matters where the inquiry and the Parliament lack access to and authority over the availability of evidence, the areas under consideration and is unable to bring about a conclusion based on total consideration of the subject matter. 
That is a very important aspect as far as I am concerned. 
Look, puppy dog, will you please go into your kennel for a little while? The paragraph continues: 
Nor does the inordinate length and repetitiveness of the Report disguise the insufficiency and imbalance in the evidential base. 
I think I have made the important points that I wished to make. I have made the point that this report can do great damage to the Parliament. I have made the point that paragraph 65 of the conclusions and recommendations, which recommends the establishment of a Standing Committee on Human Rights, would do damage not only to the Parliament but also to Australia's relations with other countries. I have made the point that we lack the resources with which to obtain the necessary evidence and to test it fully. I have made the point that the repetitiveness of the report could leave the report open to being accused of being a propaganda document. I am sure that that is not the intention. I have made the point that there are serious infringements of civil rights but that this occurs in probably 75 per cent of the countries. This report could do a great deal of damage to this country. 
For those reasons, whilst I accept completely that there are infringements of civil rights in the Soviet Union, I am one of those who feel that the recommendation in paragraph 65 and the original reference of the matter to the SubCommittee can do untold harm to Australia in the future. We are only a small country in terms of population. We are a country which attracts a great deal of envy because of our great resources. We are a country which has to depend at all times upon the utmost diplomacy in order to maintain our friends. It does not do us credit or good to embark on projects which we cannot properly finish. We must ensure at all times that our findings are such that they cannot be questioned. Finally, do not let us go back to the cold war attitudes of the past. That will not assist Australia in the future. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 26 September 1979: 
Further to his answer to my question No. 3366  (Hansard,  1 1 September 1979, page 967) relating to funds provided to  Mr Harry  M. Miller, what are the details of the (a) $150,688 provided for staff salaries, including the names and the capacity in which each of the individuals was employed and the salary provided to each of them, (b) telephone accounts totalling $65,775 which were incurred and (c) other facilities totalling $80, 175. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the seven measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 26 September 1979: 
In view of the Government's decision to increase funding for the Australian Broadcasting Commission, what are the details of the (a) proposed increased funding, including the departments which will benefit, (b) increases for each department and the programs which will benefit and (c) resulting changes in the administration of the Commission. 

 -Mr Speaker has received a letter from the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  proposing that a definite matter of public importance be submitted to the House for discussion, namely: 
The intensification of stagflation in the Australian economy resulting from Government policies. 
I call upon those members who approve of the proposed discussion to rise in their places. 

 More than the number of members required by the Standing Orders having risen in their places- 

Motion (by  Mr McLeay)  put: 
That the business of the day be called on. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 16 October 1979: 
1 ) Which transport or removalist companies are engaged by his Department for transport and storage work. 
Which of these companies are engaged on this work as a result of the calling of tenders. 
3 ) Have any of these companies been engaged other than by the submission of tenders; if so, which companies. 
Who gave approval or direction for these companies to be engaged without the submission of tenders. 
-On Monday, 19 November a dinner was held at Broken Hill to honour Tony Crowhurst who is the stalwart of the Australia Labor Party in Broken Hill. At the dinner a long time former General Secretary of the New South Wales branch of the Australian Labor Party, a former Federal  President  of the ALP and, for many years, a former Federal Vice-President of the ALP, passed away. The dinner, had been arranged for Tony Crowhurst and Bill Colbourne of whom I am speaking. It was his birthday. He turned 84 years of age on that day. He had been brought to Broken Hill especially to attend the dinner, to speak and make a presentation to Tony Crowhurst. He had just finished his speech and was about to make the presentation when, as I understand it, he sat down and passed away. I speak tonight as a former assistant general secretary of the Labor Party.  Senator Tony  Mulvihill and I were the two assistant general secretaries of the Labor Party who worked under Bill Colbourne. We have both continued the tremendous respect that we learnt for him in our work with him throughout those years. Accordingly, I feel very concerned about what has happened. 
I shall give a little of the history of Bill Colbourne. I first met him in 1951. 1 first served under him as a member of the central executive of the Australian Labor Party in New South Wales in 1954. 1 became Assistant General Secretary in 1965. During that period I learnt to have tremendous respect for him as a man who could smell trouble and as an individual who had tremendous loyalty to the Party. I say without equivocation that although the people of Broken Hill must feel very upset about the circumstances, Bill died the way he would have wanted to die, at a Labor gathering speaking with his tremendous capacity- he was a great orator- and amongst his friends. He was speaking of a very old friend of his, Tony Crowhurst. Bill would not have wanted it any other way. During the period of the Lang split, when J. T. Lang took most of the Labor Party away from the Federal Party in New South Wales, Bill Colbourne served as a young general secretary under Ben Chifley who was the  President  of the New South Wales branch of the Federal Labor Party. Years later when unity came Bill passed into the wilderness for a while. He then came back on to the executive of the New South Wales branch in, I think, 1950. In 1952 he was elected as  President  of the Party. In 1954 he was elected General Secretary of the Party. 
He was a man of very great sincerity and loyalty to the Labor movement. He always gave loyalty to the State sphere but essentially he was a federalist. He was one of the great underestimated men in politics. His lovely wife Hycie was a very close friend of my wife. They gave their sons to the church, both of them being priests of the Capuchin order. The 'Colbourne family has many members. I have often said that if all the Colbournes were put into one electorate the Labor Party could not fail to win it. I convey sympathy- I feel I am joined by many people in the Parliament- to the whole Colbourne family, particularly the two sons. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
