 Mr Deputy Speaker,  with the indulgence of the House I should like to speak on the subject of local government which has been the cause of growing concern among many segments of the community particularly over the last decade. It is a service with which I was privileged to be associated for many years. Members of the Government, and particularly the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  have been acutely aware for a long time of the dire circumstances of local government. Yet it is, or has been until now, a paradox that that third tier of government, which has been a cradle of the political life of so many, has been so cynically neglected and, at times, even contemptuously thrust aside. 
I should like to refer to the speech of His Excellency the Governor-General on the occasion of the opening of Parliament. Among other things His Excellency said: 
It is the intention of my Government to introduce legislation establishing Commonwealth-State Land Commissions to acquire and develop residential land. These Commissions will co-operate with State and local government authorities in achieving a more rational and economic form of urban development and will help combat rising land prices. 
My Government has offered immediate financial assistance to the States to increase the number of dwellings under construction for letting to needy families. 
The success of urban and regional development and the provision of additional housing can be made so much easier with a financially buoyant local government. Local government is not a matter that has not been well ventilated and documented. From the most erudite commentators to the most humble observers there has been a common plea for justice and recognition. There have been commissions of inquiry, symposia, treatises, theses and seminars. Some have had official status; others have been inspired by student and academics; others have been from local government associations meeting in annual conferences, including lord mayoral get-togethers; others have resulted from the concern of professional administrators, engineers and planners, and of course there have been those from progress associations and kindred organisations. 
The range of these investigations and activities has not been narrow. Had they been but parochial and entirely selfish they might have merited the inaction and lack of interest which they have met. But they were not. They have attempted to look at local government from all angles. They have tried to assess its role, its very reason for being; its effectiveness; whether its scope should be enlarged or diminished, and, if so, whether it should be restructured into more or less tiers or replaced by statutory authorities and ad hoc bodies; how it should be financed; and, above all, given its very delegated nature, whether it is or is capable of meeting the needs of the communities it seeks to serve. 
What, then, is this local government? Whose is it? What is its place in our present federal structure, and what can be done not only with it but for it? It is not that reasonably happy state that elsewhere was the progenitor of central government, that local government which grew, on the one hand, from parish responsibilities for the poor and the sick and, on the other hand, from what citizens of market towns saw as necessary for the good government of the community of interests. Neither is it the hodge-podge of town moots still existing in some parts of New England, the school, fire and other local boards of Michigan, the bustling dynamic city-state of Singapore, the city-country boroughs of London, nor the departments of France. It does not even have sure knowledge, as laid down by previous government, that it is only advisory - an illusion of local government - as is the Advisory Council of the Territory in which this Parliament assembles. No, ft is none of these things; it is the creature of State governments, told what it may do and often execrated for doing it. 
This is its dilemma. It varies from State to  State. There are trading undertakings and municipal transport systems, but it is the roads, drains, parks and general local government activities which are of prime concern. I doubt that what I want to enlarge upon could be gainsaid generally by representatives of Geraldton, Bendigo or Gladstone any more than by the representatives of Bathurst, Blacktown or Parramatta. Lest the House think that 1 am addressing myself to a question of little consequence - after all it is local government, the lowest rung of the ladder - I should like to inject some facts and figures. These facts and figures will, I hope, illustrate that junior, the third rung on the ladder, is a fairly big boy; that of necessity he consumes a fair slice of the national cake; and that therefore he merits the most serious considerations of his social and economic guardians and dieticians. 
The danger lies not in his demise as such. If planned, it might cause a momentary but absorbable shock to the body politic. The danger lies in his demise from inattention, lack of interest and a creeping paralysis. At a conference on local government economics held at the University of Sydney on 21st February 1969 Professor Gates of the Faculty of Commerce and Economics at the University of Queensland brought out some highly interesting facts. He opened his address by saying: 
This is intended to be an argumentative paper, a paper concerned less with empirical facts than with principles and policies. 
I do not wish to engage in what is termed quoting out of context, that is, selecting only those of his arguments which suit my book, but I wish to repeat some of the statistics he used. On one basis of classification there were 217 cities, towns and municipalities, 682 shires, boroughs and municipal districts and 53 New South Wales county councils largely engaged in electricity distribution. At the end of 1968 those 950 local government authorities employed slightly more than 100,000 people or about 10 per cent of all employees of government bodies, other than the defence forces, and about 1 in 40 of the total work force of Australia. Their capital expenditure in recent years has constituted around one-sixth of the total for all levels of government, including government business undertakings. Their current expenditure on services, other than those for which they charge a commercial price, amounts to a little over 5 per cent of the corresponding figure for Australian governments as a whole. 
The yield of local government taxation is equal to not much less than half the amount raised by all the State government taxes to gether. Local government taxation in 1969-70 amounted to $466m and the taxation of all State governments amounted to $l,103m. As Professor Gates said, clearly we are not dealing with peanuts. We can see, therefore, that as a whole we are speaking of a segment of government which is not insignificant either from the point of view of employment and other social factors or from an economic point of view. The problem is compounded by what is now expected of local government bodies and the ability to pay for those expectations. 

 Mr Speaker and honourable members might well be indisposed to be treated to a dissertation on the history of the development of local government in Australia. But to put a case I fee] that there should be some reference to its beginnings, particularly to the thinking which led to the narrow, non-growth basis of revenue-raising, which basis persists largely today. Thus during the 1830s, it has been noted: 'Changed circumstances generated forces which eventually introduced local government . . . making the colonists bear some of the rising costs of administering the settlement'. It is true that there were protagonists as well as antagonists of some form of local government for Sydney in line with Governor Bourke's minute of 1832. The minute recorded that it was believed that it was then suitable for the inhabitants of Sydney to minister to their own convenience and comfort, by means of providing, by means of a body elected among themselves, for the repairing, cleansing and lighting the streets, etc., at no greater cost than a rate levied on the houses according to their value. Two points might be emphasised, apart from the imposition of this rate from above - the narrow basis of revenue raised and the restricted nature of the works proposed. Although such a system did not eventuate until some years later, it might be noted that there was no mention of parks, libraries, community centres, town planning, health services or baths, let alone such modern day concepts as meals on wheels, immunisation campaigns, etc. Since it was a time when land ownership was equated in one way or another largely with income and wealth, the basis of taxation may be deemed to have been not wrongly laid. 
Local government responsibilities since 1906 have been extended into wider fields of community service essential to the needs of all people. The mounting costs of these needs are to a large extent met by the rates on property, no longer regarded as a measureable consideration for benefits received. In the background has been the reluctant ratepayer unwilling, and with justification, to accept the full responsibility for the cost of some service or a development claimed to be of wider than local significance and, for that reason, qualifying for outside financial aid. What is wrong with local government today is that the rates levied bear little if any relationship to the capacity to pay. True, there are some wealthy areas where only the wealthy reside and there is some relationship between the demands made and the capacity to pay. One pays income tax on one's earnings, and surely one's capacity to pay the sales tax on a Rolls Royce is related to one's ability to think in terms of a Rolls Royce in the first place. 
There may well be some argument in that some areas of local government want the best of everything. Be that as it may, let them pay for it. But in local government, as elsewhere, standards of expectation have risen. There are now items in the consumer price index that would have been considered luxuries years ago. Similarly, today in local government people expect more as basics: Paved footpaths to walk on; something more than a Stygian gloom to light their way home at night; and drains that do more than flood the property where they finish. What is iniquitous is that a system of taxation, devised for limited means, is now expected to finance, on an equalityofquality basis, social, health and welfare needs for everyone from all areas, irrespective of their capacity to pay. 
Governments have deemed home-nursing services to be not only necessary but also worthy of some subsidy. Yet what would happen if, in order to reduce or maintain a rate level, local government bodies decided to opt out? Who would then attend to the needy? Governments have set up such worthy causes as libraries, vacation play centres, pre-school kindergartens and the like, but in the long run, however, it is local government that pays for these. Services today, particularly in the western areas of Sydney, in many respects fall far short of public requirement and the standard that local authorities would like to give. Over the last 20 years the Sydney western metropolitan region, which I had the pleasure of inspecting with the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  some time ago, is the scene of a vast population increase. Forced by the lack of low or medium priced land close to Sydney, great numbers of the city's population have moved into the western areas of Penrith, Blacktown, Windsor, Baulkham Hills and Colo. This rapid migration to the west, without adequate detailed and co-ordinated planning, has placed a tremendous burden on all areas of government in even providing basic services, and this has been particularly felt by local government where the provisions of sewerage, roads, etc., has fallen way behind demand. 
In the local government field, where the costs must be met by local residents, we have the situation where people moving into these areas usually are young people trying to establish homes, who then have the additional financial burden of trying to upgrade their area. 'Construction Finance Australia Ltd' states that in 1966 the population of Penrith, Blacktown and Baulkham Hills was 191,000; in 1971 it was 274,000; and by the year 2,000 it is expected to be 880,000. So between 1966 and 1971 we had an increase of 83,000, and the increase between 1971 and 2.000 is expected to be 605,000. Councils are not geared to cope with these increases without additional financial aid. Rates have climbed steadily until saturation point has been reached with regard to the ability of the ratepayer to pay. Councils, endeavouring to collect outstanding rates, broke the payments down to half-yearly, then to quarterly, and now it is monthly but still the outstanding rates continue to grow.  Mr R.  Else-Mitchell in 'Challenge and Change' said: 
One of the major problems that arose again and again in the course of the Royal Commission's proceedings was how to bridge the financial gap between needs and revenue. 
He said also: 
I think we accepted as basic the proposition that local government is dynamic and that its increasing demands require additional funds. 
But none of the recommendations was accepted by the New South Wales Government. 
In conclusion, might I say that today there is a very large gap between the cost of building the standard of community the people want and the adequacy of rating as a system to meet this cost. What local government requires is financial assistance to bridge this gap. Local government requires representation on the Loan Council so that it can state its case in order to obtain that extra finance which is so necessary today to give to the old and new residents alike those little extra amenities which are so necessary. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Housing. In view of the Housing Commission of New South Wales being approximately 42,000 homes short of requirements and in view of the fact that, in many cases, migrant hostels are empty, could consideration be given to the using of hostel space by the Housing Commission for temporary housing for urgent cases? 
I wish to direct my question to the Minister for Social Security. Did he note the claim of  Mr Alan  Hayes, a welfare officer of the Civilian Maimed and Limbless Association, on the "This Day Tonight' program last night that sheltered workshops employees receiving the invalid pension plus supplementary assistance totalling $24 a week have their benefits reduced by $1 for each $1 earned over $24 weekly? As this is a more savage means test than is generally applied to pensioners, can the Minister state why this practice has been adopted, especially as it is a clear disincentive to physical and mental selfimprovement? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Education regarding an affliction called dyslexia. In the metropolitan area of Sydney, only 3 schools run special classes for the elimination of this complaint. Each class has approximately 30 children and the waiting list for entry is 2 years. Will the Minister for Education advise me what action is being taken, or can be taken, to increase the training of these children within the education system? 
I have much pleasure in supporting the Housing Assistance Bill. It may be of interest to recall the changes that have taken place over the past couple of decades in the type of home being built, the manner of its construction and the availability of finance to the home owners. Some of the changes have been quite dramatic and may indicate the nature of future changes in these fields. The physical changes include the growth of the flat and the unit as alternative modes of living, and the rapid growth of cities, leading to a big rise in land prices, as we have seen throughout the country. Financial changes include the development of both commercial savings banks and permanent building societies as major suppliers of housing funds. There has been the advent of mortgage insurance which has virtually eliminated the risk of any loss of the lender today. 
At the end of the 1939-45 war there was a severe shortage of housing. When production sluggishly resumed, the typical home produced was, by modern standards, rather small and spartan - open fireplaces, few hot water services and very little in the way of built-in cupboards and other fixtures. Finance at this time was a problem for young home seekers and the second mortgage was a common feature of the day. Flat construction was a rarity and the unit, the individually owned apartment, was hardly known. Housing sizes have risen since then for some years. It is very interesting to read some material supplied by the Commonwealth Statistician. He has been collecting statistics for only a short period, but these reveal that from the June quarter of 1970 to the March quarter of 1972 the average size of houses completed in Australia rose from 12.9 squares to 13.5 squares. There was a strong movement towards brick and mortar amd brick veneer dwellings. This, to a large extent, was due to less building maintenance in the way of painting, better resale price and better appearance. Also fire risk was not so great and the cost of insurance was found to be much lower. If we compare the figures for the construction of homes for the period from 1947 to 1971 it is very interesting to note that the brick mortar and brick veneer homes in 1947 represented 34.6 per cent of homes built. In 1971 it had increased to 45.7 per cent. On the other hand stone and concrete homes had dropped from 6.2 per cent in 1947 to 5 per cent in 1971. The number of timber and fibro homes had dropped from 53.6 per cent in 1947 to 47.1 per cent in 1971. Houses constructed of other materials had dropped from 5.6 per cent in 1947 to 2.2 per cent in 1971. We can see that brick and brick veneer is becoming the more popular type of building. 
This increase in the proportion of brick dwellings is even more striking if recent annual construction rates are compared. In the 1971-72 period 47 per cent of all homes completed had bricks for their outer walls, 28 per cent were timbered and 24 per cent were of asbestos cement exteriors. By 1972 houses with brick outer walls accounted for 78 per cent of all houses completed. Brick and brick veneer today has become the most popular type of home. The annual production of houses and flats doubled between 1955-56 and 1970-71, a period during which the population increased by 40.9 per cent. In 1955-56, 72,260 houses and flats were commenced as compared with 146,368 commenced in 1971- 72. However it is interesting to note that government housing commencements, that is housing commission homes, amounted to a little over 15,000 in 1971-72 as against a peak of 19,000 in 1964-65. In New South Wales government housing commencements fell in 1971-72 by 31 per cent to their lowest level since 1959-60. 
Approximately 6 months ago the Housing Commission of New South Wales advised the New South Wales Government that suitable land at suitable and reasonable prices was becoming difficult to acquire and that the whole success of the housing commission home was that it was reasonably priced for both sale and renting purposes. The demand for housing commission homes in all States, according to the statistics, is now about 90,000 in excess of production. New South Wales alone at the present time is 40,000 homes short. Each month in New South Wales - it is assumed the same would apply to other States - the margin between demand and production is becoming wider. In New South Wales the inner metropolitan area and the coastal area 30 miles north and south of Sydney have long since been completely built out. Also, development both south and west of Sydney is to the very foothills of the mountains and in the face of ever-pressing demands the limited supply of serviced land continues to force the price of homes upwards. 
The Government's objective is that every Australian family should be able to obtain land and housing at reasonable prices and that local government should have the finan cial resources to provide the necessary amenities. This can be made possible only if local government has access to the nation's finance. Local government plays a very important part in housing commission ventures and also the construction of war service homes. We on the Government side say that if urban and regional development is to be a success, and if housing is to be a success, local government must have the necessary finance to perform its proper functions and to provide modern and efficient services for residents of any new housing development at the time that that development is taking place. 
The core of the problem in the past has been the downgrading of local and semigovernment authorities by both Federal and State governments. Because of the lack of adequate access to the nation's financial resources local and semi-government authorities in the past have been unable to provide the services and the amenities for which they are responsible to make these housing ventures a success. The Housing Commission which came into operation in New South Wales after the Second World War filled a need at that time and has been doing so ever since, lt is meeting a requirement that could not have been met by normal builders and contractors. People were desperate for homes but did not have the resources to build for themselves, nor the large deposits for purchase required by the private builder. I remember the 'Julian Doyle Poverty Report' of 1969 in which the author stated: 
Apart from income deficiencies the most important element contributing to poverty was the cost of housing. Many people are in poverty because of the exorbitant cost of their housing. This applies particularly to large families, deserted wives or the aged. Many people whose income otherwise would have been adequate are dragged below the poverty line because of their housing costs. 
A report of a Government survey published in 'The Age' of 23rd February 1971 indicated that a large number of pensioners were paying exorbitant rents to live in hovels. 
The Housing Commission, or the State housing authorities in other States, therefore are the answer to this problem. It is most disturbing to know that the country today is racing towards a stage at which we will be 100,000 below the number of homes required. It is only by strong action by this Government, through the Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson),  that this situation will be rectified, and then only by full co-operation on the part of State Ministers for Housing. 
The Minister for Housing, at a luncheon address to the Association of Co-operative Building Societies of New South Wales, said: 
Any developed nation which has 93,000 applicants for Housing Commission or public housing is facing  a  crisis. 
As a mayor of one of the largest municipalities in the western metropolitan area of Sydney for many years, I lived through the early ventures of the Housing Commission of New South Wales. In Seven Hills and Lalor Park, approximately 30 miles from Sydney, and parts of the municipality of Blacktown, the Housing Commission, as part of its first venture, built 3,266 homes and housed 13,000 people. Later it created the large satellite town of Mount Druitt, still within the municipality of Blacktown, where it built 7,200 homes and housed 30,000 people. The type of home built by the Housing Commission in these 2 ventures could not be bettered for design, appearance and durability. 
But large projects such as the Mount Druitt housing venture in New South Wales where 47,000 people have now settled are a serious embarrassment to local government councils in whose area they are constructed. The councils have neither the financial resources nor the staff to make the projects a success. I refer to the provision of urgent amenities which are necessary as part of the project when the houses are occupied. Many more projects such as Mount Druitt will have to be built in New South Wales to pick up the leeway of homes which exists at the present time. Consideration should be given to widening the powers of the Housing Commission so that it can work in closer co-operation with the Department of Urban and Regional Development. Furthermore, an examination should be made of the financial resources of councils to ascertain the amount that they can afford and the amount that is necessary by way of loans to enable them to provide amenities such as recreation areas, baby health centres, swimming pools, access roads, footpaths and bus shelters at the same time that the Housing Commission is building homes. The provision of homes must go along with the provision of such amenities. 
In New South Wales consideration should be given to widening the powers of the Housing Commission to enable it to build footpaths, in particular and, if necessary, to build houses with garages and to provide park and recreation areas. It would be easy to construct these things at the same time as the whole project is being built. A private developer today has to provide footpaths but the Housing Commission, under its powers, is not obliged to meet this requirement. The result is that children have to walk to school on the roads and parents have to walk to the shops on the roads until such times as the local council can accumulate funds to provide footpaths. In Mount Druitt where 47,000 people were housed it was 6 years after completion of the housing project before the Council was able to provide a footpath, a community centre and a baby health centre. It was only after long and protracted requests for loans or grants from the State Government that the local council could build these footpaths. Consideration should be given to giving the Housing Commissions the power to build houses with garages. We seem to have overlooked the fact that the New South Wales Housing Commission today, although building a very nice type of home, is not in any instance building garages. Families today have one, 2 or 3 cars. It is the provision of these little amenities or the failure to provide them which makes the Housing Commission a success or a failure. 
We must remember that 95 per cent of the people who make application for Housing Commission homes come from the inner metropolitan areas where every amenity is outside the front door. There are telephones, bus shelters, corner shops, hotels and shopping centres. However, in these big projects which are undertaken by the Housing Commission, no amenity is provided by the Commission apart from the houses if builds. At Mount Druitt there were 7,200 Housing Commission homes built but it was not until 6 years later that an amenity of any kind was provided for this area. In these new areas today we must provide baby health centres, pre-school education facilities, kindergarten centres, parks and recreation areas at the same time as the project is being undertaken. Therefore, consideration should be given to achieving cooperation between the Housing Commission, the Department of Urban and Regional Development and local councils in order to make housing projects a success. Might I say in conclusion that it has been the neglect and apathy of governments and not the actions of private citizens that have made the price of land and houses the social and economic problem it is today. I am quite sure that this 
Government, with the help and co-operation of the States, can rapidly solve this problem. 

 - Mr Speaker, I have much pleasure in supporting the Defence Services Homes Bill 1973. It is very pleasing to note that the new proposals will extend benefits to, (A), members of the forces on continuous full time service on or after 7th December 1972 who, before or after that date, completed or complete 3 years' effective full time service; (B), a person engaged for full time service of not less than  3  years but who is discharged on medical grounds before completion of 3 years service, unless discharged before the completion of 12 months service; (Q, persons undergoing training at a naval, military or Air Force college who successfully complete their course of training; (D), persons commissioned under the) undergraduate scheme after they have given  3  years' effective service following the completion of their studies; (E), national servicemen and national service officers serving immediately before 7th December who complete the period of service for which they were engaged to serve or who are discharged on medical grounds prior to the completion of their service; (F), to those national servicemen serving at 6th December 1972 who voluntarily chose to complete the period for which they were originally enlisted; and (G), to single and widowed nurses and ex-service women without dependants who served overseas with the forces in the 1939-45 War. 
The scheme has always provided that the widow of an eligible person will be eligible for war service homes benefits. The Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson)  is to be congratulated on the efficient and capable manner in which the 3 Services of the Australian forces have been studied and consideration given to entitlements long overdue for review as far as war service homes are concerned. This Bill also extends benefits to accredited representatives of welfare organisations who served overseas with the Australian forces, either in World War II or in warlike operations since the last World War under conditions where their services would qualify them for benefits. It seems incredible,  Mr Speaker,  that to date representatives of welfare organisations such as the Young Men's Christian Association, the Salvation Army, the Australian Comforts Fund, the Young Women's Christian Association and the Australian Red Cross Society that served in all theatres of war with distinction, such as North Africa, Greece, Crete, Papua New Guinea, Malaya and Singapore, have not been recognised and given the opportunity to participate and have the same rights as a returned person under the War Service Homes Act. 
Returned men in this House will remember only too well the tremendous job done by the welfare organisations in all theatres of war where Australian troops were fighting. I am sure they will remember the work done by the Salvation Army, the tremendous work done by the Red Cross and the facilities for recreation placed at the troops' disposal by the YMCA. Many representatives of these organisations died, were wounded or became prisoners of war. Surely then these people who were under no obligation to go to war are entitled to the same rights and privileges as the returned serviceman or service woman. This Bill recognises their services and, although a little late in the day, makes a contribution by including them within the structure of the War Service Homes Act. It is estimated that 1,000 welfare representatives of all categories served overseas during the Second World War, plus an estimated 100 who served in warlike operations since then. Does the number really matter? This House should not quibble if the number is 1,000 or 2,000 in view of the tremendous job they did during the war years. 
The next most pleasing feature of this Bill is the recognition of the single and widowed nurses and ex-service women, without dependents, who served overseas with the forces in the 1939-45 War. As the Minister for Housing has stated, these people would not qualify for housing accommodation under any of the public housing schemes of the States and they would find it difficult to obtain a housing loan from institutional lenders on account of their age and their sex. The Minister for Housing is to be commended for the recognition of these people in this Bill. 
The War Service Homes Act came into operation on 6th March 1919. Its original purpose was to provide homes for servicemen and service women returning from the 1914-18 War. Subsequently, the benefits of the Act were extended to persons with appropriate qualifying service in the 1939-45 War and, subject to the prescribed conditions, to persons with service in connection with warlike operations in Korea, Malaya, or as defined in the Repatriation (Special Overseas Service) Act 1968. Since the inception of the war service homes scheme 327,262 ex-servicemen and women, and their dependents, have been assisted to acquire, complete or enlarge homes. 
During 1971 the War Service Homes Act was amended. The principle change effected was to increase the maximum lending limit to $9,000. It is the intention now to increase the maximum loan from ยง9,000 to $12,000. We realise today that with the upsurge in values, both in land and the cost of building, $9,000 is not sufficient. Statistics show that in 1971-72 of the  15,834 homes  built, $9,000 covered only approximately 57 per cent of the average cost. Today it is difficult to acquire even a modest home in the Sydney metropolitan area - I am sure the same applies to most other State capitals - for less than 
Si 5,000 or $20,000. Land prices and building trends indicate that prices will continue to rise and this, of course, will mean that the Government, at a subsequent date, will have to give serious consideration to a proposed limit of perhaps $15,000. The intention of the Act is to increase the maximum lending limit under the scheme to enable loans to be made up to 100 per cent of the value of properties against which advances will be made. The deposit is to be 5 per cent of the total cost and the maximum period of repayment is to be up to 45 years, except where purchasers or borrowers are female dependants when it will be 50 years, and the interest payment is to be 3i per cent. It can be seen that the conditions will be such as to allow the eligible person an opportunity to purchase a home which, under norma] circumstances, just could not be afforded, with the low deposit, the spread of repayments over 45 years and interest at the rate of 3) per cent. A war service home is very reasonably priced and I am sure can be afforded by the returned serviceman on the average weekly wage. This Bill will attract and retain regular servicemen. It will give them security and it will give them a living standard on a par with civilians with regard to housing costs and conditions. After discharge, the exserviceman or woman will not be faced with the task of financing a home at a much greater cost and over a shorter period, but will have a home which in quality and attractiveness could not be better. I compliment the Minister for Housing on the introduction of this very good Bill. 
The main provision of the new CommonwealthState Housing Agreement is that moneys should be provided by the Australian Government to enable the States to increase lower rental housing. The Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson)  has stated, and I agree, that the 3 Bills are inter-related. As I mentioned when speaking on the second reading of the Housing Bill and also on the Defence Service Homes Bill, the fact that nearly 100,000 families are waiting for homes is something that needs urgent and immediate attention. The main issue is to reduce this long waiting list of people who have made application and are waiting for homes. Negotiation with the States, particularly with the Housing Ministers of Victoria and New South Wales, has not been easy but this Bill now requests the authority of Parliament to enter into agreement with the States so that such agreement can come into operation as from 1 July 1973. 
The need for good quality, low rental accommodation for families with low incomes is easily understood when one considers the economic factors operating in the housing industry at present. Firstly, there are the observed facts that both the cost of land and the cost of home building are rising rapidly and in excess of inflationary increases in money value. As examples of increases in land costs, the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  is quoted as saying: 
Speculation is running riot in Melbourne. The cost of a medium priced suburban block in Melbourne has gone up by 43.75 per cent to $5,750 in the past 5 years. In Sydney the price has gone up by 133 per cent from $5,500 to $12,000 a block in the 5 years. 
A survey carried out by the Knox City Council in suburban Melbourne has shown an average land price increase of 62.63 per cent in the 12 months to February this year. The price increases average $48 a week for land 15 to 20 miles from the GPO with made roads and all other services but unsewered. Sewered blocks in the area sell from $9,000 to $11,000. The speculation appears to be caused to a large extent by a disequilibrium between demand for and supply of serviced residential land, particularly in major urban areas. 
With an interest rate of 4 per cent for housing authority purposes and 4i per cent for home building accounts, which are fixed rates for the duration of the agreement, and repayment by the States over 53 years, the proposition is very attractive and will go a long way towards keeping costs down and creating a more settled community. Building costs have been caught up in the inflationary spiral and one recent estimate put the cost increases at about $30 a week on low budget mass produced homes. As the Minister for Housing has stated, 'unlike the housing assistance offered to the States by the former Government, we propose and the agreement provides that our assistance will henceforth be directed towards those families and persons most in need of it'. No less than 85 per cent of the family homes to be built by the State Housing Authorities with our advances will be allocated to families where the average gross weekly income of the main breadwinners will not exceed 85 per cent of average weekly earnings per employed male unit as defined in the agreement and, where the family includes 2 or more children, this will be increased by $2 a week for each child beyond the second. Those eligible are mainly the lower income families who are paying too high a proportion of their incomes in private rents or are living in unsatisfactory accommodation. 
The short-run factors causing this housing costs increase are the short supply of both skilled tradesmen, especially - and I emphasise this - bricklayers and carpenters, and of materials, particularly timber and imported timbers such as Oregon and Canadian Pine. It has been estimated that 10,000 more workers will be needed in the housing industry by 1973 to meet the growing demand for bouses. Unless skilled tradesmen can be diverted from other types of construction, this shortage, aggravated by large injections of public money, will drive housing costs even higher. Another short term factor affecting housing costs is the prosperity currently being enjoyed by the community. 
Finance is readily available, although not so easily obtainable as it was 6 months ago. Over the last 2 years housing construction has been fairly static, so there is now a certain element of pent up demand. In addition there is one pressing long term factor which will affect demand over the next decade, that is, the bulge of the 20 to 29 years of age section of the population. As the babies of the postwar boom reach this age, marry and begin to rear children - I stress this point - they will want to see their dream of a home of their own translated into a bricks and mortar reality. Providing the level of prosperity does not decline, demand, especially by this group, is not expected to slacken until the 1980s. 
The effects of cost increases are two-fold. Firstly, absolute increases in prices of the order mentioned earlier can add as much as $4,000 to the cost of a home over a 12 months period. This increase will be reflected also in prices for existing dwellings, especially as they are often situated more favourably to places of work and social amenities. Since few private lending bodies will provide finance at less then 10 per cent, anyone saving for a home will have to save an extra $400 a year - about $8 a week - in order to be eligible for finance. In addition, money must be available to pay both legal fees and stamp duties, which are generally a percentage of the cost of the house and thus increase as the price goes up. At the same time, people who are waiting to buy houses generally occupy rented dwellings. The cost of these dwellings also is rising because of the general pressure on dwelling space. In Canberra, for instance, rents for private 2- bedroom flats range from $32 to $45 a week, and 3-bedroom unfurnished houses are rarely available below $35 a week. There is a waiting list in Canberra of 38 months for 3- bedroom homes provided by the Government. 
The net result is that price increases in land and building costs push the low income earner further and further behind in the struggle to accumulate enough capital to buy his own home, while the other dwellings that are available to him are generally increasing in price, leaving him with less of his weekly earnings to put towards his future home. The Minister for Housing has estimated that each of the 93,000 applications on the waiting lists of the nation's housing authorities represent  a  family of 4 or more. The Minister for Housing further stated: 
Taking into account . . . that other people don't join the waiting lists because it is hopeless to do so, one can conservatively calculate that today perhaps 400,000 people are seeking a decent adequate home - so far without hope. For an appalling number of people, both individuals and families, home ownership is just not available. 
This legislation seeks to rectify that very position. It is those people that the present legislation seeks to help. In his second reading speech the Minister for Housing said: 
Whilst the Government is firmly convinced that those most in need of housing assistance are families and persons who are seeking rental accommodation, we are certainly not opposed to home ownership. Under the proposed Agreement up to 30 per cent of the family dwellings built by the housing authorities with our advances may be sold at a fair price to families who satisfy the needs test. 
For the most part they would be families which would be unable to borrow privately the finance they need to own their own homes. The interest charge to purchasers, including the costs of administration, shall not be more than  5i  per cent per annum The agreement with the States provides for 2 options to be open to applicants for a home - they can either buy or rent. 
It is very pleasing to see that the Minister has recognised that the co-operation of the States with local government is vital and that the States will have the power to advance to local government by way of bridging finance moneys that will be used by local government to provide essential amenities, such as park and recreation areas, community centres, swimming pools and so on. I wish to quote for the information of the House and for the information of councils of outer metropolitan areas what the Minister has provided for in the agreement. This is something for which local government in the outer areas has been waiting for years. He said: 
The Government is also concerned at the frequent absence of essential community amenities m many new estates developed largely by State housing authorities. In developing areas where the local authority is not yet receiving its full potential revenue from general rates, the Government is willing to approve the temporary, use of portion of our housing advances in order to accelerate the provision of essential community facilities where a satisfactory arrangement is entered into between the local government and housing authorities. 
For how long has local government waited for the opportunity to do something about amenities? It has never had such an opportunity before. This legislation will give local government the opportunity to provide, in addition to housing, the essential requirements so far as amenities are concerned. Local government now has 2 avenues of finance open to it for amenities, over and above its normal loan allocations, namely, bridging finance as provided for in this legislation and, as a result of the introduction of the Grants Commission Bill, the opportunity on special occasions to make application for grants. A weakness in the past has been the inability of local government, especially in the outer metropolitan areas of the cities where mushroom growth has taken place because of the erection of war service homes and housing commission homes and the construction of homes by private builders, to provide the amenities that are so essential to the making of home life more comfortable, particularly where children are concerned. This legislation provides for that. Briefly, bridging finance will help councils to meet the expenses involved in providing amenities, without disturbing their normal loans. Also councils will have the opportunity under extraordinary circumstances to seek assistance from the Grants Commission. This legislation is long overdue. The sooner it comes into operation the sooner we will have a more contented community. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Immigration. Is Australian industry playing a proper role in migrant worker integration? If not, what steps are being taken to ensure that workers are not held prisoners in workshops because of lack of knowledge of the national language and the community outside? Further, will Commonwealth instrumentalities set the example? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry whether he has seen published allegations that at this time of meat shortage sales have been made of diseased meat from which the State and Australian governments have benefited. If so, will the Minister assure the House that action will be taken to end such sales, or if the allegations are not true, will he refute the slur on the industry? 
Unlike the governments of Canada, New Zealand and the United States of America, the Australian Government, and the British colonial administration before it have never recognised the rights of the indigenous people to the land they occupied at the time of European settlement. The British Crown declared Australian land its own and, except in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory, proceeded to expropriate it to European settlers. Aborigines were regarded as rural pests and an obstruction to what is called development. Even when Aboriginal reserves were established towards the end of the 19th century they were leased not to the Aborigines but to Government departments or religious missions on the assumption that they could best judge the most appropriate form of development. 
In 1936 the first conference of Commonwealth and State authorities dealing with Aboriginal matters was convened. The meeting concluded that it believed that 'the destiny of the native of Aboriginal origin, but not of full blood, lies in his ultimate absorption by the people of the Commonwealth'. It therefore recommended that all efforts be directed towards that end. In 1936 the matter of Commonwealth control of Aboriginal affairs was broached and rejected by the Premiers Conference as being impracticable. In 1937 assimilation was accepted as official government policy. Judith Wright, in a book entitled The Future of the Australian Aboriginal', wrote: 
There has been evidence in recent years of Increasing consciousness of the right of Aboriginal Australians to a choice about the nature of the future that government policies are designing for them. 
In 1965 at a conference of Commonwealth and State Ministers it was stated: 
The policy of assimilation seeks that all persons of Aboriginal descent will choose to attain a similar manner and standard of living to that of other Australians, and live as members of a single Australian community, enjoying the same rights and privileges, accepting the same responsibilities and influenced by the same hopes and loyalties of other Australians. 
Change from the assumption that our society is entitled to expect of Aborigines the supreme flattery of imitation has been very slow. After the referendum which brought the Commonwealth into the field of policy the then Prime Minister, the right honourable John Gorton, expressed a view which acknowledged that Aboriginal Australians may have different views about the pace at which assimilation is to take place but the objective remained unchanged and the conviction that Aborigines would, in due course, desire it is re-emphasised by the following statement by him: 
Without destroying Aboriginal culture, we want to help our Aboriginals to become an integral part of the rest of the Australian people, we want the Aboriginals themselves to have a voice in the pace at which this process occurs. 
At a conference of Commonwealth and State Ministers in 1971 the right honourable William McMahon said: 
We believe that Aborigines must be helped to take an increasing part in the management of their own affairs. 
I would say that they were important changes in the stated philosophy and objectives of policy. I would also say that much remains to be done before the spirit expressed in the words of the 2 previous Prime Ministers and by the conference of Commonwealth and State Ministers in 1971 pervades the policy itself and effectively determines the pattern of programs undertaken. I would say further that well conceived programs designed by social scientists and administrators have failed because their clients, the Aborigines, have been involved only as passive recipients and, at most, have been invited to endorse programs already approved for them. 
During the period between 1968 and 1973 the Commonwealth Government has recognised that persons of Aboriginal descent experience a number of disabilities in comparison with the rest of the community and that special measures are needed to overcome their disabilities, lt has been said that programs have been evolved which are designed to encourage and strengthen the capacity of persons of Aboriginal descent to manage their own affairs as individuals, groups and local communities to increase their economic independence and to reduce social and other handicaps facing them in health, housing and education. However, one wonders what programs, if any, have been evolved for the Aborigines. Allocations have been made by both the Commonwealth and the States for Aboriginal affairs. Between 1968 and 1973 a total of $170,478,000 was allocated. An amount of $89,326,000 has been allocated for the present financial year. A total of $259,804,000 has been allocated up to the present time for Aboriginal affairs. Of this amount a total of $79,360 has been allocated by the Commonwealth to the States for assistance since 1968. 
With this kind of money being made available both by the Commonwealth and the States one would have thought that considerable improvement would have been evident in the Aboriginal way of life and that the aims and objects of previous governments with regard to health, education and housing would have resulted in greatly improved conditions over the last 5 years. It was therefore rather surprising and perturbing to read the report of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Bryant)  on his first inspection of Aboriginal settlements. He found that 90 per cent of the Aboriginal community was living in a state of absolute acute social depression. He said that nobody knows how many houses are needed. He said that the majority were inadequately housed. He found the same thing applied to education in that only a handful of the Aborigines he reported on had reached the top classes in secondary schools. The Minister reported that 90 per cent of the Aborigines in some towns are unemployed and are living on unemployment benefit, social benefits and handouts. Most of the areas visited by the Minister were ones of devastating neglect, and disaster areas as far as health is concerned. He said that their tin shanties, their decayed and broken down homes and their lack of hygiene and sanita tion made him ashamed to think that they were the people who once roamed Australia as a proud race. As a member of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs I, together with other members of the Committee, followed in the wake of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and visited the towns of Dubbo, Bourke, Walgett, Mungindi and Moree. I support everything the Minister said with regard to the conditions under which the Aborigines in those areas are living. 
One may therefore ask: Where has this large amount of money - the amount of $259m which has been provided by the Commonwealth and the States for the benefit of Aborigines - been spent? The honourable P. Howson, as the then Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, in a debate in Parliament on 14 September 1972 set out the number of organisations which had been set up to care for the welfare of the Aboriginal. There are approximately 160 organisations in Australia looking after Aborigines. I would say that the Aboriginal is very fortunate because each of those organisations presumably is really dedicated to doing its best for the interests of the Aborigines. But there are a lot of these organisations that I feel should be looked at a second time. It was only as a result of the passing of the referendum, and it will be only as a result of the passing of this legislation that the Commonwealth will have some say in the future with regard to the management and control of Aborigines throughout the Commonwealth. For instance, dealing with building, in New South Wales there are the Housing Commission of New South Wales, the Housing Funds Aboriginal Affairs, the Aboriginal Advancement Association, the Youth and Community Service and Aboriginal Affairs and the local government authorities all building houses in different ways and all making a mess of them. If the question of housing in New South Wales was left to the New South Wales Housing Commission, and a similar position applied in other States, a better job, a quicker job and a cheaper job would be carried out. Maintenance also would be attended to. That situation does not prevail with the present organisations. In Dubbo, Moree and Walgett I did not see a house that had ever had a paint brush put on it, in the way of maintenance, from the time it was completed. 
I refer now to pre-school education. It is a vitally important matter for the children of Australia today. The Aboriginal child is just as important as the white child. When we travel through the north we find that there are church mission pre-schools, private preschool organisations, shire council pre-schools and Daughters of Charity pre-schools. I could mention another dozen or two organisations which are involved in pre-school education in different ways and which are not doing the child a bit of good. Possibly pre-school education in general should be taken over by the Education Department. Also I think the whole question of housing should be left to the New South Wales Housing Commission. 
Health is very important, lt is vital that something be done in this field immediately. Hygiene and sanitation throughout Aobriginal settlements in New South Wales - I would say that the same applies in other States - just do not exist. Twenty-five per cent of Aboriginal children born today suffer from brain damage due to malnutrition. The general health of Aboriginal children is exceptionally low. I think that situation is related to the previous Administration which was in power for 23 years and had control of Aborigines. I wish to know where the tremendous amount of S250m has been spent. I think that, especially in New South Wales, consideration and examination should be the first priority for the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs in order to find out what the 160 or more committees are doing. I am sure that the committees are doing the best job they possibly can. I am sure that they are working in the interests of the Aborigines. But I am sure that the committees need streamlining. They should be brought into order concerning the spending of money allocated by the Commonwealth. 
The condition of housing generally is an utter disgrace. Houses, except those built by the Housing Commission, have never received maintenance attention from the day they were built. They lack doors and windows and roof timbers need to be replaced. In many places tin shanties with mud floors predominate. The purpose of the referendum of 1967 was that the Australian Government should assume responsibility for Aborigines. The Government's purpose now is to establish a Ministry of Aboriginal Affairs with officers in each State. The Commonwealth will have a genuine presence in the States. I think it is about time that was done. One only has to be a member of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs and to have a look at the conditions under which Aborigines are living at present to realise the importance of the Standing Committee. 
As the Minister said, this Bill is aimed at expressing briefly the Australian Government's new responsibilities and, in particular, at facilitating the transfer of State officers to the Australian Public Service. The present system involves duplication between Australian and State authorities and leads to confusion. There is no need for me to emphasise that point. The National Aboriginal Consultative Committee has expressed a desire to transfer from the State sphere to the Commonwealth sphere. The Government seeks responsibility for policy planning and coordination. The Bill is purely one enabling the facilitation of transfers of State officers where there is agreement between the Australian Government and State governments. The sooner the provisions of this Bill can be brought into operation, Australian Government control established and some sense of sanity and goodness achieved for the Aborigines, the better. I commend the Bill. 
The purpose of this Bill, as stated by the Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson),  is to authorise the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  to make advances not exceeding $327,975,000 to the States for welfare housing during 1973-74 and the first 6 months of 1974-75 in accordance with the provisions of the 1973 Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement. With its share of the, allocation the New South Wales Housing Commission proposes to spend approximately $30m on the commencement of 4,000 dwellings in the 1973-74 period. It also proposes to spend $21m of its allocation on the completion of dwellings now under construction, $3m on improving standards of existing homes and $5m on land purchase and development. When one realises that within the State of New South Wales alone the shortage of homes runs to 40,000 and that the situation in other States, particularly Victoria and South Australia, is nearly as bad, one appreciates the tremendous task that the Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson)  and this Government have in trying to reduce the deficit of houses in the Commonwealth at present. 
The total allocation of $218. 65m to the States represents an increase of $45. 45m on the 1972-73 allocation of $173.2m, or an increase of 26 per cent. The difference between this figure of $218. 65m and the amount authorised by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  of $327.975m, namely, $109.32m represents advances allowed for during the initial months of 1974-75, equivalent to half of the advances agreed to for 1973-74. The interest payable by each State on these advances will be at the very attractive rate of 4 per cent per annum on moneys allocated to State housing authorities and 4.5 per cent on money allocated to home builders account. These rates are most attractive, the 4 per cent payable by the States being 2.5 per cent below the current bond rate of 6.5 per cent. The rate of interest payable by purchasers of State authority dwellings will be not less than 5 per cent per annum nor more than 5i per cent per annum. The funds allocated to the home builders account of each State will be used to provide finance for prospective home owners by way of loans through co-operative terminating building societies or approved lending societies of the State. Interest on loans to prospective home owners from a co-operative terminating building society or approved authority receiving money from the home builders account will not exceed 5$ per cent per annum. 
As the Minister has stated, we have now entered a new era in housing for the underprivileged. There is tremendous leeway to make up, but at last we have started. It is a triumphant end to the struggle to get a better deal for those who have been left behind in the postwar materialistic race. The significance of the present Housing Agreement is the assumption by the Australian Government of prime responsibility for the housing of the poor. The House will remember that the Housing Agreement with the States stipulates that not more than 30 per cent of the public housing authority money may be used to build commission homes for sale. This means that the Housing Commission must build predominantly homes for rental, which is the area of greatest social and economic need. 
I sincerely hope that the housing authorities, when building homes to sell, will endeavour to build such homes amongst homes that are built for renting! In other words, the homes that are built for renting purposes should be mixed with those that are built to be sold. My reason for this request is that generally a man who owns his own home keeps his place tidy, cuts his lawn and so on. This has a tendency to make the occupiers of the rented homes in close proximity follow suit. From my experience in local government over many years, generally, I have found that rented homes built together as a section of rented homes were disaster areas when it came to the occupiers keeping the places looking nice, making gardens, cutting the lawns and so on. If the commissions were to mix houses which were owned with houses which were rented this problem to a great extent would be eliminated. 
Another very important aspect of the Housing Agreement with the States is that not less than 85 per cent of the homes to be built must be allocated to families where the average gross weekly income of the main breadwinner, exclusive of overtime and child endowment payments, does not exceed 85 per cent of average weekly earnings. This enables the not-so-well-paid family to have the ability to obtain a home. Where the family includes more than 2 children this limit can be increased by $2 a week for each child after the second child. Because of this condition those eligible for homes mainly will be the lower income families who now are paying too high a proportion of their income in private rents. We hope that with the introduction of this provision, which will come into effect immediately .mis Bill is passed, this problem will be eliminated. It will also eliminate the problems of a large proportion of people living in unsatisfactory accommodation at present, such as those who are living with a mother-in-law, those living in rooms, or those living in conditions that should not be tolerated today. 
Honourable members will remember that the Housing Agreement expressed the Government's concern at the frequent absence of essential community amenities in many new areas developed by the State housing authority and the problems it led to in the large housing settlements. This is the first time that a clause such as the one I will refer to has been written into a housing agreement and been agreed to by the States. We have tremendous problems in areas such as Green Valley and Mount Druitt, where no provision has been made for amenities. In these areas, we find a tremendous housing project which has been completed, spoiled by the fact that, apart from houses, there were no amenities in any shape or form and great problems were created, particularly with regard to the children going to a park, a place of recreation, a community centre and so forth. To a certain extent this situation will be rectified by the introduction of this clause. The terms of the grant will allow the temporary use of part of the grants for housing to be used to provide essential community facilities. As I said, we can now use part of this money for that purpose. 
I should say that the Minister for Housing would be well aware of the necessity for the housing authorities to consider seriously the question of amenities of this type. As a member of local councils for many years in the Mount Druitt, Rooty Hill and Green Valley areas 'I found tremendous problems with child delinquency, parents who cleared out and broken homes because although the areas had been completed and one could not better the type of home found there, there was not a shopping centre, a park and recreation area or a community centre of any description; there were houses and nothing else and this created tremendous problems. 
I commend the Minister on his strong suggestion to the States that wherever possible and practicable the authorities should intermingle privately built homes with housing authority homes. This breaks up the standard design of housing commission homes, brings into the community people of different wage structures and strengthens community life. Homes produced by a State Housing commission or by the Defence Service Homes Division may be of 16 different designs. But in each area design follows design, with the result that in Mount Druitt, for example, where 30,000 or 40,000 people have been housed by the Housing Commission, those 16 designs are repeated in every third, fourth or fifth street. If private builders are allowed to construct houses in different sections of a development, the monotony is broken up and a different class of people is introduced into that area. 
It must be remembered that when the Labor Party took over the reins of government in December last, approximately 93,000 people were waiting for housing authority homes. It is estimated that at present the provision of these homes trails by 41 years the requirement of houses by individual Australian families. It is accepted that we cannot accomplish the impossible. We realise that a contented family is one that has a home, whether rented or owned. We realise also that a nation as prosperous as Australia should not be faced with the present position and that in the years to come every endeavour should be made to close the gap between the demand and the supply of homes for individual families by the Government supplying homes at the moderate cost I have set out in my speech. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Immigration been drawn to an article in the 'Daily Telegraph' on 
Monday, IS October last, under the heading "'Whites Only" Plea' which states: 
Australia is being destroyed by its immigration policies - 
Is the Minister for Housing and Minister for Works aware of  a report on the price of land made for the Institute of Real Estate Developers by a  Mr A.  S. Tyler, former head of the New South Wales Ministry of Housing, which suggests that Federal and State governments should buy housing land to help reduce costs? Did  Mr Tyler  describe the price of serviced home sites in outer western suburbs of Sydney as outrageous' and suggest that where land was to be released for urban development the price should be pegged? 
I ask the Minister for Urban and Regional Development a question. I refer to the Minister's recent announcement that the Australian Government will enter into negotiations with the Church of England to purchase 47 acres of land and housing at Glebe in Sydney. What is the position of the existing tenants in the Church  estates at Glebe? What plans has the Minister in mind if the negotiations with the Church are successful? 
Has the Treasurer seen reports in today's newspapers concerning the new credit card which will be introduced by the major trading banks, together with 2 State banks, next year? In view of the Government's concern for personal privacy and the confidentiality of personal records, will he ensure that no credit information about bank customers is exchanged by the banks without the customer's permission? Will he also ensure that customers are not coerced into granting such permission by the threat of refusal of credit card facilities? Is he also aware that the main propaganda point brought by the private banks against the Chifley Government's bank nationalisation proposals was the possibility of loss of confidentiality concerning the customer's affairs and that the private banks, together with the Commonwealth Banking Corporation and the 2 State banks involved, are now proposing to abolish this confidentiality on their own initiative? 
Further, is he concerned- 
I listened with interest to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  and the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  and also to the honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer).  It is quite evident that they have never played a part in local government, nor have they at any stage been conscious of the financial difficulties experienced by local government since 1950. Ever since the end of World War II local government in New South Wales and, indeed, throughout Australia has been urging that its financial resources be viewed in the light of the heavy demand on it for increased and additional services. Even as far back as 1950 the then Prime Minister,  Sir Robert  Menzies, agreed that a conference should be held devoted solely to examining the financial relationship between the various arms of government. He said that he would like to see the Commonwealth, the States and local government represented at such a conference. (He said further that local government was the third arm of government, and that all 3 arms should get together to iron out their problems particularly those dealing with finance. However, nothing happened to hold that conference. 
The Australian Council of Local Government Associations attempted to hold a conference on finance in 1952, and its efforts met with a similar fate. So pushed were the councils in 1966 with regard to finance that the New South Wales State Government appointed a royal commission of inquiry into rating, valuations and local government finance. The result has never been made known because the Government pigeon-holed the report of the commission. It is not unfair to say that in the past State Premiers have regarded any proposals for the direct financing of local government by the Federal Government as an intrusion into State rights and responsibilities, and have been loath to let their power go. 
Local government bodies are established under State statute, and are the constitutional responsibility of the States. This is one point that has been hammered home repeatedly by Prime Ministers and their Federal colleagues since 1960. The fact that local government in Australia is all too often subject to criticism stems directly from its inability, owing to lack of finance, to provide the services the citizens expect, and even demand. Australian development now depends more on local government and semi-government authorities established by States than on the States themselves. We talk of a tripartite system of government in Australia, but in practice local government today is a client rather than a partner of Federal and State governments. In comparable countries the pattern of local government and its relationship to central government has come under increasing scrutiny in recent years. 
In England, the Maude report opened up new perspectives for development with its proposals for a strengthened regional role in local government. Since the Menzies conference in 1950 - 23 years ago - no change has taken place in the methods of financing local government. Councils today in the peripheral areas of Melbourne and Sydney, where over the last 10 years mushroom growth has taken place, find themselves in desperate circumstances in meeting the financial demands on them to cover the normal amenities of life. 
Interest and principal repayments are absorbing most of the revenue received from ratepayers. Municipal rates have reached saturation point as far as the ability of the individual to pay is concerned. Local government is directly affected by the decisions made by the Federal Government and at Commonwealth and State financial conferences can only wait for decisions to be handed down to it. Local government, with its special needs and problems, has no voice at present in these discussions. If we can make a fresh start on finance, if we can bring local government into discussions on Commonwealth and State finances, we can hope for a revival of interest in local government. This will involve the people because they will see local government as a creative force rather than as a yearly debit rate notice. The problem of local government finance is that the debt and capital burdens fall on those who are least able to afford them. The spread of our cities means that higher rates are paid mostly by the young and by the migrants who live in the newest parts of our municipalities and cities. These people are hardest hit by the high rates and charges forced on them by local government. So, when they have to pay their municipal and water rates, which are amongst the highest in the world for what are too often the most unsatisfactory services in the world, they blame local government. 
Australia has one Federal Government, 6 State governments and about 900 local government authorities. The local government authorities are the cinderellas of the government system. They possess no constitutional guaranteee of their functions or revenue resources. Although the absence of constitutional rigidities might have been expected to make for greater flexibility and responsiveness to changing needs in Australia, local government seems to have been characterised by a high degree of conservatism and inertia. This lack of enterprise is due largely to financial constraint. There are great advantages to be gained from a strong and flexible system of local self government, lt can contribute to the maintenance of a healthy and durable democracy. 
Local government already plays an important part in determining what uses are made of the resources of the Australian economy. By its nature, it is peculiarly well equipped to meet the diverse preferences of the population, to develop new kinds of public services and new methods of financing them, to counter the excessive concentration of population and industry in the few great conurbations and to maintain a viable system of democracy. In general, local government's powers over expenditure and regulation are adequate for these purposes. Its financial resources, however, fall far short of the need. The approval of this Bill will give the Government power to grant financial assistance to any local government body. It will then overcome the financial problems of the third tier of government that has been in evidence since 1950. 
In speaking to these estimates for the Department of Urban and Regional Development I should like to deal with the subjects of planning and priorities within the States and particularly in New South Wales. In any set of circumstances and for any specified activity of government, one can envisage an optimum area to be covered by the legislative or administrative unit. The optimum will depend on such factors as economics of scale and the value of costs of local variability, including its effects on the localisation patterns of the economy. History will play its part in communities through the social and economic interest generated by earlier boundary decisions and by other factors in past development. If a large number of governmental activities is being considered there is likely to be a correspondingly large number of sets of optimum areas with a great deal of overlapping. Economies of scale, however, operate also between activities and will almost certainly point to standardisation of a few sets of areas. 
In practice it is common for such sets to be defined as if by successive subdivision as in the Australian Federal, State and local hierarchy and its particular expansion through county councils in New South Wales. It is worth noting the statutory provision that exists for a further breakdown into local districts in New South Wales and into divisions of local government areas in Queensland. Government boundaries, once established, tend to be self-justifying because government expenditure, regulation of private activities and the psychology of the citizen all combine to concentrate economic development at the political and administrative centres and to orient the lines of communication towards them. This generalisation may be subject to some notable exceptions, however, in a growing economy. 
It is common enough to find that the emergence or expansion of a conurbation has rendered existing governmental divisions obsolete. In an area of energetic discovery and exploitation of mineral, pastoral and agricultural resources new concentrations of population and industry in isolated areas can sweep away the old and more leisurely justifications for the placement of local administrative centres. A new port with feeder transport facilities can become an economic and social centre for an area cutting across a number of existing jurisdictions. A dynamic economy must be ready to adjust its government boundaries from time to time if it is to make the most of its potentialities. Efficient government decision-making in a changing environment requires more than just the redrawing of the boundaries as catchment areas shift or merge. It requires also that the community be alive to the arrival of new tasks for government and be ready to modify the structures to cope with those new tasks. One such task that has taken on urgency in Australia is that of regional planning which has been sadly lacking over the past 20 years. The need is most acute in the metropolitan regions but the challenge also exists, in a more tractable form, in the non-metropolitan areas that are achieving an industrialisation built on major concentrations of natural resources. 
A second task, which is perhaps of even greater urgency, is to inject into large urban environments factors that will create for the individual a sense of neighbourhood - a local intimacy - to counter the brutalising anonymity of size. Neither of those tasks is performed adequately by the governmental structures at present existing in most parts of Australia. The greatest example of that was the creation of the town of Mount Druitt by the State Planning Authority of New South Wales and the placing there of 60,000 people without an amenity of any description. Another example is the New South Wales Government spending $10m a mile on the construction of the Warringah Expressway and the resumption of hundreds of homes in so doing. Surely eventually decentralisation must come instead of ploughing all traffic and commerce to Sydney and to the other main cities of Australia. In the creation of large urban development, with industrial centres to absorb the manpower pool created, the full benefit of a 40 hour week is lost if 3 hours a day is spent travelling to the job and the salary received is eroded by travel costs. 
In the metropolitan context it seems that a 2 tiered government system is called for if it is desired to meet simultaneously the need of the individual for local intimacy and tutelage as well as the need of the whole area for planned development and redevelopment. In its far-flung city administration Brisbane has the machinery to promote efficient growth at the macro-level but lacks the means to humanise the city at the district or neighbourhood level. Sydney, with 39 local government areas in and around the metropolis, has gone some way towards meeting the need for a more intimate focus of civic feelings and has tried to provide for the macro-requirements through the specialised services of the Metropolitan Water Sewerage and Drainage Board, with the Council of the City of Sydney to retail electricity and the State Departments of Main Roads, Railways and Government Transport and, since 1964, the State Planning Authority. Neither Brisbane nor Sydney, however, seems to have adequate machinery, in practice, to answer the challenge of change at either the local or the metropolitan-wide level. The specialised agencies not only lack co-operation and co-ordination among themselves but also have no direct electoral link or means of 2- way communication with those for whom they are supposed to plan. The State Planning Authority may be able to surmount the latter barrier by involving the planners in public relations to a sufficient degree. It may be able to cajole the suppliers of metropolitan services into a co-ordinated approach to the development of the Sydney region, but this has yet to prove itself. 
I add that the Brisbane City Council, despite its favourable circumstances, has failed to take planning to the people, or indeed to engage in any significant development planning other than the periodic colouring of areas in maps as required by statute. With the introduction of the Federal Department of Urban and Regional Development and its policy to assist the States and local government in the promotion of regional development one finds the objective of achieving equality of living standards generally as between regions throughout the 
State. (Quorum formed) Councils today, both metropolitan and country, look to the Federal Department of Urban and Regional Development as a body with which problems that form part of a regional context such as planning, decentralisation, consideration of, and access to, the nation's finance, that are so important to the orderly planning and development of this country, will be able to be discussed. 
Does the Minister for Immigration recall my question of 30 May last and my suggestion that Commonwealth instrumentalities such as the PostmasterGeneral's Department and the Defence Department should set an example in teaching English to migrant employees. Has any progress been made in this direction? 
On 2 December 1972, the Government established the Department of Aboriginal Affairs incorporating the former Office of Aboriginal Affairs with a large part of the Welfare Division of the Northern Territory Administration. Prior to this action, in 1967 the Holt Government set up the Council of Aboriginal Affairs as a result of a referendum held in May 1967. The Council for Aboriginal Affairs advised the government on all 
Aboriginal matters. When the present Government came to office on 2 December 1972 the Department of Aboriginal Affairs was formed with the Minister in charge being  Mr Bryant,  the present Minister for the Capital Territory, who is present in the chamber this evening. The Minister announced an intention to establish a consultative group of Aborigines from all parts of Australia which was to advise him on programs and policies for Aboriginal advancement. 
As we all know, the interim National Aboriginal Consultative Committee held its inaugural meeting in Canberra between 21 and 23 February when it elected a steering committee to develop proposals for the consultative group's structures and method of representation. The powers that the 1967 referendum had sought and obtained were really never exercised by the Holt, Gorton and McMahon Governments. All matters with regard to health, education and housing for Aborigines remained as they were. No alteration was made. In speaking to the Aboriginal Affairs (Arrangements with the States) Bill 1973 on 25 September last I pointed out to the House that between 1967, being the year of the referendum, and 1973 a total of $170,478,000 was appropriated for Aboriginal affairs, excluding the amount that was appropriated in the Budget this year. This amount allocated by the Commonwealth to the States over the period 1968 to 1972 was such that one would have thought that considerable improvement would have been evident in the Aboriginal way of life and that health, education and housing over this period would have been greatly improved. 
But when one considers this amount and discusses it with officers of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, the State Ministers who control Aboriginal affairs and the various organisations that play a part with regard to Aborigines, one realises that $170,478,000 spent over the 5 years, in view of the requirements of the Aborigines and the outlandish places where they live - I refer to the farflung places - and the problems they had with the Government trying to better their conditions, was not all that much. I think it will be found that when everything is finalised there will not be very much left over out of the amount that has been appropriated for Aboriginal affairs this year if we are to do a good job and if we are to see that the Aboriginal way of life is improved. There has been evidence in recent years of an increasing consciousness of the right of Aboriginal Australians to a choice as to the type of future that Government policies are designing for them. Change from the assumption that our society is entitled to expect of Aborigines the supreme flattery of imitation has been very slow. 
I return to what was said by John Gorton when he expressed the view that without destroying our Aboriginal culture we want to help our Aborigines to become an integral part of the rest of the Australian people. He said that we want the Aborigines themselves to have a voice in the pace at which this process occurs.  Mr McMahon  said 'We believe that Aborigines must be helped to take an increasing part in the management of their own affairs.' If this is the case, one cannot understand why those thoughts and intentions were not put into operation. The power to do so was in the hands of the Holt, Gorton and McMahon Governments respectively. They had the power as a result of the referendum. Right up to the change of government the Aborigines were involved only as passive recipients and at most were invited to endorse programs approved for them. If one reads the speech of the previous Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant),  dealing with the estimates for the Department, one will see that there is incorporated in that, as has been mentioned tonight, approximately 19 pages listing organisations, works, etc. on national and State levels to which $170m has been appropriated in previous years. The amount appropriated this year to practically the same organisations is also shown. 
It would seem that in many instances better use could have been made of the money allocated and that the functions of many of the State organisations seem to overlap. This is the first impression one obtains on studying these figures. Having regard to the problems confronting Aborigines - the vastness of the country, housing, health and education - we should ask ourselves whether we could have done the job any cheaper? I do not think we could have. I think that if we are to maintain the level of assistance to Aborigines the amount that has been appropriated this year will just about cover what we require to do. On a recent trip to Moree, Dubbo and Mungundi as a member of the House of Rep resentatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs I found that health and sanitation in these places were at their lowest ebb. Some years ago there was a flood at Moree. The Minister for Youth and Community Services in the New South Wales Government - I will not mention any names - went up there and decided that the Aborigines had to be shifted because they were in a flood area. He purchased about a dozen caravans with a promise) 
 Apparently there were 20 caravans. The State government had much more money than the Federal government at that time. He purchased about 20 caravans. These Aborigines were settled in the 20 caravans with the promise that within 4 or 5 months or possibly a little longer houses would be built for them. The caravans are still there - what is left of them, together with the galvanised iron shacks that have been built around some of the caravans, and the rag tents that have followed the galvanised iron shacks. It is a disaster area. No effort has been made by the State to improve this situation in any shape or form. With the introduction of the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee, which divides the Commonwealth into 41 electorates, we hope that many of the problems that now exist in regard to Aborigines will be overcome. At last the Aborigines will be able to submit their problems to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs as a result of complaints coming from the various areas. We have much more chance of meeting their requirements than under the old system under which we depended upon rumours and so forth coming in. 
In addition to the many State and Federal organisations which have been set up for Aborigines, we now have coming into being such organisations as Applied Ecology Pty Ltd, Aboriginal and Island Products Pty Ltd and Aboriginal and Island Marketing Pty Ltd which, of course, have ventured into the field of turtle and crocodile farming mainly for the purpose of benefiting the Aboriginal by keeping him employed, while at the same time providing a product for export. I am sure that the public at large does not know the amount of work being done at the present time in relation to Aborigines by organisations and institutions set up by the Commonwealth Government and the States. 
And the previous Government. These organisations include the Sacred Sites for Aborigines Committee and the Committee on Linguistic Studies. All of this work is very important to the Commonwealth because with the mining interests going into these areas of Australia, such .things as sacred sites and Aboriginal dialects will become a thing of the past. Australia today has to preserve the history of its own race. We feel that the NACC will play a major part in indicating what is best for the Aboriginal race and that it will keep the Minister advised in regard to health, education, housing and possible employment ventures. The cost of the introduction of the NACC is possibly a little high, but at least what previous Prime Ministers have spoken of - letting the Aboriginal decide his own life - will now come about and the Aboriginal will have a say in his own affairs. 
The last point on which I would like to touch is that in 1952, following the discovery of minerals in the Arnhem Land Reserve, the Commonwealth Government decided that prospecting for and mining of minerals on reserves would be permitted as a matter of national interest. To compensate Aborigines for the loss of their exclusive use of reserve land and the disturbance of their way of life, a trust fund was established in the Northern Territory into which royalties from minerals mined on reserves were to be paid. This fund was set up under section 21 of the Northern Territories (Administration) Act and was originally called the Aboriginals (Benefits from Mining) Trust Fund. The Fund was and is a trust account for the purpose of Section 62A of the Audit Act. Considerable sums of money have been paid into this trust account as a result of mining activities. Once again it has become the responsibility of the Minister to ensure that these royalties are disposed of in such a way that the Aboriginal will benefit from the mining of his land. The Minister now has the power - the legislation has been amended - to decide how he wants this Fund dealt with. We feel sure that the royalties derived from these mining interests will add to the comfort of the Aboriginal and give him a lot of the things of which he has been deprived for many years. 
I support the Bill. I feel that the amount of money which has been appropriated is not too much. It is to go to a good cause. It will preserve our heritage. If we do not do these small things - they are small compared with the millions of dollars that we spend on other things - we will be sorry in years to come for not having preserved our heritage. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Housing and Construction. Is there any information to show a sharp deterioration in housing construction in Australia? If so, what can be done about arresting this trend? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Housing and Construction. It is a fact that the Minister recently officially opened the North Rocks Defence Service homes scheme which, when completed, will provide hundreds of top quality homes for eligible applicants at prices very much below the ruling market rates? In view of the benefits accruing to these applicants, has the Minister considered any plans to extend to a much wider range of people good quality homes in planned surroundings at prices which they can afford? In other words, if the Defence Service Homes Section of his Department can organise the construction of such high quality buildings and achieve very worthwhile economies of scale, what is to stop the Government attempting to extend these benefits to a greater number of people in the community? 
-Did the Prime Minister announce before the last election that he would legislate to allow for the payment of certain social security benefits to be credited direct to a beneficiary's credit union savings account? If so, has he made any progress in this matter? 
In July 1973 an amount of $4m was allocated to the State of New South Wales as a grant for the purpose of building a new teaching hospital at Westmead in New South Wales. At the time the allocation was made it was estimated that the proposed hospital would cost $40m. It is now estimated that it will cost $60m and, possibly, before it is completed it will cost well over that figure. The health of the people living in the western area of metropolitan Sydney is at present cared for by 4 hospitals, situated at Penrith, Blacktown, Parramatta and - although to a lesser degree - at Windsor. The 4 areas cover a population of 536,000, well over half a million people. Within this area is Parramatta, which has a population of 140,000 with an annual increase in population of 1,400; there is Blacktown, with a population of 160,000 and an annual increase of 10,000; there is the Hills area with a population of 70,000 and an increase of 5,000 each year; Penrith, with a population of 70,000 and an annual increase of 5,600; Windsor with a population of 16,000 with an annual increase of 800, and the Holroyd area of 80,000 population and an annual increase in population of 2,500. The total population of the western area at present, as I have said, is 536,000 with an annual increase of 25,300. So, the 4 hospitals have a tremendous task to meet with regard to hospitalisation. 
In order to relieve the situation, in 1965 - 9 years  ago-  the hospital at Blacktown was built by the New South Wales Government. However, housing commission development, war service homes development and development by private enterprise have created a situation which is becoming practically impossible to handle as it relates to hospitalisation. Over this period of 9 years, the Mount Druitt area within the Penrith-Blacktown area progressed from rural-country to an area with a population of 60,000 - an impossible situation for the Penrith and Blacktown hospitals to handle. Small additions and renovations have been carried out at the Parramatta and Windsor hospitals but the annual increase in the population of this area has far outstripped the ability of the hospitals to cope with the present situation. 
At the moment, the western area of Sydney is over 2,000 hospital beds short of requirements. We find that in the Parramatta area the average waiting time to gain admission to the Parramatta hospital can be from 5 weeks to 6 months, except in cases of emergency. Parramatta averages 120 to 150 road casualties each weekend. In addition, it averages 160 medical casualties each weekend so that it is averaging, overall 250 to 300 casualty cases every weekend. As can well be imagined, the weekend pressure on staff extends into the normal hospital service on Monday and later in the week, adding further strain to hospital staff and administration. The daily average of occupied beds at the Parramatta Hospital is 226.5. The total number of patients treated over a 12-month period was 9,385. The number of registered outpatients increased to 64,288 as compared with 60,786 for the previous year. Most general practitioners today will not treat pensioners. Therefore, pensioners line up at these hospitals for treatment and in many instances wait all day and possibly two to 3 days before they receive treatment. The same set of circumstances exists at the Penrith, Blacktown and Windsor hospitals. 
The Camperdown children's hospital, an average of 20 miles from the centre of the western metropolitan area, where these 4 hospitals are situated, averages 100 to 150 child cases each day from this western area. As can be appreciated, with an average annual increase in population within this western area of 25,000 people, practically all of whom are young people with young families, the probems associated with the hospitalisation and care of children are practically impossible to surmount. The hospitals I mentioned are not equipped with the necessary specialists to deal with child cases and their journey to Camperdown hospital of 20 miles becomes a nightmare to the parents of the children, with waiting time after they get to the hospital creating a tremendous problem. No sketch plan has been presented defining what the Westmead teaching hospital complex will be like. No road plan has been laid down. A 1,000-bed hospital requires 2.8 people per patient, not including specialists. So, a 1,000-bed hospital would require a work force of 3,000 people and the traffic created by a hospital of this size would be tremendous. There would need to be a lot of planning before the hospital was built. One wonders what has been done in this connection by those concerned within the New South Wales Government, particularly the State Minister for Health. 
The Australian Labor Party realised years before the 1972 election that these problems existed and emphasised the fact that on taking office its first consideration would be a grant to commence construction of the Westmead teaching hospital and to relieve the position with regard to hospitalisation within the area as quickly as possible. So, as I mentioned, in July 1973 a grant of $4m was made by this Government to the New South Wales State Government for the purpose of enabling the State Government to commence as quickly as possible the task of overcoming the problems associated with the hospitalisation requirements of the 536,000 people within this western area. 
For many years the New South Wales Government has spoken of what it proposes to do. As far back as 1968 reports have appeared stating that the Government .was all bent on providing a hospital at Parramatta with all possible speed. The reports stated that the Government would approve a $40m plan, that the Sydney Hospital would be moved and made a teaching hospital, and that everything possible would be done. But today the position is still the same as it was in 1968. The only difference, of course, is that back in 1968 approximately 250,000 people were being served by these 4 hospitals, whereas today the number is 536,000. But there has been no increase in hospital facilities. 
One might ask the question: What has the New South Wales Minister for Health,  Mr Waddy,  done with this money? According to the Parramatta 'Advertiser' of Thursday, 14 February, he advised that earthworks for the gigantic Westmead teaching hospital had begun and that the State Government would call tenders for the $55m first stage of the project within 6 months. He said that the New South Wales Government would be unable to spend the full $4m voted to the project because of lack of time. He only had 9 months in which to spend it. However, he said that tenders had already been called for demolition of buildings and general site clearance. He said also that tenders would be sought for landscaping and site drainage. However, it would appear that  Mr Waddy  was creating a false impression when he said that construction had already begun. The Labor member for Parramatta stated on 28 February that the earthworks which were under way at Westmead at that time were not taking place on the main hospital site. He said that those works were the start of construction on a unit to treat emotionally disturbed children and adolescents. The question asked of  Mr Waddy  by the State member for Parramatta remains unanswered. These question is in these terms: 
On what date did the New South Wales Government make a decision to proceed with the hospital? 
On what date was the planning Committee set up? 
What expenditure has been incurred to date? 
To what stage has planning proceeded? 
Is the Government in a position to spend portion of the $4m offered by the Australian Government? 
How much is expected to be expended this financial year? 
The silence of  Mr Waddy  was very ominous. One would assume that no decision had been made with regard to the commencement date or a planning committee being set up, and that no expenditure had been made to date from the $4m allocated to the Minister. One asks: Is $2.1m of the $4m allocated for the Westmead teaching hospital to be used on additional facilities for Marsden hospital for handicapped children? Well, we do not know, but what we do know is that the Australian Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  has now decided to allocate $500,000 for extensions to the Liverpool Hospital. Apparently the reason is that the State Government does not want it for the Westmead hospital. I agree that the money should be used for such a worthy cause, because $4m cannot be left unused in a trust account when the whole of New South Wales is crying out for additional hospital facilities in every section. 
The Interim Committee on Hospitals and Health Services, which is known as the Sax Committee, has decided, following investigation, to transfer to other States another $1.5m of the $4m that was originally given to the New South Wales Minister for Health,  Mr Waddy,  so that immediate use can be made of this money which apparently the Minister for Health in New South Wales cannot use. It would appear that the people in the western portion of the metropolitan area of Sydney cannot look forward to any of the relief of their hospital situation which has been promised to them since 1968. They cannot look forward to any relief from waiting from a week to 6 months before they can gain admission to hospital. Pensioners who line up for treatment and wait one, 2 and 3 days can be given no relief. No relief can be given to the hundreds of mothers who have to take their children 20 miles to the Camperdown Children's Hospital each day because no hospital in their area has the necessary consultants who can deal with their children's sicknesses. 
It appears that no preparations have been made for the construction of this hospital. When one considers that a hospital of this size needs ingress and egress roads, that it will employ 3,000 people and that it requires 2.8 personnel for each patient in the hospital, one realises that serious work has to be done, before we even put down the foundations of this hospital, in relation to how we are to control traffic and how we are to meet this overnight increase in population at the hospital. The public will suffer. They have suffered since 1968 in regard to this very vexed question. From the information available to date, it would appear that plans and specifications for this hospital still have not been considered. It is said that it will take at least 2 years to have a look at these and then it will take another 3 years to build the hospital, by which time it will cost $90m. So possibly we can look forward to having a hospital to relieve the present situation by 1979. In view of the fact that the population in this area is increasing at the rate of 25,000 people a year, the health situation to which we can look in this area in the years to come is one of chaos. 
I am very sorry to see that it has been necessary . for the Australian Minister for Health to decide, much against his will, to transfer money from the New South Wales Minister for Health to the extent of $1.4m because that money cannot be used. The Minister cannot leave the money there; he must use it elsewhere. I agree with that. So this amount of money, which was so generously allocated to meet the tremendous problems of hospitalisation existing today in that area, has been reallocated because of the inefficiency of the New South Wales Government and particularly because of the inability of the New South Wales Minister for Health to foresee the situation and to give to it the attention that was necessary in order to speed up the construction of this hospital as much as possible. The result is that we will lose this amount of almost $2m. 
