I wish to direct a question to the Prime Minister. Has his attention been directed to a report in the Melbourne 'Sun' on 27th February concerning the death of an 8-year-old boy while using a snorkel when swimming in 3 feet of water? Was this death due, as is claimed, to a build up of carbon dioxide in the snorkel, which was fitted with a ping pong ball valve? I was informed of this matter in a letter from one of my  constitutents,  an' 8-year-old schoolboy. I also ask whether anything can Tie done to protect all children like  him  from purchasing potentially lethal snorkels of this design. 
In his Speech the Governor-General indicated that the Government was concerned  about  the problem of drugs. Federal Ministers have conferred with State Ministers an the problem and:   . . Steps are being taken to co-ordinate  the  activities of Commonwealth and State law enforcement agencies. 
Beware! Is the problem of drugs one of law enforcement or is it one of illness and the need for medical treatment? I do not intend to enlarge on this question now as there is a Senate Select Committee inquiring into the matter. I wish to discuss another sphere of criminal activity which is far more important, or at least far more frequent than the traffic in drugs. By way of illustration might 1 suggest that there are 30 criminals in this House, that is, when the division bells rang and we are all assembled. I can name at least four of the criminals - they are amongst the medical practitioners in the House - but although I cannot so confidently name the remainder individually, in total I am sure there are at least 30 in this House. We - and I include myself - are guilty of an indictable offence because we have taken part in activities which are proscribed in the following terms. 1 will quote from the New South Wales Crimes Act which, apart from one notable exception, holds in rather similar terms for all the other States of the Commonwealth. Section 82 of that Act states: 
Whosoever, being a woman with child, unlawfully administers to herself any drug or noxious thing, or unlawfully uses any instrument or other means, with intent in any such case to  procure  her miscarriage, shall be liable to  penal  servitude for 10 years. 
Section 83 goes on: 
Whosoever unlawfully administers to, or causes to be taken by, any woman, whether with child or not, any drug or noxious thing, or unlawfully uses any instrument or other means, with intent in any case to procure her miscarriage, shall be liable to penal servitude for 10 years. 
Finally we come to section 84  -  and this is where we mostly come into it. It states: 
Whosoever unlawfully supplies or procures any drug or noxious thing, or any instrument or thing whatsoever, knowing that the same is intended to be unlawfully used with intent to procure the miscarriage of any woman, whether with child or not, shall be liable to penal servitude for S years. 
The notable exception is South Australia, but the change in the law there is so recent that my claim and my figures have not yet been changed by the enlightened views in that State. 
There are probably anything from 50,000 to 100.000 illegal abortions performed in this country every year. Those figures are based on estimates derived from police and hospital records, comparisons with other countries such as the United Kingdom and the United States of America, and an analysis of studies such as the Kinsey report. It is popularly thought that most illegal abortions are performed on girls - young, irresponsible and leading a life of promiscuity and so deserving of the fate which might await to punish them. Tragically, the facts are to the contrary. Over 70% of abortions are performed on married women. Over 25% of all married women have an abortion performed at some stage of their married lives. 
Whilst in the case of the young single girl there may be no-one concerned other than herself and her boyfriend, and perhaps a doctor or another friend who has been through it all before, see how the numbers mount up, for they are all guilty for having helped her procure her abortion. In addition, the parents are also often involved. In the case of the married woman, usually with several children, her husband almost invariably knows. Once again there are the various contacts who help them to find the abortionist. Thus honourable members understand the reason for my assertion that in this House there are probably 30 people guilty of the offences I have mentioned. 
As an aside, it is interesting to recall my own and most other young doctors' experiences of abortions when on duty at a large public hospital. We ail knew and expected the women to start coming to the casualty department, bleeding, on Friday evening and Saturday morning. Funny how it was always Friday afternoon or evening when the poor woman stood on a chair to reach a high cupboard and fell off, or tripped when carrying the weekend shopping home, or fell over a toy one of her children had left on the floor, lt was always the same story. The truth, of course, is that they were not spontaneous abortions at all but were induced by the woman herself, a neighbour or a regular backyarder. The operation is performed on Friday so that if the woman has to be admitted to hospital - or in any case so that she can rest a bit and recover - her husband is home to look after the house and the children. If all goes well, by Monday morning it will be work as usual. But back to the reasons for bringing up this whole sordid business, for sordid it is as the sickening inquiry into allegations of police corruption in Victoria now in progress bears witness. Of aH those who I suggest are technically guilty in this House I am sure not one feels guilty, and not one would hesitate to act in a similar fashion again in the appropriate circumstances. 
What of the women themselves who, in the main, are married with other children? I am sure that very few, if any, ever feel guilty as far as the criminal law is concerned. That is not to say that some do not sometimes later regret the abortion. That is inevitable; it is in the nature of all human decisions and actions. But that is not guilt. That is not justification for a law to make such an action a criminal offence. In any case, real feelings of guilt are rare. A study has shown that in the small minority who were depressed after the abortion there was clear evidence of depression and guilt beforehand. Thus, despite all the laws and all the religious and moral arguments, the fact is that more than 20% of the population, at a conservative estimate, has been actively associated with illegal abortions. Surely this is an unreal situation, created by laws which have no relation to people and their needs. 
Over recent years several surveys have been conducted in this country on the question of abortion. In October 1967 a survey of 1,100 people indicated that 64% felt that abortion should be legal in certain circumstances, whilst 27% were against abortion. The remaining 9% were unable to make up their minds. Amongst Anglicans 69% favoured legalised abortion whilst at that time  -  24 years ago, before the extensive public debate that has ensued recently - 49% of Catholics were in favour of legalised abortion, 40% were against it and the remainder could not make up their minds. It is interesting to compare those findings with those in the United Kingdom in 1965 when 75% of Anglicans and 60% of Catholics were in favour of legalised abortion in certain circumstances. 
In 1968 the Victorian Branch of the Australian Medical Association conducted a survey of all doctors in Victoria. Briefly the result was as I shall indicate. Replies were received from 2.432 of the 3,843 doctors surveyed. Of the doctors who replied 77% considered that the laws relating to abortion should be liberalised and 88% of doctors felt that abortion should be legalised if there was risk to the physical or mental health of the mother. Eighty per cent felt that risk of serious foetal abnormality was justification for abortion whilst 54% felt that socio-economic factors could be sufficient justification for legalised abortion. A surprisingly large number  -  26% - felt that a simple request from a woman was sufficient justification for an abortion. So we have the incongruous position where the majority of the population has clearly indicated through surveys that it is in favour of legalised abortion. 
In practice we have more than 20% of the population actually and unashamedly breaking the law. We have some doctors regularly breaking the law, either by finding ready excuses to perform curettes  when  pregnancy might be doubtful or inserting intra-uterine devices when pregnancy might be feared. Most of the other doctors, not prepared to take such positive action, quite knowingly refer their patients to colleagues prepared to perform abortions.  I  would go so far as to say that if  a  doctor claims that he has never helped a woman to have an abortion he must have sent away at some time a woman in great suffering without helping her. In the eyes of the inhuman laws of this land he might be innocent but by any other human criteria he must be guilty of shirking his full responsibility as a doctor. 
In addition to ordinary people and doctors by their actions indicating their feelings, organised groups within the community have advocated liberalisation. Amongst these are the Melbourne Diocesan Synod and the Department of Christian Citizenship of the Methodist Church of Victoria and Tasmania. These have been supported by the Council for Civil Liberties, the Presbyterian Church of Victoria and Tasmania and the Victorian Branch of the Australian Medical Association. The Victorian Branch of the Australian Association of Social Workers has come out strongly in favour of change in order to 'reduce the social and psychological problems and remove the criminal status from otherwise law abiding and conscientious citizens'. 
With community feelings running contrary to the law what is the position of the law enforcement agencies? It may be stressing the obvious but nonetheless it seems essential to say that policemen are men before they are policemen. They are fathers, husbands, lovers before they are law enforcers. They are related to, associated with, responsible for pregnant women no more or less often than any other male in the community. One has to assume that policemen are no less aware of abortionists than any other males in the community. Clearly there are many policemen who know about abortionists but who clearly have not done anything about enforcing the law in relation to abortionists. They have not been taking bribes. Even at the inquiry in Victoria only a handful of police are accused of taking bribes but I have no doubt that many more know about the abortionists. How many police have been taking bribes rs irrelevant to me. It has not been proved that any have taking bribes and at the same time they important fact is that most of the police who must know about abortionists have not been taking bribes and at the same time they have not been implementing the law. Why? I suggest that they have not implemented the law because they are normal, warm, compassionate men. They are deliberately turning a blind eye to the law breakers because they know that the law is intolerable, even though if this could be proved they would stand the risk of being charged with not doing their duty. 
What are the effects of this ridiculous situation? Due to the fact that women demand the right to have an abortion they will inevitably find some way to achieve this in certain circumstances. If legally qualified medical practitioners cannot do it legally, some will do it illegally - at a price. If a legally qualified medical practitioner is not available some women will attempt to induce an abortion on themselves or they will persuade their husbands to try or they will go to some neighbour or backyard abortionist. At all levels, because of the illegality of the situation, bribery, corruption and extortion add to the misery and suffering, the feelings of anxiety and fear. To all this is added the increased risk of infection, severe illness, permanent damage or even death for some women when the operations are performed in poor surroundings or by unqualified people. To cap it all the community is dismayed by the hypocrisy at all levels and views the law enforcement agencies with scorn, ls it any wonder that the young despise law and order? Paradoxically I have suggested at all levels that the seemingly guilty are not guilty. Whilst some police might take bribes, most ignore the law because they are reasonable and humane. Whilst some doctors charge exorbitant fees to do illegal abortions, most doctors in fact implicate themselves - they break the law - without any financial return but only because they are humane and wish to help. Many men and women in the community break the law not because they are promiscuous and irresponsible but because they are married, over stressed and desperately seek abortions as the only way out in a perfectly respectable family situation where an unexpected pregnancy threatens the health or welfare of the mother and her whole family. 
The crime is the law on abortion as it now stands in most States. Some of us in this House are criminals because we too at times help mothers, wives, daughters to obtain illegal abortions. We are responsible for this ridiculous situation because we refuse to recognise a bad law - a non-law. We refuse to recognise that such a law imposes on the community today, and always has if the truth be recognised, an impossible pattern of human behaviour. Such a law denies a basic freedom to women. It condemns them to be animals for breeding rather than free humans with a right to choose - to decide for themselves. We the politicians, in all the Parliaments of the Commonwealth, are the only ones who can change this situation. It has been said that if women were the legislators then such a law would not be on the statute books. 
I will conclude with what 1 hope will not be loo much of a shock. Sex, it seems, is here to stay. Gone are the days when women expected to do without sex if they did not wish to have babies. However, with all the care in the world and all the latest pills or devices, unexpected pregnancies will occur. Women clearly now refuse to be condemned to have babies as the price for being human and expressing their feelings normally. To women abortion is not a crime but just another phase of family planning to be utilised rarely but if all other measures have failed. We must change the law which makes us all criminals. 
I would like to deal with one or two of the comments made by the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes).  Firstly he made the bland assertion that hospitals in Australia are as good as any elsewhere in the world. I do not think there is much to this point. I do not know how this could be proved one way or the other. I would guess, from my reading, that hospitals in a place like Sweden would be rather better than ours. I suspect that many of the leading institutions in the United States of America have better standards than have Australian hospitals. On the other hand I concede that there would be some areas in the United States where the standards would not be as good as they are here. 
The position in the United Kingdom is difficult to judge. If one judges it just on buildings, then the Minister might be quite correct in claiming that in the 20 years following the introduction of the national health scheme in that country no new hospitals had been provided. The simple reason, which he seems to forget, is that the national health scheme was financed and run by a Conservative Government which had no intention of doing anything about this aspect of health care. The explanation that this lack of building is somehow the fault of the Labor Party in Britain is quite erroneous. It is the direct responsibility of the Conservative Government. Although it is recognised in every country that hospitals built in these days are built at government expense, there was a direct policy decision by the Conservative Government in Britain not to build hospitals. 
It is very difficult to judge the claim that there is a 5-year waiting period for patients who want a hernia operation. Before accepting that claim I would like to see it published in the medical Press. I would not believe it if it were merely a matter of gossip. I would be interested to learn whether a welt-known medical author stated this as a criticism of the health scheme in Britain. In any case, the Australian Labor Party is not advocating the British health scheme. We have a rather distinct scheme and an approach different to that of the British. I do not think we should be lumbered with that scheme, anyway. 
The Minister said that it was the concern of the Government to help patients meet their medical costs. Since he considered the cost of the doctors' bills has become more pressing on the community than have hospital bills, he felt that the first priority was the medical scheme. I cannot see why both the hospital and the medical1 schemes cannot be dealt with at the same time. I will not deny that the medical scheme is important. We of the Labor Party are suggesting that the difficulties of the hospitals also are important. 
The Minister also commented on the fact that recommendation No. 5 of the Nimmo Committee indicated that the States had to bear their share of the responsibility. The Committee did not suggest a take-over by the Commonwealth of all financial responsibility. Let us stop playing with words. The Nimmo Committee report suggested 5 or 6 different ways in which conditions in public hospitals could be stabilised so that fees would not rise and so on. But who is fooling whom? If the cost of running hospitals goes up and if we do not expect patients to pay more directly, where the blazes are the State governments to get the money from? Quite clearly it will have to be paid out by the Commonwealth Government. The Minister can have it whichever way he likes; 1 do not mind. The fact is that increased taxation revenue will have to be provided to run State hospitals. 
Money, money, money, money; that is all one hears when the hospital crisis in Australia is discussed. I am not suggesting that there is no crisis. Of course there is a crisis. It is a reflection of the rapidly increasing cost of highly technical and specialised medical care. It is not that doctors are extravagant or that hospitals are inefficient; the crisis has come about because patients or potential patients, such as other honourable members and I. are demanding increased standards of medical care, particularly in the public hospital sector. This demand is not just a whim of the Labor Party or of the Red raggers. It is what all of us expect. In fact, there is the same trend elsewhere in the world. The Minister also pointed this out and I do not deny it. 
Briefly, I suggest that this crisis could be minimised if the Government recognised that the present financial arrangements are extremely wasteful. If one analyses the finances of the hospitals one finds that taxation of one sort or another provides almost 90% of their income. This figure is arrived at by including the taxation contribution that is provided via the States. It is of no good to say that that is not a Commonwealth contribution. I admit it is not a direct contribution; it is an indirect one because the States get their money from nowhere but the Federal Government. They do not get it from outer space. Added to that form of contribution is the money provided by the Commonwealth by way of benefits or direct grants, and then there are the so-called voluntary benefit contributions. It is said that they are voluntary, but how voluntary are they? If a person who does not belong to a so-called voluntary benefit organisation becomes ill and has to go to hospital, he cannot claim the Commonwealth contribution although he has already paid for it by way of taxation. So there is nothing voluntary about the scheme at all. If all these payments are added together it is really the Commonwealth Government which provides, through taxation revenue, 89% of the running expenses of public hospitals. The figure is near enough to 90%. 
I shall make one suggestion which would improve the situation without increasing the payment from the pockets of the people. After all, this is the important thing, lt is of no good saying that something would be cheaper for the Government. The important question is this: What is cheaper for the community? Without increasing the pay-out from the individual's pocket but simply by eliminating the administrative expenses of the voluntary benefit funds, the Government could save the community an enormous amount of money. The Nimmo Committee indicated at page 45 of its report that administrative expenses amount to from 11% to 13% of the contribution income of the various benefit organisations. This amounts to at least $10m a year, which is not a bad sum. The Minister commented in his speech to the effect that the House was not discussing the Nimmo report. He said that the Nimmo report did not back the Labor Party. I draw his attention to some of the comments which appear at page 70 of that report where it refers to a comparison of the Canadian and Australian systems. I will read some extracts from this section of the report. The second recommendation of the Committee includes these words:  employer deduction of health insurance premiums from employees' pay is of great value in reducing the cost of collecting premiums and in saving employees from suffering loss of coverage through omission to pay contributions; 
The Government does that now in the field of income tax. What the Committee actually says in this respect is that direct taxation is the best way of collecting the money. It means nothing else. The next point I refer to in the report reads:  competition for membership between insurance organisations adds considerably to the cost of providing a health insurance service and for this reason is being terminated in the Canadian system: 
The corollary, of course, is that there should be no competitive organisations. There should be a national health insurance scheme run by the Government. There is no doubt about that. Of course, the Committee could not say that because under its terms of reference ils recommendations had to be within the framework of voluntary health insurance. The economies effected in reducing administrative expenses by simply paying the money direct to the hospitals instead of having patients pay the fees and having the hospitals send out accounts and fill in forms for patients would lead to an enormous improvement in the financial circumstances of the hospitals without taking one cent extra from the pockets of the community. Surely this is what we are talking about. To dwell on the virtues of a scheme simply because it is qualified by the word 'voluntary' is sheer nonsense and humbug. The reality of the matter is that the money has to come out of our pockets. We should be seeking the most efficient way of doing this without increasing the cost to the community. We can do it by making sure that the hospitals get their money with a minimum of administrative complication. 
I address a question to the Minister for Health. What are the morbidity and mortality rates for common operative procedures such as tonsillectomy, appendicectomy, hernia and gall bladder operations in major Australian public hospitals? How do these rates compare with those in equivalent hospitals in the United Kingdom, the United States of America, Sweden and Canada? If these details are not known to the Minister, on what scientific verifiable criteria is he able to assert, as he did on 15th April last in this House and again today, that our hospitals are as good as those in other countries? 
1 would like to refer to a remark made by the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  on 15th April in this House. He said: 
. my own personal observations thai the system under which we have provided hospital beds and hospital standards in Australia over the years has created a situation which is as good as any I have seen anywhere in the world. 
Today we on this side of the House asked a series of questions which were at times, I. felt, considered to be rather frivolous by some honourable members on the other side of the House. However they were quite frankly related to the question of the quality of hospital care. I would like to read to honourable members some comments made on this very question, which highlights the points we were attempting to bring up. Firstly, 1 would like to read from the 'Medical Journal of Australia' of 7th March 1959 an article in which a surgeon discussed the problem of surgical audit. He commenced by quoting an article from an American journal called 'Hospitals', and then said this: 
If the financial records of any hospital were audited as casually and as ineffectively as is the quality of its patient care, the Administrator and the Governing Board would probably land in gaol. Or barring such an unfortunate happening, the least they could hope for would be financial chaos, unpaid bills, and a richly deserved reputation for business incompetence. 
Actually there is much more reason to do a continuing and adequate medical audit in a hospital than there is to keep meticulous and informative financial records. The medical audit deals with the life and health of people: The financial audit is concerned only with money. 
Further on in this article the surgeon quotes from the handbook issued by the American College of Surgeons - hardly a Communist front organisation. From that publication he quotes as follows: 
The medical audit is the definitive tool of the medical staff in carrying out its most important function - maintenance of standards of practice. Contrary to common opinion, it is not a device for catching rascals. Its real purpose is to systematically review hospital medical practice through medical record, in order to learn from the experience therein recorded. 
The surgeon concluded this article by saying: 
Surgical audit is possible, easy and essential for proper surgical care. It is the handmaiden of the philosophy of 'the search for perfection'. 
In a subsequent article he discusses the technique of surgical audit and he produces graphs and those sorts of things to show frequency of operations, frequency of complications and the various ways whereby these things can be analysed. He concludes with this remark: 
Diagnostic inaccuracy, superfluous, unnecessary, useless and even harmful operations, will never be eliminated. Infected wounds, post-operative chest complications and post-operative deaths will always present a challenge to the surgeon. Nevertheless, many of the hazards of operation, both technical and intellectual, can be counted, and improvement often follows counting and constant review. 
I should like to emphasise that that is the main point we were trying to make in our questioning of the Minister, lt is not enough to say - because of I am not sure what - that this country's hospital standards are as good as anywhere else in the world. How docs the Minister know? On what basis does he make such a judgment? 
should now like to quote from a man who, al the time he made the speech, was the  President  of the New South Wales Branch of the British Medical Association. In 1961, referring to the manner in which hospital medical staff discussed all manner of things relating to the mechanical functioning of the hospital, he said: 
However, there is practically no attempt made- 
And this is in Australia -  to assess the results being obtained by individual members of the staff in the management of their patients, or to lay down what procedures any individual member may or may not undertake in patient care. 
The next quote is crucial. He said: 
In fact, in hospitals, both large and small, the board of governors has no assurance whatever that the medical staff is securing results which conform to approved standards, or that each patient is being treated with a degree of efficiency and safely that the patient has a right to expect. This is a weakness- 
And this is not me talking, but the New South Wales President of the British Medical Association not so long ago -  in our system which, in my opinion, the profession must attempt to correct if we wish to avoid more direct government interference in the practice of medicine within ihe hospitals, lt is quite unrealistic for the profession to expect to avoid  nationalisation of hospital services if it is unwilling to assume its obligation to the community in this respect. 
I suggest that that obligation by the medical profession has not yet been undertaken. 
Perhaps in a way what I am saying is that the questions we asked were not really a criticism of the Minister but a criticism of the advice he has been given which has lulled him into the complacent feeling that the standards in our. hospitals are adequate enough. Here I am quoting experts in the field, recognised within the medical community in this country, who quite readily admit that the standards within our hospitals are not good enough. The article is relevant in making a comparison of our standards with the standards of other countries. It is based on standards which should be attainable by the medical profession and indicates the way we are falling down in attaining these standards. ) will conclude with another quote from the same gentleman who indicates, perhaps in an oblique way, a comparison wilh other countries. He states: 
In the United States of America there are many variations in methods of hospital staffing; but it is probably true to state that in all except small country district hospitals, the 'continental' system of staffing is the pattern. 
That is the pattern of staffing practised in European countries. He continues: 
In this system there is a chief of staff, and a chief of each main service, such as general medicine, general surgery, radiology . . . Furthermore, the performance of each member, in regard to the end results of this treatment, is subject to the critical review of his peers and discussed when necessary at staff meetings. Continued appointment or promotion depends on satisfactory performance and ethical conduct. 
I hope these remarks have helped to clarify some of the points we were attempting to elucidate in the questions we asked this morning. We have not been trying to pour scorn on the Minister but have been trying to make the community outside as well as the members of (he Parliament aware of the shortcomings within the hospital service and the things which medical authorities everywhere in the world - on both sides of the Iron Curtain if we want to worry about that, too - now recognise as requiring steps to be taken to ensure the best possible standards in the functioning of hospitals. I do not believe that we can continue to parrot the statement that the standards in this country are as good as any anywhere else in the world. There is a lol of evidence to suggest that as good as we might like to think them they are not as good as they should be. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to speak briefly on merely one aspect of this Bill, namely, the composition of the Australian Film Development Corporation. 1 do not think that much disagreement exists about the need for this Bill and all the things that we hope it will achieve. But I think we ought to bear in mind that, in recent years, a steady decline has taken place in the large film groups producing films. Hollywood is on the decline if we look at it in terms of the great extravaganzas that used to be produced. The great stars of just a few years ago are no so important as they were once. We often find that the stars of the films that are most successful these days do not even receive a fee. They become a part of the production unit and they draw their dividend, as it were, if the film is successful. Such is the precarious nature of the film industry. lt is interesting lo note also that some of the most popular films these days are productions made on a shoestring. By that I do not mean films that are cheap and nasty, lt is a comparative term. I am not suggesting that the sum of money involved is under $100,000. Let us consider some of the films made in this more modest way which are competing successfully with films which cost millions of dollars to produce. Some of the films that we recognise as being popular today include 'Midnight Cowboy', 'The Graduate' and 'Easy Rider'. These are modest productions by Hollywood standards. One has to try to analyse what this development might mean. I think that the reason for the popularity of these films is that the age of the theatregoer is falling. Older people tend to remain at home and observe the films on the 'telly' in the luxury of their lounge rooms or wherever the television set may be. The age of the filmgoer is tending to fall, lt is perhaps less than 30 years of age. 
Surprisingly, young people are not interested in frivolous films. They seem to be interested in films with social commentaries, even films with severe, unrelenting, highly critical commentaries of many of our accepted hopes and values. I think that all of the films that I have mentioned come into that category. So if we look at what wc are trying to do in Australia it would seem that the need is not to encourage the super-duper feature film. This inevitably will mean supporting large production facilities and so on, or even overseas groups coming to Australia to make films here. As a comment on this I wish to quote from an article by Sylvia Lawson in a journal published late last year. Commenting on this sort of film she said: 
The overstrained, manufactured Australianism of 'Agc of Consent' should be enough to convince any adult filmgoer of the total inadequacy, so far as Australian self-interpretation is concerned, of the British- or American-based film project which uses Australia as a location. The fact thai this film is doing roaring business here at present does not disprove my point; it rather suggests the extent of audience-hunger to see Australian backgrounds, Australian life and performers on the screen. Audiences will accept hackneyed crudities in this sort of supposedly 'Australian' work which they will hiss off the screen, or simply walk out of, if they appeared in overseas productions; behind that fact lies a tragic cultural irony. 
I think that what we must seek to do with this Corporation is to encourage small independent original groups of film makers. This brings me to the point that 1 want to raise and at which we on this side of the House have already hinted. I refer to the composition of the Australian Film Development Corporation. 1 am fearful that, in the way in which it is stated in the Bill, though the appointees - the people selected, on 1 am not quite sure whose recommendation, by the Governor-General - may be very worthy -people, there is no guarantee that they will know anything about film production. I am prepared to accept that in fact, in view of the apparent interest of the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton),  the Corporation may well be the right honourable gentleman's baby and his prime interest. Also, I am prepared to accept that at this stage the group of advisers that he has around him may well be  -  I am nol saying that they are - the best available in the community. But that is not the basis on which a corporation such as this should be founded. After all, it is dependent on the insight of the Prime Minister. What happens if he goes and somebody with a rather narrower horizon than he has is in the position of deciding on the composition of the Corporation? Quite dearly it will be somebody like that who will decide on the composition of the Corporation. What happens if someone with rather limited horizons comes to stack the Corporation? This is something one must- worry about, and I hope that the Government will think about it a little. 
In addition - and we have also hinted at this - the claim that someone who has a financial interest in film production should therefore be automatically prevented from taking part in this Corporation is wrong. If we are to find the best available people in the country to best advise the Government on assistance for the film industry, we are most likely to find that sort of advice in the ranks of film producers, directors, actors, technicians and so forth. We are unlikely to find them in groups of laymen like myself, who have an average man's interest in these things. I am well aware of  my  shortcomings in understanding the problems of the film industry. I wish to conclude by suggesting that, as laudable as the Bill is - I am not wanting for one moment to detract from it - 1 hope that the Government will seriously consider the amendment we have suggested, which does not go as far as I would like to suggest it should go. But it at least removes the bar to the best types of people we should be encouraging to take part in the functioning of this Corporation. 
I would like to refer to the comments made by the Minister for the Navy  (Mr Killen).  He suggested that it was unwise to have on the controlling body of the Australian Film Development Corporation somebody involved in the active production of films. I cannot recall the exact words used by the Minister but he did suggest that this would not be necessary. I think he indicated that the film committee of the Australian Arts Council had recommended the present proposals and that the Government was abiding by that recommendation. I hope I am not misinterpreting the Minister. 
I do not believe that this is necessarily a strong argument against the case being put forward by the Opposition. The film committee of the Australian Arts Council is not necessarily a group of experts either. I am not saying that it is comprised of unworthy people. I do not know the exact composition of the particular Council. I am not aware whether there are expert film producers on it. However, I still adhere to the claim that we are trying to make: That if this Corporation is to judge the applicants for financial assistance from the Commonwealth fund which is to assist in the production of films - and in essence that is what it is meant to do - then surely the best judges would be people who know something about film production. 
I am aware of the feeling that there is something a bit suspicious about the idea of people actively involved in film making also being in a position to decide who should get financial assistance. I realise that this is equated with, for example, large business enterprises seeking assistance from the Government and seeking approval from a committee composed of businessmen. Quite clearly the implication would be that they would have such a vested interest that their judgment could not be impartial. 
Let us assume that one of our film experts on the Corporation had a biased view. In those circumstances I suggest that the payoff would not be such that it would have a crippling effect on the Corporation. 
What would be sought, in terms of money would not be all that much. Even if one ot the individuals involved in the judgment had some tenuous association with one of the applicants then surely there would be only 2 possibilities. The first is that the group which obtains the money, with the assistance of one of its spokesmen who are on the Corporation, might fail to produce a worthwhile film. That is one possibility and in that case the Commonwealth would lose some money. I grant that that could happen. One could hardly say that the individual on the Corporation had gained anything through giving perhaps slightly unwise advice. All he has done has been to ruin his own chances for the future. I do not feel that we have lost all that much. On the other hand, supposing that, on the advice of this gentleman, the Corporation gives some funds to a group with which he has some slight connection and it produces a significant film, then surely wc have lost nothing but have gained a lot. We have benefited from the fact that the gentleman with this intimate knowledge of film production has given wise advice. So, with all due respect to the Government's fears and suspicions, even at the worst we would lose very little, whereas at the best we would have a lot to gain. 1 suggest that the standard of (he advice would be potentially much better than if the only pool of advisers we had were people who had no intimate knowledge of film production. That is the key to the proposal that the Opposition is making. As we said before, we are strongly in favour of the Bill but we are seeking to ensure that the best possible advice is tendered to the Corporation. We suggest that t'.iis can only be obtained if the people serving on the Corporation have some intimate, direct, active working knowledge of the production of films. 
The honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  opened his speech by suggesting that a Socialist government would be determined to nationalise the medical profession, that doctors would be sent here or there to practise at their pads - they have been called drug pushers, so I presume that that is the right phrase to use - and that patients would be directed where to go. The implication is the  use of force and regimentation. That surely is a lot of rubbish. Such a feeling seems to be rather common amongst some honourable members on the other side of the House. There are several reasons why it is rubbish. First of all - no doubt the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes),  or. the Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes),  both of whom are at the table, can reassure us on this - the Constitution would not permit the nationalisation of the medical profession. I take it that that is right. The Australian Labor Party has no intention of waiting until the Constitution has been amended by referendum before it undertakes to do something about a national health scheme. There is a further and, 1 suggest, much more serious reason why we would not be in favour of nationalising the medical profession. I take it that we can all accept that the medical profession would be very unwilling servants. I am sure that I would not want to be treated by such a doctor. I am sure that no-one else in this House nor anyone in the community would, either. What confidence could one have in a doctor who is an unwilling servant? 
Apart from the law there is a perfectly valid psychological reason why we should not nationalise the medical profession. Of course, if honourable members opposite had bothered to keep up with their reading they would have noticed that that is no longer the policy of the Labor Party. The honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Buchanan)  suggested that the difficulty is that doctors' fees have been going up faster than they should have and that this has created a dreadful problem for the Government, that it has widened the gap between the actual fees and the payments from the benefit organisations and the Government. He suggests that this is imposing dreadful hardships on the community, that it is the doctors' fault and that the Government has had to do something about it. The sad reality is that this is a world-wide phenomenon. He also implied that doctors are earning a lot of cash, and he quoted a recent survey conducted by the University of Melbourne to prove this point. I do not doubt that at all. It is true. The reality is that, despite the high incomes, there are not enough doctors in this sort of Western society. Again, that situation is not confined to Australia. It is a world-wide phenomenon. 
I am not necessarily asking for more or less money for doctors. I am interested in having enough doctors for the community. It is no good belly-aching about how much money they earn or do not earn. The fact is, whatever they are earning there are not enough doctors being produced. Even worse, of those who are graduating not enough are becoming general practitioners, for very good reasons. For rather less dedication in terms of hours, with better conditions, with living in large cities and having all sorts of other facilities quite apart from their medical needs to make for a better life for them, doctors can become specialists and earn at least as much as, and often more than, general practitioners. All the incentives are against their becoming general practitioners. The community is suffering from a shortage of general practitioners. The doctors are overworked. If one goes along to see a doctor one would be lucky to spend 2 minutes with him before he started writing a prescription. It is not necessarily his fault. There may be fifty other people waiting outside in the consulting room. The reality is that the sort of medicine a general practitioner should be dealing with requires more time. He has to earn his living. At $2.80 or $3.50 a consultation, if he can push each one through in 5 minutes instead of an hour, he is obviously so much better off. These are the reasons why patients get short shrift. These are the reasons why I used the terms 'pad' and 'drug pushers'. To compensate and to cope the doctor too often is forced to prescribe a barbiturate rather than listen to the complaint. 
The honourable member for McMillan, in complaining about the Labor Party's vicious proposals, indicated that the Socialists on this side of the House had received unexpected support from the Nimmo Committee. He indicated that it was fortunate that the Government had placed restrictions on the ambit of the Committee because, if not, it no doubt would have come up with full support for the Labor Party's Socialist scheme, which is none other than a national insurance commission. I was shocked by what the honourable member said. I have noted the composition of the Committee. It included  Mr Justice  Nimmo and  Sir Leslie  Melville. I doubt whether either of those gentlemen would be a Communist or a Socialist. I suppose the culprit must have been  Mr Norman  Mcintosh. He has not a title so I suppose he must be the suspect one who wound the others around his little finger. 1 think it is an incredible suggestion that the honourable member made. If the hint - it is a very broad hint - contained in the Nimmo report is that a national health insurance scheme would be the best thing for the country, then I would suggest that that is probably what the facts show. 
One has to consider the purpose of this whole expensive exercise, the national health scheme. It costs over 6% of our gross national product these days and it may be nearer 7%. By comparison, the British scheme is rather cheaper for rather more, lt runs at about  5%.  The Americans spend over 7% on their health service. The only point I want to make out of that is that health services are expensive wherever you go. Because you have a seemingly free health scheme, in the sense that you pay for it in tax rather than by direct contributions as the British do, it does not necessarily mean that therefore it will be more expensive, that there will be runaway expenses and that people will over-use the medical profession. 1 know that that is what we all love to say and what we feel, but it just is nol true. Even in this country we have the example of the pensioner medical scheme to prove the point that I am trying to make. I give due credit to the Government for bringing in that scheme. When it was first brought in many critics claimed that the pensioners would so over use the medical profession that no-one with a real illness - because it was automatically assumed that pensioners do not have illnesses; I do not know why that assumption was made but that was the assumption - and the ordinary paying patients - this was a key matter - would be able to get anywhere near the doctors. When you look at the statistics, they appear to confirm this view. 
The usage of doctors by pensioners went up steeply and all the pessimists said: 'There you are. It will not be long and that will be the end of the doctors.' But after a few years it levelled off and it has stayed steady. In my view this means that the rise indicated the under utilisation of doctors by pensioners when they still had to pay. In fact, once their legitimate demands for medical services were met a ceiling was reached. It did not continue to snowball and in fact it was self-regulatory because no-one wants to go to see a doctor unnecessarily, lt is not km. You go because you feel you need to see a doctor, and that is a good enough reason for going to sec him. Even if there is only a fear which he is able to cure by simple reassurance, that is good enough justification for going to a doctor. 
What is the reason or the purpose tor for this whole expensive exercise confronting us in this Bill? Is it to ensure that the community has the best health services, or is it to ensure that the people can pay for whatever it is that they get? I would like to suggest that the present scheme is solely concerned with ensuring thai doctors, hospitals, chemists and all the other services covered by the scheme are paid for, irrespective of the need for the service or the quality of the service provided. Leave aside the whole question of quality and forget any doubts about that for the moment. The exercise then is to ensure that the health service providers - the doctors and the hospitals - are paid for their services, irrespective of whether the person who receives the service is rich and able to pay for himself, or poor and clearly unable to pay for himself. Let us examine the present scheme and the proposed improvements and see how they will function. 
Any patient irrespective of his income is free to go to his doctor of choice. Let us consider the doctors simply because that is an easy illustration for the whole scheme but I do not just mean doctors. The doctor is free to charge and he is expected to charge and encouraged to charge the common fee specified in the schedule, lt is true that he is not forced, but I think the moral pressure is there to impel him, to adhere at least fairly closely to the schedule, if not exactly to it. This fee is charged the patient irrespective of his, the patient's income. How is the patient, irrespective of his income, expected to pay the bill? All patients, irrespective of their incomes, are expected to subscribe to a medical benefit organisation. Irrespective of their incomes they contribute the same amount. In real terms this means that the poorer you are the more you pay. The essential thing is the final amount of money which has to pass out of your pocket for the insurance cover. As payments to benefit funds are tax deductible the poor man will get back in tax refund a negligible amount of the money he paid whilst the rich man will get perhaps half of it back. I am not concerned at the fact that a rich man pays more tax than a poor man. I accept that as I assume we all do as social justice which has motivated not only modern social welfare states but many other earlier and even ancient societies. The principle of the richer you are the more you pay' is not in question. 
I am concerned only with the specific payments for health insurance purposes. The fact remains that in a final analysis the rich pay less than the poor for their hospital and medical benefits. But let me come back to the patient paying his bill. If the theory is right, most of the bill will now be paid by the benefit organisation payment and the Commonwealth payment, leaving the patient to pay up to $5 directly out of his own pocket. Statistically, most of the medical expenses in this community are incurred by patients visiting their family doctors. The patients will expect to pay at least 80c per visit and many will have to pay more for ordinary consultations as the most common fee concept means that many fees will actually be higher, and I doubt whether doctors now charging more will bring their fees down. That is business. When we again apply to these payments the taxation rebate which will be much higher for those earning high incomes we again find the poorer sections of the community will bc paying much more for their medical services than are the wealthy sections of the community. 
I take it that the purpose of the exercise is to ensure that the doctors' bills are paid. For a given number of medical services the medical bill is a clearly defined sum. The 12,000 or so doctors will charge their fees and they will get their money. But what will the community pay? That is the question. There is no suggestion that the Government is contemplating that doctors shall receive more than they are receiving at present, though as an aside I will take a bet that if this scheme works the doctors will in fact get more than they received in the past. But I must not digress. I am sure that was not the Government's intention. The whole purpose of this exercise is to get a definite sum of money out of the pockets of patients and into the pockets of doctors, hospitals, etc. Let us examine the mechanics of the procedure. We pay taxes. A certain amount of the money we pay gets lost on the way in running the Taxation Branch. I believe it is about 2%. We pay contributions to benefit organisations. They cost money to run and that money has to come from the contributors, so it is added to the final sum which finishes up in the pockets of doctors. 
I would like to quote from an article by John Deeble in the 'Economic Record' of December 1967. He said: 
By 1965-66, operating surpluses of nearly $10m were achieved which with income from investments provided an addition of about $13.4m to reserves. The overall retention rate . . . 23.2%. 
In other words, for every SI paid in 23c- plus finished up going not to pay for the medical service but just to run the whole machine. He gave some comparisons with other countries such as America, a beautiful free enterprise community. He said: 
For non-profit hospital insurance under the large Blue Cross plans, retentions were only 7% of contribution revenue in 1961, compared with 28.1% in Australia. Relevant Canadian data are limited to medical insurance, since voluntary hospital insurance has been replaced by universal provincial hospital plans. 
The Canadians are a bit ahead of us. In 1960-61 the expense and retention ratios of Canadian non-profit medical insurance organisations were 7.9% and 15% respectively. These figures compared with 15.2% and 24.9% for their counterparts in Australia. Deeble said: 
It would be unfair to attribute these differences to the deficiences of Australian management. The whole Australian system is intrinsically expensive. 
Boy, what an under-statement! In other words, the effect of this Bill is not only to force people to pay the total hospital and medical expenses, which of course any scheme would undertake to do, but in addition for the privilege of calling it voluntary we are expected to add 25% to the total bill. How does all this differ from the Australian Labor Party proposals? For the moment I will deal not with all aspects but only with the problem of paying the doctors. There is no suggestion in our proposals that anyone will be directed to go to any particular doctor any more than under the present scheme. There is no stronger suggestion of price control than is contained in the Government proposals. In other words, we can assume that whatever are considered legitimate expenses in the Government scheme - doctors and hospital expenses, that is - the Australian Labor Party would accept. The difference between us is in the way we would collect the money from the patients. 
Firstly, we would collect it through a single collecting agency. That would save alf the running expenses of all the 114 or 120  -  however many there are - hospital and medical funds. The collection would not be On a flat rate irrespective of income so that when taxation rebates are allowed the rich pay much less than the poor. Our collection rate would be graduated according to income so that the rich pay more than the poor - a principle accepted by this Government for most of the taxation revenue in the country anyway. 
In the handling of payments to the providers of the health services, even if we do not improve on the present system one can accept the expenses of the so-called closed benefit funds now operating and show that the cost will be cut in half. Their expenses run at about 6% or 7%. This would be the effect if we were using in essence one closed fund, namely the national health insurance scheme. But the tragedy with all this discussion about money, money, money is that it is irrelevant to what should be the real concern of a national health scheme - that is the availability and quality of medical and hospital care. 
Much is made of the claim, as the Minister asserted it, if he can pause for a moment in his conversation to recall his statements in the House a couple of weeks ago, that people in the United Kingdom had to wait a long time for certain operations. The Minister made the assertion that one had to wait a long time for hernia operations in the United Kingdom and this presumably meant that people there were not getting their operations when they should. Other suggestions have been made at various times that if we had what we are proposing, the usage rate would go up. 1 have hinted at this earlier; I have tried to illustrate it with the pensioner medical scheme. Apparently, if one does not have to pay for it we would all want many more operations than we would want if we had to pay for the services. It is apparently fun to have an operation. If we do not have to pay for it, we are all in to get it. 
I would like to quote from the proceedings of the Australian Hospital Association 1969 Congress from a paper delivered by  Dr Lawson,  who is now the Director of Hospital Services in Tasmania. He discusses this business of the difference between fee for service and a salaried medical service when doctors do not get paid a fee for this service and they are paid irrespective of how much work they do or how little work they do. lt gives them a chance to indulge in the government stroke. The data was obtained,  Dr Lawson  says, from the medical benefit organisations in New South Wales and Victoria and from the Commonwealth Department of Health. He used rates amongst insured members for hernia operations, tonsils and adenoid operations, appendix operations and hysterectomies. This information, he says, was then compared with data from the United States of America and the United Kingdom, lt is done in terms of the operation rate which is expressed as the annual rate per thousand members. He says: 
With the exception of herniorrhaphy-  or hernia operations -  these particular operations were selected for study as the criteria for these operations are not clearly defined and they are the most frequent types of operations performed on a given population. Herniorrhaphy was included because the criteria for operation are relatively clearly defined  one either has a lump or one does not.  Dr Lawson  continued: 
These factors allow herniorrhaphy rales to he used as a guide to the comparability of data between countries and between methods of payment to doctors.  1 hope that honourable members have the picture - the background of the study. This is what  Dr Lawson  found in general terms: 
Operation rates for tonsillectomy,  appendicectomy,  and hysterectomy for intermediate and private patients in Australia - i.e., those who .irc cared for by doctors remunerated under an insurance supported fee for service system - appear to be much higher than for American and British patients who are cared for by physicians who do not receive fees for individual services 
Oddly enough the operation rates for hernias were similar in each category of patient. I will give some figures. In Australia, where we have our glorious free enterprise and fee for a service, the operation rate for tonsils and adenoids was 7 per 1,000 on a fee for service basis. In the United States of America, among some of these schemes that were mentioned by a previous  speaker  from this side of the House where doctors are paid a salary and where it is not a fee for service, the operation rate for the same sort of operation was only 4 per 1,000. Do honourable members opposite really mean to suggest that twice as many children in Australia get sick as children in America? In the United Kingdom where there is a free health service, the operation rate was only 3.6 per 1,000. Once again, are British children much healthier than Australian children? 
The appendicectomy rate is also striking. In Australia the operation rate on fee for service is 5 per 1,000. In America, where the doctors are paid a salary, the rate is only 1.4 per 1,000. It seems people in America are much healthier. In the United Kingdom it is only 2.5 per 1,000, and so it goes on. The interesting thing, though, is that the operation rate for hernias was much the same because there is no argument about the criteria for operations. Either one has a hernia or one has not. This brings me to the point in answering obliquely to the Minister's statement earlier about hernia operations and a patient waiting for so many years that he may well die before he has an operation. The operation rate in Australia for a hernia is 1.5 per 1,000. In the United States it was 1.9 - the same doctors pay the salary. The rate was a bit higher in the United States. In the United Kingdom it was 2. Might I suggest that on a system where doctors are paid a salary one is more likely to get the operation if one needs it. In fact, the fee for service in this situation in Australia tends to deter one even when the indication is a clear cut one. So much for the suggestion that fee for service somehow stops over-usage. 
Of course, one might argue back and say: 'That is all very well but the doctors working on a salary were not doing their job. The doctors in Australia were doing all the operations that were necessary and the lazy devils in Britain and America who were working on a salary just could not be bothered to perform operations'. In other words, the implication is that the quality of medical care is inferior if the doctors are paid a salary. One does not have to go -to Russia to find the answer to that one either; one can go to America. The whole concept of salaried service versus fee for service has been analysed. I shall read another quotation from the artitcle by  Dr Lawson: 
It has been suggested that the higher operation rates among patients receiving medical care under fee for service' arrangements reflects a higher quality of care among this group. In New York State, Shapiro et al. (1958) have demonstrated that the contrary situation exists in that community, the perinatal and infant mortality among patients receiving care from salaried doctors in group practice being substantially lower than under fee for service plans. 
He makes the point that: 
Both groups of patients were comparable from the point of view of sex, occupation and ethnic origin. 
He agrees that this is not necessarily the situation in Australia. He goes on to state:  but it does make the point that fee for service systems of medical care do not necessarily offer better quality care than a salaried service. 
In conclusion I should like to suggest that the whole business contained in this massive document - pages and pages of fee schedules - is irrelevant to the real problem facing this community in terms of health care. We can easily work out the bill. You can get the statistics - the operation rates - the patient usage of doctors. You can know the average incomes of doctors and compare them with incomes in other countries. This is not the problem and whether you pay for it on a fee for service or a salary basis - whether you have a national insurance scheme or leave it free for all as America has - it still costs a hell of a lot of money. That is a fact all over the world. It is time we started worrying about the quality of medical care and its availability. It is about time we started to analyse what people are getting and stopped worrying about what we are paying. We have to pay a lot anyway. 
The amendment proposed by the Minister for Health encompassed practically everything that the Opposition foreshadowed in its amendment. I would like to persist with a couple of points that the Minister omitted. Before I do that, I express agreement with he basic reason behind the amendment. 
I think it has something to do with the brawl that is going on over the schedule. The basic problem is one of standards. For this reason it is necessary to recognise that the Australian Medical Association is not basically concerned with standards. It is a political organisation representing the doctors as a whole. For the purpose of the Bill and the proposed committees it is quite clear that what is aimed for is some measure of the standards of the various practitioners in their various specialities. For that reason the amendment is perfectly logical. I am glad that even the AMA woke up. 1 would like to persist with Labor's suggestion that perhaps there could be a clause (f) in proposed new section 298A to include someone nominated by the State Health Departments. The committees will be established in each State and they ought to work in collaboration with and not be separate from the State health authorities. I hope that that is not a partisan point of view. The State Health Departments will be responsible for or should play a large part in keeping an eye on the registers of various specialists. We must not forget that the State Health Departments are responsible for the employment of most of these specialists, because they are working in the large public hospitals which are the responsibility of the State Health Departments as well as of the Commonwealth. Therefore [ feel that it is reasonable to include on the committees someone nominated by the State Health Departments. The Minister has also conceded the possibility of appointing specialists outside the specific precincts mentioned in the 5 groups. I would mention the anaesthetists who form part of one of the other colleges. Their interests are so different that it would be worth inviting an anaesthetist to join the committee if one is considering the problem of anaesthetists. They are encompassed in the overall umbrella of the Royal Australasian College of Surgeons. The Minister has conceded this in his last section where he states that a consultant medical practitioner with the appropriate qualifications and experience can be brought on to the committee. The Opposition certainly agrees with that. 
The group that he has omitted - although he may concede that they would be covered by the wording of the last couple of amendments - are the oral surgeons. 
I am at a bit of a loss to know what an oral surgeon really is. I think that the Minister is in the same position at this stage. Regrettably, this is a sphere that has not been defined properly by anybody. At the moment it seems that we have 2 groups of oral surgeons; we have oral surgeons who are trained dentists and also trained medical practitioners. They are in essence a specialised branch of surgeons who would be encompassed partly by the Royal Australasian College of Surgeons. What concerns me is the misty area of oral surgeons who are qualified dental practitioners and not qualified medical practitioners. I am a bit worried about how far they can extend themselves into the sphere of oral surgery. That is a necessary part of the definition, lt harks back to the point that I started out by mentioning - the whole question of standards. 
The same problem exists in the brawl relating to the 2 levels of fees depending on whether a service is provided by a general practitioner or a specialist. We have an overlapping area with general practitioners doing some things and surgeons also doing the same things. I ask: Are general practitioners properly qualified to do all those things? If they are, why should surgeons be entitled to charge more for doing the same th:ng? if general practitioners are not properly qualified to do those things, why are they doing them anyway? They should not receive any fee for doing it. They should not be allowed to do it. lt should be the prerogative of surgeons only or of people properly qualified. This is an unsatisfactory situation. Quite frankly, I do not blame the Government for it; I blame the medical profession itself. 1 think the med:ca profession has been too concerned about politicians on both sides of the House intruding into its affairs and has not been concerned enough to worry about its own affairs in terms of standards of medical practice. 
I cannot give a ready answer to the problem. I am simply indicating the doubts and sowing the suggestion that the Minister might consider including in Hie committees someone representing the oral surgeons. I must confess that I cannot give a clear definition of who they might be. The Labor Party had proposed members of the Australian Dental Association. ] think that we should all think about it a bit more, mainly because the professional groups need to think about it a bit more. In summary, the Opposition is not unhappy with the Minister's suggestions. For the sake of completeness I would suggest that the State Health Departments ought to be incorporated and that the Minister, in his further deliberations, ought to think about the oral surgeons and who they really are. 
In my earlier remarks I conceded that the amendment moved by the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  covered most of the points in my amendment. Since quite clearly the Minister's amendment will be accepted, there seems no point in pressing my amendment. I accept that it is irrelevant in view of what has transpired. The same remarks apply to my amendment No. 12. I will not proceed with them. 
I  will begin by partly answering the last challenge because it will help me to explain what I want to say about the pensioner medical scheme. Of course, our view is that the whole concept of fee for service is the most expensive way of providing a medical service. I think there is no doubt that upon studying the results of the fee for service and salaried medical services in a countrysuch as the United States of America, one will find proof of that point. So much for that. Let me now come- 
That is my inclination. I would go further. I also think one would find in hospitals proof of my contention. What is more, the medical profession will work under those conditions. For instance, nearly 40% of doctors in this country are working for salaries of one sort or another, not on a fee for service basis. The figure is well above that in America where the most popular schemes are tending to be those where doctors are paid a salary. These schemes are the cheapest whilst at the same time being the most efficient in terms of quality. 1 want to speak of the quality of medical care provided for pensioners. I am here accepting the Governments' proposition that it shall be provided on a fee for sei vice basis: 1 am not now putting my view in relation to salaried services. Let us accept the proposition, because that is what we have here, that it should be on a fee for service basis. 
In terms of our amendment, the concept of reviewing the agreement, I would take it further than our proposal does. I suggest that the fee paid for medical services to a pensioner should have a definite and constant relationship to whatever the fee might be for a non-pensioner. There should not be a discrepancy. It does not have to be identical. I am not saying that either, because I concede that the Government in paying the doctor for the pensioner service eliminates the need for a lot of his administrative cares and so on. He has no bad debts. I acknowledge that the fee the doctor receives can be less, but it should have a definite relationship. So far as the doctor is concerned the differential should be between the value of providing a service for a private patient, and what he gets for that, and what he gets from a pensioner patient. It should not be based on the possible proposition that a medical service provided to a pensioner is somehow an inferior service to the same service provided to a nonpensioner. 
The next part of the amendment deals with the problem of doctors who overtreat pensioners because it is easy money. A doctor goes into a pensioner's home and looks at somebody else in the family and gets the pensioner to sign a little chit. He gets money for that visit too. I have heard of those cases, and I may be prepared to concede that that occasionally occurs. But what worries me in relation to the majority of pensioners treated honestly by the majority of general practitioners who give them the same standard of medical care is that those doctors are paid less than the fee they would receive from an ordinary private patient who has received the same service. Tn other words, they are in a sense subsidising. I am not making a cry for doctors to earn more money. That is not the point either. What I am trying to suggest is that in terms of quality there should not be a differential. If there are some doctors who make a lot of money out of overtreating patients and so on. that is a different problem and techniques must be devised to overcome it. The honest doctor and the honest pensioner patient should not be victimised for the sharp practices of a few on either side. 
I am also aware that some pensioners quite happily go along and pester doctors more than they should because they have no social life anyway. That raises another question. It is humorous but sad that often doctors are asked to visit pensioners because pensioners are lonely. I am putting a serious case for looking into the whole aspect of pensioner medical care in the broad sense. There is a strong case, in my view, for providing pensioners with home visits of some sort so that in fact doctors do not have to fulfil that sort of requirement. This is something they do now because they need to do so medically. It is the only way of keeping these poor people sane.I hope honourable members appreciate the point I am trying to make. I hope honourable members opposite do not feel that I am getting at them politically as a member from this side of the House. That is not the point I am trying to make at all. The point is that we must guard against any feeling by either the pensioners or the doctors that the medical services provided for pensioners are somehow second rate. For that reason I think there should be a definite relationship established between the fees for pensioner medical services and the fees for ordinary medical services so that there is no possible feeling that anyone is being victimised or underpaid. 
Proposed new clause negatived. 
Proposed new clause 19b. 
I would like to discuss this Bill from the point of view of the quality of medical care and what it is we are seeking to do when we have a committee looking into the drugs that should be available under the national health scheme. Quite clearly the aim is to ensure that the drugs prescribed are the best available and, also, that some of the drugs, once accepted to be dangerous, or useless, whichever is probably more likely, are removed and no longer prescribed. I do not see this as a matter of opinion. I would even hesitate to say it should be based on clinical hunch or clinical judgement formed over a number of years without the backing of some clinical research. I say that because it is very easy for a busy doctor treating patients and not having very much time to pause and think or to analyse the results to remember the dramatic successes and completely forget the disasters. This has been shown often in many things ranging from recipes for treat:ng simple ailments up to the most complicated surgical procedures. The practitioner in that particular situation is convinced because he can recall certain dramatic events, particularly when a patient is saved, that his procedure is correct. But when one analyses the total of the results one reaches a different conclusion. I am not suggesting that this committee works solely on hunch. From what has been indicated the members of it might be the very sort of people I would want to have on it, but I think there is no harm in this sort of information being known. 
I do not really feel that pressure from the drug firms would alter the situation one iota, if they are in fact the best people for the job, because their opinion should be based upon the sort of research work which the Americans are prepared to accept with their Food and Drugs Administration which goes into a very detailed analysis of all these aspects before anything is released for use by doctors and health authorities in America. After all1 it was the care of this body that prevented the thalidamide disasters there when, I am afraid, almost every other country in the world failed. I am a little unhappy the mechanics we have set up are not clear and explicit enough to ensure that we do not fall into the sort of error that occurred then. Perhaps our committee depends largely on what happens overseas. I suspect that is true because we spend singularly little on any sort of research, in including clinical research, and the correlation of data to allow proper judgment. I would not suggest that our proposal solve the problem anyway, but it is one small step towards bringing the whole deliberative mechanism out of the darkness so that it can be seen and criticised if need be. Perhaps better suggestions could be made as to how this committee could function. I hope I am making it clear that the aim of ensuring the highest possible standards requires a certain measure of public scrutiny, not secrecy. I am not trying to cast any doubts on the quality of the men involved. But they should be known. I think I am right in saying that the British have a counterpart committee and its members are known. They are in the main academics, and their results have to stand up to criticism by other academics. I think this is the way it should be. For this reason I think our suggestion needs some support. I am also prepared to concede that there may be a lot more suggestions which could be made to improve the standards of its function. 
asked the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
Who are the members of the National Standing Control Committee on Drugs of Dependence set up at the First Ministerial Meeting in February,  1969. 
What qualifications do each of them have in the field of drugs and their abuse. 
What is a drug and what properties must it posses to justify its consideration by the Control Committee on Drugs of Dependence. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker- 

Motion (by  Dr Forbes)  agreed to: 
That (he business of (he day be called on. 
As an ex-butcher I ask the Minister for Primary Industry: What meat inspection standards are required by the United States market with which Australian mutton packing works do not comply? Do American meat packers conform to these standards? Are the standards reasonable or simply an excuse, brought about by pressure from American meat producers, to stop the importation of Australian meat? 
--In declining to recognise the need to provide a benefit for the prescription of glasses, the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  may be underrating the importance of this to patients. The Opposition sees this as an ancillary but not directly a medical service. After all', people who need glasses need them every bit as much as many people who have all sorts of minor operative and plastic procedures performed on them for which they are given the benefit of the Government's aid in the form of medical benefit. In other words, whilst the provision of glasses does not happen to be a traditional medical service in the way in which one might view a surgical procedure, the need for glasses often can be more vital for the welfare of the patient than many other medical services. However, that is probably whipping a dead horse. 
I refer now to the issue of the second proposed amendment. This relates to the omission of the words 'in an operating theatre of an approved hospital' so that dentists providing various dental services also come within the ambit of the legislation allowing such patients to receive a medical benefit. In refusing to accept this amendment the Government is hinting to dentists that they might more often treat their patients in operating theatres at hospitals rather than in their dental surgeries. Treatment in the dental surgery would be perfectly adequate, assuming that general anaesthesia is not necessary. I certainly subscribe to the view that if a patient requires a general anaesthetic it ought to be provided in an operating theatre. It should not be done by the dentist in the surgery. However there are many procedures which constitute surgical procedures which can be done quite adequately under local anaesthetic in a dentist's consulting room and which also can be done in an operating theatre. If the dentists are wide awake I am quite sure that is what they will do. So I think the Government is defeating itself by not recognising this. After all, the pro cedures can still be defined, but the Government will1 not be able to argue about whether they should best be done in an operating theatre or a dentist's surgery. If the dentist claims that an abscess is of such a dimension that he feels it would be better done in an operating theatre - in addition the patient gets a rebate - the Government will not be able to argue against that. I would like to suggest that there are other procedures also which come into the same category. I do not believe the Government would be laying itself open to huge expense by allowing a dentist to perform these procedures in his own surgery. 1 do not think there is any need to whip this subject very much further. In conclusion, I would like to quote something the Minister for Health said earlier today. He said: 
The objectives of the amendments are beyond question and my one regret is that each is being brought forward in isolation and not as pan of a complete review of the legislative provisions contained in the Act with which the Government will be persevering. 
Of course, that is quite legitimate. I am not really abusing the Minister or the Government at this stage, but I regret that our parliamentary procedures are quite inadequate for this sort of legislation. It is a justification of some of the speeches made recently on the need for committees of the Parliament to look into things like this. I feel sure that if the Government had in fact conceded the justice of many of the amendments, which quite frankly do not do the sort of things I would like them to do because they are bolstering up a basic scheme with which I disagree, it would have made the situation much better than it is at the moment. But the machinery of Parliament is such that it is not possible, regretfully, for the Government to consider these things properly. I concede that the amendments cannot be accepted despite the Government's acknowledging that they ate worthwhile. If a lesson may be drawn from this, I hope that more of us will be encouraged to consider the need for more standing or select committees to consider Bills of a highly technical nature, such as this one. With a small committee able to draw on expert witnesses and even able to utilise some of the experts within the House, better legislation would be available without necessarily detracting from the Government's efforts. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to a recent report from the American Cancer Society establishing beyond doubt that lung damage due to smoking is directly related to the amount of tar and nicotine inhaled. 
In view of the finding that cigarettes with low tar and nicotine content are less dangerous than those with high content, and in view of the recent Gallup Poll which showed that 80 per cent of the public thought tar and nicotine levels should be shown on the cigarette packet labels, will he consider the possibility of legislation, if necessary in co-operation with the States, to ensure this information is shown on cigarette packets. 
Will he also consider the possibility of legislation to ban all press, radio and television advertising of cigarettes. 
I think that in a debate of this type it is too easy to get parochial and I suppose I am going to be as guilty as anyone else because Tullamarine Airport is just to the north of my electorate. However, I will try to deal with airports in general and not just Tullamarine, ifI can. The first point I want to make is that we are all emphasising the needs of a modern technological society. I think that is certainly important. Some of my colleagues might disagree with me on this, but I fear, for what it is worth, that progress demands - I am not sure whether I want progress but still, it is coming whether I like it or not - that modern technological societies are going to need international airports. What is more, they are going to need international airports that function 24 hours a day, much as I personally might deplore that. So, whilst emotionally I can agree with the sentiment that aircraft should not be flying after 11 o'clock. I fear that I must accept that they will. However, I think there are other needs for modern technological society related to the individuals in that society. 
I am sure that if a referendum were held and the people of Victoria were asked whether they wanted an international airport and whether they wanted it at Tullamarine there would be an overwhelming vote in favour of both, because most people do not live near the airport and they would not know what the sound of aircraft taking off and landing was like. The honourable member for Latrobe  (Mr Jess)  is in this category. The fact still remains that while we recognise the needs of the vast majority, the minority who live around the airport also have rights. They have a right to comfortable living and to freedom from irritation and nuisance, just as everybody else has. It is not necessarily their fault that they live near an airport which disturbs them.I have a rather tolerant view on this subject. Some people claimt hat, because an airport is being developed, anybody who has been idiotic enough to buy land near the airport after it has been built should suffer the consequences.I may be a bit soft, but I do not think that attitude is right. I certainly do not think that people who were living in the vicinity before the airport was even planned should now have to suffer.It is not their fault that that was considered the optimum site as far as the whole community was concerned. For that reason everything should be done to mini mise their discomfort or, alternatively, to help them move away from the area at community expense. This is a social responsibility which rests on the whole community. 
People may have moved to this area around the airport when they were young and were starting their families because they felt they could buy land cheaply near the airport. They may have felt confident that they could put up with the noise. The people who have bought land around Tullamarine even since the commencement of the planning and the building may find, when it starts to function, that their tolerance to the noise is not as high as they thought it was. Maybe a young couple with no children can put up with the noise, but when they become established and begin to have a family they may find that the problem has completely changed for them. That is no crime.I do not believe that they should be victimised. 
In essence what I am trying to suggest is thatI accept the inevitability of 24-hour flying at international airports but, equally importantly, the community should ensure that people who will suffer because of the noise from the aircraft should be moved at community expense. It should not be at their own expense because it is not their fault. The reality is, I imagine, that most of the people living around the airport will not choose to move even if given the opportunity. They may well grizzle and complain a bit but, if given the opportunity to move at no loss to themselves - at no profit either, in financial terms - there will be a sociological disturbance. They would have to leave their friends and the place where they have grown up, with its relationship to their work. Moving will still be an inconvenience and many of them will choose to stay. They may accept some assistance from the Commonwealth - I hope it will be offered - to help insulate their homes against noise and they may be satisfied to put up with it. After all, I have not noticed large tracts of land becoming vacant around Essendon. In fact I am told that one of the most expensive areasto buy land is around Essendon. The sort of area where the Liberal vote is highest, where land is eagerly sought after, is right under the flight path of the east-west runway approach. Thank goodness people differ from one another. Some will not like it; many will not mind it. My point simply is that those who do not like it should not be victimised. I do not believe that any individual should stand in the way of society's development. So I do not believe that these people have the right to forbid the development of the airport or its 24-hour functioning. But to ensure the minimum of disturbance to people this report should be referred back to the Committee for it to consider once again the prospect of extending the runway to the north rather than to the south, to take it away from the people. After all, surely, people are as important as machines. The proposal might cost a bit more, but in terms of overall happiness surely the final cost will be less. i agree with the comment made by the honourable member for La Trobe when he said just now that it was a tragedy that the State Government did not accept its full responsibilities and did a socially irresponsible thing in changing the zoning of the land around the airport to allow development. Initially it was a rural zone. The Department of Civil Aviation which selected the site was very careful initially. lt saw that there was plenty of room. The land sharks and other people who felt they could make something out of it put pressure on the Government and obtained a rezoning of the land. This was wrong. Whilst on the one hand I do not believe that any individual should stand in the way of society's progress, on the other hand and equally strongly I do not believe that any individual should be victimised in the name of progress. 

 - Mr Speaker, I ask for leave to move all the amendments that the Leader of the House  (Mr Snedden)  has circulated. 
It is always up to the House. It has to decide. I insist that what this amendment will do is force us all to make our points properly, more succinctly and without so much padding. In my view it will at least enable more backbenchers to state their case. For this reason I believe that the amendment moved by the honourable member for Denison should be supported. 
I ask the Minister for the Interior a question. Did the Australian Capital Territory police have a photographer present at the Moratorium demonstration outside Parliament House on Friday last who appeared to make a full photographic record of the demonstration and the people participating in it? Did the Minister, in answer to a question on 21st August last, say that the police had decided to take their own photographs of marches or demonstrations because unofficial photographs had been used against them? In view of the fact that the demonstration last 
Friday was peaceful and no breaches of the law occurred, will he assure the House that the films will be destroyed? If he is unable to give an assurance that the films will be destroyed then to what use will the police put the films? 

 - Mr Speaker- 

Motion (by  Mr Giles)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
I address a question to the Minister for Customs and Excise. How many drug pushers have been apprehended in the last 12 months? How many of these pushers have been selling drugs for a profit? How many have been selling drugs in order to provide themselves with drugs for their own addictions? Rather than talk of increased activity to clear Melbourne or Sydney of pot and then bemoan the increase in robberies of chemist shops, might it not be more intelligent and humane to offer supplies to drug addicts while they are medically examined and treated for their illness? 
My question is directed to the Minister for External Affairs. Is Malaysia willing to co-sponsor a resolution recommending the admission of Communist China to the United Nations? 
Despite some people's views of the state of Victoria, it still manages to qualify as a fairly advanced industrial State with the pollution problems associated with unmindful development. Some of the criticisms have made national headlines, such as when Prince Charles observed that swimming at one of the Melbourne beaches was rather like swimming in a sewer. The Yarra River, the scenic pride of Melbournians, a muddy creek to foreigners from out of State such as most honourable members, is unlovely in many places. 
School children are now acutely aware of the threat to their environment. Recently, the children in my daughter's class have been engaged in a study of the area in which they live. This has" involved many critical excursions to the Yarra, inspections of rubbish dumps into the river, observation of colour changes in the water due to chemical mixing with drainage from - who knows where? A. D. Hope observed in his poem 'Australia':   . . her five cities, like five teeming sores Each drains her, . . . 
The Yarra for much of ils course through Melbourne is a dead river, simply a large drain for one of the teeming sores on this continent. Articles on the subject now appear at regular intervals in the Melbourne newspapers. They describe factories belching out smoke and soot and sulphur dioxide and discharging waste into waterways, noise and smoke from jet aircraft, the debate on discharge of effluent from the Carrum sewerage works into Port Phillip Bay, industrialisation around Westernport Bay and  the  threat to the ecology of the area, including the penguins - these and many other examples are discussed frequently. 

 Dr W. D. Williams, from Monash University, recently described the counts of coliform bacilli as a measure of the pollution of water by human faeces, and indicated some figure ; that the Americans have adopted as standards. Water with less than 50 coliform bacilli per 100 millilitres is good for swimming, with 50 to 1,000 organisms it is doubtful, and if there are over 1.000 per 100 mis the water is unfit for bathing. A limit of 1,000 coliform organisms per 100 mis has been proposed by the Commonwealth Department of Works for Australian streams. 

 Dr Williams asks: 
How do bacterial counts for Australian polluted waters compare with such standards'.' Unfortunately, few data are published. However, in a recent survey of a creek located in the outer suburbs of Melbourne, E. coli I counts/ 100 ml ranged from 150 in the head-waters to 34,000 in the lower reaches. One does not need to have a medical degree to appreciate the potential health hazard presented by this creek. 
A second important form of domestic pollution is detergent pollution.  Dr Williams  notes: 
. water from baths, washing machines, and the kitchen sink in unsewered homes is regarded as 'stormwater' and discharged quite untreated into the environment. As a result, creek water in the newer suburbs of Melbourne, for example, is frequently no more than diluted soapy water. 
The main effects of domestic and industrial wastes is roughly the same - both lead to deoxygenation. If pollution is bad, all oxygen disappears and the plant and fish life are suffocated. But I do not wish to dwell any longer on these parochial examples. Pollution recognises no state rights, no national boundaries or territorial waters or national air space. Furthermore, pollution is more than inadequate disposal of unwarranted end products or by-products, though perhaps a final comment on this aspect might be of interest. It is claimed that the affluent society of the United States is fast becoming the effluent society - a nation whose pursuit of material wealth pollutes its rivers, fouls its air and creates an urban atmosphere that generates dangerous social tensions, as well as real misery. As John Galbraith has observed: 
The penultimate Western man. stalled in the ultimate traffic jam and slowly succumbing to carbon monoxide, will not be cheered to hear from the last survivor that the gro&gt;s national product went up by a record amount. 
The problem of pollution confronts us not only as an end product, but also at the beginning, in our efforts to improve our productivity, as was mentioned by the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar). 
In an article titled 'An Ecological Crisis' published this year in the 'Professional Engineer', it is claimed that the Aswan High Dam in Egypt appears to be an ecological disaster. Water weeds which clog the shoreline of. Lake Nasser behind the dam may speed evaporation through transpiration lo the stage where the lake lacks enough water to drive the generators. The article slates: 
In the past, the flow of silt down the Nile offset the natural erosion of the land but this silt flow has been stopped by the dam. Downstream erosion may eliminate as much productive land as is created by the Lake Nasser irrigation system. 
In other words, for all that effort the net gain was nil. The article continues: 
The Egyptian sardine catch in 1968 was only a fortieth of the 1965 catch, because the nutrient rich silt no longer reaches the Mediterranean. Finally, the irrigation projects on the delta have allowed a moisture-loving snail to thrive. The snail carries schistosomiasis and as a result most of the delta people have now had that agonising liver and intestinal disease. 
It is thus important that the physical environment be seen in relation to the social environment and that the psychological, social, cultural and technological variables be considered when analysing the destructive influence of man on bis surroundings. 
I think these are things which were also mentioned by the honourable member for Warringah. 
In a discussion in 'Business Week' of April 1970 on 'Pollution and the Profit Motive*, it is suggested that economists are at last wondering how to relate the environment to the gross national product. The honourable member for Warringah mentioned that if we are to have progress some changes in the environment are inevitable but it is important to realise that these represent costs. I think the opening paragraph in the article I have just quoted indicates the feeling, at least amongst American and other economists, that: 
After a decade spent in the spectacularly successful pursuit of a rising gross national product, the United Stales suddenly has begun to have second thoughts about growth as a goal for national policy. The exceptional growth rates of the sixties are just about taken for granted as a model for the seventies. Yet more and more people are beginning to see economic growth itself as the basic cause of the environmental deterioration which has become one of the nation's most pressing problems. 
That well known social revolutionary, President Nixon, proposed in his State of the Union message: 
The price of good? should be made to include the cost of producing and disposing of them without damage to the environment. 
As one economist has observed, the philosophy behind the usual view of the gross national product is appropriate to what he calls 'the cowboy economy' in which 'consumption is regarded as a good thing and production likewise', with success being measured by the amount of 'throughput'. This ignores the old idea first put by Malthus that resources are exhaustible or in the terms of his 20lh century followers, the capacity of the environment to sustain economic processes is also finite. 
As the writer in 'Business Week' says: 
In the spaceman economy of the future, throughput is something to be minimised rather than maximised. The less consumption  it  takes to maintain a given state of welfare, the more efficient the economic system. 
The significant question is of course, what is to be done? According to  Dr Williams: 
The extent of basic pollutions! studies overseas is now immense. Unfortunately, unlike other areas of science, (he results arc not directly applicable in Australia; because of our unique biota and environment, we must stand on our own feet in biological investigations. 
Any organisation established by the Commonwealth - and it can be effective only if it is a Commonwealth body - must have a strong, financially well endowed research wing, working with other research institutions in the country. It is not a question of States rights, or national prowess compared to other nations. It is a question of the survival of life, including man, on this planet. Man, by his rapid increase in population, and his rapid advances in technology, has upset the delicate balance of nature. Mian must help nature to restore the balance or else nature will wreak a terrible revenge by destroying man. 
I am a bit on the side of most of the speakers tonight but I disagree with the honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon).  I am rather surprised at his reaction to the advice given by the Council of the Australian National University. I take it that the Council is hardly a revolutionary body. 1 should guess that most of the nominees would be well and truly acceptable to the establishment in all respects. I cannot understand the terrible fear which gripped the heart of the honourable member for Denison when he saw the recommendation from the Council that 2 more students should be added to the Council. 
 I wonder whether the honourable member for Denison had in his mind some picture that with one more student representative on the Council the numbers would be completely the way of the students. Of course that is not the position, and I do not think he would really think that. I do not understand why he chose to ignore the advice of the body that is basically responsible for running the University. I know that the honourable member for Denison has said that it is our responsibility to determine the administration of the Australian National University. I will grant that. But since most of us are not experts in this field, I should have thought that we would have been prepared to take the advice of the group of people we have determined should be running the institution. I do not agree with the honourable member for Denison that students are at universities just to shut up and learn and to have facts and figures shoved into their heads. They are there to question, to argue and to disagree. They are there to think about not just the narrow confines of the subject they are there to study in order to get a degree; they are there to think about all that involves the living of a university. 
I think that perhaps the increasing student unrest throughout the world is a sign that students are becoming more responsible regarding this aspect of university life. It has very little to do with the actual attainment of a degree. Unfortunately, that is all we ever hear about most of the time. I think that it would add to the confidence of the student body and would increase the students' sense of belonging to and participating in the university if they had more say in the running of the university. I agree that the university staff also should have more say, which was essentially the point made by the honourable member for Denison. If we feel that the number of representatives on the Council is becoming too large - I will grant that 41 people is a lot for rational discussion - perhaps we can afford to cut off some of the fuddy-duddies on the Council. I refer to some of the people who have been there for many years or the more senior members of the Council. Often they are businessmen or even heads of departments who have grown old and rusty in their outlook on this responsibility. I think that more than ever universities need to be alive to the problems facing this community and they need to have a more resilient approach. They have to be prepared to take new departures, and this is not a facility that older people have. So for these reasons I join with the other honourable members who deplore the fact that the Government has chosen not to take the advice of the University Council and has in essence put only one more student on the Council. I admit that this is not such a revolutionary thing anyway, but that is all the more reason why the gesture of accepting the recommendation of the Council would have been so valuable. 
I present the following pet  ition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the undersigned citizens of Victoria respectfully showeth. 
That due to the higher living cost, persons on Social Service Pensions are finding it extremely difficult to live in even the most frugal way. 
We therefore call upon the Commonwealth Government to increase the base pension rate to 30 per cent of the Average Weekly Male Earnings for all States, as ascertained by the Commonwealth Statistician, plus supplementary assistance and allowances in accordance with ACTU policy and adopted as the policy of the Australian Commonwealth Pensioners' Federation, and by doing so give a reasonably moderate pension. 
Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to bring about the wishes expressed in our Petition: so that our citizens receiving the Social Service Pensions may live their lives in dignity. 
And your Petitioners as in duty bound will ever  pray. 
Petition received. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to a report in Science of 1st May 1970 on the ecological effects of war in Vietnam. 
If so, do the Australian Armed Forces contribute to these ecological effects by making use of chemical warfare. 
Is research being conducted in Australia into chemical or biological warfare by (a) Armed Forces research establishments and (b) civilian research establishments, 
What studies are being made of the longterm effects of herbicides on the environment. 
asked the  Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to an Australian Broadcasting Commission news report of Sunday, 1st February 1970, concerning the children of Australian servicemen in Vietnam and the claim by the National Director of Public Relations for the Australian Red Cross that 9 out of 11 of these children have died ot malnutrition and respiratory diseases in an orphanage outside Saigon run by nuns who do not receive any help from the Vietnamese, American or Australian Governments, but exist solely on charity and gifts from Australian and American soldiers. 
If so, was this report investigated. 
What was the result of the investigation. 
If the claims were substantiated, did or will, the Government take steps to alleviate the situation of these children whose welfare should be the responsibility of this country. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice 
Has his attention been drawn to remarks made recently by the  President  of the Australian -Council on Smoking and Health concerning the need for legislation to stop cigarette advertising. 
Did the Australian National Health and 
Medical Research Council recommend 2 years ago that all cigarette advertising should be stopped and that the tar and nicotine content of cigarettes should be shown on. the. packets. 
If these recommendations are still under consideration when is it anticipated that a decision will be reached. 
My question is directed to the Minister for National Development. Is the Australian Atomic Energy Commission conducting research on atomic reactor hazards and safeguards? If any research is done on hazards and safeguards, will reports of this research be made available to the public or will they be' kept secret? 
I agree with much of what the honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon)  has said on this subject, although I am a bit wary about his views of free licence - we must beware of it - pornography and what it can do. In fact I am a bit troubled by the whole problem of defining pornography. I know that there are many definitions of it, but I should like to read one given by a gentleman named Vidal who states: 
Pornography is usually defined as that which is calculated to arouse sexual excitement. Since what arouses X repels Y, no two people are apt to respond in quite the same way to the same stimulus. One man's meat, as they say, is another man's poison, a fact now recognised by the American judiciary, which must rule with wearisome frequency on obscenity. With unexpected good sense, a judge recently observed that since the books currently before him all involved ladies in black leather with whips, they could not be said to corrupt the generality, since a taste for being beaten is hardly common and those who are aroused by such fantasies are already 'corrupted' and therefore exempt from laws designed to protect the young and usual. By their nature, pornographies cannot be said to proselytise, since they are written for the already hooked. The worst that can be said of pornography is that it leads not to 'antisocial' sexual acts but to the reading of more pornography. 
If we feel that pornography can corrupt, the question one must ask is what effect it has on the police, on censors and on the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp).  I take it that the police, the censors and the Minister are not unusual chaps - they are rather like the rest of us - so if we accept the view that so-called licentious literature can corrupt, I take it that the police, the censors and the Minister are corrupted. If they are corrupted, why should we be guided by them? I do not believe, and surely honourable members would agree, that normal people in society ought to be guided in their taste by corrupted people. Of course that is all nonsense. The reality is that they are not corrupted. They might be disgusted or they might find that material not to their taste. Why not assume that the rest of the community, or a large proportion of it, will react in exactly the same way? In other words, this kind of material will do no harm anyway. As Vidal points out, in cases where this sort of literature appeals, those individuals are probably 'corrupted' already. I do not choose to see them that way, but they are already whatever it is that we are fearful of before they read the literature, not after. To revert for a moment to the film shows which the Minister so kindly arranged to be put on for us, they were essentially about sex and violence. The Minister said in his statement on censorship: 
If an explicit love-making scene is left in a movie hundreds of letters are written by outraged parents to the Minister for Customs and Excise or to the Film Censorship Board. I do not quarrel wilh their right to do that but I ask, is it consistent to object obsessively to love-making scenes and yet allow evils such as hate, greed, . . . 
He mentioned that these and other evils are accepted without protest. To a certain extent I agree with the sentiments expressed by the Minister. However, one is prompted to ask what is objected to by the people who write such highly emotional letters, usually objecting to explicit but gentle love scenes, displaying beauty, tenderness and consideration - all the qualities that surely we should value in society. One supposes that they are objecting to something within their own behaviour. Perhaps there is something sick in their own sex lives, their own attitude to life and normality. I am quite certain that this is the case because I think the general view of most of us watching these things was that these scenes were far from corrupting. So much for that. The film which stirred up a far more violent reaction, if I might put it that way, was one showing violent scenes. Incidentally, to clear up a possible slight misunderstanding, I include rape in violence. I do not see that as normal sex; it is another form of violence. The violent scenes in the film were individual, personal, horrible and utterly horrifying. They were hardly likely to persuade someone that it would be good fun to go out and try it on the next passerby. Instead the effect was sickening and paralysing. After seeing those scenes the last thing one wanted was to be confronted with activity of that kind. 
What do we achieve when we censor violence? We remove those horrible scenes, but we do not remove the clear indication beforehand that violence is going to occur and we do not remove the clear implication afterwards that violence has occurred. Nor do we remove the implication that violence is beautiful, aseptic and impersonal - not too bad at all, actually. That is the problem. Because of censorship we render violence almost acceptable because we remove the repugnant aspect. We do not allow the children to see this part. The result is that we have the children seeing before and after and observing that, within the context of the film, somehow or other the violence has solved some problem. The child realises that the strong man on the side of the law and order has solved the problem by bashing somebody, but he has not seen violence or been subjected to the feeling of repugnance by witnessing the violence. He does not see the effect on the poor person who has been bashed. 
Whether it is fictional or not is irrelevant; it is still violence, and literature still attempts to portray real situations. If, as the honourable member for Denison said, it is an extravaganza of violence or an extravaganza of licentiousness, surely we al] will recognise it as unreal, in which case it would be laughed away or ignored. It is those things which look more real which can have more effect. In those situations, if we took out the hurtful things because we wanted to protect one another, it would be because we were worried about that level of violence. But when it comes to pushing a button to drop an atomic bomb and all the misery that went with it, it is hard for us to picture the misery that goes with that action because we are so far removed from it. That is the horrifying thing about so much of our behaviour. We have these hang-ups about individual violence and we recognise it for what it is - it is horrible - and yet we condone mass violence in the name of all sorts of things, such as rights of nations, and so on. 
1 would, because those things happened. I would hope that my children would see them and be repulsed by them. I hope that they would recognise that those sorts of things should never happen again. Not to show those scenes would be to allow them to feel that perhaps something was achieved by getting rid of some people, no matter how it was done. They would not see the pain and misery suffered by the people who were clone away with, but perhaps they would see it as an attempt to solve a problem, and perhaps it might seem an acceptable way to solve a problem - unless they saw the pain and could picture themselves in that situation, at the receiving end. So my personal feeling is that censorship defeats itself when it is used in this fashion. If I may refer to Vidal again, he says that censorship is successful in a perverse fashion. He states: 
The periods in history which are most admired by legal moralists tend lo be those vigorous warlike times when a nation is pursuing a successful and predatory course of military expansion, such as the adventures of the Spartans and Alexander, of Julias Caesar and Frederick of Prussia. Yet a reading of history ought to convince one that these militaristic societies were not only brutish and 'immoral' by any standard but also startlingly homosexual. 
I revert to the whole problem of sexual censorship which I believe raises the question whether the would-be censors are really protecting people or whether they are in fact hiding truths from people or, more importantly, hiding truths from themselves. One wonders how much the people who protest, so the Minister says, about love scenes are trying to protect themselves from disabusing their own minds on misconceptions they have about sex, love and human relations. It would be interesting to interview them and find out how many of them are in fact evenly balanced and normal and have happy home lives. I would warrant a lot of them are far from it. One would wonder what menchildren think of them. I will bet they have more than their fair share of children  in revolt against them and their values. I would like to quote an article written by David Martin" in a Melbourne newspaper. It states: 
Black empress in vice den.' 'Woman with 1000 lovers.' 'Bishop and ex-showgirl.' 'Boys in bushes: spinster's amazing sex life.' 
Four headlines from one issue of a popular newspaper. I don't object to them. Readers who need that kind of stuff are entitled to it. 
What gets my goat is the hypocrisy of people who regularly enjoy smut and then rail at pornography in student journals with minute circulations. 
To me that's true obscenity. 
Certain public - figures never cease abusing youngsters for their moral turpitude. If they are not completely dishonest they must be blind to what actually goes on in our society. 
Legitimate' pornography is a nourishing industry. One well-known Sydney publisher practically lives on it. 
Imported comics systematically purvey what the advocates of student repression would brand as filth ... but they never protest. 
The honourable member for Denison made exactly the same observation about girlie magazines as against 'Eros Denied', a serious work on the question. The serious work was banned while the others flood the country. The article continues: 
Call me a square, but I reckon some advertisements for brassieres and female undies are only thinly disguised erotica. I guess they're as attractive to growing boys as to grown women. 
No harm in that, perhaps. A cleft can be a lovesome thing, God wot. 
He continues: 
The ballyhoo about our civilisation declining, like Rome's, because of sexual excesses is sheer idiocy. It's declining all right, but for very different reasons, about which the student press is trying to keep us uncomfortably informed. 
He continues: 
Civilisations decompose not because of sex in student magazines but when people despair of their chance's " to contribute to the community's good, or to draw spiritual sustenance from it. 
So for truth's sake, let's stop kidding ourselves. Every time some hysterical MHR or a magistral TV worthy arches his eyebrows and gives tongue about pornography and drugs - let us ask him who he is thinking of. 
There are nobler things than pictures of copulation, or the taking of LSD. These, however, are not the sickness but its symptoms. The virus does not originate in the minds of children. If anything, they are merely the victims. 
The most pernicious drug is compulsive lying and cowardly evasion of the facts. This is what the prominent scandalmongers are guilty of. 
I'll leave you with this little thought: what is more proof of our depravity - a realistic photo of a nude, or one of a starving Asian baby? 
And what is more. obscene - that illustration, or the reality it illustrates? 
With those words I conclude by saying that in my view censorship defeats itself. It leads through ignorance to increasing depravity and does not in fact educate people to the realities of life. These are the real problems facing the modern community and we should be exposed, through good literature, to all these problems of human relationships - the good and the bad - because we have to be able to cope with the lot if we are to live a reasonably happy life. 
Sitting suspended from 5.56 to 8 p.m. 
 I wish to refer to the reply by the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  to my assertion that marihuana is a relatively harmless drug. The Minister said, among other things: 
I wonder what evidence or authority the honourable gentleman has for his views, other than his own medical degree.  1 presented a submission of 14 foolscap pages to the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse and in the preparation of my submission 1 read books, research articles and government reports on marihuana. There are several significant scientific reports, usually government sponsored, which in my opinion do not condemn marihuana medically. One of them reviews most of the others, so I shall quote extensively from it. 
Yesterday still another report, commissioned by the Government of Canada in 1970, came to my attention. In general it agrees with the medical findings of the British Government report written in 1968. This report, entitled 'Cannabis', was prepared by the Hallucinogens Sub-Committee of the Advisory Committee on Drug Dependence. The sub-committee of 12 was chaired by Baroness Wooton, and 6 of its 12 members were specialist physicians and/or psychiatrists. One of the 2 joint secretaries was also a specialist physician and psychiatrist. In paragraph 25  -  the paragraphs are numbered and I hope that anyone who is interested will read them - the report describes the effects of smoking pot and says it is harmless. Reports in which death has been attributed to cannabis are very rare and their truth cannot be confirmed. Paragraph 26, discussing the moderate effects, says that they are predominantly psychological with 'heightened awareness: colours, sounds and social intercourse appear more intense and meaningful'. After this a sense of well-being, tranquility and passive enjoyment of the environment leads to fatigue and sleep. A hangover is not common. 
 It is the British Government report entitled 'Cannabis' published in 1968. The report states that with large doses symptoms of anxiety may be the first effects, but the subject retains a sense of contact with reality. Rarely, usually with heavy oral administration, the disturbance may be more profound. Paragraph 28 states that the above effects are essentially a temporary toxic psychosis which in rare cases gives place to what appears to be a prolonged schizophrenic illness 'but it is difficult from these reports to assess the exact role of cannabis in these circumstances'. 
The Committee agrees with the conclusion reached by the Indian Hemp Drugs Commission appointed by the Government of India in 1893 and the New York Mayor's Committee on Marihuana of 1944 that the long term consumption of cannabis in moderate doses has no harmful effect. Paragraph 30 states that observers in the Middle and Far East suggest very long term consumption leads to increasing mental and physical deterioration, with occasions of outbursts of violent behaviour. The report reads: 
No reliable observations of such a syndrome have been made in the Western World, and from the Eastern reports available to us it is not possible to form a judgment on whether such behaviour is directly attributable to cannabis-taking. 
Paragraph 32 states that in other reports of chronic excessive cannabis taking giving yellowing of the skin, tremor, wasting and unsteadiness of gait, it is not possible to tell whether these are due to marihuana or other factors such as malnutrition. The report reads: 
There is no evidence that in Western society serious physical dangers are directly associated with the smoking of cannabis. 
Paragraph 44 reads: 
There was no physical tolerance; and 'hangovers', although occasionally severe, were extremely rare. 
Paragraph 46 states that the British Ministry of Health reported 82 cases admitted to hospital in 1966 with a diagnosis of drug addiction where cannabis seemed to be involved. Further investigation of 79 of those cases showed that in '42 cases the evidence was inconclusive or irrelevant and in the other 37 other drugs might also have been used'. 
In discussing the claim that the use of cannabis can lead to opiate addiction the report states in paragraph 50: 
In fact most heroin addicts are multiple drugusers and have the emotionally impoverished family back-ground not infrequently found in other delinquent groups, such as high incidence of broken homes, poor school record, police record, unemployment and work-shyness. Cannabis users wilh similar personalities and backgrounds may have a predisposition to heroin, amphetamines, and other illegal drugs, lt is the personality of the user, rather than the properties of the drug, that is likely to cause progression to other drugs. 
The report states in paragraph 51 that on the world scale cannabis use does not lead to heroin addiction. In the United Kingdom there is no comprehensive study, but a number of isolated studies have been published  Done  of which demonstrates significant lines of progression. The report continued: 
We have concluded that a risk of progression to heroin from cannabis is nol a reason for retaining control over this drug. 
Paragraph 53 of the report states:  . . The Indian Hemp Drugs Commission concluded that the connection between hemp drugs and ordinary crime is very slight indeed, but that excessive use did, in some very rare cases, make the consumer violent. . . . The New York Mayor's Committee reported to similar effect: Many criminals might use the drug, but it was not the determining factor in the commission of major crimes. 
Paragraph 54 of the report describes how criminals in some countries base their defence on alleged cannabis intoxication, but many of them combined it with opium, heroin, amphetamines, barbiturates or alcohol and it is impossible to identify which drug, if any, was to blame. The history in these cases almost always comes from the individual himself and he often feels it is in his best interests to lie about it. 
Paragraph 55 of the report states: 
The most thai emerges from the welter of conflicting statements is that an excessive dose of cannabis may lead to an attack of disturbed consciousness. . . . The extent to which the affected person may commit a violent crime in this state of mind depends much more on his personality than on the amount or preparation of cannabis which he has been taking. The evidence of a link with violent crime is far stronger wilh alcohol than with the smoking of cannabis. 
Paragraph 58 continues: 
Unlike the 'hard' drugs, such as heroin, cannabis does not produce tolerance. . . . Unlike heroin, cannabis does not cause physical dependence and withdrawal effects do not occur when its use is discontinued. 
Then in paragraph 67 it is stated: 
There is no evidence that this activity (using pot) is causing violent crime or aggressive antisocial behaviour, or is producing in otherwise normal people conditions of dependence or psychosis, requiring medical treatment. 
I would now like to quote from the Canadian report which was written last year. On page 246 it states: lt is idle to pretend that cannabis was brought under its present criminal law proscription on the basis of clear and unequivocal scientific evidence of its potential for harm. Although the precise historical reasons for the decision to suppress its use are somewhat obscure, there is no evidence that scientific judgment played a leading role. There did, however, develop an international climate of official opinion, strongly opposed to its use. This opinion was based in part on the experience of certain countries, but it was also strongly influenced by American insistence. . . . The spread of the use of cannabis, particularly among the young, and the effects of the criminal law attempt to suppress it now call for a fresh look at the justification of the law, and, in particular, at the alleged personal and social harm caused by such use. 
The report continues: 
Since cannabis is clearly not a narcotic we recommend that the control of cannabis be removed from the Narcotic Control Act and placed under the Food and Drugs Act. 
Finally, at no time have I advocated the use of the drug by school children. I am a prude, a teetotaller and a puritan on these things and I do not see the need for their use, but what 1 have said is that if young people are to use one of these things - tobacco, alcohol or marihuana - 1 am convinced on the basis of the relative safety of all of them that marihuana is far less harmful than the others. I am not advocating its use, but if people must have recourse to one of these things I think it would be safer for them to use marihuana. I assure the Minister that I have not advocated that it should be used by school children. 
I agree with the last sentiments expressed by the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Pettitt).  I am sure that the Government aims or hopes to ensure that all young people receive the best possible education so that they can lead a full and productive life. I am not so silly as to think that honourable members opposite do not believe in this sort of thing- Of course they do. The whole point is that they are not succeeding in their aims. That is what we are arguing about. We are not doubting their intentions or aims, but they do not appear to be coping with the problem. 
The honourable member for Hume mentioned also that education is basically a State responsibility, not a Commonwealth responsibility. We have all heard that argument before. When parents question their local State members about why the schools in their States are not good enough the answer is: 'We would like to do all the glorious things that everybody promises in relation to education but we do not have the money. That is a Commonwealth responsibility'. So it goes round and round in a circle. Of course, parents do not give a damn whether it is a State or Federal responsibility. All they are interested in is an adequate education for their children. What would be the view of the inadequately educated young people trying to make their place in the world when they realise that they have not been educated adequately for an increasingly technological society? They will not care whether it is a State or Federal responsibility. To them, alt governments will have failed them. That is the problem. 
The Minister said that we should not extrapolate from either the worst schools or the best schools. That is self evident; I agree. He then said that the report entitled A Nationwide Survey of Educational Needs', which wc have suggested has revealed deficiencies is not a survey of present deficiencies but a survey of future needs. What does that mean? What does the report say about some of our projected needs? On page 4 of the copy of the report 1 have it stales: 
Expenditure of the order thought necessary over the 5 years raised the question whether the building industries and the State economics would bc able to absorb the rapid increases in building activity required. 
Either there is a fantastic revolution on the horizon for education, something that no other industrial state has contemplated before, or else, if that statement is true, wc must be a long way behind right now. 1 admit thai the report has not stated explicitly what the deficiencies are today, but. by implication, surely that sort of statement in the report can mean only that there is a very serious deficiency right nowThe report under the heading 'Category 4. Buildings' continues: 
However it was thought desirable to set out not the total replacement cost but only that part considered feasible in the 5 year period. 
So despite all the talk earlier about a crisis we have not been given the ideal requirements; we have been given only what the Ministers think might be possible. 1 would like to know just how much of a gap there is between the ideal and the possible. Surely this statement also implies severe deficiencies right now. If not. what does it mean? 
The Minister then, in a rather emotional outburst, with which I completely sympathise, said that the problem is very complicated; there are many factors to be considered; one needs more teachers; for more teachers we need more training facilities; that means more buildings, more bricks and more mortar. He went on and on. In fact I thought he would hurt himself banging the top of the dispatch box. He seemed to be implying that the economy might not be able to cope with it all. ls that not a crisis? If not. what is it? Page 7 of the report deals with the size of classes and the teacher-pupil ratio. It states: 
Nevertheless the States feel that  classes  are still too large and, in fact, a survey in 1969 - 
Not this year, not last year, but the year before -  showed that 38.9 per cent of primary classes  had  more than 35 pupils while 30.5 per cent of classes in secondary schools had more than 35 pupils. 
Presumably there were too many pupils. Is that not a crisis? If not. what is it? Further on page 7 of the report says: 
The survey does not envisage that within the 5 years it will bc possible to obtain a sufficient number of teachers to achieve the goals sought. 
These are not my words, this is the report. In other words, we will not be able to attain the goals we believe we should attain. Is that not a crisis? Apropos of that - I do not know how many other honourable members are in my position but I am sure most of them are; 1 recently received a letter from a parent in my electorate. 1 am sorry to be parochial but it applies to every electorate I can think of, including the one in which my own children go to school. Niddrie High School is 7 teachers short. The classes have been cut from 40 to 30 per week and all the students are dismissed at 2.30 p.m. each day. My own children similarly are dismissed early from school, having periods when quite clearly they are not being taught the subjects they are supposed to be taught. They are in essence being minded by a teacher who does not know anything about the subject because the school has not a mathematics teacher or a science teacher or whoever it might be. Is that not a crisis right now? If not, what is it? The last point I wish to make from this glorious report relates to page 10 which says: 
It is felt that parents and others associated with schools should be encouraged to continue - 
Not start, but continue - they are doing it now -  to participate to some extent in the provision of certain items of equipment in their schools and so retain the close interest evident in the past. 
I do not know what honourable members opposite think about it. It is OK perhaps where my children went to school. It was in a suburb where conditions were rather better than in most. They were going to a State school but we were well aware that had it not been for the efforts of parents who were fairly well off in the community that school would have been lacking in lots of basic requirements. How about the situation in the industrial suburbs, the working class suburbs, the places where most of the children attend school? What prospects do those children have? I have some secondhand experience of that. When my wife went along to assist in an after school club at an inner Melbourne suburban school to look after the children, she was able to relate to me some of the deficiencies in that school. She was able to say how we had succeeded in overcoming these deficiencies in the school our children went to because our parents were better off and were able to help more. But we are still going to insist that parents must continue to show this interest. In other words, we are going to victimise the children in the less well-off areas because their parents cannot afford to provide what the Government is not prepared to provide. If all these things do not mean that there is a crisis in education right now I do not know what they mean. If all these matters which honourable members on the other side of the House have been discussing in their long recitals of difficulties and problems do not mean that this report, as inadequate as it is, has not revealed deficiencies right here and now then 1 do not understand the meaning of English. 

 Dr solomon (Denison) (4.44)- lt appears that in terms of the motion both sides of the House are in close unanimity on one matter, the inadequacy of this report. Let me draw the attention of the House to what the survey set out to do. It sought to examine needs, to determine priorities, to establish a programme and to estimate costs. Among other things, on page 3 it says: 
The surveys will have regard to standards of provision required for high quality education suited to modern education systems. 
One is tempted to say 'bunk' but that would be somewhat less than is required in the situation. However, it is a pious expression which is totally meaningless unless we have very considerable substantiation of the manner in which that aim was sought to be achieved. With the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate in Hansard the table which appears on page 13 of this report. 

<graphic href="071131197103164_25_0.jpg"></graphic>

This table indicates to me the total inadequacy of what purports to be an extremely important document on which the Commonwealth is asked to act now as a matter of urgency. We have, as other honourable members have outlined, and I will not retrace their steps, some 11 categories of educational provisions, including administrative structure, teaching staff, text books, transport and so on, the purported needs of which provide the total figures that have already been mentioned. To me this is an affront. It is mentioned in the report that the State ministers and the Australian Education Council have been thinking about these matters since at least the early 1960s. Quite frankly, in a field which is as openended as 1 have said, ! would have thought something of the order of a 100-page report would be needed, because it is totally impossible to argue a cogent case for educational priorities in a few pages of summary of what the Australian Educational Council was thinking of and looking for. In saying that. I do not cast aspersions on the integrity or capability or anything else of the Stale ministers and their departments. All I am saying is that whatever it is they achieved, they have not shown it to us in this report. 
As I understand it, and as I think he has said, the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  has very little information additional to that shown in this inadequate report. It is on this basis that we are asked as a government to proceed holus bolus along the path of expenditure over a 5-year period of an extra S 1,400m on education, I do not for one moment gainsay the fact, as was argued by the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  and others, that a lot of money must be spent on education. But let me stress this point: Education is an open-ended field. It always will be. It is not unique but it is as open-ended as anything one can think of. So, particularly in such a situation, substantiation of claims of needs is absolutely essential. It is a continuing expenditure; if it is not spent now it will be spent later. It is not a one-off job; it is not the building of a power station or the approval  of  a port where, having spent the money, one can say it will be right  for  another 20 or 30 years and we can forget about it. It is not that way and wc are well aware of this. 
So wc have to consider how we regard this report. The Opposition has left us with no doubt about what it thinks of the report. It has suggested that the States are not meeting their responsibilities and that the Commonwealth should take over and meet the States' responsibilities in the field of education. What did the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  say during the delivery of his oration on the matter, after which he left the House? I note that the shadow minister for education is also not in the House, and this is perhaps some reflection on the urgency with which the Opposition views this question. The Leader of the Opposition talked of the censored, bowdlerised version of the report which has been released. The honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds)  said, in speaking of the report, something to this effect: insufficient as it is', he honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  said that we must look beyond the report, which he suggested we were not prepared to do, and read between the lines and look at it imaginatively. I could nol agree more because unless one exercises a great deal of imagination and certainly no discrimination one will not be tempted simply to unload Si, 400m. 1 go on further to ask: Would the Opposition, if in government, accede to this request to spend  1,400m willy-nilly on the basis of the evidence of this 14-page report which we have in front of us? I think not - I hope not - and certainly if I were the Minister I would see no case to spend money of that order for the reasons stated or, if you like, not stated. That is not to say I am saying there is no need to spend money on education. 1 do not need any persuasion on that matter. 1 am well aware that the odd school here and there - and it may be more than the odd school - is experiencing difficulty. The individual cases quoted by various members during this debate may be absolutely correct. Certainly it is well known that in areas of low income, in industrial areas and so forth, there is a difficulty. There are appearances of inequalities in the sense that the low level of income works to the detriment of schools in poorer areas as compared with schools in more affluent areas. Parents' are being taxed in some way or other and take an interest to a greater or lesser degree in education. They tend to provide less for children in poor areas than in other areas where the parents are better off and better versed in the ways of education. This leaves us in a situation where we have the burden, as I understand it, of what the Opposition would have us do, namely, recognise that the States are not up to it. I think that the honourable member for Capricornia made this point very clear. He said, in effect, that the States are not up to it so why the heck should not the Commonwealth do it. 1 think that the Minister made it perfectly clear, as did some of my colleagues, that this is just not within our philosophy. Our philosophy embraces the best we can do for education in terms of the finance available. Education is an important and crucial field. Our philosophy does not, as yet, embrace taking over State responsibilities where the States seem to be lagging. But not even that is necessarily true because it is within the capacities of the States, as honourable members well know, to use either earmarked or unearmarked grants and moneys towards the cause of education as a priority ahead of other fields of expenditure. It has been quoted already that the Government of New South Wales in its current Budget is spending about 43 per cent of the total Budget on education. One wonders whether that expenditure could go very much higher without severely cutting into other categories. The next argument is that if the States do not have enough even with the best will in the world, the Commonwealth Government should unload even more money. The plain fact is that the Commonwealth does not have very much more money to unload on education or anything else at this time, so we begin to ask what it is that the Opposition thinks can be achieved in terms of what it has proposed. We share the best will in the world, as I think must be agreed, but we also share inadequate funds to undertake such a programme immediately. The Minister, of course, has drawn attention already to the fact that there are needs in respect of current and projected developments and he has referred to the inadequacy of the report in relation to identification of priorities. When I refer to the report I mean the report that we have in our hands - a summarised report, a resume, call it what we may. 
One ought to ask one or two pertinent questions. If the Opposition is as serious minded about this matter as it says it is, what would it say to a percentage tax earmarked for improvements in education? Does the Opposition's interest in this field extend beyond the interest of the Government and go to that length? Are members opposite prepared to test people in that way? Are they prepared to impose an additional percentage tax to overcome the so-called crisis in education? [ believe that there are individual crises but 1 do not believe that the field as a whole is in * state of crisis, which is a much over-used word these days. The Government is in the position where it cannot do more at the moment in this vast field of education. We recognise that it is an open-ended field which will always need considerable expenditure. In the last 9 years the Commonwealth Government has upgraded by 471 per cent its direct expenditure on education, not necessarily in the fields that everybody wants it. It is a good question to ask: What more can the Commonwealth Government reasonably do at the moment when it is in the situation of having less than an adequate report in its hands? 
I want to refer to some points about retirement which have been hinted at by other speakers, certainly by the honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson),  and relate them to the review that the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  suggested is being undertaken by his Department. The Minister's views tie in with ours, as expressed in the amendment. I do not want to argue at this stage about the actual level of pension or whether the amount covered by this Bill is sufficient. Frankly, I do not think we are in a position to judge accurately whether  it  is or is not. In any case, if the Department's review does not include a terribly sympathetic consideration of our suggestion for the establishment of a select committee to look into social services, I hope and trust that the Minister will look into some of the factors I am about to mention. 
At the moment people retire at certain arbitrary ages - men at 65 years and women at 60 years. That implies that all of us are cast in the same mould. But we are not; we are manifestly different. Our capacities, our interests and our jobs are variable. The result is that some people deserve to retire when they are in their fifties while others could well carry on into their seventies. I think it is wrong to have this arbitrary age for retirement. We ought to have a decade, perhaps, during which people in ay choose to retire, depending on their physical or intellectual capacities and the demands of their occupation, both physical and intellectual. 
While carrying out my profession before coming to this place I observed people in their fifties who were physically beyond doing the job they were trying to do. They were struggling desperately to hang on until they could qualify for a pension because they had no other means of support. Of course, they were killing themselves in the process. Too often have I observed that tragedy. I have seen this in the case of patients with whom I tried to discuss the prospect of survival. I pointed out that they must let up because their heart would nol last that long. Yet they desperately said: 'How else can I survive?' In those cases what can a doctor do? He can do absolutely nothing but watch them, in essence, commit suicide while desperately trying to survive until they can gel their pension. That is the first thing I hope the Minister will consider. All of us are not the same. The demands on us are nol the same. There ought to be some variation in the age at which people may retire. 
I said earlier that some people can perform their job quite adequately much beyond the present age of arbitrary retirement. lt is a punishment for these people to have to retire al the specified time. They lose their interests and their friends. They become lonely and forlorn. They despair. They die early. 1 have seen this also. If they had been able to continue in their occupation without prejudice to their entit lements as pensioners or their rights in any other way, or without being sacked simply because they had reached the age of retirement, they would have led a fruitful life for much longer and would have continued to contribute to society. I hope I have made that point also. We are not machines; we are individuals. All of us are different and there ought to be some latitude as to the age of retirement. 
When people do retire, should they give up everything? With relatively little retraining and at a relatively low cost to the community, people retiring from particular occupations could be trained to do something else which could interest them and continue occupying their lives for a number of years while again contributing to the community and saving the community the cost of paying them pensions. They could continue to earn their way in the world and feel all the better for doing so. once again saving everybody including themselves. 
Another concept when people feel that they need to retire from a particular job is the possible establishment of a Commonwealth retraining scheme. They should not be forced to undertake such a course but they should be able to choose to avail themselves of such facilities so that they could be retrained to do something else. There are many jobs in the community which can very adequately be done by elderly people thereby saving the younger people who could do something more useful and at the same time saving the elderly people from the loneliness and depression which so often besets them when they are forced to retire because of their age. 
Finally, if they do retire what level of livelihood are they entitled to expect? lt is no longer a question of handouts which they are lucky to get because we are prepared to be generous. It has now reached the stage where, as the honourable member for Perth and even the former Prime Minister recently observed, pensioners are entitled to frugal comfort. I know that the word 'frugal' aroused a lot of chuckles and sometimes scathing comment but the vital word is 'comfort-, lt is a recognition that people are entitled to more than simple existence and what is more it is not a privilege, it is their right. Their right is not something that wc ought to try to compare with whatever happened when the last 
Labor government was in office. That is totally irrelevant. The expectations are what you and I expect today because the chances are that more of us will live to become pensioners. It is what we would expect for ourselves. J am not interested in the 'blame game'. I am prepared to accept the strictures that relatively speaking - I do not know if it is true, I am not interested and I do not care - pensioners are better off now than they were in the days of the Chifley regime. 
The fact remains, and I hope by common consent on all sides of this House, that the life of a pensioner is an exceedingly hard one today. 1 think that purely on selfish grounds all of us must at last recognise it is a right to which we are all entitled and for that reason we need to consider not just the mere sustenance, not just shelter so that the rain does not fall on us, but the other things that go to make life something worthwhile for a person as a human being, not as an animal. It involves not just food and clothing but companionship and where a person lives but not necessarily in terms of an old residence because their friends and relations may have passed on. It may be a case of helping elderly people to move to other areas where there are more people with whom they could communicate and allowing them some access to young people so that they do not rot on their own. 
There are many aspects of the life of a pensioner which we as parliamentarians cannot understand. I think we are fools to continue to set ourselves the task of setting these levels. We need to consult social workers, occupational therapists, doctors, psychiatrists and other specialists in the community who deal with pensioners who are no longer able to cope. It will not be too many years before we in this place will be in the same position and we will need these sorts of support. This is one reason why we have moved for the establishment of a committee to be empowered to seek the advice of professional people in the community who look after, often with very little help from the rest of us, the pensioners in our community. We should not set ourselves up to be judges on this sort of assistance. We should seek expert guidance. If we did this we could not be blamed for doing the wrong thing. I trust that in the future there will be more jus tice for everybody including ourselves when the time comes for us to receive a pension. I do not in any way criticise the actual sum of money involved in the present legislation but for those reasons - constructive reasons, I hope - I support the proposals put forward by the Opposition and particularly the one referring to the appointment of a select committee to look into what we really ought to mean by social services in the 1970s. 
My question, which is directed to (he Minister for the Army, relates to the Pacific Islands Regiment. In view of the high incidence of Army coups among newly independent nations, I ask: To what extent is the Australian Army increasing the number of indigenous commissioned officers in the Pacific Islands Regiment and what steps, if any, are being taken to ensure that the Regiment does not develop into an elite organisation which is capable of staging a coup when Papua and New Guinea gain independence. 
asked the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
What was the reason for the delay and final abandonment of Trans-Australia Airlines Flight 425 on Sunday 17th January 1971, from Canberra to Melbourne. 
1 present the following petition: 
To the Honourable The  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament Assembled. The humble Petition of Residents of the Division of the Australian Capital Territory respectfully showeth: 
That there is a likelihood that education in the Australian Capital Territory will in the foreseeable future be made independent of the New South Wales education system: 
That the decentralisation of education systems throughout Australia is educationally and administratively desirable and is now being studied by several State Government Departments: 
That the Australian Capital Territory is a homogeneous and coherent unit especially favourable for such studies. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that a Committee of Enquiry, on which are represented the Department of Education and Science, institutions of tertiary education, practising educators, and the Canberra community, be instituted to enquire into the form that an Australian Capital Territory Education Authority should take, the educational principles and philosophy that should underlie it, and its mode of operation and administration. 
And your Petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Humble Petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth: 
The honourable member for Canning  (Mr Hallett)  joined the Minister for Immigration  (Dr Forbes),  who represents the Minister for Health in this chamber, in quibbling about the concept of nationalisation. Of course he plumped for the present system. I will quote what the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  said because I think that the Minister and the honourable member for Canning have slightly misinterpreted it. The view they expressed was that the system would be over centralised. The statement made by the Opposition reads as follows: 
We will set up an Australian Hospitals Commission to promote the modernisation and regionalisation of hospitals. 
The reality of our so-called glorious free enterprise system is that there is no autonomy or freedom at all. The hospitals in all States are right now controlled by a centralised hospital authority which has all sorts of names in the various States but which is still a central control. The local hospitals have no freedom at all. If they want to spend one razoo they must have permission from the local hospital commission. There is inadequate finance, and most of them can do nothing. 
I will come to that in a moment. The Minister, in answer to a quip from this side of the Parliament, said: Should we direct the available finance towards those in greatest need?' The answer, of course, is: 'Yes, we should.' He said at another stage: 'We are talking about the amount of finance flowing into the hospital system.' When the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  argued about the actual source and whether the assistance was for ordinary patients or for patients of a. special kind, the Minister said we are really concerned about the total funds and how they get there. He indicated later - to take up an interjection a moment ago - that the decrease in finance was due to the State governments not paying or maintaining their proportion; their proportion of finance for the hospital system is falling; the patient's contribution is going up to offset the State governments' fall; the Commonwealth's contribution remains steady. I quite agree with all that. 
In attempting to find an answer to the financial plight of the public hospitals it is important to analyse the sources of their finance. Scotton and Deeble in 1968 showed that 71 per cent of hospital finances comes from government sources, either State or Federal; 3 per cent comes from workers compensation and third party insurance; 15 per cent comes from the so-called voluntary insurance funds; and 2 per cent comes from charity - leaving only 9 per cent of the running expenses of hospitals to come from the pockets of the sick individuals. In real terms, since the Commonwealth hospital benefits payments are dependent on the patient's belonging to a hospital benefit fund, one can call the so-called voluntary insurance funds another form of taxation. 
Thus with third party and workers compensation insurance, which are also compulsory, it is logical to accept that 89 per cent of the running expenses of hospitals comes from taxation of one sort or another. If one includes the mental hospitals, the picture becomes even worse, because they are financed mainly by governments. So we find that the patient fees cover only 6 per cent of the total running cost of public hospitals and mental hospitals. In 1968 this amounted, if we include charity, to only S30m in a total hospital bill of over $380m. However, this $30m is not extra money for the community. It is the actual cost of the hospitals and finally the community pays for it. It does not matter which way it damn well pays; it still comes out of your pocket and mine. 
The most efficient way out surely would be to establish a national health insurance fund with financial collections via the Taxation Office, as is already the case with all other social services financed by the community. That is not a revolutionary thought. We are doing it already. For the year 1968 the management expenses of the hospital funds were $ 10.2m, their surplus funds amounted to $4.6m and their other income, from their non-profit investments no doubt of $63.7m in reserves, amounted to $3.7m. This totals $ 18.5m paid by members of the community, but which never goes to pay for hospital services but simply to service the benefit funds themselves. 
With  the  increasing costs of running large public hospitals, the present policy of the State and Federal governments is increasing the financial burden on the lower income earners and the unfortunate individuals who happen to fall ill. In other words, the survival of the hospital service, with its highly specialised, extremely expensive facilities necessary for the more comprehensive treatment of a wider range of illnesses which only a few years ago were considered untreatable and often fatal, now depends on the few sick individuals in the community, for about 30m a year. A trifling sum if collected from the whole population via taxation becomes an intolerable burden on the seriously ill members of the community. 
I now come to the hospitals. In Australia there are about 9.4 hospital beds and nursing home beds per thousand of population. This is similar to the position in other Western countries. It is thought that 4 beds per thousand of population are necessary for acute illness and the remainder are required for chronically ill or convalescent patients. With the rapid development of medical technology, particularly at the specialist level, hospital services should be integrated with a central major teaching complex of 1,000 beds and distributed around it a number of small satellite hospitals containing the remaining beds necessary for a population of, say, 250,000. The beds in the central hospital complex should be mainly for acute illnesses, not as they are at the moment for acute, chronic and convalescent cases, although some will be needed for convalescent patients. However, the convalescent beds should be limited to the minimum necessary for the transitional care of patients recovering from acute illness for which they were admitted to the hospital. As soon as possible, they should be transferred from the central hospital to a small satellite hospital where they will be near their families and their general practitioner and away from the large impersonal institution. 
The central teaching hospital complex ought to contain all the departments necessary for total comprehensive care of the patient. It should include pediatric, geriatric and psychiatric departments. This would do away with the need for special institutions for the aged, the mentally ill and children at the moment. The fragmentary approach to the patient inherent in the concept of separate institutions tends to set these various specialities apart from general practice, so that the patient suffers from lack of comprehensive management. Quality is never discussed in these debates. In this situation the specialty often tends to miss or lag behind in utilising recent research advances. Separate institutions also inhibit the medical student from obtaining a balanced, comprehensive view of patients; the present system encourages the view of patients as diseases rather than people with diseases. 
Much can be said about the design of these new sorts of hospitals so they do not have a mixture of medical and surgical cases and so on. it is far more intelligent to talk not in terms of medical or surgical but in terms of acute emergencies Whether they are medical, surgical, psychiatric or geriatric is quite irrelevant. Intensive care units will need to be near operating theatres, resuscitation facilities and so on. These should be geographically separated from the less critical areas of the hospital. Likewise the specialised laboratories and diagnostic services should be available mainly in the intensive care area. However, it must be emphasised that all the complexes ought to be within the one teaching hospital complex. 
Finally, I mention the medical staffing of these hospitals. Both senior and junior specialists should be salaried. At present criticism is often levelled at the teaching and large public hospitals because of the waste of time if a patient goes to see a specialist in such a hospital. But this inefficiency is due not to the fact that it is a socialised or nationalised hospital but to the fact that these hospitals are run by private honorary specialist medical officers. They are not salaried or paid. They are not in the employment of -the hospital. They are donating their time to the hospital. Of course they have to earn their living in private practice; so they are often running late for their clinics because they are busy treating a patient in private, and why should they not be? They earn their money in probably less than 40 per cent of their working time. So of course the public hospitals suffer. 
The answer would be to recognise that a minor increase in funds from  the  Government is necessary for the Government to take over the whole financial responsibility of the public hospitals. If it did that it would take the burden off the backs of the individuals who are ill. I would much rather pay the money while I am well and earning, not when I am sick and unable to earn to pay for my hospital expenses. If the Government does that it can reorganise and increase the efficiency of the hospitals, pay the salaries of the doctors and ensure that they are there to offer of their best to the public hospital system all the time and not only as a by-product after they have earned their keep somewhere else, quite reasonably, attending to private patients, as is the case at the moment. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to a report by  Dr Robert  E. Jervis and others from the University of Toronto, Canada, on the levels of mercury in food and human hair. 
If so, is a comparable analysis being undertaken in Australia. 
If a comparable analysis is not being undertaken in Australia and in view of the dangerous levels reported by  Dr Jervis  will he seek the advice of the National Health and Medical Research Council on this matter; 
asked the Treasurer, upon  notice: 
What was the total amount of workers' compensation payments paid to Commonwealth employees in each of the last 5 financial years, and what amount is expected to be paid during this financial year. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What cyclamate-containing foods are marketed in Australia. 
Is he able to say whether the Food and Drug Administration of the United States of America has imposed a ban on cyclamates. 
If so, is similar action contemplated in Australia. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
What sort of radionuclides are expected to occur as waste products from the nuclear reactor at Jervis Bay. 
What will be the method of disposal of these waste products. 
What will be the method of disposal of wastes other than radionuclides, such as organic liquids, low concentration heavy water and thermal-shielding-cooling system bleed, to mention some. 
Have any investigations been made into the maximum permissible annual radionuclide intake amongst members of the general public through the distribution of affected primary products of any description. 
What is the maximum permissible annual radionuclide intake in terms of doses to 'critical organs' amongst local residents near the reactor. 
I  present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report onthe needs of State education services has established serious deficiencies in education. 
That these can be summarised as lack of classroom accommodation, desperate teacher shortage, oversized classes and adequate teaching aids. 
That the additional sum of one thousand million dollars is required oyer the next five years by the States for these needs. 
That without massive additional Federal finance the State school system will disintegrate. 
That the provisions of the Handicapped Children's Assistance Act 1970 should be amended to include all the country's physically and mentally handicapped children. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to 
Ensure that emergency finance from the Commonwealth will be given to the Slates for their public education services which provide schooling for seventy-eight per cent of Australia's children And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the sales tax on all forms of contraceptive devices is  27-J  per cent. (Sales Tax Exemptions and Classifications Act  1935-1967).  Also that there is customs duty of up to  47i  per cent on some contraceptive devices. 
And that this is an unfair imposition on the human rights of all people who wish to prevent unwanted pregnancies. And furthermore that this imposition discriminates particularly against people on low incomes. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the sales tax on all forms of contraceptive devices be removed, so as to bring these items into line with other necessities such as food, upon which there is no sales tax. Also that customs duties be removed, and that all contraceptive devices be placed on the national health scheme pharmaceutical list. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of residents of the division of the Australian Capital Territory respectfully showeth - 
That there is a likelihood that education in the Australian Capital Territory will in the foreseeable future be made independent of the New South Wales education system: 
That the decentralization of education systems throughout Australia is educationally and administratively desirable, and is now being studied by several State Government Departments: 
That the Australian Capital Territory is a homogeneous and coherent unit especially favourable for such studies. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that a Committee of Enquiry, on which are represented the Department of Education and Science, institutions of tertiary education, practising educators, and the Canberra community, be instituted to enquire into the form that an Australian Capital Territory Education Authority should take, the educational principles and philosophy that should underlie it, and its mode of operation and administration. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I want to emphasise- 
That the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory be granted an extension of time. 
I do not believe that anybody on either side of the House does not accept the arguments in favour of the parole system. Its purpose as an integral part of the whole judicial system is to ensure that people who have for some reason or other broken the law and need to be incarcerated are properly rehabilitated into the community. After all, just to approach it from the point of view of punishment, we know from experience, mostly fails. The essence of the exercise these days is surely to realise that we must readjust the approach of the criminal so that he accepts the norms of society and fits in readily once his time in prison is over. That is where the parole system is important. The judgment of whether or not a person is fit for parole is a complex one. It involves judgment of many factors, such as the attitude of the individual, his aptitude to find another occuption or better cope with the occupation he had. After all, these may be factors that contributed to his breaking the law in the first place. Other matters to be considered would be his ability to fit in, his socialising tendencies within the community itself and the environment to which he is likely to return. To form judgments on these mat- ters we recognise clearly that it is important to have something like parole boards. I do not think any honourable member disagrees with that. 
What I find distressing is that with this ordinance we are tending to go hack from an advance that was made, at least in New South Wales, where, as the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  mentioned, the Minister who introduced legislation in 1966 indicated that he was taking away from the Minister the right to make the final decision. I think this was a clear advance. He was leaving the sole responsibility for deciding whether a prisoner would be placed on parole in the hands of a parole board, and that is where the responsibility should lie. Risks will have to be taken and sometimes, even with the best of intentions, some of the paroled persons may well break their parole. In the situation proposed for the Australian Capital Territory we will not necessarily know the recommendation of the parole board. It will all rest in the hands of the officer to whom the authority is delegated or the AttorneyGeneral. Why should he be lumbered with the responsibility of having let out of gaol someone who subsequently breaks parole? This, in essence, is what the present situation amounts to. Surely it would be far better to adopt the New South Wales practice which is to leave it in the hands of a competent, specialist parole board. I am sure that the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  does not disagree with me. The Government has accepted that prisoners in the Australian Capital Territory should be dealt with by the New South Wales board. However, by this ordinance the Government is reverting to the practice of insisting that the final decision will rest in essence in the hands of the Attorney-General. With all respect, I think that is a foolish move. I think the Government should take the plunge, accept the practice in New South Wales and leave it to the parole board. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
What arrangements were made by TransAustralia Airlines to transport passengers booked on the cancelled Electra flight TN425 from Canberra to Melbourne on Sunday 17th January 1971. (Hansard, 7th April 1971, pages 1638-9). 
At what time was the Electra aircraft subsequently declared airworthy. 
In considering the Budget and the steps which should be taken to control our economic worries - inflation being the main concern at the moment - it is impossible to find a consensus on the best action to take when the discussion is based on economic argument within the framework of the private enterprise system. All the opinions depend strictly on the self-interest of the individual giving the advice, without reference to the effect on other sections of the community, or the long-term effect on the whole community. The farmer wants more subsidy because without it many farmers will be sent bankrupt and forced to leave the land. But these self-same subsidies are an added burden on the urban community. After all, the funds must come from the pockets of the non-farmers in order to give subsidies to the farmers. 
If the money is raised by direct taxation, with the present incidence of taxation in Australia, it falls most severely on the lower middle income range. If it is raised mainly by indirect taxation, it falls mainly on the lower income earners. In other words, it causes a rise in the cost of living which mainly penalises the wage earners. The inevitable effect of a rise in the cost of living is that wage earners find their standard of. living dropping, and so we get demands for wage increases. After industrial unrest and lengthy argument before the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission wage rises are granted and immediately there is a cry from the business community that, prices will have to rise to offset the wage rises. 
Whilst all this conflict goes on, increasingly larger sections of the community suffer. Pensioners of all sorts, all those on fixed incomes, the aged and retired, the invalid and those handicapped in any way are reduced to mere subsistence or worse. Clearly what is good for one section of the community is often disastrous for others in the community. So we begin to indulge in the blame game. The Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  in his Budget Speech said: 
Undoubtedly, a significant part of the impetus has come from wage increases in various forms. 
The impetus about which he talks is, of course, the impetus of inflation. Today it is called 'cost inflation'. However, when it is stated in this fashion and the hue and cry from the business community is added to the noise - their insistence that the wage increases must be handed on to the consumer because wages are a cost in production terms - the Government would have us believe that inflation is all the fault of those terrible people, the wage earners. As one who represents the Australian Labor Party, the Party of wage earners in this country, I find that there is something illogical in that explanation. I have never yet heard of an application for an increase in wages on the grounds that an increase is necessary to offset increases in the cost of living which have not yet occurred but which it is anticipated will occur. I have never yet heard a judgment of the ' Arbitration Commission giving approval for a wage increase on the grounds that there is going to be an increase in the cost of living and saying that a wage rise should be given in anticipation. Forgive my persistence on this point but  1  fear that there are many wage earners in the community who have been bluffed by claims of the business community and the Government and feel guilty about wage claims made on their behalf. No union official would get the support of his members in an application for a wage rise if the union members did not believe that cost of living increases had reduced the real value of their wage. 
Tn assessing the claims of applicants the judges of the Arbitration Commission surely take into account the cost of living ruling at the time and compare the real purchasing power of the wage under consideration at that time with its purchasing power at some arbitrary time before and not in the future. In other words, any judgment increasing wages is given so that the purchasing power of the wage will be restored to a previously accepted standard and not increased above a previously accepted standard. The Treasurer continues in his analysis in the following words: 
These increases have reflected the level of demand and a willingness on the part of employers, under pressure, to pay more for labour. 
Now. is this a hint by the Government to the employers not to pay more for labour? The Treasurer further said:   . . there has been and still is a powerful  upthrust  of costs, stemming largely though not wholly from large wage claims relentlessly pursued.  ls this a hint to employers to be more relentless in resisting wage claims? If the Government is in fact objecting to wage increases, since these increases are meant to restore previously accepted standards, does the Government mean that the only way to stop inflation is to lower the real value of wages received by wage earners? Does this mean that according to traditional economic analysis the workers of the country have to be content with a smaller proportion of the wealth of the country? Where does this put the Arbitration Court judges? Are they to accept the direction of the Government and somehow give legal sanction to the need in fact to reduce the purchasing power of wages? 
Does all this mean that the price of economic progress is a reduced proportion of the wealth of the country in the hands of most of the people - the wage earners? Is economic progress measured in terms of increasing profits in the hands of fewer people, for with all this anxiety about inflation the largest industrial concerns seem to be earning larger profits and gaining a bigger share in the ownership of the wealth and resources of this country? If that is economic progress then it is time to ask: Is it worth it? But the relationship of wages to the wealth of the country - a falling relationship in my opinion - is only part of the story of our so-called economic progress. 
Earlier 1 hinted at the plight of the people on fixed incomes - an increasing proportion of the community. In 1945 after a disastrous war when Australia was an underdeveloped country, compared to its development today, but when there was in office a Labor Government which decided the priorities, the pension rate was 27 per cent of average weekly earnings at that time. Today the pension rate is only about 20 per cent of average weekly earnings. There is no argument that we are a much richer country, a far more developed country than we were at the time of the last Labor Government. Then why should the pensioners and the handicapped be expected to subsist on a lesser proportion of the national wealth than we could afford 25 years or more ago? The rises in pensions offered in the Budget do not restore the standards of a quarter of a century ago. They barely maintain the inadequate standards of last year and for a very short time that will be. judging by the continuing steep rise in the cost of living. This brings me to the next question concerning these types of subsistence payments. 
Why is the Government not prepared to fix these various pension payments at a set proportion of average weekly earnings with automatic adjustments as average weekly earnings rise? It is an illusion to .say that the pension is maintaining its relationship to average weekly wage rates. The fact is that there is a growing discrepancy between the nominally set weekly wage rate and actual weekly earnings. The pension rates should be restored as quickly as possible to the 1945 level of 27 per cent of average weekly earnings. In fact, given the greater wealth of the whole community there is a strong case for setting the pension level to at least 30 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
Still another manifestation of the decline in our standards relative to other advanced countries is the way our spending on community services is lagging. I shall touch on only two. This does not mean that there are not others that are important; other honourable members are dealing with them. 1 wish to comment on health and education. The increase in patient charges for prescriptions, which is expected to raise a mere $16m for the Government in total receipts of nearly $9, 000m, is in fact the imposition of a penalty on patients in tha community. One of the arguments often put to justify charges for prescriptions is that it will lower the patient demand for medicines. This is an entirely false argument since the decision as to whether a patient gets a prescription for medicine is the decision of the doctor alone. I realise that the claim is often made that patients demand medicines and that if a particular doctor refuses on medical grounds to give the necessary prescription the patient will go to another doctor. Doctors, being human, do not like to lose patients, and hence income, so they comply with the patient's request. 
This brings me to the crux of the problem - the vested interest of the doctors in over-prescribing drugs. When the patient demands a medicine, the doctor has a financial interest in complying, though doing so may be contrary to his medical judgment. On the other hand, where the patient is not making any demand ./ner than for medical treatment the doctor is again exposed to the temptation to prescribe a drug, which can be done in a very short time, rather than undertake the long and more tedious task of prolonging the consultation in order to better understand the patient's problem and perhaps cope with it without prescribing drugs. In the first case, the total time taken by the doctor to write the prescription, after a short consultation, means that he has earned the consultation fee for, say, 5 or 10 minutes work. On the other hand, if he tries to understand fully the patient's problem the consultation may last 30 minutes or more but he still earns the same consultation tee. In essence, the problem of over-prescribing, and over-treatment, which at times can go as far as unnecessary operations and unnecessary hospitalisation, is created by the fee-for-service system of medical practice. 
I want to make it quite clear that I am criticising, not my fellow doctors, but the system under which they work. This outdated system depending on feeforservice which inevitably gives the doctor? and all other health personnel a financial interest in ill health can only lead to excessive use of the system. There are numerous studies now available to confirm this view, but I shall quote only one. I refer to the report of the Health Manpower Commission of the United States Government. The report describes the Kaiser Foundation Medical Care Programme where the doctors are employed on a salaried basis. Before giving the significant statistics, perhaps it would be helpful to give the views of the Commission on the quality of the medical care offered by this organisation so as to preclude any conclusion that the medical care is provided on the cheap - that is, in terms of the quality of medical care. That report states: 
Although the survey was constrained both by time and experimental design, it was the strong impression that the quality of medical care delivered by the California Permanente Medical Groups is equivalent, if not superior, to that available in most communities. 
The doctors in the scheme expressed the view that one of the merits of their system of practice was the ability to deliver medical services without concern for the economic welfare of the individual patient. In other words, they did not have to worry about the burden of medical fees on the patient. Now to some statistics. The report continues: 
Between 1960 and 1965 total expenses per member for the services provided by Kaiser increased by 19 per cent. During the same period, national per capita private consumer expenditures for comparable medical services Increased by 44 per cent. 
It also states: 
. age-adjusted days for hospital care per year for Kaiser members (were) only 70 per cent of the State's per capita average. 
That represents a considerable saving, as may be seen. The report goes on: 
Prepayment permits a contract arrangement that eliminates incentive for physicians to provide unnecessary medical procedures and inclusion of outpatient care in the Kaiser benefit package eliminates members' financial incentives to undergo unnecessary hospitalisation. 
As I said earlier, there are numerous other surveys to confirm these claims. Very briefly, in a study made by  Dr J.  S. Lawson, Director of Hospital Services in Tasmania, it is revealed that the operation rates for tonsillectomy, appendicectomy and hysterectomy in Australia are 2 to 3 times higher than in the United Kingdom or in areas of the United States of America where doctors are on salaries instead of fee for service. In some areas in the United Kingdom and the United States of America doctors are on fee-for-service but much lower rates apply than those that apply in Australia, where all doctors are on fee for service.  Dr Lawson  also noted that the perinatal and infant mortality . rates - very sensitive indicators of the quality of medical care in comparable communities - were lower amongst groups of people treated by doctors on salary compared with people treated by doctors on a fee-for-service basis. In other words, the quality of service was better where the doctors were on a salary. I quite agree. The present system in fact encourages the concept of piece work. The more operations a doctor does, the higher his income, so why not brandish the knife more frequently? 
So much for health services. I now deal with education. Tragically, once again the claims of our children have been ignored. Compared with other so called advanced countries, we spend about half as much as we should on education. It is no answer to say that Commonwealth expenditure will rise this year by 14 per cent. This will barely offset the rises in costs due to inflation and will not take into account the increase in the population of children in schools, an increase due to immigration, our own birth rate and also the longer time children are now expected to stay at school. When these factors are acknowledged, we may. see that the Federal Government is in fact reducing its commitment to education. 
Again I am aware that the primary responsibility for education rests really with the States, but to use this as an excuse for limiting Federal assistance is humbug. Probably one of the largest items in any State Budget is education. All avenues of State revenue outside Federal grants are trictly limited. In other words, the only relief available is direct Commonwealth grants for specific educational purposes. Unless we face up to this fact, our children will be inadequately educated and so placed at a distinct disadvantage in the future world where increasing technology will demand higher levels of education for a large proportion of the population. 
Finally, I wish to join the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  in urging the Government to consider the problem of the environment. This does not mean just pollution, rubbish disposal. I mean the whole environment, the whole cycle of biological life on this planet. We talk endlessly of development, progress, industrialisation and population growth. I wish to quote  Sir Garfield  Barwick on this subject. Earlier this year he said: 
Growth has become the operative word for everyone. Whether or not he wants to be, the smallest businessman is caught up in the juggernaut of growth. So materialistic are we that our governments tend to stand or fall on the growth record of the country while they have been in office. 
He asked: 
Is consumption a good thing? The end of consumption is either the dissipation of energy or a pile of rubbish. In short, the ultimate physical product of economic life is garbage and the mental and muscular exhaustion of men. 
He further stated: 
It seems to me that the time is overdue when the Government should be taking steps to adjust the economy to cope with a lower rate of material production and a lower rate of consumption. 
Regrettably the greatest pollutant is man himself, and not only in his efforts to sustain himself. The end product of all life, of course, in one way is pollution, but fortunately for us pollution in one life cycle is the means of survival for another life cycle. But tragically we have upset the balance because population growth is far too fast and we are reaching the stage where rapidly we are producing far more pollution than the natural resources of the world will be able to cope with. So it is vital for us, if we want to avoid the destruction of life on this planet, to reduce the level of population growth. I will quote finally from a book on this subject. It states: 
The explosive growth of the population is the most significant terrestrial event of the past million millenia. No geographical event in a billion years has posed a threat to terrestrial life comparable to that of human over-population. 
So in my opinion it is vital that the Government pay some attention to this problem. 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to an article on medical practice in Australia appearing in the latest issue of the 'Current Affairs Bulletin' which was written by the late Professor John Read, Professor of Medicine at the University of Sydney? Professor Read said that a doctor's fee for deciding not to operate might be between $5 and $20 but a decision to operate on the same patient might bring him a fee of between $20 and $250. Is the Minister aware that there are numerous studies which confirm Professor Read's view that fee for service results in overutilisation, excessive hospitalisation- 
I would like to address a question, not quite without notice, to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Has the Minister seen the article by Professor John Read in the latest 'Current Affairs Bulletin' in which he points out that: 'a doctor's fee for deciding not to operate might be between  $5  and $20. But a decision to operate on the same patient' - for the same disease - 'might bring him a fee of between $20 and $250'. Has the Minister seen the numerous scientific reports supporting Professor Read's claim that fee-for-service medical practice leads to unnecessary medical treatment and hospitalisation? Finally, will the Minister comment on Professor Read's statement that 'when a major part of the funds comes from the public purse there is every reason to examine its propriety and necessity'? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament Assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Sales Tax on all forms of Contraceptive Devices is 27. (Sales Tax Exemptions and Classifications Act 1935-1967). Also that there is Customs Duty of up to 47 on some Contraceptive Devices. 
And that this is an unfair imposition on the human rights of all people who wish to prevent unwanted pregnancies. And furthermore that this imposition discriminates particularly against people on low incomes. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Sales Tax on all forms of contraceptive devices be removed, so as to bring these items into line with other necessities such as food, upon which there is no Sales Tax. Also that Customs Duties be removed, and that all Contraceptive Devices be placed on the National Health Scheme Pharmaceutical Benefits List. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament Assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That a migrant who has been a member of the Australian workforce for many years, ha.s paid taxes and acquired Australian citizenship, and seeks to live the last years of his life in his native land or, if an invalid, wishes to see his relatives, is denied pension transferability. Your petitioners therefore humbly pray - 
That the House of Representatives, in Parliament assembled, seek to have Australia adopt the principle followed by Britain, Italy, Greece, Malta, The Netherlands, France, Germany, Turkey, Canada and the United States of America, who already transfer the social entitlement of their citizens wherever they may choose to live. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 1 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of ' the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
That we urgently request: 
The immediate, unconditional withdrawal of all Australian military forces from IndoChina and the cessation of Australian aggression against the people of Indo-China, irrespective of United States policy. 
That Australia recognise in practice, the Indo-Chinese peoples' right to national independence and self-determination. 
That Australia end its present policies of military intervention in countries of Asia ' and the south-west Pacific. 
The immediate abolition of conscription for military service and the withdrawal of outstanding or pending charges and penalties against all who have refused to be conscripted into the army. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the honourable members of the House of Representatives will immediately take steps to effect the above requests. 
And we your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, debates in the Parliament, as is shown by the activity in these last moments, are a theatrical performance with no real audience. The radio audience gets a very disjointed picture of the debate since very few people are able to sit and listen to the whole debate and, ultimately, the whole proceedings depend upon the mass media for communication to the electors as a possible audience. However, this inevitably means considerable distortion, which is not deliberate; it is simply a function of reporting rather than immediate contact. For example, a report of a Shakespeare play or a Brunell film is nothing luce seeing the real thing. Ultimately, the conclusions drawn by the electors depend upon the interpretation of the performance made by the reporter, which, of course, inevitably will be slanted by his biases. I am not offering this as a criticism of the integrity of reporters, just as a simple observation of fact. It is one of the inevitable deficiencies of communication, particularly through the mass media. 
With the effect of debates on the Government usually nil, one wonders whether pressure of any sort can be effective. Quite clearly, pressure groups lobbying within the hallowed portals are far more effective than the Opposition in open debate. This, again, is not necessarily to suggest that the whole procedure is corrupt - not at all. It is simply a function of quiet discussion and reasoning away from the glare of publicity being able to have far more influence. Subject to pressures of this sort, the Government is able to change its mind without losing face. In fact, no-one can know that the Government has changed its mind. This, of course, is impossible if the pressure is in debate from the Opposition in the Federal Parliament. Clearly, due to the exigencies of having to try to win votes, and to persuade people that one is strong and able to cope, it is imperative almost for a government not to listen to any suggestions made by the Opposition. 
I have noticed the same situation with questions on behalf of constituents. If one asks a question in the House, if it really is simply seeking information, the answer inevitably is that the Minister will find out and let the member know. This is a tamecat question which earns the derision or the scorn of the Press and nothing more at the time. Therefore, honourable members usually attempt to take a rise out of the Government by asking slightly embarrassing questions but, of course, this also inevitably leads to smart answers or evasive answers, and no real result. If one wishes to obtain a constructive result for the constituent, it is far better to write a calm letter, discuss the matter quietly with the Minister in private, and often one can obtain a result on behalf of the constituent as it involves no loss of face publicly for the Government. At the moment, the sole purpose of the Opposition appears to be to score points in snouting matches, but in essence to achieve nothing. But if one asks what should the real purpose of the Opposition be, surely it is to try to change the ideas of the Government and to effect real improvements in legislation, though, with public debating and the electorate outside eventually judging the protagonists by means of a vote, it inevitably means that the public performance must appear not to allow the Opposition any influence on the Government. 
Despite the great ideals, one is forced to the inevitable conclusion that much of the parliamentary process is a boring waste of time and means nothing in real terms to anyone. It is simply a stage upon which the various actors strut and proclaim their lines in the hope that subsequently they can circulate copies of their speeches to the local electors and trust that this will induce the electors to continue to support them when it comes to polling day. No decisions are taken other than on strict Party lines according to the strength of the Party. Whilst the system when first evolved may have served a real function, in the 1970s I am afraid that it is naught but a hollow mockery of adult discussion, debate, consultation and decision-making. Having been fairly critical, let me make some constructive suggestions. 
In all that 1 have said before, i am not in any way trying to suggest that the Parliamentarians are inadequate. On my prejudices before coming to Parliament, I suppose I had the view commonly held by, I would guess, a majority of the community, that parliamentarians are, in fact, fairly useless, ineffectual and doubtful propositions. However, having seen many of them at closer quarters, 1 consider that they are dedicated, sincere and hardworking in the main and that the inadequacy of their performance is not due to their own shortcomings but to an impossible system under which they work. Let me try to deal with the situation by describing how, perhaps, new legislation could be dealt with. 
Firstly, the Government could give notice of its intention to legislate in relation to some specific topic. No details should be given, simply a warning that action is considered necessary. Then the topic is referred to a committee of the Parliament. The committee should consist of no more than 12 members, in proportion to the strength of the Parties in the House, with the  chairman  of the committee, the odd man, being the Minister in charge of the proposed legislation. The committee should have access to any experts it chooses to consult in the community, commencing, of course, with the public servants in the Government department concerned, but it should be free also to call on experts on the topic under discussion who have nothing whatever to do with the Government. There should be definite times set aside during the parliamentary week for the meeting of these committees and a time limit should be set for the committee to produce its report to the Parliament, with majority and minority reports if necessary. Although presented to the Parliament, the reports should not be debated at this stage, but simply presented for the information of the members. Then the Government considers the report and formulates its legislation. The Government is not bound in any way by the committee reports, either majority or minority, and the final policy put by the Government is entirely at the discretion of the Government. However, of course, if there has been a good report with lots of facts uncovered in both public and private hearings by the committee, then it is far more likely that the legislation will be intelligent, and more intelligent than we feel, at the moment, some legislation is. Once the Government has formulated its legislation it is then brought into the House for debate. By this time, one is certain that at least the committee members, both Government and Opposition, and mainly from the back benches on both sides, will have a more effective say during the debate in the House. Most of all, one hopes that the real suggestions which may have been made by Opposition committee members will have been taken into account by the Government, particularly if the Government committee members agree with the propositions. It may not be possible to identify the individual who made the proposal, but 1 think that is a minor point compared with the advantage to be obtained from this procedure. 
If this procedure were followed, then it is quite likely that the long winded second reading debates would be considerably shortened not by active limitation by the Government but. simply because the need for long-winded, pointless speeches would have been eliminated. At the Committee stage and by that I mean the stage which we are in now we could consider the minor points which the Government may have omitted to notice or which it was not prepared to notice, as it does at the present time. But the crucial effect is that in the deliberative processes of the committees, before the Government formulates its legislation, it will be possible to tap the real ability of the many parliamentarians who at the moment languish on the back benches and never have an effective say in anything. At the same time it removes from the Government the danger of appearing to lose face by backing down on an issue because the real discussion has taken place privately and calmly before the Government has formulated its legislation. When 1 talk about the Government and the Opposition . 1 am not referring to the Liberal Party or the Australian Labor Party. It is immaterial to me which Party is in power in this context. I am talking about the concept of the Government and the Opposition attempting to utilise openly and constructively all the talents which quite clearly are in the House but which regrettably at the moment are in the main ignored, even on the Government side. 
Another side effect which can only be helpful is that the committee processes, by the act of consulting numerous people in the community will increase the feeling of community participation in decision making. Once again, this can only improve the standing of the Parliament in the eyes of the community. The regrettable thing about debates at the moment is that they are held in the public gaze and we have to concentrate on maintaining our votes. Too often we stoop to making personal criticisms of one another and completely avoid the real principles under discussion. Of course, because a government depends on power it is almost mandatory for it not to appear ever to give way on any issue. For these reasons I am convinced that a committee process which will allow quiet discussion with members from both sides of the House, particularly back bench members, taking part, can only help the processes of the Parliament and also enhance the standing of Parliament in the  eyes  of the whole community. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth: 
That the immediate prospect in East Bengal is of mass starvation on a scale unprecedented in modem times. 
That only quick settlement of the Bangla DeshPakistan conflict will make it possible to avert the death of many millions. 
We therefore urge (he honourable members to: 
Raise to $10m Australian aid to refugees now in India from East Pakistan. 
Support all efforts to guarantee the fully autonomous development of the people of Bangla Desh. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That Lake Pedder, situated in the Lake Pedder National Park in South-West Tasmania, is threatened with inundation as part of the Gordon River hydro-electric power scheme. 
That an alternative scheme exists, which, if implemented would avoid inundation of this lake. 
That Lake Pedder and the surrounding wilderness area is of such beauty and scientific interest as to be of a value beyond monetary consideration. 
And that some unique species of flora and fauna will be in danger of extinction if this area is inundated. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray thatthe Federal Government take immediate steps to act on behalf of all Australian people to preserve Lake Pedder in its natural state. All present and particularly future Australians will benefit by being able to escape from their usual environment to rebuild their physical and mental strength in this unspoilt wilderness area. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I should like to discuss the increasing concern of the Department of Customs and Excise about apprehending people who bring pot into Australia. It seems to me that by purchasing the various forms of apparatus necessary to catch these illegal importers the Department of Customs and Excise is developing a navy to challenge the Royal Australian Navy. Presumably the reason why one prohibits the entry of such a drug is because it is dangerous. If it is not dangerous there is no reason for not letting it in and not permitting people to use it. I should like to discuss the danger of marihuana and shall quote from the publication 'Medical World News' of July 1971. 
Yes. 1 have already presented some facts but I shall quote a few more. An article in this publication states: 
Conspicuous by their absence from today's scientific meetings and the scientific literature are any references to the old theories that smoking marihuana causes  anti-social  or criminal  behavoiur,  that it may be addictive, or that it leads users into opiate addiction. At major conferences, such questions arise only during Press conferences, from inexperienced reporters; sophisticated researchers dismissed these once-popular theories long ago. 
Some time ago, when I first opened my mouth on this subject it was drawn to my attention that the President-elect of the America! Medical Association had made a statement in which he insisted that pot caused impotence and foetal abnormalities. The Indians have been using it for some time and it does not seem to have done their population much harm. Some time later the President-elect issued an official statement which was published in the American Medical Association 'News' of 12th Aprl 1971.  Dr Wesley  Hall said: 
In a recent Press conference I made comments with regard to the work of the AMA Committee on Alcoholism and Drug Abuse which were widely misinterpreted. 1 am making this statement to clear the air and to restate our AMA position on this important subject. The AMA knows of no evidence to substantiate the statement that marihuana use leads to birth defects and sexual impotence. 
What is probably the most current and authoritative body of information is the report of the Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare issued on 3 1st January 1971. 

 Dr Wesley Hall said that the American Medical Association Council had studied that report and agreed with its findings. What does the report say about various aspects of the use of marihuana? In respect of the suggestion that it can kill a person, the report states: 
From the standpoint of lethality, cannabis products must be counted among the safer of the drugs in widespread use. Death directly attributable to the drug's effects is extremely rare even at very high doses. 
The report refers to the chronic effects of the drug's use. Most people have discontinued the thought that it causes all manner of acute effects. The report states:   .there are many world wide reports of heavy, chronic canabis use resulting in loss of conventional motivation and in social indifference . . . 
The report states that in America this is not apparent and continues: 
American use patterns are frequently contaminated by the use of other drug substances, making interpretation difficult. It is not certain to what degree this 'amotivational syndrome' is the result of marihuana use per se or of a tendency for those who lack conventional motivation to find drugs unusually attractive. 
On the question of progression to other drugs it states: 
It is generally conceded that marihuana use does not necessarily lead directly to the use of other drugs. On a worldwide basis there is little evidence of a progression from the use of marihuana to that of opiates or hallucinogens. 
In fact it suggests that those people who tend to use marihuana heavily probably are inclined to the use of drugs anyway and it is not a question of marihuana causing progression to other drugs. They use marihuana. They start on cigarettes in most cases anyway. They are also heavy alcohol users, What does our Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug 
Abuse say on the matter? After all it was set up to investigate this matter. Of course there is a lot of concern about it in the community. I would like to read some of the Committee's conclusions. I will refer only to those on marihuana. I am not concerned about the hard drugs. I agree with the views about hard drugs in the main. First of all the Committee comments that it has been proposed that the penalties imposed for all drug offences should bear some relationship to the harmful character of the drug involved. In dealing with marihuana itself, this is the Committee's recommendation: 
The Australian Government should initiate action for the transfer of cannabis and its derivatives from Schedule 1 of the 1961 Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs to an appropriate schedule in the Convention on Psychotropic Substances. 
Psychotropic substances are drugs of a quite different order. The one type is highly dangerous and the other one is the sort of drug that one uses in medical treatment often. 
Hold your horses. Furthermore the Committee makes the following comments: 
Pending the results of further research, present restrictions on the restrictions on the use of cannabis drugs be retained in Australia; 
In other words the Committee does not suggest that it should be legalised. It then states: 
The young first offender brought before the courts be given, by bond and probation conditions, every encouragement to avoid repetition of the offence; the first offender successfully completing conditions of bond and probation be discharged without an offence being recorded; 
In other words it is suggested that the taking of marihuana should not be considered an offence if the young person no longer seems to be using the drug, and so on. In my opinion it indicates the relatively harmless nature of marihuana in most people's eyes. Of course, the Canadians in their report indicated quite clearly, when they were trying to find out why marihuana was ever made illegal, that whatever t reason it had nothing to do with scientific evidence. Do not take my word; read their report. That is precisely what they say. I suppose I should revert to this article from 'Medical World News' because it seems to me to cover some of the feelings aroused about this subject. It states:  - Legally marihuana has been classified as a narcotic, yet pharmacologically  it  is quite different. Over the centuries it has been called a depressant, euphoriant, inebriant, intoxicant, hallucinogen  . . .Perhaps more than any other drug it  is  a social irritant that elicits rather remarkable behaviour reactions in both users and  nonusers. 
I certainly endorse that view. The Canadians, when they published their first report in about 1970, also commissioned a further sub-committee to go into the matter. I will read its findings because they have just been put out. A Press report on the matter states: 
A report by the controversial Canadian Committee on Youth has recommended legislation of marihuana for people over 18, with Government controls of its distribution and marketing . . . 
The Committee recommended that the cultivation, sale, possession and use of cannabis be legalised, and so on. I think we need to face up to the fact that at the moment, despite the previous history of trying to stop the use of marihuana on the ground that it was dangerous, the latest medical evidence does not find any confirmation of these dire dangers. The situation now is that there is no proof of any danger whatever in the use of marihuana, but there might be. I concede the possibility that there might be, but there is still no evidence. 
The tragedy to me is that on the basis of this question mark, this 'might', we are prepared to imprison people and make them criminals. I think that is wrong. I am not advocating legalisation of marihuana at this stage but I believe that we should take notice of what our own Senate Select Committee has suggested and what many American States are doing in fact. They are lifting penalties on the use of this drug. They are suggesting that the taking of marihuana should be no more than a civil offence like a parking offence, and in this way we will cope far better with the problem. Of course, if a person knew he could get his supplies from a chemist instead of from a pedlar we would also do away with the danger of people using this stuff being hooked on drugs. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Armitage)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for the Arts, among other things. When did the Commonwealth Literary Fund Advisory Board last meet? What scheduled meetings of the Board have been cancelled? How many people have been approached to. become  chairman  of the Board? How many  people have been approached to become members of the Board? Has any proposal been made for reconstructing the Commonwealth Literary Fund or the Advisory Board? 
The vexed question of State aid was raised and I would like to deal with it a little. The real question is not whether the Commonwealth should provide more funds for education; of course it should. This country spends 4.3 per cent of its gross national product on education while many western countries are spending 6 per cent to 8 per cent of their gross national product on education. But the real question of State aid concerns aid for private nongovernment schools. When the schools are rich, well endowed, with standards of buildings, equipment, facilities and staff superior to the State schools, surely there is no case for giving these schools aid. Yet the allocation of funds by the Commonwealth is very favourable to the rich private schools compared to the State schools. For instance, the allocation of funds for science facilities for the period 1968-71 was as follows: Government secondary schools with 75.2 per cent of total pupils received 57.8 per cent of the funds; Catholic schools with 16.8 per cent of the pupils received 28.4 per cent of the funds; non-Catholic private schools with less than 8 per cent of the pupils received 13.8 per cent of the funds Of the projected spending for 1971-75 60 per cent will go to government schools with 75 per cent or more of students, 27.2 per cent will go to the Catholic schools with less than 16.8 per cent of students and 12.8 per cent will go to the non-Catholic private schools with less than 8 per cent of the students. 
The allocation of secondary school scholarships further highlights the grossly unfair distribution of assistance. In 1970 State schools, with 75.2 per cent of students, received only 57.8 per cent of the scholarships; Catholic schools with 16.8 per cent of pupils received 20.5 per cent of the scholarships; non-Catholic private schools with 8 per cent of the pupils received 22 per cent of the scholarships. Finally, the projected dollar aid per student for 1971-75 shows a marked discrepancy between the State schools receiving $36.83 for each pupil and the Catholic schools receiving $73.60 per pupil. Each non-Catholic private school pupil will be subsidised to the extent of $74.28. The fact that parents of children going to private schools pay fees is irrelevant to the argument. If non-Catholic private schools did not offer better facilities, quite apart from the other attractions such as class and status, then people would not be so foolish as to send their children to these private schools. Why pay private school fees to have one's children in schools inferior to the State schools? In other words, non-Catholic private schools are already superior to State schools. So why is the Commonwealth Government giving them over twice as much money and equipment as it is giving to the State schools? This is simply aggravating the social inequalities in the community. 
It is claimed by some that more taxation revenue goes to State schools than to private schools, but Professor Fensham of Monash University has analysed this claim and has proved that private schools take very little less of taxation funds than State schools. Even so, granting that the State schools may be getting more there is still no case for spending more taxation revenue on private schools which are already superior to State schools. However, this objection to the spending of Commonwealth funds on rich private schools fails to recognise that there is a significant group of private schools - the Catholic parish schools - which are poor, inadequate and over crowded and in which the children in the main come from poor families. This means that 18 per cent of Australian primary school pupils are receiving their education in conditions as bad as or even worse than those suffered by State primary school pupils. There is no question that this canont be allowed to continue. 
The Labor Party proposes that an inquiry be held to determine the state of education at all levels. Let us assume that this inquiry establishes that the Catholic primary school is inferior in many respects to government schools. Then obviously something must be done about it since it is politically irresponsible to permit the children in those schools to suffer educational deprivation compared to their counterparts in government schools. If the decision is taken to give money to the Catholic Church for its schools, what controls, if any - what strings, if you like - should go with the grants? Firstly, one would expect conditions in terms of size of classes, standards of teachers, the curriculum and so on - which already are nominally observed - would presumably be rigidly enforced. This would mean almost certainly a dramatic increase in the number of lay teachers in the schools which would tend to diminish the church influence. 
Since large sums of money are involved and since it is inefficient to have schools competing with one another for pupils it would be necessary to expect a Catholic school in an area to accept non-Catholic pupils, if needs be, with the only limitation being the number of pupils the school could take and if some must be eliminated then it should be by ballot and not based on religion. With the concept of freedom of religion accepted by all, it would be expected that religious instruction would be provided for non-Catholics by their coreligionists in the schools while the Catholic students are getting their religious instruction. In a sense, the private schools receiving large sums of money from the public purse become community schools. None of this discussion has dealt with the real problems of education in the country. The question is: How do we increase the involvement of parents, remove authority from centralised bureaucracy; and, what is the real nature of education in a modern society? An educationalist, John McLaren, has claimed that the prob lem of over centralised bureaucracy can be solved by changing the State education system:    . so that it gives more authority to parents and teachers, more choice to students, and more variety generally, and so that it can be integrated with its immediate social environments without being limited by them. We certainly will not do it by enlarging the State juggernaut. 
I quite agree. He claims that the answer is that the Commonwealth should decide how much money should go to education and then finance individual schools directly. He says: 
The impossibly reactionary State departments would be eliminated. 
He also says that in-service training of teachers could be provided by a subsidy to teachers' professional organisations or incorporating teacher training into the tertiary system. The Commonwealth would pay the complete capital costs of raising any existing school building to an adequate standard and the complete running costs of any existing school which agreed to accept students regardless of academic, religious or social qualifications. In the case of applicants exceeding available places a ballot would be used. In essence, all schools would become part of the public system, but not run by State education departments. It would eliminate the narrowness based on social status or religious denomination of the present private schools, allow greater autonomy of the schools with their staff and the interested parents associated with those schools, and seems to me to offer the best way out of the present sterile impasse our education appears to have reached. 
The faults of narrowness and lack of imagination are not confined to the government school sector for the private schools are just discovering that co-education may be a good thing. Whilst theoretically private schools are claimed to have given opportunity for new approaches this is not the case at all and often these new adventures have arisen in the lamentably backward State school system. McLaren continues: 
New schools could be set up with Common? wealth finance by any group which could establish at a public hearing, with opportunity for objections, that it commanded enough support to make the school economically viable by current standards . . . and that its establishment would benefit the total educational community in its area. 
I agree with these views which, to me, in essence remove the schools from the control of any form of central bureaucracy, whether it be State or church, and permit the teachers and the local parents to have much more say in the running of the school. With all the evidence I can find, both in my own reading and in my own personal experience with the problems of my own children at school, it seems to me that this is the only constructive future for education. It is time we stopped arguing the question of education around the political football of State aid. It is time we stopped using State aid as a means to buy votes. It is time we started to act as if we mean some of the things we have been saying in theoretical discussions for years; namely, that education is not just to teach techniques but to teach one to live and think, lt is time we acted as if we believed these things. It . is time we allowed education to produce free, honest thinking young minds instead of trained acceptors of authority. 
In the brief time available to me, I should like to deal with the whole concept of the national health scheme, since the Bill that we are discussing is the National Health Bill. Very briefly, the view of the Australian Labor Party is that it would be far more efficient to have a completely integrated scheme with the public hospitals, in essence, being the pivot of regional organisations of hospital services from which the specialised medical care would flow. Around these regional organisations would be satellite hospitals in areas where people live and where the general practitioners could be organised in health centres. By this integration of services, the cost of hospitalisation in the large public hospitals can be reduced. 
Waste occurs because people are admitted to hospitals for admittedly specialised medical care requiring facilities which are available only in large public hospitals. The point is that the time they need to be in these institutions is much less than then now spend in them. They could spend probably half the time they now spend in these expensive beds. 
Let us take an operation like a gastrectomy or a cholecystectomy or some other serious operation which should be performed in a large public hospital. With a normal recovery, after 3 or 4 days, or maybe a few days more for gastrectomy, the crucial stage is over and most of the intensive care supervision has ceased. But at the moment the patient sits and languishes in a bed that costs perhaps $30 a day while he convalesces before he is discharged to go home. What should happen is that be should at that stage, probably half way through the period of hospitalisation, be transferred to a convalescent bed in one of the satellite hospitals where he is nearer his own family and nearer his own general practitioner so he can get back to the care of his general practitioner where he ought to be. He would then vacate a highly specialised, expensive hospital bed. Even if it is only 3 days sooner he has saved for the community 3 days of highly expensive hospitalisation. 
The next question that is thrown up at us of course is: Where will you find the money? The answer is: In the same place you get it from right now - out of your pockets and mine. The point is that we all pay for the health service. Partly the Government pays, partly benefit funds pay and partly patients pay. But let us not fool ourselves. The Government contribution comes from the taxpayers' pockets. The benefit fund contribution comes from the benefit fund contributors' pockets, that is from the same persons who have paid the taxation. The private fees come from the- individuals who happen to be sick. They are ordinary members of the community, the people who pay the taxes and pay the benefit fund contributions. So stop fooling ourselves. The money comes from your pocket and mine. It does not come from up above. 
All we are suggesting is a reallocation or redirection of the money from your pocket and mine to the doctor and to the hospitals. At the moment it goes via the benefit fund organisations for a start. What does that cost us? For the privilege of belonging to over 100 different benefit fund organisations it cost us in the administration costs of those organisations for the year 1969-70 a sum of $12m - sheer waste, just to keep the wheels of the benefit funds going. In the same year these so-called non-profit organisations amassed a surplus - they call it a surplus because we must not call it profit; they are non-profit organisations - of $8. 8m. In addition, from the reserves they have invested because they have been amassing not profits but surpluses for all the years they have been going - I would guess they are well over $70m now - they received last year $4.8m. So in 1969-70 our funds, from the stage the money left your pockets and mine, passed through the benefit fund organisations and reached the hospitals and the doctors had dropped by the sum of $25.9m. 
That is where you will get the money. You do not have to tax people more; just eliminate the inefficiency. You would collect the same amount of money through the Taxation Office through a national health insurance fund based on taxable income, which is what our policy is, just by changing the print on the back of the taxation form. You do not have to employ one extra person in the Taxation Office. You would collect the money in the same way as you collect the ordinary taxation revenue, without any additional expense *o the community. You would save enough money to pay directly the fees patients now pay to the public hospitals. So straight away you could eliminate the burden of fees which we inflict on the poor individuals who happen to be sick. In other words because of the way our present health scheme functions we punish the people for being sick by charging them fees. Instead we should all be insuring, by means of a national fund collected via taxation, by regular payments to the doctors and hospitals as they need them so that the service is there for the crisis occasion when we become ill. It is of no good being expected to pay when you are ill. It would be much more intelligent to pay smaller amounts while you are well and are earning. Surely that is social justice. 
In essence the point about the Labor Party's scheme is not, dear friends of the Government, that we are proposing an enormous additional expenditure - not at all. We have not said that doctors should be paid more, God bless them. We have not said, although there is a good case for it, that the nursing staff should be paid more. We have riot gone into that one. Accepting the present rate of pay for nurses and the present administration costs of hospitals, what additional funds are Government supporters talking about when they ask: 'Where is the money coming from?' Who for? Not for the doctors, not for the nurses, not for the administrators of the hospitals, not even for the drug firms and the medicines they provide. So who are we supposed to be finding the extra money for? It is all a figment, of the imagination. There are no extra funds involved at all. 
The Labor Party scheme would save funds because it would save the gross inefficiency which now occurs simply in the transfer of the funds from your pockets and mine to the dispensing services, the doctors and the hospitals, and all the associated people. For these reasons I suggest that the present scheme is grossly wasteful of national resources. It costs us far more than other schemes which offer much more to people. Schemes in Britain, Sweden, many of the Western nations and in Europe involving far more salaried medical services and far more national organisation of hospital services provide better service and do not cost more. They cost less than our service costs. In fact our medical service is one of the most expensive in the world. It rates not far below that of the United States of America. On the other hand many of these national schemes which involve salaried medical service cost less and yet the results in terms of the quality of medical care are better as judged by such things as the infant mortality rate and illness of children, which are very sensitive barometers used to measure health services in underdeveloped countries and so on. Using these barometers, our services are inferior to many of the services which members of the Liberal Party scorn simply because they are in essence socialised medical services. I say to them: You are wrong. Face the facts. It would be less expensive and we would have better quality medical care if we adopted the Labor Party's policy. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clause 4 (Interpretation). 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Hallett)  - Is it the wish of the Committee to consider the clause by paragraphs? There being no objection, that course will be followed. 
Paragraph (a). 
1 wish to talk to that part of the Opposition's amendment that relates to nursing homes. If one examines the number of nursing home beds per thousand of population one sees that there has been a dramatic increase from about 1.48 beds per thousand in 1963 to 2.42 beds per thousand in 1970 in the private nursing home sector in a period when the number of public nursing home beds rose from only 0-86 per thousand to 1 per thousand. In other words, there has been a very dramatic increase in the private sector. The fees for these private beds amounted to a total of about S3 8m in 1966-67. The Commonwealth paid $15m of that sum. So the Commonwealth Government is providing quite a large subsidy to the private nursing home business. 
The honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Buchanan)  indicated that about 80 per cent or more of the beds in these nursing homes are occupied by pensioners. Of course, the funds to pay for the occupation of these beds come from the Commonwealth allowance in the main and the pension the Commonwealth pays to pensioners. So that one could in fact say that the Commonwealth provides all of the funds of these institutions - in other words, the pension and the Commonwealth payment. With the increase that the Government is now proposing, theoretically if the costs remained the same as they were for the financial year 1969-70 the pensioners would make a very slight profit. They would finish up with about $7 a week in their pocket. But since those days costs have already risen. We have heard a lot about this in discussions on inflation. 
Accepting the figures of the honourable member for McMillan, we see that already the combined pension and the Commonwealth payment - in other words, total taxation revenue - will not be sufficient now to pay the fees. So, in addition, the pensioners' families are going to have to find still more funds. Of course for the non-pensioners this will represent an enormous financial drain. I would hazard a confident guess that the cost of public nursing home beds is considerably less than this, but we cannot prove it because the figures for public nursing home beds are included in the total public hospital bed costs. We cannot tell what the figure really would be. But I think that one can get a fair indication of it from the very dramatic increase in the number of private nursing home beds. 
We can get a pretty shrewd estimate of how profitable these types of institutions are to private investors. No-one is forced to go into the private nursing home business. Quite clearly, if people invest their money to change small houses and goodness knows what into small, to me inefficient, private nursing homes they must be doing it because they can make money from it. I am quite confident that this is in fact what is happening. In essence all we are doing is subsidising these very inadequate facilities for the treatment mainly of pensioners. In all these discussions we fail to ask what it is we are really trying to achieve. We fail to ask whether private nursing homes are worth while and what function they fulfil. Again accepting the figures provided by the honourable member for McMillan, I would suggest that the main function of private nursing homes is to keep old people out of sight and so out of mind. But this is not good medical care. The essence of medical care for people in that age bracket these days is active, intensive medical care and active rehabilitation services. None of these things is available in small private nursing homes. 
It would be far better to extend domiciliary care in association with geriatric medical teams based on large public hospitals, lt would be far more humane, much more effective and, incidentally, would cost the community much less than the present system of maintaining these people in private nursing homes. In my opinion, old people confined to nursing homes are often condemned to a living death. The Australian Labor Party's concept with the ultimate aim of a completely comprehensive medical service for ail age groups is far better. Convalescent and nursing home type beds should be incorporated in the active aspect of medical treatment. These beds should not be in tin pot little institutions that must be inefficient. They should be incorporated into satellite hospitals in a regionalised hospital system. With these smaller institutions the convalescent beds or the nursing home beds should be in smaller hospitals than the major centres but .still in groups of perhaps 50 to 100 or more beds - not smaller than that. They should be situated near where the patient lives - in other words, out in the community - and near where the patient's general practitioner works. They should operate in conjunction with health centres, comprehensive units where one can go along and see one's general practitioner and get the assistance of social workers, occupational therapy and X-ray facilities. I will enlarge on that later if there is time. 
I turn now to the question of prescription charges. The honourable member for 
McMillan revealed a snide suggestion based on having heard that the pharmaceutical industry is going to raise the cost of a lot of the cheaper items so that they will be above $1 and will be covered by the new scheme. If they are below SI, one just pays the fee. The industry, he said, is going to bump the fees up so that the patients will have to pay $1, the Government will pay a few cents and when the next lot of statistics comes out there will be shown a dramatic drop in the cost to the Commonwealth of prescriptions. There will be a very serious increase in the cost to the community which will not be measured. We will not notice it. The reason for making this charge is often claimed to be that it will help to deter people from wanting unnecessary prescriptions. The fact is that doctors prescribe medicines for patients. Patients do not prescribe them for themselves. Patients do not get the medicines unless they have prescriptions from their doctors. 
The fault lies not with the patients but superficially with the doctors. I would like to suggest that it is not even the doctors' fault. It is the fault of the system under which the doctors have to practise medicine. At the moment there is an economic incentive for doctors to write, prescriptions much more readily than they should. It is an easy way of coping immediately with the problem of the patient who has an indefinite illness which may require a lot of discussion for a much longer period than is economically worth while for the doctor. After all, if he sees a patient with a psychosomatic illness and talks to the patient for half an hour or three-quarters of an hour he gets the same fee as he would get if he spent 5 minutes with the same patient and prescribed a tranquilliser. lt costs the community much more. He earns less if he spends the extra time. But of course if he spends the extra time the patient will be better off and will receive better medical treatment. So the pressure to increase prescribing is due to the fact that the doctor is paid on a fee for service basis. Therefore he has an economic interest in churning the patients through. 
An article which appeared in 'Fortune' magazine of January 1970 may help to illuminate the matter. It discusses some of the various schemes in America which have varied the concept of fee for service medical care. One is the Kaiser plan whereby physicians in all major specialties are housed in large clinics in each of the regions covered by the plan. When a patient comes along he can see the doctor and then he can go to the X-ray unit in the same building and have special investigations done. If he needs hospitalisation he can go into one of the hospital units which usually adjoin these clinics. In other words, they have adopted the very policy that the Labor Party is proposing of an integrated health scheme with satellite hospital beds associated with health centres. Let me come to the question of the rate at which patients receive medical care or the effect that fee for service has on the treatment that is offered. Under the Kaiser scheme, the doctors are paid salaries. Noone is forced to join the scheme. No doctor is pressganged into becoming a socialised doctor. They voluntarily  become salaried medical officers. 
The patients are free to choose any doctor within the group they go along to see, as  they  may in our country. If you go along  to  a group of private doctors you are free  to take  your pick. The article says: 
Even though there is no limit to the number of times a member can see a doctor, members of the Kaiser plan make slightly fewer visits to doctors than the public in general. 
Comparing the Kaiser members  With  the population of California at large, the Kaiser member spends 69 per cent as much time in hospital as other people seeing doctors who are paid a fee for service. The Kaiser health service costs from onequarter to one-third less than the same package of services would cost outside the system. I insist that I am not talking about Communist Russia. I am talking about capitalist America and, as my colleague the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  indicated, the evolution  of  salaried medical services which are beginning to provide the sorts of services we have been talking about for a long time. Under such a scheme there are considerable savings  on  hospital  and  medical costs. There are even reductions in the frequency of- operations. For instance, it has been suggested that if your doctor is on a salary you are far less likely  to  suffer from appendicitis. Those people  who  are treated by doctors paid on a fee for service basis appear to have appendicectomies 86 per cent more frequently than comparable people treated by doctors who are paid a salary. Also, 50 per cent more women need to have hysterectomies when they are treated by doctors paid on a fee for service basis than when they are treated by doctors paid a salary. The differences are quite dramatic. 1 will conclude, since I see that the Leader of the House  (Mr Swartz)  looking at the clock, by saying that the same situation applies in Australia. I repeat that these were the conclusions reached in the United States of America, which is not a country forcing Socialism on anybody. Therefore, the only hope is to get more value for the money spent on medical care, to remove the glaring inefficiencies, to bring the proper incentives into play and to make the maximum effort to supplement doctors with the lower paid paraprofessionals. If this were done the country might save enough from the elimination of waste to do a creditable job with the same 6.8 per cent of gross national product which it now spends on its health services. The strongest evidence that this is possible comes from abroad. Honourable members should note this because this deals with quality which is something the Minister suggested should be considered. Sweden and Britain which enjoy lower infant mortality and morbidity rates from childhood diseases than the United States devote only 5 per cent and 4 per cent respectively of their gross national products to medical care and in each of these countries doctors in most cases are paid salaries rather than fees for services. 
So when we suggest that the tendency which is automatically occurring in this country is for more and more doctors as they graduate to seek employment on a salary basis we are not talking about the need to nationalise anything. We are observing a natural development. We think it will be inevitable. The Government ought to recognise the trend and assist the development of these institutions by not continuing to subsidise inefficient private nursing homes but by encouraging the development of the public nursing home sector, the integration of the whole hospital organisation, and by increasing the salaried medical services in those institutions. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr 
Hayden's amendment) stand part of the question. 
I should like to read a contribution of a 14- year old child to a school magazine. It is headed 'Population' and it states: 
The explosive growth of the human population is the most significant event of the past million millenia. Mankind itself may stand on the brink of extinction ...  Dr Paul  Ehrlich. 
Wait . . . hold it . . . before you throw this away, think about it! . . . Man its pretty important. It's not just something you read on the back page of the Canberra Times. Its effecting and going to effect us, no, not our grandparents and probably not your parents but us! A population of 3.7 billion people is a lot of people, but numbers are pretty, hard to understand. What that really means is that we already have between 3 and 7 times more people on the face of our great spaceship earth than we can possibly support over the long term - which is only about 30 years, which leaves the oldest of us kids here only about 48 years old, or less. 
The population at the present rate will double every 35 years which means around the turn of the century we should have well over 6 billion people on our spaceship, provided of course there haven't been any increases in the death rate. Every 3 years we have the population equivalent to the United States added to the world population. Some 10-20 million people are starving to death each year now . . . even in affluent countries like the USA. 
The limits of human capacity to produce food by conventional means have very nearly been reached  . . . in  other words at this rate we are eating or wasting food and at the rate of use of present food production there just isn't going to be enough food. 
So it continues. To me, the essential point in this matter is epitomised by a remark made by a young girl on a new television programme which, apparently, will appear on the Australian Broadcasting Commission channels, in which she says words to the effect: 'When the present generation stops fiddling around, I hope it leaves something for us'. Unfortunately, this problem is not our problem in the sense that it will affect us. I am sure that we will all live our lives without it having very much concern for or direct pressure on us. But the point is that it will affect our children and our grandchildren. I would hazard a guess that if we do not do something about it our children will not have grandchildren. That is how serious it is. Ehrlich commented: 
It is a brutal irony that children must bear the brunt of the suffering caused by the population explosion. As Davis says, the old philosophy that their coming is a just and divine punishment for their parents' sexual indulgence, and therefore not to be mitigated by deliberate control is one of the cruelest doctrines ever devised by a species noted for its cruel and crazy, notions. 
In trying to indicate the wastage of our resources and the fact that development is not necessarily all that it seems, he discusses the use of raw materials by the United States of America. He says: 
Estimates of the total American utilisation of raw materials currently run as high as SO per cent of the world's consumption, with a projection of current trends to about 80 per cent around 1980. Probably 30 per cent and 50 per cent would be more realistic figures, but in any event our consumption is far beyond our 'share' on a basis of population. We number 'ess than 6 per cent of the world's people! 
Yet, America is using probably  30  per cent of the world's resources. This is an impossible situation. He points out that to raise all of the  3.6  billion people of the world's population in  1970  to the American standard of living would require astronomical figures in terms of iron, copper, zinc, lead, tin and so on. The materials just are not available. In other words, what I am trying to get at in relation to the question of the environment is that it is not a matter of rubbish or garbage disposal; it is a matter of pollution by over-population. As the young writer of that article suggests, it even comes down to a question of food production and our survival on this planet. We seem to think, in our mad, heady enthusiasm for the advances of technology, that somehow science will solve the problems; that we can artificially create food. Ehrlich says: 
All flesh is grass. This simple phrase summarises a basic principle of biology that is essential to an understanding of the world food problem. The basic source of food for all animal populations is green plants - 'grass'. Human beings and all other animals with which we share this planet obtain the energy and nutrients for growth, development, and sustenance by eating plants directly, by eating other animals that have eaten plants, or by eating animals that have eaten animals that have eaten plants, and so forth. 
At one stage, someone suggested that this was all nonsense and the problem could be solved because we could create food from petrol. This person completely omitted to recognise, firstly, that the supply of petroleum products is limited; and, in any case, where do those products come from if not from vegetation grown many millenia ago? They have all come from plants. 
Petrol comes from plants. I am sorry to disappoint the Minister. 
Let us not argue about it. I suggest that the Minister look up his chemistry books. It comes from life, initial!!/ from plant life. That is the point. It did not grow on thin air. It grew from plankton, which grew from oxygen-consuming organisms in the sea, which in turn depended on the conversion of carbondioxide to oxygen and its own organic matter by photosynthesis from the sunlight. It does not change the fact, although the Minister might have a minor point about petroleum. Certainly, coal comes from plants. I will grant him that minor point. But the basic point remains that it all stems from plant life initially. 
Thank you. That indicates the level of the honourable member's understanding of the problem. He is a bit beyond it. But I assure him that if he has any grandchildren or great-grandchildren they will understand what I am talking about. Erhlich claims: 
Nevertheless, the absolute size of the human race is now so large that it is perhaps the single  most important factor we have to consider in discussing man's future ... It is unmistakably clear that the lime has come for humanity to take a careful look at its resources, its ideals, and its numbers, and try to make some serious judgments about optimum population size, both for individual countries and for the world as a whole. 
Coming to the position of Australia he says: 
This does not mean that in certain ways some areas of the Earth may not still be underpopulated. For instance, if more people lived in Australia now, that country might be able to afford a better surface transport system and extend paved roads across the continent. Australians would also be in a better position to develop and utilise their mineral and energy resources. 
I quite agree that this is an argument for our development. He goes on to say: 
But, unhappily, even though a larger population could well live there, the 'frontier philosophy' is even more rampant in Australia than in the United States in terms of environmental deterioration and agricultural overexploitation. Thus Australia may be considered  overpopulated  already in relation to its long term ability to feed its people, even though the continent is too thinly, populated in terms of highway construction and economic development. 
In other words, the reality is that we must be careful even in a country like Australia. Of course this will be vital not just for us but for the long term survival of the whole world. It is of no use for us to sit by imagining that we are secure because these sorts of life cycles we depend on do not just sit over Australia; they depend on cycles which act upon the rest of the world. It is in fact a closed system. We will recognise the problem if we talk about 3 men in a space ship. We will recognise the need to conserve energy and resources. This earth is no different from a space ship, lt is simply larger, but it still depends on the sun for its energy as a man-made space ship does, and the basic resource that it takes with it. It cannot get any more from anywhere else. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a report in the New Scientist, 29th October 1970, page 206, on the dangers of Shell's Vapona Strips, containing the cholinesterase inhibitor, Dichlorvos. 
Can the Minister say whether there are any other reports on the mutagenic effects of this substance. 
Is the Minister able to say whether the United States Department of Agriculture has declared that Dichlorvos vaporising strips should not be used in kitchens, restaurants, or where food is prepared or served, or in nurseries or rooms where infants, ill or aged persons are confined. 
If so, does the Government agree that steps should be taken to stop the sale of this product. 
 I  present the following petition: 
To the Honourable  Speaker  and the Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That death from mass starvation and disease is occurring among Pakistan's refugees on a scale unprecedented in modern history. 
That as part of the world community, the Australian Government has an immediate responsibility for concerted action. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray 
Increase monetary aid for the refugees to at least 10 million dollars immediately even if this entails reducing spending in other areas. 
Encourage and sponsor teams of volunteers with needed skills and medical supplies. 
Maintain all this aid for as long as the crisis persists. 
Your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray.  Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable (he  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the sales tax on all forms of contraceptive devices is 271 per cent. (Sales Tax Exemptions and Classifications Act 1935-1967). Also that there is customs duty of up to 471 per cent on some contraceptive devices. 
And that this is an unfair imposition on the human rights of all people who wish to prevent unwanted pregnancies. And furthermore that this imposition discriminates particularly against people on low incomes. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the sales tax on all forms of contraceptive devices be removed, so as to bring these items into line with other necessities such as food, upon which there is no sales tax. Also that customs duty be removed, and that all contraceptive devices be placed on the national health scheme pharmaceutical benefits list. 
And your Petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Who produced the programme The Nuclear Game which was shown on Tuesday, 28th September 1971 on Australian Broadcasting Commission television. 
Who approved the programme before it was televised. 
Were the producers of the programme qualified to evaluate the highly technical material presented. 
Did the Australian Broadcasting Commis-sion consult any authorities on the subject other than the Australian Atomic Energy Commission. 
Was this programme, in effect, a promotion of nuclear power at a time when the Government had decided not to take any action in the matter. 
What was the cost of producing the programme. 
What was the cost of the programme to the Australian Atomic Energy Commission. 
Was it coincidence that the programme was shown on the date of tabling of the annual report of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission. 
 1  present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Sales Tax on all forms of Contraceptive Devices is 27) per cent. (Sales Tax Exemptions and Classifications Act 1935-1967). Also that there is Customs Duty of up to 471 per cent on some Contraceptive Devices. 
And that this is an unfair imposition on the human rights of all people who wish to prevent unwanted pregnancies. And furthermore that this imposition discriminates particularly against people on low incomes. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Sales Tax on all forms of Contraceptive Devices be removed, so as to bring these items into line wilh other necessities such as food, upon which there is no Sales Tax. Also that Customs Duties  bc removed, and that all Contraceptive Devices be placed on the National Health Scheme Pharmaceutical Benefits List. 
And your Petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Did the Prime Minister receive a recommendation on Aboriginal land rights from his Council of Ministers, and did he personally direct the Council to reconsider that recommendation after the  Chairman  of the Council for Aboriginal Affairs,  Dr H.  C. Coombs, had advised him that he would resign over it? 
I do not want to debate the pros or cons of this matter but I want to make just one point. I believe that all honourable members feel frustration at the futility of debate in this House. Here is a case of something coming up which clearly should not be considered from a Party political point of view. It relates to one's innermost philosophy and it will almost certainly cross Party lines. We must make an intelligent decision and an intelligent appraisal of our attitudes to the situation, not just for the sake of ourselves but for the sake of future generations. That is what it amounts to. Once such legislation is enacted it is exceedingly difficult to repair it if it is wrong. 
In this situation surely we have a case for acting on the sentiment that has arisen on both sides of the House - which the other House has acted upon - in appointing committees to look into these matters. Surely over the break which will occur between now and when the Parliament resumes in February, we could appoint a committee to look into the details, to seek expert advice and to consider carefully our approach to this problem. I do not want to say any more than that we should grasp the opportunity to teach ourselves a lesson and show ourselves bow we can be far more intelligent in our appraisal of prospective legislation. I urge the House to consider seriously the proposition and appoint a committee. 
I feel inclined to reply to the personal comments and a number of remarks made both inside and outside this House which seemingly have been directed towards the group of doctors on this side of the House and certainly a few more against myself. For a start let me register the observation that of the 5 doctors on this side of the House 4 do not smoke cigarettes. Three, I think, do not drink alcohol at all. One drinks very moderately. I have not asked the other about his consumption of alcohol but I believe it is very very moderate. They are hardly users of the popular sorts of drugs which are widely accepted within our community and used by lots of people. The next point I would like to make, from a personal point of view, is that about 2 years ago at the beginning of the Senate select committee inquiry into the drug problem my view on marihuana was the same as the view of most people in the community. I had never read anything about it. I accepted the accounts in the newspapers. So I assumed that it was the sort of dangerous drug that we have been hearing about this afternoon. 
However, I was asked what were its medical effects and I had to confess that I did not know. The questioner, who had some interest in the Senate inquiry, persisted with his question and said: 'Why the blazes do you not go and read it up and tell me because I would not understand the medical literature'. So I decided 1 would read up on this matter. I proceeded to do so and in a very short time and only as a result of my reading of medical literature and of national reports did 1 come to the conclusions to which I have come about marihuana. We have heard this afternoon some quotations from some of the medical reports. There are many reports which cite examples of a mad youth on marihuana slaughtering people here and raping someone else there and so on. 1 concede that that is the popular view but unfortunately when you read reports by national inquiries such as the report published in 1968 by the British committee into the drug problem, headed by Baroness Wootton, you find fairly convincing and firm statements that most of the claims against marihuana are not substantiated by facts. In the report to the Canadian Government by a committee chaired. I think, by Le Dain, which was published in 1970, the same conclusion was reached. Having culled all the evidence, including the sorts of example quoted this afternoon, which I admit probably would be in the majority of the published articles and most of them would be hair .raising, a balanced committee - because it was - came to the conclusion that marihuana is not dangerous in the sense in which it is popularly painted. I will grant that none of these committees is prepared to say that marihuana is completely safe. 
If the Minister will hold on I will come to that. The committee reports usually deny many of the claims of its acute dangerous effects but they all say they cannot be certain that there are not chronic effects, and I am prepared to grant that point as well. But that does not mean that there are chronic effects. None of the reports confirmed proof that there is a long range chronic effect. The American Health, Education and Welfare Committee, which published its report early this year, reached the same sort of conclusions. Our own Senate select committee, again reviewing all the literature- 
As I am assured by my colleague, it was led by a radical senator,  Senator Marriott  who is a Government supporter. If honourable members read and digested the report of this committee, they would find that it came to the same sort of conclusion, namely, that the story against marihuana is inaccurate. The last  speaker  mentioned the specific case of the effects on the unborn child. I got into hot water over that one. When a report on this aspect first appeared in the Press, a newspaper correspondent telephoned me to tell me about it and he asked me: 'What dp you think about it?' I said: 'Well, I suppose I had better shut my mouth' and there appeared in the Press a big headline stating: Cass must shut his mouth'. What I said was: 'I had better keep quite' and I did shut my mouth until 1 saw the reporter, because I am not a bigot. I am not closed to persuasion on this question. If this report were a genuine one - if it were scientific and if it appeared to state the case accurately - I certainly would accept its findings. However, subsequently I got the truth. In fact, according to the newspapers, the report was from the Presidentelect of the American Medical Association. I shall read it because I subsequently received an official statement from the President-elect, Wesley W. Hall. It reads as follows: 
In a recent Press conference I made comments with regard to the work of the AMA Committee on Alcoholism and Drug Abuse which were widely misinterpreted. 1 am making this statement to clear the air and to restate our AMA position on this important subject. The AMA knows of no evidence to substantiate the statement that marihuana use leads to birth defects and sexual impotence. 
The honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  has left the chamber but so much for that particular article he quoted because the very man who was reported to have made the claim - the President-elect of the American Medical Association - has quite specifically repudiated it. He also said: 
What is probably the most current and authoritative body of information is the report of the Secretary of Health. Education and Welfare issued on January 31 1971, titled 'Marihuana and Health'. 
This is the report I have in my hand and in the report is the evidence on which he based his repudiation of the initial report that marihuana leads to these problems. 
Quite frankly, 1 regret the waste of time spent discussing marihuana; as far as I am concerned it is not terribly important. The problem of drugs goes far beyond that. As far as I am concerned it includes cigarettes and alcohol although honourable members are very careful never to mention those 2 subjects or at least not significantly. We pay lip service to the fact that it is a bit of a problem. However, in real terms - figures were given this afternoon on a couple of occasions - for every one drug addict there are 100 people suffering from alcohol problems. 
Of course they are drug addicts but I am referring to hard drugs such as narcotics and marihuana as compared to alcohol. I should now like to turn to the problem of the Bill before the House. In his second reading speech, the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  said:   . . cypress my disappointment at the kind of penalties being awarded by the courts. In the past 2 years, of 157 cases involving significant quantities of drugs, 69 were merely fined, 61 received gaol sentences, the average gaol sentence being 17 months. . . . 
The Minister is breaking his heart over this because it seems deplorable to him. I suggest to him that the reason is simple: It is not that the judges are idiots; it is not that the judges - the judiciary - are insensitive to the problem, nor are they unsympathetic to what the Minister is trying to do. 1 shall now link this with the first part of our amendment. 1 agree with the view that if the authorities catch  'Mr Big'  they can do what they like with him; I shall not protest. The point is that the sort of people mentioned by the first  speaker  from the Government side today are the people who receive negligible sentences. The authorities are not catching  'Mr Big';  they are catching people who may well peddle drugs because they need to do so to get a drug supply for themselves. They are addicts. We hear a lot of talk about how much money there is in this for them. None of them is rich. When they are caught they are found to be penniless. They have very little funds. In fact, they are hooked and are spending all the money they can get. If they can sell drugs to help get some more drugs for themselves, that is what they do. That is the person who stands before the judge to receive sentence. The judges in this community, thank goodness, do have hearts. They do understand humanity and so they mete out what are in the Minister's mind inadequate sentences but which are, in my view, perfectly correct ones. In fact, in some quite unofficial discussions I have had with one of these judges it was revealed that if the judges could be sure and they could send these people to a clinic, such as the British are beginning to set up, where they could be treated, that is the only punishment they would inflict. They would neither fine these people nor convict them of a criminal offence. They would simply refer them for treatment and that, in my opinion, is the only sane way to deal with the problem. 
In all this heated talk about the dreadful problem of drug addiction and so on, we never ask ourselves why the problem exists. What is it about? Why do people take drugs? One would get the feeling that it is done just for fun. I concede that to a certain extent that is true in the same way as many people take to drinking alcohol and smoking cigarettes because it is good fun. They also smoke pot because it is good fun; I grant that. I believe that with most people it stays that way. It remains a minor side activity with them. But this is not what we are talking about. This is not the sort of person who pushes it on to other people and who leads people to indulge in the crime about which we are worried. They are not the sort of people we find dying with syringe injection sights in their arms and so on. The question we have to answer is: Why do people get to that stage? I would suggest - all these reports discuss this aspect - that drug taking, including alcohol and tobacco, is caused by excess, to the extent that people sometimes die of cancer, chronic bronchitis or emphysema as the result of excessive smoking and people due of acute alcoholic poisoning and chronic effects such as cirrhosis of the liver and many other manifestations of excessive consumption of alcohol, including, for instance- 
Precisely, road accidents. Probably 60 per cent or 70 per cent of all fatalities in road accidents are associated with the excessive consumption of alcohol, but we never want to recognise these things. The point is: Why do these people do these things? Why do they proceed along the path of self destruction, because that is what it is? Drug taking, whether it be pot, heroin, alcohol, cigarettes or amphetamines - any of them - is not a cause; it is simply a symptom of their own breakdown, their own inability to cope with their own life situation and life problems. I think this is the key point. 
Time is short so  I  shall not try to find the quotes on this question, but there are plenty of them. If honourable members do not want to believe me, they can find the quotes in the Canadian reports, the American reports and the report of the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse. They will also find them in recent issues of journals on psychiatry. I am following up this question and these sorts of things are continuing to come out. The problem is a medical one. In 'Harper's Magazine'  of  this year there is an article headed 'Drugs Without Crime; A report on the British success with heroin addiction'. The writer  of  this article observes that there are fewer than 3,000 narcotic addicts in England while in America there are probably from 100,000 to 250,000-10 to 20 times as many  on  a population basis. In Britain in 1968 almost 1,000 new heroin addicts were counted, but in 1969 there were only 99 additional heroin addicts. Why are the British succeeding where the Americans are failing? The answer to me is because the British are recognising the fact that drug addicts are not criminals; they arsick individuals. 
The Americans complain that up to 80 per cent of serious property crime is probably due to drug users. In Britain different investigators have found that addicts are likely to commit fewer crimes after they are hooked than before. Why is this? In America to get one's supply of drugs it may cost from $300 to $500 a week, but in Britain it costs, at most, $2.16 a week because the drugs can be obtained under the national health scheme. The writer of this article states:  the British never lost sight of the fact that they were talking about medicine. The addict', said the distinguished panel which urged the clinic approach, 'should be regarded as a sick person, he should be treated as such and not u a criminal, provided that he does not resort to criminal acts'. lt is interesting to note, when one considers the British approach in establishing clinics, the efforts in 1965 of the New York Academy of Medicine which urged that another attempt should be made to establish clinics which were established in America after the First World War to cope with the drug problem and suggested that the earlier efforts were stopped not because they had failed but because they ran against the prevailing philosophy of a punitive approach'. We see the shades of prohibition and the alcohol problem. The only thing which succeeded in doing was vastly to increase the criminality associated with drinking. 
There have been some suggestions that we cannot be loo sure that there may not be other differences between the British and American approaches to the drug problem - that, after all, there may be something in the British character which is different from the American character - to explain this seemingly, odd drug behaviour. A social psychologist managed to make a comparative study of 25 Canadian addicts. He was able to trace their activities while they were in Canada, and after they had migrated to England he was able to follow their activities there. This is what he found: 
At home the Canadians spent 25 per cent ot their addicted years in jail; in England, less than 2 per cent. 
At home this meant a combined total of 141 years and 2 months in prison; in England, 2 years and 5 months. 
At home they compiled 182 offences; in England, 27. 
At home, in the high addict crime category of theft, which also included robbery and burglary, they committed 88; in England, 8. 
He also found that in Canada few of them were able to work or to cope with jobs, but that in England most of them were able to get work. He found that in England 13 worked full-time and 4 worked part time; 6 held the same job for at least 3 years; 7 had semi-skilled or skilled manual jobs, and so on. The article in 'Harper's Magazine', referring to the study carried out by this psychologist, continued: 
For once we could work and live like humans', the addicts said. The interviews repeat again and again their personal and pragmatic assessments. 
There is less trouble from the police - . . we don't constantly have to be paranoid . .' . there is less pressure there is no need to steal.' 
How many American addicts today would find no need to steal' and 'could work and live like human beings if they had a choice? 
To me the Minister's proposed answer to the drug problem in this Bill is sheer and utter nonsense. In an answer to a question, I think yesterday, he suggested that I was irresponsible in the statements I make on the drug problem. My statements are based exclusively on scientific reports which have been compiled by governments, such as the British, Canadian and American governments. I charge the Minister with being irresponsible, because be does not expose to the full public gaze all the facts, all the details and all the reports. He picks on only a few dramatic examples which will lead to an increase in the hysteria around the drug problem instead of bringing it out into the' open. Let us see all the facts. Let us discuss the question quietly and rationally. Then I suggest that the community would readily accept the same approach which the British are adopting and toss out the idiot approach, the punitive approach. We seem hellbent on adopting this approach which will do only one thing - cause a dramatic increase in the drug problem in the Australian community. 
 I am sorry 1 must rise to answer the suggestion made by the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron).  The essential thing that worries one about the drug problem is the fact that one individual tries to persuade other people to use the stuff. That is what worries us. If 1 had a ton of morphine on me and 1 used the lot for myself and finally expired, that is my problem. 1 have committed suicide, which is not an uncommon occurrence unfortunately. But if as has been indicated by my colleague. I make sure that 1 do not have enough on me to be nicked and then line up outside the school gate when the kids come out after school and sell them nice lollies, if I am caught all I can be charged with - because of the definition of the quantity - is having a drug for my own use and not peddling. Yet that is what I am blatantly doing. During the debate on the second reading we on this side conceded that as far as we are concerned if the Government catches a pedlar who is trying to sell drugs purely for the sake of money it can do what it likes with him. We are not interested; the Government can punish him how it likes. It can draw and quarter him. 
But the Government, in the way it has phrased this Bill, is now allowing an escape for drug pedlars. There is no law that stops pedlars getting hold of this Bill and learning off by heart the quantities they have to be careful not to exceed at any one time. Just by making sure that they always have I per cent less than the maximum they are allowed, they can carry on their business perfectly happily. What is the Government trying to do? 
You could reduce it to the ridiculous, 1 agree. Let us not pretend that this Bill will help the Government treat drug addicts. Surely the real purpose of this Bill is to catch  Mr Big,  to catch the people who are destroying other people. Why put a definition in the Bill which allows them to escape by ensuring that if they do not have the appropriate quantity they get off free? I seriously question the way in which the Government has analysed what we have been trying to say. I hope the Minister will consider this proposition very seriously. I do not know whether the amendment as it is at the moment has been adequately drawn. But the spirit of what we are trying to say, I consider, is very serious. It fits into the very first part of the amendment we have proposed to the Bill, which amendment is concerned with the problem of people pushing drugs onto other people. In the way it is drafted at the moment, the Bill provides a perfect escape for the people who may be the very worst types in the community. 
Question put: 
That the amendment (DrKlugman's) be agreed to. 
 I move: 
Omit the words 'Narcotic Substances' from the heading to proposed Schedule VI. 
I do not intend to go into a long, involved argument about this. The simple point I wish to make is that the schedule at the moment is headed 'Narcotic Substances' but it contains a number of substances which are not narcotics at all. In addition, there has been a specific recommendation from our own Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse which ties up with recent suggestions from the World Health Organisation that is, that cannabis, cannabinoids and cannabis resin should not be included with narcotics for the same reasons that amphetamines, and some of the other drugs already in this list, should not be included. Other drugs in the list are LSD and preludin. I could continue but there is no point in going through these technical things. If we omit the words 'narcotic substances' from the heading of the Schedule it will still do all that the Government intended it to do. It will not change anything at all. It will simply remove an anomaly in terminology. For that reason we propose that the 2 words 'narcotic substances' be omitted. 
The thing I find depressing' in this discussion is the timidity of the approach of the Government, lt seems that it needs cut and dried answers to every conceivable question; there is not much room for imagination or enthusiasm. If I may refer to the report by the consultants who drew up all this verbiage, in a summary of their findings they indicate, in discussing the needs of a national film and television training school, that 'there are certain problems. They concede this. They feel that the industry believes it suffers from 2 major drawbacaks. There are insufficient volumes of work due to a small home market and its inability to supplement this sufficiently in export markets. The next problem is that there is a great shortage of top class people to handle the key functions, namely, producer-directors, editors, script writers, film cameramen and art directors. They then say: 
These two factors are seen by the industry to be self-perpetuating. 
The report continues: 
The key to greater volume of work can never be more than partially solved by any government action in the form of increased quotas, subsidies or the like as the home market is just too small. The greater volume must come from export markets which are seen to require higher standards. Higher standards, in turn, depend on having the necessary top class key people. 
Of course the top class key people depend on a greater volume, and so it chases its tail and will never get anywhere. The point is that the whole concept seems to be related to the needs of an industry seen in far too narrow a sense, as far as I am concerned. 
For instance, this survey indicates that it did not include an assessment of employment opportunity for graduates of the school in educational institutions. It did not consider the possible desire of some graduates for self-employment or to work on a free-lance basis. It did not consider students from overseas who might attend the school and then return to their home countries. In other words, the whole concept appears to be seen in terms of the needs of the film industry, the people who make films that are shown on the commercial screen; but I suggest that there is much more to it than that. T would like to quote from an article written by Phillip Adams in a well known national newspaper recently commenting on the views expressed by the man who took his place when he resigned from the Interim Council, namely, Hector Crawford. Adams says: 
Hector's gloomy attitude to the employment prospects of graduates- 
The Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  mentioned this. He said there is not much scope, there is not much room for people. That is the view of Hector Crawford who it seems is one of the men who has been given the prime responsibility of reviewing the whole thing. Adams article continues:  . . (who wouldn't make their debut until ground  1975)  is just as baffling. For a start, film and television are meritocracies - forms of expression that need new people as surely as agriculture need new crops or Parliament needs new members. Perhaps he is being prophetic. He goes on: 
Does society stop producing painters, novelists or musicians to protect the employment prospects pf middle-aged practitioners? Of course nol. And it would be just as absurd (and cruel) to prevent talented young film-makers studying their craft because of the shadows Hector sees in his crystal. Adams continues: 
In any case, the Interim Council had carefully researched employment prospects and found that the industry needed more graduates than the school could realistically provide. For that reason we had always thought in quantitative rather than qualitative terms. 
To get confirmation of that we turn to the first report of the Interim Council. In paragraph 9.2 it states: 
Graduates can be expected to find employment in film and television production, whether in government and national agencies or in the private and commercial sector. A limited number might also find jobs with advertising agencies or in other branches of the communications media. In addi tion the Interim Council has constantly been made aware that there is a growing demand fo.r graduates- 
This is where a bit of inspiration comes into it - of a Film and Television School in education. Universities, Colleges of Advanced Education, Teachers Colleges' and Technical Colleges . . . 
Let us consider what Professor Toeplitz said about the whole thing - someone who has world stature as a film maker. He said: 
notice from your Report that the Interim Council has said that graduates of the School will find employment not only in film production but also in educational fields;- 
There were no estimates made as to the demands in these fields - in the universities, colleges of advanced education,  . . and so on. Tt is of course unlikely that the supply of experts in educational film and television will ever satisfy the demand. 
In view of all the pessimistic views that have been expressed by the Government I would like to repeat that. Professor Toeplitz concluded: 
It is of course unlikely that the supply of experts in educational film and television will ever satisfy the demand. 
He continues with another bright idea, not that he is just trying to be bright but because he perceives a need in human terms for the community. He said:  . . I think that the National School should be prepared to organise courses of limited duration for scientists and their counterparts in other disciplines, who might wish to use film as an aid to their own research, as a medium for training other people or, perhaps, as a vehicle for the popularisation of their life's work. For such people courses in the fundamentals of film technique would be of immense value. 1 should stress that such courses would be of more value if they were made available to scientists and others at the outset of their careers, rather than to their more senior colleagues. 
This is a case for having the school near another tertiary institution where these people could be produced so that we can get some cross fertilisation as has been mentioned before. In other words, I think the whole brouhaha about the enormous cost - which I think is nonsense as it is really a drop in the bucket in terms of the gross national product of this country- on the ground that there really is not a need because after all it will produce only 15 graduates and they will not find work anyway is sheer nonsense. It is narrow and it is looking with blinkers over your eyes. 
That would be a minimum. There are many more avenues of possible employment for these people. Adams continues: 
Recently Fred Eng,les, the American producer . . . said that Australia needs cameramen, editors and technicians of international standard if we are lo persuade overseas interests to film more features here. But, more importantly, Australia needs these people itself - along with writers, directors and producers - if it is to develop a truly indigenous industry. 
In fact Adams quotes, very interestingly, from a letter written by Hector Crawford to the Interim Council just 12 months ago in which he said:   . . since the purpose of the school is to foster the growth of Australian-produced television programmes and feature films, I consider that it should train directors and writers. Courses should also be available in the technical aspects of film-making, but it is the lack of creative personnel (ie, directors and writers) which is holding the industry back. An essential part of a student's training would be the widening of his horizons in a variety of fields other than simply motion pictures or television . . .'" 
Crawford continues:   . . it is suggested that the school's curriculum should include lecturers on a variety of subjects allied to the arts.' 
That is another good reason for having it in a larger area associated with other schools and next to a university. Adams continues: 
And I would ask both the Prime Minister and  Mr Howson  to zoom in and take a big close-up of this sentence: 'Ideally, there should be one school established in Melbourne and another in Sydney.' 
So much for the poppycock about the one we are proposing being too much for Australia already. Crawford himself feels there ought to be 2 envisaged even at this stage. Phillip Adams goes on to indicate how film schools have been around since 1918 in various countries in the world. It is not a novel idea. He suggests that many leading film makers of Russia, Poland, Hungary and Czechoslovakia have all been graduates of film schools. He indicates that currently in America 100,000 Americans are studying film or television at the tertiary level. The equivalent for Australia would be something like 25,000 and here we are quibbling about whether we can afford to build a school to turn out about 15 people. What utter humbug and nonsense. I would suggest that it is time we recognised that this community is rich enough to afford a little bit of adventure, a little bit of inspiration and a little bit of courage in grappling with something that is new, some thing that we have not tried before. In any case for the future health and welfare of this community in terms of its intellectual and emotional development it is vital that we should develop this new form of communication. It is new compared to writing and other forms such as music, painting, and so on. Film and television are new. They are new mediums of communication. But just because they are young and a bit smart does not mean that they arc any less important as means of communication. In fact there are some who feel that probably film and of course television because of their capacity for immediacy and their scope in combining many of the other art forms ali together clearly visual, auditory and so on, are in a way potentially more important to the human race than all our previous art forms. It does not mean that film will displace these things, lt clearly builds on these other things. After all we cannot have films without writers. I am not suggesting it displaces anything. It builds upon these things but it is an integral part of the expanding necessity that we have for improving communication and understanding between peoples. After all, what else can exceed the capacity of a film to communicate beyond language barriers because one may not understand the language but whatever one's language one can understand the image. 
For these reasons I feel that the Government is betraying itself and the whole community is being so timid and so reluctant to proceed with what was in my view a very modest proposal put forward by the Interim Council. When the Council proposed 60 acres of land as against the 8 acres or whatever piddling area it was for just a simple film school, the Council was looking ahead to a broad concept. I think we should accept the recommendation of the Council. We should not at this stage ruin the chances of the whole proposal just because we do not feel we can afford S7m at this stage over 5 years. Of course we can. My guess is that the way the economy is going some time next year the Government will embrace the opportunity to expend the extra money to encourage or to prime the pump of the flagging economy. So let us stop the nonsense about we cannot afford it. Let us stop being frightened. Let us be a bit adventurous. Let us drag ourselves into the latter half of the 20th century. 
asked the Minister for Educa tion and Science, upon notice: 
Why are 70 per cent of Commonwealth Advanced Education Scholarships declined (question No. 3645, Hansard, 12th October 1971, page 2226). 
Why are declined scholarships not reallocated. 
What is the comparable figure for university scholarships. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: - 
How many specialist medical practitioners are there in Australia. 
How many are engaged in active specialist medical practice. 
How many full-time salaried specialist medical staff are employed in all Australian teaching hospitals. 
How many specialist medical staff are employed on a sessional basis in all Australian teaching hospitals. 
How many honorary specialist medical staff are actively engaged in treating patients in Australian leaching hospitals. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Sales Tax on all forms of Contraceptive Devices is 271 per cent. (Sales Tax Exemptions and Classifications Act 1935-1967). Also that there is Customs Duty of up to 47) per cent on some Contraceptive Devices. 
And that this is an unfair imposition on the human rights of all people who wish to prevent unwanted pregnancies. And furthermore that this imposition discriminates particularly against people on low incomes. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Sales Tax on all forms of Contraceptive Devices be removed, so as to bring these items into line with other necessities such as food, upon which there is no Sales Tax. Also that Customs Duty be removed, and that all Contraceptive Devices be placed on the National Health Scheme Pharmaceutical Benefits List. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That Lake Pedder, situated in the Lake Pedder National Park in South-West Tasmania, is threatened with inundation as part of the Gordon River hydro-electric power scheme. 
That an alternative scheme exists, which, if implemented would avoid inundation of this lake. 
That Lake Pedder and the surrounding wilderness area is of such beauty and scientific interest as to be of a value beyond monetary consideration. 
And that some unique species of flora and fauna will be in danger of extinction is this area is inundated. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Federal Government take immediate steps to act on behalf of all Australian people to preserve Lake Pedder in its natural state. All present and particularly future Australians will benefit by being able to escape from their usual environment to rebuild their physical and mental strength in this unspoilt wilderness area. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
 The present controversy over medical fees highlights one of the main defects in the system of medical practice, not only in this country but also in most countries where the same system of remuneration for medical practitioner services is accepted. Feeforservice acts as a deterrent, especially to the poor, when considering the need for medical attention. The argument is often used that this deterrent effect is necessary: It stops patients worrying doctors unnecessarily; it stops over-utilisation, so the claim goes. This is a myth for 2 reasons. Firstly no-one wants to see a doctor for no reason. Just what is the attraction in going to see a doctor, waiting for ages in the waiting room and wasting some hours for no reason? Anyone putting himself to the inconvenience of going to the doctor clearly is worrying about something. 
Leaving aside the seemingly trivial injuries or illnesses all of which may require only reassurance and little or no technical treatment - apart from the anti-tetanus injection following trivial injuries which has almost stopped deaths from te:anus, the surgical cleaning, dressing and advice on wound care which greatly reduces the possibility of dangerous infection particularly in children, the antibiotic which has helped to reduce dramatically the once common complications of scarlet fever, rheumatic fever, pneumonia and bronchiectasis - just consider the neurotics. Consider the people we all despise without realising that in other people's eyes we are all neurotic at some time or another. Consider the people with nothing wrong with them, just a headache every morning or night, or unable to sleep, or the pain over the heart, or the cramp in the stomach which to them must be cancer. The reality is that probably 70 per cent or more of the complaints a general practitioner treats could be considered psycho-somatic, that is, neurotic to the self-righteous. For these people, not only is the need real for them to visit the doctor, but also the treatment they receive is often inadequate under present conditions. 
This brings me to the second point about fee-for-service and over-utilisation. In these cases it leads just to the very thing it is claimed it will avoid. The neurotic patient, to be properly dealt with needs patience and time. What incentive does the doctor have to provide either, when to do the job properly might well take a consultation lasting not 10 minutes but 30 minutes or an hour? 
Doctors are human, too. Why should they spend so long on one patient when the fee will be the standard common fee they can collect if they take only 5 minutes? lt is far easier after 5 minutes talk to prescribe a sedative or a tranquilliser and get the patient to come back in a week, for another fee. The motivation for overutilisation comes in fact from the doctor more than the patient. The present move by the genera) practitioners - some of them, anyway - is seeking to recognise this difference in types of consultation, lt is seeking to establish the fact that for simple injuries or simple procedures a consultation of 3 minutes or 5 minutes is adequate, whereas there are many other situations where a consultation ought to last for half an hour or an hour. It is economically unjust to expect a doctor to accept a uni? form fee for those different lengths of time he is expected to spend with individual patients. Thus far I agree with the general practitioners. Unfortunately, my agreement stops there. Granting their request to adjust the fee for service will in its turn have serious drawbacks, which I leave to the Government to discover. In keeping with experience in other countries where fee for service prevails, there is no doubt that it will lead to over-utilisation not only for trivial or neurotic complaints but even for serious medical procedures such as surgical operations. 
Studies have been conducted to confirm this. The myth that one needs to levy a charge to stop people wantonly using doctors is obviously wrong when one looks at the facts. Recently a study was made by  Dr Jim  Lawson which showed that the rates for several types of operation in Australia - I will give them in a moment - where doctors are paid a fee for service are different from the rates applying when doctors are paid a salary. Doctor Lawson was able to find comparable figures in the United States of America as well as in the 
United Kingdom for doctors on salaries, and I will cite them to honourable members. For tonsillectomy and adenoidectomy, in Australia under the fee for service system, the operation rate is 7 for each thousand members of the benefit funds. In the United States and the United Kingdom when doctors are paid a salary the operation rate is only 3.6 to 4 in a thousand. In other words, it seems that people in Australia twice as frequently need those operations than do people in the United States or Britain when the doctors are on a salary. 
For appendicectomy the operation rate in Australia, under the fee for service system, is 5 in a thousand. In the United States, with salaried doctors, it is only 1.4; in the United Kingdom it is only 2.5. It is higher in the United Kingdom than in the United States, but still it is only one-half the Australian rate. If the operation required is a herniorrhaphy, the figures are interesting. There is not much doubt about a diagnosis in this area, One cannot so readily diagnose whether an operation is necessary on the appendix or the tonsils, but one can tell whether there is a lump, a hernia that needs an operation. In that situation where a patient can vet himself the operation rate in Australia for hernias is only 1.5 in a thousand, but in the United States and the United Kingdom when doctors are on salaries the rate is 2 in a thousand. I suggest the reason for the difference is that in Australia where the patient can do a little of the diagnosis himself the fee acts as a deterrent to the treatment, whereas when a patient is treated by a doctor on a salary the patient can afford to have the necessary operation performed. 
The same applies even for females who are far more likely in Australia to have their uterus removed. In Australia the rate is 2 in a thousand, as against 1 in a thousand in the United Kingdom. I suggest that again the difference is accounted for because in this instance it is difficult for a woman to make the diagnosis herself. For these reasons I suggest that fee for service is not a deterrent but an encouragement to over-utilisation. If any honourable member imagines that all this leads to the proposition that doctors on salaries are incompetent and are not treating patients properly, the Americans have covered that possibility too. They have done comparable studies between groups of patients treated by fee for service doctors and by salaried doctors. The perinatal mortality rate, a sensitive indicator, is lower amongst patients treated by doctors on salaries than it is when patients are treated on a fee for service basis. So even the quality of medical care is superior when doctors are paid salaries. 
1 address a question to the Prime Minister apropos the concern about the effects of excessive use of drugs. I ask: In view of the increasing concern about the excessive use of drugs, has the Prime Minister's attention been drawn to the editorial in the 'Medical Journal of Australia' of Saturday, 5th February 1972 on the question of smoking? Why is there reluctance to take effective action, despite, according to the editorial, the recommendations of the world's leading health authorities? As the Minister for Health has admitted that the medical evidence that cigarette smoking has a causal relationship with carcinoma of the lung - and the Minister admits that this has been accepted by the Government - what is the Government's reason for delaying action on trying to discourage cigarette smoking which, according to the Royal College of Physicians of London- 
 Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I feel that the Prime Minister misrepresented me in his introductory remarks in answering a question. It is true that I have made the statements he said I made but for quite the opposite reason from that which he implied when he made his comment. I have observed that punitive action against drug taking is a failure all over the world. If the Prime Minister perhaps has not read the 'Medical Journal' but read the daily Press he would have noted that there are a number of serious articles appearing on this very question. What is more, even his own Minister for Customs and Excise has noted the futility of trying to punish drug takers in other countries and I am told he is even going overseas to find out for himself. My intention is to reduce, not increase, drug taking in the community. 
A multitude of direct selling or door-to-door selling companies have commenced operations in Australia with a blaze of publicity in recent years. It has become apparent, but not soon enough, that their business practices have been dishonest. Unfortunately, too many innocent people are caught up in the schemes before the practical result of often ruinous financial commitment prompts careful analysis of the methods and the exposure of their criminal deception. A recent dramatic example was Holiday Magic, though there have been a number of other less well publicised, such as Hunter Douglas, pushing aluminium house-cladding, fraudulent electric appliance people such as Miller Radio and other salesmen and so on. 
Now a new star has glowed in the economic sky, and hundreds, or perhaps thousands of Australians have hooked themselves to the glow of Golden Products. Regretfully, the gold is fools gold. At a public meeting held in Melbourne on Sunday, 14th November 1971, many individuals who had joined this organisation, set up an organisation called the Distressed Golden Distributors Association. They provided written and verbal complaints. I shall quote from a report that was written on the matter. In summary, the complaints are as follows: 
The design of the Golden Products system was such that it had to break down as it built into it certain terminating mechanisms which were not obvious to many who put their money into the system. 
The design of the system was such that the more persons who joined, the smaller was the chance of late joiners gaining a return on thencontributions. Logically, if the system operated perfectly according to its design, many people had to lose money. 
The recruiting meetings at which people were persuaded to contribute their money were purposefully organised to disguise the prime method by which any,one could expect to realise gains on a part-time basis. 
Money lenders, who worked in association with the recruiting meetings, or with persons already in the system may have gained and/or issued loans in circumstances which infringed the Money Lenders Act. 
The basic organisation, I have been informed by an expert who wrote to the Victorian Attorney-General, is not a pyramid sales organisation. 
There are 4 levels of distribution - general distributor, direct distributor, area distributor and local distributor - but analysis suggests that the system is not primarily designed to sell goods. It could better be described as a horizontal chain-letter franchise sales system. I again quote from the report. It states: 
The Golden Products organisation was designed to help some people profit through the sale of franchise; the existence of the actual Golden Products helps to camouflage this purpose. 
The report continues: 
The evidence on which this summary was based shows that the individuals making the complaints  were induced to join the organisation at 'direct' leveL This cost was $2,400. They were further induced as quickly as possible to recruit a second person also at 'direct' level and then they were permitted and encouraged to pay  a  further $2,000 to become a 'general'. In doing this, the quickest way for each individual to recover bis contribution was to induce a further 3 persons to join as direct', encouraging each to convert to 'general' status. By bringing about 3 such double moves he would receive $5,220 commission, or $820 more than he paid. 
The system called for various monthly contributions to various organisations but providing the move described could be effected within a month or two, the individual would be substantially in front. There was a commission of $240 for every direct' person he brought in and $1,500 for every 'direct' he converted to 'general'. 
To many people it seemed a sound and most attractive way of making money on what was described at meetings as a 'partpartparttime' occupation. If the implications of the evidence brought forward is substantiated, namely, that the movement of Golden Products themselves was incidental to the franchise sales system, the question must be raised: Just what was each person selling to his friends and acquaintances? For any individual to recover his costs of joining and make his profit, it was necessary for him to bring in 3 recruits together with their investment of $4,400 each. For everyone to make a profit, the expansion must continue at this rate. So, at this rate, at the end of 6 months there would be 1,000 people involved, and in 12 months over 700,000 people would be involved. Of course, . it does not work out this way. Most cut their losses, lose a couple of thousand dollars and leave the organisation. 
The next fraud is the offer of 1 per cent commission to every 'general' for the goods sold by a direct distributor, although for a direct distributor to recover his money he must become a general distributor and in turn induce everyone he fools into joining the organisation to do exactly the same thing. In other words, if the factory commits itself to pay 1 per cent commission to every 'general', the factory would be paying out a larger and larger commission on each new movement of stock into a growing branch of the chain. Thus, whilst this commission helps to explain why factory prices of these products were equivalent to normal retail prices for similar goods, nevertheless it led to the factory itself doing its best to prevent significant sales occurring within any one general' branch. 
Usually legitimate marketing organisations plan distribution through a network of enfranchised agents selected on an area basis. Under the Golden Products system there is no area selection so that distributors tend to concentrate in small areas, thus severely limiting the possible market for the products. Distribution systems usually have built-in inducements to encourage the movement of goods through the market's pipeline. 
In the Golden Products system, the. higher the sales by a direct distributor's, area and local distributors - his sales team, as it were - the lower is the direct distributor's profit because he has to pay the bonuses, whilst getting no benefit of lower factory prices for higher turnover. In other words, the whole structure acts against actually selling the products. It is geared to drawing more and more people into the financial trap. In this system, there mush always be at least 3 people in the position of losing their money for every one person covering his costs at the expense of the losers. 
In conclusion, I will quote from the report to which I have referred which was despite his promise to look into the matter,' submitted to the Victorian AttorneyGeneral. It states: 
Those who have lost money by associating with Golden Products want to know if that loss was inevitable from the moment the organisation started its operations. 
If it was inevitable they, ask if any infringements have taken place of any existing law.' 
If it was inevitable owing to the  chain-letter  construction of the franchise sales system they ask that new laws be introduced to prevent similar happenings in the future. 
I interpose at this stage to say that, I personally telephoned the Attorney-General and asked him about this matter. He was aware of many of these points but he hedged, and in fact the end result is that despite his promise to look into the matter, still nothing has happened. The report continues: 
They ask for an open enquiry because they have tried to get help and none has been forthcoming, no public investigation, no analysis of the type presented here. They consequently lack confidence in the Government's willingness to protect its citizens and are not prepared to be  reassured  by any promise of any kind of departmental inquiry. They, ask for an open judicial inquiry assisted by persons wilh an understanding of marketing systems and statistics in order that all the complexities of this organisation may bo thoroughly investigated. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Craft Council of Australia be represented on the Federal Government Committee to investigate the role of the crafts as an art form. 
Your petitioners respectfully request that you will appoint a nominee of the Craft Council of Australia to the above Committee. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the proceedings of the 73rd session of the National Health and Medical Research Council relating to food and drink containers and the problems associated with their disposal, namely, 
interference with landfill methods of waste disposal; 
significant air pollution when incinerated, 
retention of water which may enable insect pests to breed and 
lacerations, particularly to the feet. 
If so, what action does the Government intend to take, in conjunction with, the States where necessary, to introduce legislation to control these problems, as recommended by the National Health and Medical Research Council. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Education and Science been drawn to an article by  Mr Henry  Schoenheimer in the Press entitled 'The Swim-  ming Pool State Aid Built'? Is the Minister  I  thrilled with experiments in state schools  i  where very large classes compared with those in non-Catholic private schools, in inadequate buildings compared with the same private schools, are being taught mathematics and science by English and home economics teachers or are expected to learn these subjects on their own at home during nominal school time? In view of the latest proposals for State aid - which at best give equal amounts of funds to all sectors, according to the Minister, or at worst, according to every other commentator, give an overwhelming preponderance of funds to the posh private schools compared with the rest - what action does the Minister contemplate to overcome the lag in buildings, facilities and staff in state and poor Catholic parish schools? 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
Has a library been constructed at Kealba High School from moneys provided under the States Grants (Secondary Schools Libraries) Act. 
If so, have all funds for the acquisition of library material and equipment for the library yet been provided by the Commonwealth; if not, why not. 
If all funds have been provided by the Commonwealth, to whom were they paid. 
If all funds have not been provided, when may the balance be expected for the full establishment of the library. 
asked the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
What is the average waiting time between application for and receipt of a first social service payment. 
What percentage of initial applications is found on investigation not to justify the receipt of social service payments. 
If social service payments were made within a day or two of the official application, what would be the loss to his Department in terms of the applicants who are proved subsequently to be unqualified to receive the payments they had been receiving pending a decision on their applications. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
In view of the strong opposition taken by the Government, through the Minister for Customs and Excise, to the importation or culture of plants from which psychotropic drugs or some drugs of addiction can be extracted, why does the Government subsidise the Australian Tobacco Board which is an organisation engaged in cultivating a plant whose leaf, when consumed by man, has been proved to be a drug of addiction which causes cancer, heart disease and respiratory disease, to name but a few of its effects. 
1 wish to direct a question to the Minister for Education and Science. Last week the Minister attempted to dismiss my question about what he intended to do for the poorer state and Catholic schools to bring them up to the standard of the posh private schools. What does the Minister intend to do about the situation in most state high schools in Victoria, such as Kew High School, where, I have been informed in a note brought home by my 12-year-old daughter who attends that school, the Form I children may have to make do with a 4-day school week, just as many of the senior forms already have had to do? I ask this question as an outraged parent of a state school child, and I resent the suggestions the Minister has made in the past, that if I were more concerned, I would be prepared to pay more. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
What consultants outside his Department have been used by the Department in the last 3 years and what have they been paid. 
As a layman attempting to follow the arguments about the Budget, I find certain illogicalities which seem to me to be glossed over by the experts. At the beginning of his speech the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  observed that the international monetary crisis last year led to capital expenditure cutbacks in the mining and other industries. Then he said: 
These uncertainties were reinforced domestically by the continuing upsurge of wage pressures. 
We have heard often the implication that the workers are the cause of all ones troubles, that all troubles are due to their demands for higher wages. The Treasurer indicated that, together with this wage pressure, there had also been an apparently welcome increase of about 13 per cent in the public sector of spending, a 13 per cent increase in exports and a 6 per cent increase in housing construction. But these encouraging factors were not enough to offset the weakening in consumer spending and business investment. 
The Treasurer claimed that the failure to spend was due to people who did not have money not borrowing to spend on goods and to those who had some spare money banking it rather than spending it. In addition, according to the Treasurer, the increasing bite of the progressive personal income tax scale has combined with rising prices to restrict severely growth in the real purchasing power of take home pay'. The Treasurer said that this unwillingness - in my view, inability- of people to spend 'has been basic to the economy's lack of punch' - a lovely word! But the Treasurer cannot have it both ways. If the wage rises were unjustified and, to compensate for irresponsible action by the unions and the arbitration tribunal, prices were increased to cover this extravagance, surely after the prices rose the situation should have been restored to what it was before. But the Treasurer himself has admitted that this is not the case. He has conceded that the total effect has been 'to restrict severely growth in the real purchasing power of take home pay'. That is a euphemistic way of saying that the wage earner in fact gets less and the Government gets more whilst the business community gets at least as much as it used to get before the rise. What else could the Treasurer's words mean? Could it be that he does not know what he is talking about? 
The result, of course, was a sharp rise in unemployment, so that the total purchasing power of those still in employment was nowhere near enough to purchase the goods available. That is what the Treasurer meant by a 'slackness in consumer spending'. To try to balance this and restore the total purchasing power of the community so that it can increase its spending and so restore 'punch' to the economy, the Government pays out unemployment benefits from its increased taxation revenue. In addition, it increases its handout - as a condescending gesture of charity rather than a recognition of a right - to pensioners and its grants to the State governments for the emergency employment of the unemployed in a few crucial areas. The purpose is to restore the total purchasing power of the community. But what an indignity this imposes upon the pensioners, the unemployed and others who receive insufficient for their real needs and who have to accept money gratefully as a charity rather than as their just right. And what of the morality of a system which, for its survival, depends upon crises like this? 
Is such inhumanity really necessary? Should we not ask whether this system is necessary? Should we not change it? But wait! Barely  3  or  4  paragraphs later in his Budget Speech the Treasurer changed his tune and informed us that the consumer price index had risen at an average annual rate of  5  per cent over the last  3  years whilst the earnings rose on average by  10  per cent annually. If that is so, why the disastrous effect on the real purchasing power of take home pay that was mentioned before? If the workers in fact have more money, why the slackness in consumer spending? Just how equitable has been the distribution of the earnings rise? Has it gone evenly to all income levels or mainly to the rich? Has there not really been a redistribution of more to the higher income salary earners who can afford to save some as they do not need to spend it all on living expenses and who bank their savings, thus accounting for the rise in savings? At the same time has there not been a real reduction to the many low income earners who spend all they get and who still do not have enough on which to live as well as they did before, let alone buy all the beautiful goods that are available, thus leading to the slackness in consumer spending observed by the Treasurer, despite his claim now that earnings have risen by  10  per cent annually? 
But wait, dear friends - the Treasurer has more to tell. In the very next paragraph of his Budget Speech he informed us that the consumer price index had increased by  7  per cent in the year  1971.  Did he have to tell us that when we have all noticed how much less we can buy for our money? So far, to June of this year, the index has continued to rise at  6.1  per cent per annum, which is not news to any of us. When one adds to those increases the automatic increase in taxation mentioned by the Treasurer, one can understand the 'slackness*. 
I come now to the section of the Treasurer's Budget Speech headed 'Philosophy and Objectives'. The Treasurer said that public sector spending has run ahead very fast with private sector spending lagging. Since private spending was lagging it was a deliberate policy of the Government to encourage spending in the public sector in an attempt to restore 'punch' to the economy. That is good socialist technique. Beware, the Treasurer warned, important as public expenditure might be it costs us money in the form of taxes. But I thought the Treasurer had said that, with the criminal increases in wages, there were automatic increases - innocent, unexpected increases - in taxation revenue for the Government. What is the Government expected to do with this windfall - sit on it? Now comes the real cry from the heart. An added burden of increased public expenditure, warns the Treasurer, is that the private sector as a whole finds its room for growth constrained. Aye. There's the rub! The private sector fails the community by being unwilling to spend when the welfare of the community is at stake. As the only way out, the Liberal-Country Party Government is forced to adopt the socially responsible techniques of the Australian Labor Party and increase Government spending in the public sector. This then limits the possibilities for the private sector, which means less profits for the boys - the supporters of the Liberal Party. It also means that more responsibility is taken by the Federal Government, as has been suggested by honourable members on this side of the House for ages. How sad for the Treasurer! 
But enough of this. Skimming through the pages of handouts for this, that and the other, which can be better discussed in the debate on the Estimates, let me pause at the heading 'Industrial Training'. As is the case with many of the Budget suggestions, there is no firm philosophical basis for the elaboration of policy on this matter. Clearly the Liberal view is to leave the real responsibility for industrial training in the hands of industry. That means nothing of a comprehensive nature will be done. In a paper given recently to the Industrial Relations Society of South Australia the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  indicated the policy of the Labor Party in the following terms: 
It is the responsibility of society to ensure that there is adequate notice of changes - 
That is, changes due, for example, to technological advances -  that there is, where, possible, absorption of employees affected so that losses to them may be minimised and that there is proper and adequate planning for retraining of employees who become redundant. 
The honourable member for Hindmarsh went on to discuss the responsibilities of the Commonwealth Employment Service to provide the facilities for retraining and gave a clear indication of the reason why the Liberal approach is inadequate and why 'it is not good enough to say that training and retraining is the sole responsibility of industry and not the concern of Government'. Ironically the reason is one which should have been apparent to the LiberalCountry Party Government. He said: 'It is unreal to expect one employer to meet the cost of training labour for his competitor's workshop'. The Liberal Party approach, as outlined in the Treasurer's Budget Speech, is short-sighted, inadequate and has no philosophy of basie rights or justice either for individuals or industries. 
The next point that comes to notice in the Treasurer's Budget Speech is the reference to assistance with fares. This proposal is hopelessly inadequate and a farce. What more can one say about it. The next topic that catches my eye as warranting some comment is external aid. With some pride the Treasurer indicated that external aid will amount to about $220m or 0.56 per cent of our gross national product. This places Australia fourth among the advanced nations of the world. Laudible as that might seem it is hopelessly inadequate in terms of the needs of the underdeveloped nations. As is often the case with this Government, gesture^ like this are more an insult than a help. Added to that is the view that we are doing something to help them, the depressed of the world and that they should be grateful. The fundamental reality is not that we are helping them but that we are helping ourselves to avert a tragic crisis, a crisis which would flow across national boundaries and affect the whole world. Any aid we give is not for their sakes, it is for our own sake and for the future safety of our children. If we and all the advanced countries continue in this crude, insensitive way to provide inadequate aid we will sink with the underprivileged. We are all on the same spaceship and all dependent on the same basic resources. 
I quite agree about the problem there. We are in need of control of the degradation of those resources. There is no way in which we can insulate ourselves from their disaster. We can only help prevent disaster from overcoming us all. Looking through the Budget a bit further we come to social welfare, and the first item dealt with specifically is education. There is a lot of talk about extra millions of dollars here, there and everywhere. lt seems a lot but if we add it all up it amounts to an increase of about $172m. But let us be generous and say that the Government will increase its spending on education by about $200m in the coming year. Some years ago, in about 1969 or 1970, the State Ministers for Education submitted a report in which they estimated that there would be a shortfall of funds amounting to about $ 1,440m in the 5 years from 1970. In other words they felt that in that time they needed an extra $300m a year. This year we are promising for the first time something approaching $200m, but this is still $100m short of the need indicated by those Ministers for Education. 
In real terms and in comparison with countries of standing similar to our own we should be spending about 1 per cent more of our gross national product on education - that is, a bit over $300m a year - and it should come from the Federal Government. That is a minor point really - although I know it is important if we have not got enough school rooms or teachers - compared with a far more serious crisis facing the whole community. I refer to a crisis in education itself. What is education? It seems that the Government has not heard of that question. There are articles about it in the newspapers every day. In one of today's newspapers our education system is described as obsolete and there is a discussion about the futility of many of the schools today, the point being made that the way in which most schools are organised prevents effective learning. What is education about? What are we educating people for? We remain preoccupied with the need to provide technological skills, to train people to be doctors like myself so that they know how to cut a belly open, but our education system still leaves us as ignoramuses in terms of the real meaning of the word 'education'. Meet a collection of lawyers and you have met a group of the most ignorant people in the community, although they may well be skilled in the law. 
Education is something far more than providing what we teach in our schools today. Even school children are beginning to recognise that, but it seems as though we in this Parliament are unaware of it. School children are aware of the fact that even with all the increased technological skills they are given they are finding it increasingly difficult to find and maintain a place in the world. They need an education in the broader sense to enable them better to cope with the stresses which will inevitably confront them. In any case we need to start asking ourselves: Development, education, greater skills - what for? It seems that the philosophy driving us on forever is: 'Produce, produce, produce'. It seems that our purpose in living is to work. It should be that we work in order to live - a quite different emphasis. 
Leaving education we come next in the Budget Speech to health. I will skip housing; I will leave that subject to the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren).  Once again there has been a long discussion of the way in which we will cope with, if you like, the derelicits, the failures of medical care. There has been a long discussion about what we should do to help the elderly, their hospitalisation, nursing home treatment and home nursing care. We are failing to recognise that at the moment medical practice in this country is not coping with the medical needs of the elderly. All we are really seeking is to find places where we can dump the elderly out of sight and out of mind so that they can languish and die and not pester the rest of us. What is really necessary is a new comprehensive approach to the whole health scheme. 
I do not know how many honourable members on the Government side have read this publication which I have here. They probably saw my name in it as one of the Australian Medical Association study group on medical planning and decided that it was a communist publication. It is not. The Australian Medical Association put the publication out. There is a very good dissertation in it on the Australian Labor Party's policy - not that the study group knew that is what it was doing when it wrote that part of the publication, mind you. It discusses scientifically the needs of general practice in this country and comes to the conclusion which the Labor Party has already accepted, that the way medical practice would best develop in this country would be to encourage the establishment of health centres. With their integration into the public hospital teaching complex we could improve the standard of medical care. We could improve also the education of medical practitioners who have already graduated and we could improve the training of medical students. 
There is a supplement of the Medical Journal of Australia which discusses education of medical students and which comes to the same sort of conclusions and recommendations in relation to the place of these health centres in educating medical students to understand the problems of general practice. The sad reality is that medical students until very recent years,' and in some universities still, are not taught anything about general practice. They are taught specialised medical practice. Those dwindling numbers who choose to go out into general practice have to learn by their mistakes in general practice. They are not educated for it. All the proposals which are made in the publication seek to overcome this and at the same time dramatically increase the efficiency of the hospital and medical services and overcome the problem of inadequate care for the elderly so that there would be less need to find nursing home beds in which to sequester them and get out of the way. These people might even be restored to more active participation in the community and in their families. 
Finally we come to social services. Again there is a complete lack of philosophical understanding of the needs of people in the approach of the Liberal-Country Party Government to this problem. There is no suggestion of tying pension payments to automatic increases in, say, the average weekly earnings, which is what the Labor Party has proposed. For how much longer will we have to observe the spectacle year after year of pensioners making their annual pilgrimage to the Parliament of Australia to beg for a handout from the Federal Government, hoping that there will be a bit more for them in the Budget? They should never have to do that because they should know automatically that they will get increases as average weekly earnings go up. It is only with an understanding of the basic needs of people as human beings that any government can come up with a far more wholesome approach to the problems of this society and get away from the stop-gap inhuman solutions which the LiberalCountry Parry Government forever seems to offer us. 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts. At the Stockholm Conference on the Environment did Australia vote in favour of a 10-year moratorium on commercial whaling, and yet 3 weeks later at the International Whaling Commission conference in London did Australia abstain from voting on the moratorium issue and instead support the imposition of the usual quota system? Was a change made in Australian policy on this vital conservation matter in the 3 weeks between the Stockholm and London conferences, and if so, what was the reason for that change? 
 Discussing the Parliament is almost like discussing a joke. Look at the pressing numbers on all sides here to witness what is going on. There are more people in the galleries than there are in the House. The way we function is futile. Take Parliament House itself. For years now we have been told that there is talk of building a new Parliament House, but sadly the opportunity for getting a new Parliament House has gone by the board year after year. There is no suggestion of new thinking about it despite the fact that all our facilities are utterly hopeless. 
I am glad to see that one member on the other side agrees with me. We have shared rooms and totally inadequate rooms from every point of view. There is an absence of anywhere near sufficient secretarial staff or research assistants. We even lack mechanical devices. I do not know how many other members have received the tape recorders which it was recently advertised we were to receive. I certainly have not got mine. They seem to be a long time coming around. 
Ail in all it seems that we are ashamed or afraid to state the case for reforming the way we function ourselves. I am sure that in any self-respecting business the management would not stand for the conditions under which we operate. Great organisations in the country making their profit and having a turnover of millions of dollars would not stand for the conditions that we, as the equivalent of their senior staff or managerial staff, have to put up with. Yet we are theoretically supervising the running of the whole country. Apart from the mechanical disadvantages, what about the whole parliamentary procedure and the whole concept of the way we function? The reality, of course, is that back benchers are for all practical purposes almost totally ineffectual. That goes for back benchers on both sides of the House. It is irrelevant whether a member is a Government party back bencher or an Opposition back bencher; he has practically no say at all. In fact, we make speeches such as the one I am making now more for the show to the gallery or so that we can circulate copies of them in the electorate hoping that some of the locals will read it and perhaps think it is worth voting for us again on a very narrow and parochial basis. One has the disappointing experience of noting that if he makes what he thinks is a reasonable contribution to a debate, unless it specifically mentions a locality in his electorate by name for the local interest, it will not get a run. That goes for all of us. 
This state of affairs reflects the degraded level to which politics has sunk in this country. It can only be deplored. We all suffer for it. I am told by the people who have their ears to the ground that I am getting a caning in my own electorate because I am not taking enough interest in local government. Never mind the fact that I criticise very intensely the whole way that local government all over the country is totally inadequately financed. The point is that I do not mention a particular road in a particular suburb in my electorate. Therefore I am not, it seems, relating to the problems in my electorate. In my view this situation arises because the parliamentary procedures are out of date. The system may have been all right when it was established, but it is a long time since it was established. It is time we brought it up to date. 
As others have mentioned before, I think we need to consider seriously the establishment of parliamentary committees. It is not a question of taking power from the Executive. It is a question of establishing a method whereby we can draw everybody into deliberations in a constructive way. A committee system would serve useful purposes on lots of fronts. It would first of all educate us, the parliamentarians. God knows that on many issues we talk loudly but we are very ignorant of the facts on many of the issues we stand up to discuss. It would also help to educate the general public so that on controversial issues we would not feel we are carrying the can. After all we discuss many issues. I see that the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  is in the chamber. He has discussed many controversial issues in the last few years in which I, being in this House, have been particularly interested. He has been helped, not hindered, by the debate which has been aroused. If we consciously set out to do this with all the issues confronting us and if we drag the general public in by having public hearings before committees, people may be affronted to start with, but as they hear the facts from the experts both within the Pubic Service and outside the Public Service they will get to understand the problems, as we hope we also will, and perhaps see the need for change where necessary. I am not now suggesting Party political changes. I am talking about enlightened changes that have the approval of the whole community irrespective of what side we happen to be on politically. 
I have mentioned in passing that parliamentary committees would enable more active participation in decision making by many more people in the community. One of the great malaises in society today is the feeling that most people have that they are irrelevant to the decision making in the community. I only hope that they take me seriously when I say that I too as a parliamentarian feel pretty irrelevant to the decision making in the country. So the position is even worse than they think it is. They think parliamentarians sit around and make all the decisions. It is not parliamentarians as a group either. 
In my view another important by-product of the committee system would be the process of educating parliamentarians and the community. It would prevent the senseless, narrow polarisation of lots of issues into Party political matters. One can think of nearly all the controversial matters in which the Minister for Customs and Excise has been involved. I am taking him as an example only because he is sitting in the chamber and because he has been involved in some of these issues. The potential for making party political advantage out of any of the issues he has raised would in my view disappear if we had the committee system. It would aid enlightenment all round. 
Let us consider new approaches, say, to health services. I realise that strong political views are expressed on the health scheme. The Labor Party has its views, and attacks are made on us because it is claimed we want to nationalise doctors. Our counteraccusations are that all the system does is back up private profit making in hospitals. But in real terms none of these issues should be discussed at this level. They should really be discussed in terms of what is best for the treatment of patients. The same thing applies to schools. The debate on education has for too long centred on the State aid issue, which has been almost wholly irrelevant to the problem of the quality of education and where education is really going. All these issues would be far better served, in my opinion, if the parliamentary procedure allowed committees to look into these questions and discuss them without reference to political parties but by dragging in opinion from outside. As with so many other issues, we know that there are some people who are traditional Labor Party voters who are in favour of State aid, as there are people who are traditional Liberal Party voters who are opposed to State aid. Yet the Liberal Party is pushing State aid rather more than the Labor Party is, but we are both in it. I concede that. Yet there is a growing discontent in the community about the whole question of education, and neither side is really discussing that issue. 
In summary, I can only deplore the narrow approach that I feel the Government has taken to the Parliament and the way in which it functions. There is no hint of enlightenment or endeavour to break new ground or to think anew about the way we are parliamentarians might fulfil our functions on behalf of the community which elects us here. It does discredit to us, simply disappoints the community and increases its disenchantment with the parliamentary process. So in the end we all will be the losers. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Have changes been made recently in the maximum quantities of drugs that doctors can prescribe under the National Health Scheme. 
If so, are the drugs Laroxyl (amitriptyline hydrochloride) and Concordin (protriptyline hydrochloride) 2 of the drugs affected by these changes. 
If there have been reductions in the maximum quantities allowed per prescription, what were the reasons for these reductions in respect of Laroxyl and Concordin for example. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Now that the Government, on the admission of the Minister in his reply to a question a few moments ago, has accepted the basic philosophy of the Australian Labor Party on health services, namely, that the cost burden must be shifted from the individual to the Government - I think the Minister mentioned that it had been shifted from 35 per cent to 19 per cent - does the Minister concede that the best way to collect these funds from the community is through a national health insurance fund, rather than through a multitude of inefficient and expensive so-called voluntary funds, which are compulsory anyway since failure to belong to a fund deprives one, if ill, of the Commonwealth benefit from one's compulsory tax payments? 
I would like to hark back to some of the comments of the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  when he referred to the views of the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  on the medical profession and, more specifically, his suggestion that the folksy general practitioner no longer exists. 
His lack of regard for the folksy general practitioner. If that is what the Minister said, I still wish to make the same sort of remarks. I regret to say that the folksy general practitioner does no longer exist, through no fault of the Labor Party nor, would I suggest, through any fault of the Liberal Party. The reason he no longer exists is that the nature of medical practice has changed. I admit that there are certain aspects of the folksy general practitioner which we sadly miss today, but with increasing technology and the increasing demands we make on general practitioners, he can no longer be the leisurely folksy general practitioner he once was. 
The problem is so serious that, quite apart from the Government's views on the Labor Party's scheme, our thoughts on general practitioners and the suggestion that general practice clinics might help to reestablish the standing of the general practitioner is in accord with the views expressed - and I trust that the Minister can find time to read them when he has finished speaking to the Minister for Immigration  (Dr Forbes)  at the table- by the Australian Medical Association study group on general practice in its pamphlet entitled General Practice and Its Future in Australia'. The basic point about the suggestion made in this publication is that with the establishment of general practice clinics, with the use of ancillary medical personnel, it may be possible to re-establish some of this intimate relationship people once had with general practitioners. It may allow general practitioners to regain the status they once had. 
I deal now with the question raised by the Minister for Housing about the dreadful tax we are going to impose and with his implication that this will represent an enormous increase in cost to everybody. I made a speech on this matter once before and I will not repeat the whole of it for the sake of the Minister. My only comment is that he is misunderstanding the whole point. If we raise more funds by way of taxation it will be only so that people need pay less money to voluntary health insurance funds and less money directly to doctors. We are not suggesting that the doctors will receive more than they are getting under the present system. So where is the extra money that the minister talks about to go? It will not go to the doctors. It will not go to the hospitals. It will not go to the nursing staff. It will not go into his or my pocket as parliamentarians, that is for certain. So what is he talking about? He is bluffing, surely. 
The rate of taxation will be simply enough to raise the same amount now raised in payments to benefit funds and fees paid by patients who suffer illness and thereby need medical treatment. The present system victimises people who are ill because in addition to suffering illness and suffering medical treatment they have to suffer the pain of paying the medical fees. Our proposal simply recognises that we should pay to maintain hospital services while we are well so that if the need arises any one of us will have free access to the services, the determinant being our medical need and not our capacity to pay. It is a simple proposition. 
One cannot argue about the quality of medical care in this country. It is always said by honourable members on the other side of the House that the standards in Australia are higher than they are anywhere else in the world. I do not know on what they base that because on the few parameters that one can examine there is no justification for that claim whatsoever. Our infant mortality rate and our pre-natal mortality rate is no better than in countries with what one would call 'socialist medical services'. It is not necessarily much worse either. There is not very much difference in standards. The only differences one can perceive :re in unnecessary surgical procedures performed on patients, but there is good statistical evidence to show that when doctors are paid a fee for service they tend to provide more medical services than they need to for the best care of their patients. 
Several studies have been conducted into this matter, and I have talked about it before. My remarks are in Hansard and I will not bore honourable members with it. I will simply add a little more evidence to my case, this time from someone arguing the case for fee for service as against a capitation fee. I join with the view that the capitation fee is not a good one. That is the problem with the British health scheme. I would not be in favour of a capitation fee, but nonetheless, even in this argument I find confirmation of my claims. The report which I have states that when the system of payment changes from capitation fee  to  fee for service, all in all, it is concluded that a 17 per cent increase in the utilisation of physicians services will occur. The report states that there has not been any appreciable change in the utilisation of clinics. I take it that that refers to hospitals and not to private physicians. So the increase in physicians' services has not been offset by a decrease in utilisation of the clinics. The reason I mention this is that it was claimed that if the doctors saw the patients more readily, presumably because they are getting more pay, there would be less need for the patients to utilise the services of hospitals. The report to which I am referring was produced from the Baltimore experiment. It is not to do with surgery; it is to do with overall physician  caTe.  In fact, the increased medical services did not reduce the call for the patients to use hospital services. It was found also that when the doctors were paid on a fee for service basis the prescription rate rose quite astronomically. The increase in the number of prescriptions provided to patients was 32 per cent. 
I come now to the question of where the Australian Medical Association stands in relation to Labor Party policy and the claim made that last night on television the 
AMA conceded something about Labor Party policy. I cannot be sure what the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  meant by his comment but I certainly do not think that he meant that the Australian Medical Association, to a man, will now vote for the Labor Party because it supports our policy on this matter. Obviously that is nonsense. The point is that for the first time publicly on television a spokesman for the AMA conceded- 
How about listening to what I think he did? He conceded that if some doctors choose to work for a salary - the Minister mentioned this in the quote he has just given - they still will be OK as doctors as far as the AMA is concerned. This is a concession, because up until now we have been fed to the gills with the claim that doctors who are forced to work or who elect to work on salaries somehow or other are inferior doctors - that the only decent relationship between a doctor and patient depends upon the fee for service. The conclusion one draws from the admission last night is that the AMA concedes the point that the doctor-patient relationship does not depend upon a fee passing from the patient to the doctor, and that is the fundamental point that we have tried to make all along. 
Of course, the reality is that when  a  patient enters a doctor's consulting room the doctor does not size the patient up in terms of what he can pay or whether he will pay the bill. I do not believe that for a minute. I have more faith in doctors than that. The doctor assesses the patient in terms of his medical need. Whether or not the patient can pay is irrelevant to the quality of medical care the doctor should and does give to the patient. 
It does not make the slightest difference whether the doctor is paid a salary or whether he is paid a fee for service; the doctor will still give reasonable service to the patient, based on medical needs. The problem as far as doctors are concerned is that they are frightened that if they are on a salary they will not be paid enough. That is purely an administrative problem; it has nothing to do with the basic philosophy of the Labor Party. Of course, the answer is that a Labor government will, I trust, give a reasonable reward to doctors in the same way as, we hope, socialised lawyers get a reasonable reward from the community when they become judges. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Luchetti)  - Order! Is the suggestion of the Minister agreed to? There being no objection, that course will be followed. 
Department of Immigration 
Proposed expenditure, $68,024,000. 
1 deplore the immorality of letting in only those who will easily fit into the community. If the case for immigration is for Australia's benefit alone then as an advanced, rich country we surely stand condemned for taking only those who are well qualified to fit easily into this country. These are the citizens their homelands probably can least afford to lose. If the case for immigration is to help relieve population pressures in the countries of origin then again with our technique of selection we are taking the ones who are a minimal burden to their homeland. It is the poor, the ignorant and the illiterate who pose the greatest problem in population control. So our policy of leaving them where they are just aggravates the position. We do not want them, it seems, on most of the arguments offered by the Liberals. 
If the case for immigration is to provide a refuge for those who wish to leave their countries of origin because of persecution, such as is the case with those being expelled from Uganda, then again, to be consistent in our humanitarianism. we should not be selective - but we are. We are prepared to take a small number - the prize pickings, as it were. But what about the rest, the less advantaged? They can be someone else's problem, it seems. We must not import anyone with a different culture. We must not import the failures or the misfits according to the honourable member for McPherson  (Mr Barnes).  Those remarks epitomised to me the utter immorality of the whole attitude on that side of the House. 
During the years of our massive immigration programme we were not very selective in terms of quality as long as the immigrants were white. 1 deplore the dreadful racism involved, but 1 wish to discuss the effect of this non-selective white immigration. Of course, it helped Australia and we are the richer for it. Of course, migrants have made  a  magnificent contribution to Our development, despite the frequent prejudice they suffered as they educated us old Australians to become more tolerant, to become better human beings. 
However, the situation in Australia has now changed. .Australia is having difficulty with employment and economic crisis seems endemic. So those most exposed to suffering in this situation are the new Australians. These are the reasons why the Australian Labor Party suggests assisted migration should be curtailed at this stage. However, we must always respect personal relationships and family groups. So we say that we will continue to allow relations of those already here to come in, irrespective of their race, colour or creed. The Government would lose effective control of immigration if assisted migration was stopped, according to the Minister for Immigration  (Dr Forbes).  In fact, his whole speech reaffirmed the fact that Australia's sole intention is to rob other countries of their skilled workers for our benefit. This can be guaranteed only if we have assisted migration, not if it depends upon families sponsoring their own relations. I can only deplore this attitude. 
As humanitarians, in the state of the world today - I am not talking about Australia and its needs 20 years ago - we should take immigrants only at the rate at which we can absorb them, and not to depend on them for cheap labour. I do not know what that figure is, but it certainly should not be determined only on the criterion of easy assimilation with no effort on our part, and at the same time robbing other countries of their skilled workers. 
In considering foreign affairs we have to recognise that there is new thinking in Asian countries which amounts to a questioning or, in some cases, a rejection of the belief that the security of individual nations can be protected and national interests promoted on the basis of the alignment of the great powers and the cold war style of confrontation and the containment of communism. In question are those policies that require considerable defence effort and involvement in military treaties or other defence arrangements, often at the expense of the nation's international reputation for political and military independence. The present international situation is favourable for the working out of alternative arrangements to hostile confrontations. There is a greater awareness of the dangers as well as the enormous wastefulness of continuing military confrontations. It has been estimated, for instance, that the enormous expenditure on defence in 1970 was equivalent to one year's income of the entire population of the developing countries. In most cases it has complicated national security problems rather than offered solutions to them. 
What has Australia's reaction been? Particularly in the years since the Second World War our reaction to developments in Asia has reflected a preoccupation with the securing of our own defences rather than with the seeking of a deeper understanding of the changing scene and the. developing of better relations with the countries of the region. Our policy in a nutshell has been defence before diplomacy and it has been mostly of a negative character. Treaty relationships usually have been with pro-Western countries in the area and Asians have regarded our efforts as efforts to improve our own defence rather than help the Asians defend themselves. There is a more rational appreciation now of the nature of international relationships and of the strengths and limitations of the expressions of even the closest friendships. In a given international conflict it may be impossible to enforce or invoke a treaty because of the dangers involved or because priorities have changed, substantially weakening the spirit of the original treaty. 
It will be contended, of course, that Australia has moved closer to the major powers of Asia in recent years. But have, we moved so very much closer? It could be argued that our policies have in truth been designed to keep Asia away from Australia. Political developments in Asian countries have, of course, been followed closely by the. Government but its paramount concern has been to determine whether Australian security has been endangered, whether communist objectives have been advanced and what defence, measures should be taken to deter a possible threat. Seldom has the Government looked beyond these narrow objectives to encourage the countries concerned to meet these challenges in a more positive way. What should we do about it? Ours is a prosperous and politically stable nation on the periphery of one of the most populous, economically depressed and politically unstable areas of the world. But the image of Australia as a nation aloof and detached is not one which inspires the respect and confidence of our neighbours. To improve this image Australians need to make a sustained effort to move closer to our neighbours. 
More purposeful steps should be taken to acquire a deeper understanding of these countries and their problems and to participate with them in their search for greater co-operation, such as a search for a system of collective security which would obviate the need for heavy defence expenditure. A progressive move for Australia would be to assume the leading role among developed countries in providing development assistance. Expanding our aid programme by doubling our present level of expenditure would go far towards encouraging the confidence that is necessary in these regions. We should not be spending 0.7 per cent of our gross national product on aid to under-developed countries. Most of this is being spent in Papua New Guinea. I am not arguing against money being spent in Papua New Guinea; that is our direct responsibility. In addition we should be spending at least 1 per cent of our gross national product to help these under-developed countries to develop and find more secure systems. After all, our security can never be wholly assured while our neighbours are enduring political instability. Political stability cannot be achieved in the poorer countries in states of stagnant political and economic conditions. The gap between the standards of living in those countries and prosperous nations like Australia is widening rather than narrowing. In per capita terms Australia should be setting the pace in the challenging task of seeking to overcome one of the most serious threats to world security - the widening gap between rich and poor countries. If we did this Australian security and commercial interests would be improved. However, in conflicts Australia too often plays a totally negative role. We could be far more active in pursuing diplomatic means in an attempt to search for peaceful solutions. Australia has yet to show any great interest in the efforts of Asian countries to find ways of reducing tensions. 
Australia observes rather than participates in such moves. Ceylonese plans for the neutralisation of the Indian Ocean provoked little response or encouragement from the Government. In fact we only squeal about the Rusian presence. The Malaysian neutralisation proposals have received more attention, but the response has been measured and cautious. Clearly Australia could do more to encourage these moves, which if successful would have obvious benefits for Australia. Collective security and neutralisation proposals are presently under constant discussion in most South East Asian capitals, but the few Australian statements on the subject have been restrained, at times even sceptical. On the question of the neutralisation of the Indian Ocean we have repeated American reservations about the technical weaknesses, and even the Americans themselves are beginning to question their own reservations. This serves as an illustration of the negative character of Australian foreign policy. 
Our hesitant and conservative attitudes towards such moves by Asian nations simply reinforce a widely held belief in Asian capitals that Australia, despite its claims to the contrary, prefers to keep apart from Asia. It is therefore not surprising that at least 2 members of the Association of South East Asian Nations have rejected a suggestion that Australia be invited to participate in that organisation. Ironically, one of the members against Australian participation, Malaysia, is one of the Asian nations with which we have close relations, or at least so we like to think. One practical requirement of the new foreign policy would be for the Government to play an active role in providing the Australian public with information about the real nature of our international position and the aims of our foreign policy, in order to counter misguided views and prejudices still held by far too many Australians. 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Was a meeting at the Sydney Town Hall on 2nd March 1972, in which one of the speakers was  Dr Germaine  Greer, recorded on video-tape for the Australian Broadcasting Commission programme Four Corners. 
Was the speech by  Dr Greer  at that meeting broadcast in full on radio station 3AR at 8.15 p.m. on 22nd March 1972. 
What is the reason for not allowing the Health, Social Welfare and Repatriation Committee of the Federal Parliamentary Labor Party to see the video-taped programme. 
Why is a transcript of  Dr Greer's  speech not available to the same Committee. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Is it necessary for public servants giving evidence to the Henderson inquiry into poverty to obtain clearances for their statements from their senior officers? If there is no provision for a clearance to be given, does it follow that Commonwealth welfare officers and others will not be able to give evidence? If a clearance is necessary, is this not an unnecessary inhibition on Professor Henderson who should be able to receive submissions from all levels of the Public Service free of possible internal Public Service censorship? 
I was pleased to hear mat the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  recognises the change in society and that he concedes the fact that the Australian people in voting in the last election voted for a change. But the odd thing was that, with all his rhetoric, he then proceeded to talk in the very self-same vein in which I have heard him talk for the previous 3 years, as if in fact he had learnt nothing at all from the recent election result. The honourable member expressed concern about overdependence by the people in the community, and in fact in all western nations, on governments. I take it that he included Australia in this. But oddly enough I have been under the impression that for the last 23 years or so we have had a Liberal conservative government and not a Labor government. So surely the honourable gentleman should be asking himself what it was he and his colleagues have been doing which has been wrong and which has led to, in his view, this overdependence on government. 
The honourable member discussed for a time the vexed question of compulsory unionism. I concede that one can see the arguments against belonging to a trade union and superficially they appear perfectly reasonable. After all, why should one be forced to belong to a union? Where is freedom - and so on? But, of course, in real terms the economic welfare of people who do not belong to unions often depends upon the action of trade unionists. I am talking, in other words, about wage and salary earners. I have yet to see employers who voluntarily and without being asked or pressed freely giving improvements in conditions or wages. Such improvements almost invariably depend on some action by the workers themselves who have formed trade unions to attain these improvements. Such a move by the workers usually involves not only the financial sacrifice by members of trade unions in just paying their contributions to the unions, but in addition very often the additional sacrifice of going on strike with their fellow unionists. 
I know that superficially it often seems that the trade unions are defeated when they call a strike and then go back to work seemingly with their tail between their legs. But it is very interesting to note how often a judgment comes soon after from the Arbitration Court or some decision is made which gives the unions the very things they had been seeking in their industrial action. I reiterate my claim that usually improvement in the conditions for people on wages in this country depends upon the action of trade unionists. So where does that leave the proposition of a person's freedom not to belong to a trade union? I would be perfectly prepared to accept this proposition on condition that the people on wages who do not wish to belong to the trade union, who do not wish to take part in the trade union activity, who do not wish to go on strike and who in fact do not go on strike, do not accept the increases in pay gained by the unionists when they have been on strike, on condition that they do not accept the increase in holidays gained or the improvement in working conditions. If they do not accept these improvements it would be reasonable for them to adhere to their view that they should not belong to a union. (Quorum formed). I now turn away from the remarks made by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition to consider the comments made by the Governor-General in his Speech.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I refresh your memory by quoting the Governor-General's observation that the grounds on which the Australian Labor Party Government has decided to put forward its programme of change included 
. the manifest desire of large sections of the Australian community, particularly the youthful majority, for  a  more tolerant, more open, more humane, more equal, yet more diverse society. 
Perhaps this is what the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition hinted at, but does not fully comprehend. To me the significant change in society has been the increasing commitment of young people to what is going on, the things that they see wrong with society and their commitment to active political participation in changing society. I think that all of us can recall at school and later in early adult life the comparative lack of concern of our fellows for what society was about and what was going on. Now I am pleasantly surprised to find an increased involvement even on the part of my own children who are still only at secondary school and their increased concern for what they consider to be the ills of this society. 
We have a growing movement by women, young and old, in the community to assert their rights and their position in this society. For too long women have been considered second class citizens. Now they themselves are joining in the fight, no longer leaving it just to trade unions which in the past have talked about equality of opportunity and equality of wages. Women are taking a more active part in this campaign, but not just at that level. They are seeking equality of rights and recognition of their place in society as people, not just as chattels of men or as the housekeepers of the community. I think that these are some of the significant changes that prompt the Australian Labor Party to propose many of the things that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition admitted basically would change Australian society. 
I turn to foreign relations. To illustrate what we are seeking to do, I quote again from the Governor-General's Speech: 
My Government supports the proposal by members of the Association of South East Asian Nations for a zone of peace, freedom and neutrality in South East Asia, and will encourage other nations involved in the region to support the concept. 
For too long the view of this country has been that we must protect ourselves against attack from unnamed - but with heavy implications as to whom they might be - would-be aggressors around us. Depending on the atmosphere in the community at the time, the aggressor could be any one of half a dozen nations to the north of this country. Of course, the reality is that all nations in the area have felt beleaguered and. threatened, probably by us and one another. For too long we have maintained treaty arrangements that essentially have been military pacts. We have adopted the habit of making arrangements with one group of nations and them making arrangements with another group of nations, seemingly in conflict with one another. Secrecy builds suspicion upon suspicion and reduces the confidence between nations. It is time we broke down these walls between us. It is time we sought to change these relationships between nations from so-called treaties to protect one another to treaties to assist one another to develop, recognising that basically, as I believe, no nation wishes to attack another nation. I realise that in many people's view that may be taken to be a naive proposition. In fact, I do not believe that any nation decides to go to war for the fun of it. If nations go to war they do so because they feel threatened by some other nation or in some way or other they feel they have a need for this action in order to assert their rights or their position. In other words, they feel aggrieved; they have a problem. To me, the best way to solve problems like that is not for us to get on the defensive and' arm ourselves to the teeth in competition with them but to seek to help them overcome whatever the problem is that they feel they have. 
I would guess that in most 'cases we would overcome the problems by helping them to overcome some of their . developmental difficulties because in the main this is usually what the problem is. They have difficulty in developing a reasonable standard of living for their peoples, in finding access for their manufactured goods or in finding markets for their raw materials. AH nations are often placed in this terrible predicament. Even this country has difficulty in exporting its goods at times. But we do not overcome the problems by threatening to punch someone on the nose. We will overcome the problem only by seeking agreement with other nations so that we can extend and promote our trade possibilities. To this end in trying to lower the barriers and break down the walls, this Government has, after many years of waiting for the last Government to do it, ratified the Treaty on the Non-proliferation of Nuclear Weapons - again, many people would say, a naive proposition. After all, the Russians, the Americans, the Chinese, the. French and the British still have their bombs. That is true enough. They have had them for years. They have not used them. They have sat on them and they have felt uncomfortable, They have continued to produce them. There is enough nuclear power in the world now to blow us to smithereens probably 100 times over. What does it achieve? It does nothing but raise the anxieties of everyone. It is time that we sought to lower the anxieties of the world community by agreeing to things such as the Treaty to which I have just referred, seeking to show that we are prepared to trust the present nuclear nations and that we do not aspire to compete with them. In turn, they may then recognise that they are wasting their time continuing to produce these nuclear weapons. 
Of course, I know that many people will disagree with me. They still feel that it Ls just poppycock. They are anxious and suspicious. The answer to that is improved education and understanding. We need to understand not the mechanical things of life but many of the spiritual things of life. We need to have a new look at education. For too long our education has concentrated upon technical training and not upon education for living. This Government is proposing to establish a schools commission. It will not only be concerned with such matters as school buildings, the teacher-pupil ratio and textbooks but also I hope it will look into the philosophy of education. It will seek to understand how we might change the emphasis in education in order to overcome the problems that many of us are seeking more than ever at the present time. People are trying to obtain help from us because although they are well trained technologically they still cannot obtain a job. If they obtain a job, it is one which they are not trained to do. They feel frustrated and hopeless. All our education system is doing at the moment is increasing the bewilderment of many who find that once they are educated there is no place for them in society. Education is more than technical training. (Quorum formed) 
Another point raised in the GovernorGeneral's Speech related to the Aboriginal people. For years our treatment of the only real Australians has been a terrible reflection on our honesty and sincerity. I hope and trust that at last we will seek to redress the injustices that we have perpetrated on these people. For too long we have failed to recognise them as human beings. We have denied them basic rights. We have even denied them the very land which historically is. theirs. The Government intends to press for the establishment of Aboriginal land rights, far better health services and better nutritional standards for Aborigines so thu no longer will they be the poverty-stricken section of this Australian community with one of the highest infant mortality rates in the world. 
 In the few. minutes remaining to. me in this debate I should, like to discuss something which relates particularly tq , my own portfolio, namely, the .environmental impact statement technique which we have proposed. I concede quite frankly that the previous Government had adopted the concept of environmental impact statements designed to protect the environment; but its proposals had not in fact reached the implementation stage. Its idea was that the appropriate departments would prepare these statements and the statements would be called for if there appeared to be anything' in a project which impinged on the environment. The statements would be prepared and submitted to the Cabinet together with the proposal. Once the Cabinet approved it, the statement would, be released to the public. 
We have taken the view that this is not good enough because it hides' the decision for far too long. We intend to call for the selfsame impact statements in consultation with whatever departments are involved. Usually it is not just one department but a number of departments'. Once these statements are prepared, they will be made public so that the community may know about them and be in a position to criticise them. Should I consider that a project concerns the environment, then I have a discretionary power to call for an impact statement; but after January of next year that discretionary power will no longer exist and the statement will be automatically expected. We also intend to provide opportunities for public hearings so that the community can express its views before such statements are finished and before they are presented to this Parliament or to the Cabinet. In this way we hope to evolve a system whereby the community can have a far more direct say in the way it is developed. It will not be left to governments or to cabinets to make decisions for people; it will be up to people themselves to make those decisions. 
I should like, finally, to comment on the human progress index. Many people thought that this was a bit of a laugh. It is, if one looks at it' in terms of wondering how one might measure happiness or God knows what. But that is hot what is being sought. We seek to understand : and recognise that the gross national product is not necessarily an accurate measure of how much the welfare of the community is improving. It just measures the output, lt has no bearing at all on how something influences or affects people. We may be increasing the production of motor cars and be polluting ourselves to such  an  extent that' we will no longer be able to survive in our cities, but that is counted as progress. In our approach we seek to measure not only industrial output but also its consequences; and if those consequences are bad a subtraction is' made, thus giving a more accurate measure of real human progress. That is the essence of the Government's proposition. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
to (4) See answer to (1). 
No date has yet been fixed for the next meeting of the Council. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As a member of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development Australia has adopted OECD's guiding principles concerning the international economic aspects of environmental policies, including the polluter pays principle. When in opposition we supported the previous Government's acceptance of the principle and since my appointment I have publicly indicated the Government's support  for  the polluter pays principle. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (5) At his press conference on 13th February 1973 the Prime Minister said that the Government had made the following decisions on impact statements. 
As an interim measure the principles developed by the previous Government be adopted immediately and extended in accordance with the next recommendation; in addition, environmental impact statements be required at the Minister's discretion after consultation with appropriate Ministers, where a proposal has significant environmental consequences and where Commonwealth funds are involved and/or where Commonwealth constitutional power is involved; as from 1st January 1974 the provisions of this paragraph to become mandatory without any discretion at all and the proposing Department or Authority be required to arrange, through the Department of the Environment and Conservation, for public hearings in the case of all impact statements involving the Commonwealth in order to ensure that the public is given an opportunity to express its views on the environmental impact of a proposal prior to the particular impact statement being prepared; the Department of the Environment and Conservation in consultation with other interested Departments to be directed to prepare draft guidelines for the requirements for and preparation of environmental impact statements and to advise on the need for and, if appropriate, the form of covering legislation. This report should be available for the Minister to put a Submission to Cabinet in time to permit any legislation to be brought forward in the Budget Session; and a public announcement be made on the decisions reached in this matter. 
An impact statement on the Black Mountain Communications Tower was released to the public on 28th February 1973. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have invited Commonwealth and State Ministers responsible for fauna conservation to a meeting in Melbourne on 9th March 1973. The recommendations of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Wildlife Conservation have been included on the agenda for this meeting. 
1 move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to make a minor amendment to the New South Wales Grant (Flood Mitigation) Act 1971 in order to enable assistance under the terms of that Act to be provided in relation to works on 3 small creeks near the Tweed River. These creeks were included in the original proposals submitted by the New South Wales Government in 1970 but because of the wording of the Act they were unwittingly excluded from its benefits. Briefly the flood mitigation scheme in New South Wales has been to construct works to mitigate flooding on all of the major coastal rivers in that State. Although there is no intention with this particular measure to increase allocation of Commonwealth funds to the State Government for these works their cost, estimated to be $100,500, was in fact included in the original proposals approved by the Parliament in 1971. The amendment simply varies the description of 'prescribed rivers' as contained in the original Act to rectify the omission previously mentioned. There is no intention to vary the Act or its method of operation except to cover the addition of these works. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lynch)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) 62. 
First Division Officers - 1. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Under the Administrative Arrangements Order my Department is responsible for national parks. The questions of the Australian Government's involvement in the establishment of national parks and the implementation of the Government's pledge to acquire land for national park purposes are currently under investigation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have asked my Department to review the action that has been taken to implement the recommendations of the Senate Select Committees on Air Pollution and Water Pollution and to report on what further action is desirable. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. This Bill concerns grants to the States over the next 3 financial years to continue acceleration of measurement of discharge of rivers and investigation and measurement of underground water resources. Following a recommendation by the Australian Water Resources Council, the Commonwealth and State governments in 1964 adopted an accelerated program of surface and underground water investigations to establish a comprehensive network of stream gauging stations and to improve substantially knowledge of underground water resources. Besides implementing its own accelerated program in the Northern Territory, the Commonwealth has assisted State programs by making available grants of $2. 8m, $4.5m and $8. 2m over successive 3- year periods. 
The success of the overall program to date has been shown by the fact that the States have continued to undertake annual programs considerably m excess of requirements to attract the full Commonwealth subsidy. Accordingly this Bill, in contrast to previous Acts where maximum Commonwealth grants have been calculated as a proportion of less than the full proposed State expenditure, provides for the Commonwealth to meet fully half the cost of proposed programs submitted by the States. The governments involved had reason to be satisfied with progress so far. However, it was apparent to the Water Resources Council that, if the objectives of the program as envisaged were to be achieved, a further expansion of effort was needed, and this is reflected in the programs planned by the States for next triennium. 
Surface water measurement programs total $13. 7m, an increase of $5.2m on programs for the period just completed, and underground water measurement programs total $16.5m, an increase of $5.9m on the programs covered by the 1970 Act. These proposed increases in expenditures are due to both general increases in costs of labour and materials and also increases in the scope of the works being undertaken. In many authorities for the first time in several years sections concerned with resource assessment are now operating at full staffing strength. 
The Government now proposes to make available a total of up to $ 15.1m by way of grants to the States, to assist in implementing the planned programs in the next 3 years. This figure represents an increase of almost 85 per cent over the level of Commonwealth aid in the past 3 years and almost a sixfold increase in assistance when compared with the first 3-year program. In making this increased contribution, the Commonwealth is confident that the States will increase their own commitments so that the objectives endorsed by the Water Resources Council may be achieved. The current legislation does not of course cover the Northern Territory, which will be provided for in appropriations for the Department of the Northern Territory. 
I turn now to the Bill itself, the provisions of which are similar to the 1970 Act which it is designed to follow. Provision for grants in respect of expenditure by the States on water resources investigation and measurement is contained in sections 4 and 5. Commonwealth grants will be provided, in accordance with the amounts specified in the schedules, to assist the States to undertake the programs of expenditure necessary to meet the aims of the accelerated program. In respect of each State, the Commonwealth grant will be the amount by which the expenditure exceeds a base amount until expenditure is double this base amount. The grant for expenditure greater than this is on a dollar for dollar basis until the ceiling set out in the schedule is reached. Grants have been allocated between the States on the basis of their own proposed programs. 
The Bill contains also a number of machinery provisions which are similar to the previous Acts relating to this program. These include provision for approval of the proposed programs by the Minister in section 7, provision for submission of progress reports in section 8, and provision for advance payments to the States in section 9. The developmental works to utilise the nation's water resources must be preceded by thorough 
Investigations of these resources and this requires adequate basic data. The program of water resources assessment in which all governments in Australia are participating has been devised with this end in view. I have pleasure in commending the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lynch)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is concerned with a grant which was announced by the previous Government for inclusion within the national water resources development program. In accordance with normal practice this Government is prepared to implement the promise and in fact is pleased to do so. We have agreed to provide up to $2.1m to South Australia to assist in  the  construction of the pipeline scheme. The LockKimba pipeline project involves the construction of about 69 miles of trunk main between the towns of Lock and Kimba on the Eyre Peninsula in South Australia. An additional 170 miles of distribution branch mains will serve properties not alongside the trunk main and replenish, when necessary, storage tanks along their routes. Water will be supplied for stock and domestic purposes and for townships, in particular Darke Peak and Kimba. The total estimated cost of the pipeline is $5.05m. As I have already stated, the Commonwealth will provide a grant of $2.1m out of about $3m required to complete the work. 
Further details of the scheme are contained in the explanatory memorandum distributed with the Bill. Members will note that the project is already partly constructed. Commonwealth payments under the grant will be made for expenditures incurred on or after 7th November 1972. An environmental impact statement prepared by the South Australian Government is also provided for the information of honourable members. In accordance with the policy of this Government information on the economic analysis of the project prepared by the Bureau of Agricultural 
Economics, has been published. Copies may be obtained from the Bureau. 
Turning now to the Bill itself, section 4 provides that the grant will be non-repayable. Section 6 sets out requirements in connection with the implementation of the project, and covers the provision of information requested by the Minister, ministerial approval of the works, and approval by the Minister of contracts in excess of $500,000. The project will be designed and constructed by the Engineering and Water Supply Department of the South Australian Government. The requirements for information by the Treasurer, in respect of expenditure are set out in section 7 and the general provisions for the Treasurer to make advance payments, and for repayment of overpayments are made in section 8. I have pleasure in commending the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lynch)  adjourned. 
Pursuant to section 21 of the River Murray Waters Act 1915-1970 I present the report of the River Murray Commission for the year ended 30th June 1972, together with the Commission's financial statements and the report of the AuditorGeneral on those statements, statements of gaugings and diversions during the year, furnished on behalf of the Governments of New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia. 
lt is true that Prince Philip visited the Myall Lakes area where sand mining is under way, and I have had my attention drawn to the statement by the Leader of the Opposition. At the moment the New South Wales State Planning Authority has declined permission for a mining company to mine the sands in the high dunes around the lakes area. The mining company has protested, and an appeal is being heard against the decision of the New South Wales State Planning Authority on this very question. It is being heard by  Mr Bunning.  Of course we are very interested in this. I am interested because as Minister for the Environment I was invited to visit the area and see what was involved, and I will make no more comments on the possible outcome of that inquiry at this stage. As for the question about whether we would use our powers to prevent the export of the products of mining, it has already been indicated by the Minister for Minerals and Energy that in cases when the national interest is best served by steps like that we will certainly take them, and in cases where it is necessary to protect the environment that decision will be taken only after a very careful consideration of all the factors. That is what the concept of environmental impact statements is about. If the balance is in favour of conserving an area, if needs be we could use those powers but. as I point out at this stage, that is irrelevant. The New South Wales State Planning Authority has declined permission for mining in the area, and at the moment an inquiry is proceeding into this very problem. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to &lt;8) The Australian Government has appointed a study group under the chairmanship of Professor  i.  Burton, Professor of Natural Resources, University of New England, to inquire into the circumstances leading to the flooding of Lake Pedder. The reports of the study group will be considered by the Australian Government and will be made public. 
I seek leave to amend paragraph 1, in the terms that have been circulated, of the notice of motion to appoint a Joint Committee on the Environment and Conservation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (9) My answer outlined the action taken by the Australian Government on Lake Pedder. I would have thought that it was obvious that, as the detail of Question No. 290 relates basically to the subject of the study group inquiry, which is still being conducted, it would be preposterous for me to prejudge the study group's findings by providing a detailed reply at this time. The attempt by the honourable member to make political capital out of an environmental issue, which is of concern to many Australians and which the previous Government, of which he was a member, chose to ignore, will be recognised by conservationists throughout Australia. 
I  am not sure whether my attention has been drawn to all public statements by members of the present Government made prior to 2nd December 1972 on the Lake Pedder issue. My attention has been drawn to a speech by  Mr Uren  as the then Opposition spokesman on environmental matters in the Hobart Town Hall on 7th November in which he said inter alia: 'I would like a combined FederalState review to take place, including the Tasmanian Government, the Hydro-electric Commission, conservation groups, and all sorts of experts from the Federal level. If I cannot get a combined study, 1 will instigate an inquiry from within my own department.' In the event the Government has acted to set up an independent study group. 
To see Lake Pedder. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) No. The detailed procedures to be adopted in the preparation of environment impact statements are still the subject of discussions between my Department and other Australian Government departments and authorities. 
Details for particular statements in the interim period are arranged by consultation between the sponsoring department or authority and my Department 
I cannot give a specific answer because frankly I do not know. I have seen the allegations and I have seen the refutation on behalf of Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd. The matter is being investigated by a committee of the Australian Environment Council and when we get an answer everybody shall be informed. 
I am not in a position to give a specific answer to this question. The whole matter is being reviewed. Quite clearly, in some instances where it is in the national interest to encourage actively both the elimination of the source of pollution and yet the maintenance of the particular product there is a case for providing assistance. But in some situations it may be against the community interest to encourage a particluar industry to survive, anyway. In other words, each issue will have to be judged on its merits and there is no blanket statement to be made at ali. We are certainly looking into all the possibilities but once again, of course, the co-operation of the States will be required, because to date we have not the means to judge whether or not specific industries are responsible. This depends upon information which at this stage can only come from the States. So the whole matter is in the melting pot and is being considered by the Australian Environment Council and its various committees. 
I present the summary report of the Australian delegation to the plenipotentiary conference to conclude an international convention on trade in certain species of wildlife held in Washington DC from 12th February to 2nd March 1973. I also present some explanatory notes on the conference and the report. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government has not had occasion to consider the conclusions and recommendations of the report of the Australian Academy of Science entitled The Atmospheric Effects of Supersonic Aircraft' which was published in February 1972. 
In view of the uncertainties surrounding the matters raised in the Academy's report for the present the answer is yes. In any event restrictions are required from the noise viewpoint. 
No. I would certainly take up the matter with my colleague the Minister for Civil Aviation and the Minister for Air in the event of any problems arising in this area. 
See answer to (3). 
The whole question of atmospheric monitoring ls under investigation following recommendations for monitoring programs recommended by the United Nations Conference on the Human Environment. This conference recognised that the state of the upper atmosphere is essentially a global problem and monitoring activities by individual nations in isolation would not be highly productive. These proposed international monitoring programs will be further discussed by the United Nations Governing Council on Environmental Programs and the question of Australia's participation in them is under investigation by  the  relevant agencies. 
People's Republic of China: Recognition by Canada  (Question No.  490) 
 The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) 20 Environmental Impact Statements have been prepared or are in the course of preparation. 
One relating to the proposal to build a telecommunications tower on Black Mountain in the A.C.T. has been issued. The remainder cover a wide range of subjects still under consideration including land acquisition, dam, airport and building construction, housing development and roads. 
The responsibility for the preparation of Impact Statements rests with the Departments putting forward a proposal. Those departments are responsible for any hiring of agencies or consultants that might occur. Similarly these departments largely determine the completion dates for Environmental Impact Statements. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
My Department does not occupy any buildings in the States which are not owned by the Australian Government. 
The answer is that I shall await the report of the committee set up to look into the whole question. I have no idea at all. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the report of the conference of Commonwealth and State Ministers with responsibilities for wildlife conservation held at Melbourne on 9 March 1973. 
I move: 
That a Standing Committee be appointed to inquire into and report on - 
environmental aspects of legislative and administrative measures which ought to be taken in order lo ensure the wise and effective management of the Australian environment and of Australia's natural resources; and 
such other matters relating to the environment and conservation and the management of Australia's natural resources as are referred to it by- 
the Minister for the Environment and Conservation, or 
resolution of the House. 
That the committee recognise the responsibility of the States in these matters and seek their cooperation in all relevant aspects. 
That the committee consist of seven members, four to be nominated by the Prime Minister, two to be nominated by the Leader of the Opposition and one to be nominated by the Leader of the Australian Country Party. 
That every nomination of a member of the committee be forthwith notified in writing to the  Speaker. 
That the members of the committee hold office as a committee until the House of Representatives expires by dissolution or effluxion of time. 
That the committee elect as Chairman of the committee one of the members nominated by the Prime Minister. 
That the  Chairman  of the committee may, from time to time, appoint another member of the committee to be the  Deputy Chairman  of the committee, and that the member so appointed act as  Chairman  of the committee at any time when the  Chairman  ls not present at a meeting of the committee. 
That the committee have power to appoint subcommittees consisting of three or more of its members, and refer to any such sub-committee any matter which the committee is empowered to examine. 
That three members of the committee constitute a quorum of the committee, and a majority of a sub-committee constitute a quorum of that subcommittee. 
That the committee or any sub-committed have power te send for persons, papers and records, to move from place to place, and to sit during any recess or adjournment. 
That the committee have power to authorise publication of any evidence given before it and any document presented to it. 
That the committee be provided with all necessary staff, facilities and resources and have power, with the approval of the  Speaker,  to appoint persons with specialist knowledge for the purposes of the committee. 
That the committee have leave to report from time to time and that any member of the committee have power to add a protest or dissent to any report. 
That the committee be empowered to confer with a similar committee of the Senate. 
That the foregoing provisions of this resolution, so far as they are inconsistent with the standing orders, have effect notwithstanding anything contained in the standing orders. 
This matter has already been discussed in the context of the establishment of a joint committee of the House of  Representatives  and the Senate. Because of the difficulties the Senate would have in providing members for the committee, due to the requirements of its own committees, we propose that this committee should become a standing committee of the House of Representatives. Appropriate changes have been made to the number of members of the committee. We are suggesting the same number of House of Representatives members on the committee as was proposed initially. That number will be the total complement of the committee. Hence the quorum requirement will have to be reduced from 5 to 3 members. Finally, provision has been inserted that the committee be empowered to confer with a similar committee of the Senate. This motion, in essence, is exactly the same as the one to which honourable members have already agreed. 
In 1969, the previous Government allocated a sum of $1 00m for a national water resources program and as requests came in and projects were considered the money was disbursed. But we have decided to change that approach. At present, we are formulating a national water resources policy. Up until now there has not been one. In the past, consideration was given to individual projects as they came in and we feel that it is time we determined the way that water resources should be developed across the whole country. That is in the process of preparation. In the meantime, of course, every project before us will be considered on its merits, but we are reluctant to rush into an analysis of individual projects until we have a more comprehensive approach. However, there are crises such as the problem of salinity in the River Murray. As honourable members would probably recall, the Prime Minister called a meeting with the Premiers of the appropriate States New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia in March and, as a result of that meeting, a working party was established to look into the problem. We are expecting its report, 1 think, at the end of this month or early next month. That report will then be referred to the steering committee which consists of the Ministers responsible from each State and myself. When we have considered the report it will then be tabled and 1 hope that we will be able to undertake appropriate action to solve the problem. It extends beyond the problem of salinity - not a simple problem. We are looking at the whole question of pollution. This of course will encompass the effect that AlburyWodonga might have on the Murray system. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information which the right honourable member seeks is quite extensive. The information summarised in documents prepared for the Australian Environment Council in 1972. I will arrange for a copy of this material to be made available to the right honourable member. The material is currently being revised and I will arrange for a copy of the revised documents to be made available to the right honourable member and the Parliamentary Library. 
No. The information is not readily available. 
We do not intend to continue to support the construction of the Pike Creek Dam. The project was first discussed in 1969, and in 1970 the then Prime Minister indicated that the Government would be prepared to co-operate, pending appropriate arrangements being made. By the end of the last Parliament no prior arrangements had been made and no legislation had been introduced to establish the basis of cooperation. We have reviewed the project. In reviewing it, we found that it was economically dubious and that the main use of the irrigation water would be to increase the growing of tobacco. That would hardly appeal to a wowser such as I. In any case, the project, along with many other projects which were handed on to us when we came into office, was reviewed by the Coombs task force which also recommended that on economic grounds and because of growing environmental concern we should not continue to support the project. So we have notified the Premiers of both States accordingly. We have indicated, though, that we will share the cost of any work undertaken up to the time that we notified them of our decision, because of the understanding that the Australian Government would be sharing the cost. We will honour those promises. But we do not intend to continue with the rest of the project. I understand that the total expenditure to date has been approximately $lm. 
The honourable member should have no fear that this move suggests that we will dump all other projects in Queensland. That is not true at all. We do not intend to pursue the ad hoc-ery of the past. We intend to try to assess the total water requirements for the whole continent. We intend to draw up some priorities on how we should approach these problems, bearing in mind not just the benefits that might accrue in rural areas alone, which seem to have been the main emphasis in the past, but also the benefits which may accrue to people, including those living in cities. I am not discounting the needs of the rural section, but I am insisting that it is time that we paid more attention to the needs of people in the cities as well. We have a proposal for a national water policy. It has been drafted and is about to be submitted to the Cabinet. 
It took a long time? The Opposition had 23 years in office to do something and had no policy on it. 
We have not done too badly in the 6 months or so that we have been in office in relation to the concept of .a national water policy. When I put the suggestion to officers of my Department they said that it had not been thought of previously. Many of them were interested in the idea. They had not been asked about it previously. So I asked them whether they could come up with a proposal. It will be considered by Cabinet shortly. Then honourable gentlemen opposite will be able to understand the approach, and in that context all these proposals will be considered. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Melbourne 5 July 1973. 
to (4) I have asked the State Ministers if they object to the tabling in the Parliament of the complete record of proceedings of the Inst Council meeting. If the record is not tabled, I will make the information available to the honourable member. 
Hobart 30 November 1973. 
I am aware that sensible conservation of the kangaroo population may well require harvesting. As was picturesquely put to me at a conference of Ministers: 'If we do not do something about it, we will have to shoot them hopping down Bourke Street'. In other words, there is a conflict between the conservation of kangaroos and the capacity of rural industries to maintain themselves properly in competition with the kangaroos. So, in order to prevent the farmers taking the law into their own hands and poisoning the whole damn lot, kangaroos and all, when they fee! that the competition is getting too keen, it would be wise to have a sensible harvesting program. No one denies that. Even  Senator Murphy  concedes this point. He imposed the ban on the export of kangaroo products not because he disagrees with that basic proposition but because he was aware, as many people in the electorates of honourable members opposite are aware, that the slaughter of kangaroos was getting out of hand. Some States do have sensible control programs; some do not.' 
The fact of life is that, following the conference in Washington earlier this year, we now have the prospects of an international agreement to control and care for endangered species. One of the propositions, amongst many, is that there should be proper control programs if we wish to export some of these species which might be endangered if there are not proper control programs. We will not be able to achieve international recognition of authorities State by State; it will have to be an authority recognised as the authority of the  country  concerned. The country in this case is Australia; it is not South Australia, Queensland or New South Wales. It will be an Australian government authority. We have simply sought through the appropriate body, namely, a conference of the Ministers involved - no one was dictating to anybody - to establish a' national control program. 
Because of this approach and the anxieties which existed, the Ministers concerned agreed without dissent to set up a working party to evolve the appropriate control program. The working party presented a report which has now gone back to each State for consideration by the Ministers concerned. I regret to say that we are still awaiting their comments. 
Some have disagreed on some points and correspondence has flowed back and forth. We are still waiting for the States to acknowledge and agree to a uniform technique. It will not be narrow but will allow some latitude, because I am aware that there is not just one way to count kangaroos. Until we get some sort of agreement I do not feel that I will be in a position to advise the Minister for Customs and Excise that we have a program which will be acceptable in the terms of the international convention. So, we are just waiting quite patiently for the States to make up their minds on what they want to do. But I concede that if something is not done there will be unnecessary slaughter, and I am not in favour of that. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Applications have not yet been invited from conservation groups for the $100,000 allocated for this purpose in the Budget. Guidelines are being prepared and will be published prior to applications for grants being invited. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A proposal for the establishment of a Bureau of Environmental Studies is at present under consideration by the Government. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have raised the general question of environmental education with my colleagues the Minister for Education, the Minister for the Media and the Minister for Science and have been assured of their interest and support. My colleague, the Minister for Education has obtained the Government's approval for a curriculum development centre to be developed and operated in co-operation with the States. My colleague, the Minister for Science, has suggested that Australian Government Departments might examine in detail the question of environmental education when the initial program of the curriculum development centre has been proposed. 
My Department recently advertised for staff to conduct a feasibility study for an information retrieval system which would be directed towards making environmental information available to interested groups and individuals. My Department is also represented on the Public Awareness Sub-Committee of the Australian Environment Council. 
The honourable member will be aware that apart from myself, my colleagues the Minister for Transport and the Minister for Health, have a vital interest in the regulation of automotive emissions. Likewise our respective counterparts in the States have similar interests. The Australian Environment Council is the forum in which I discuss such matters with my State counterparts and its committees have worked closely with the Committee for Motor Vehicle Emissions of the Australian Transport Advisory Council. My Department is also represented on that Committee. I have instructed my Department to press for stricter emission standards in these various Committee and the honourable member will be aware that the Australian Transport Advisory Council announced in February new standards in 1975-1976 model cars. The determination of appropriate standards beyond these is a complex matter which these various groups are examining. 
My attention has been drawn to the article. I do not know whether the claim is true - namely, that the effect has been to keep the price of uncleared land down - but I shall not shed any tears if it is. Honourable members may recall, perhaps, that the taxation law relating to this provision is contained in section 75 of the Act. If I may I will give some of the words of section 75 (1) (b): 
Taxation deductions are allowable for . . . the destruction and removal of timber, scrub and undergrowth indigenous to the land? 
This clearly promotes the cause of clearing this sort of land as if in fact indigenous growth is some sort of noxious weed. The laugh of the honourable member for Balaclava suggests that he agrees with it but fortunately many people disagree with him on this matter. Paragraph (f) of the same section allows tax deductions for 'the draining of swamp or low lying land where that operation improves the grazing or agricultural value of the land'. In consequence many areas of wet lands, and probably unique wet lands - to the uninitiated like honourable members opposite, and perhaps also myself not so long ago, those would be called swamps - are filled in. But the filling in of these swamps to allow for the grazing of fat cattle-- 
That is right, the Pitt Street and Collins Street farmers who may well be categorised as fat cats. I take that point. The real cost of clearing this land has in fact been borne not by these developers but by the ordinary taxpayers like most of us. In other words, for every $100, roughly speaking, that is spent, the income classification of most of the individuals who are involved in this sort of exercise would enable them to get about $66 back. In other words, the ordinary taxpayer in fact pays for most of this development. 
I quite readily concede the point that it probably would discriminate against the poor Collins Street and Pitt Street farmers and this was precisely the intention of the Coombs Committee report and also an interdepartmental committee - one might term it the Pitt Street interdepartmental committee - which looked into this problem. It was our intention that this sort of development should be stopped. It is discrimination against them and a positive discrimination in favour of the preservation of some of our natural areas. I can only say that in a very short time this Government has responded to a need which has been well known to the conservationists in the community for many years. 
For the information of honourable members I present a copy of the interim report of the Lake Pedder Committee of Inquiry, together with an engineering review which was prepared at my Department's request by the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation. 
As to the first part of the question, which in essence concerned land use, the honourable member knows quite well that that is not the Australian Government's responsibility. Unfortunately it is the prime responsibility of State and local government authorities. So, short of the States handing over the power to the Australian Government, there is very little we can do. We can influence only those projects that are the direct responsibility of the Government because it has commissioned them or those projects that are being undertaken by State authorities with finance provided by the Government. In the latter case we can in some ways influence whether or how a project should be undertaken. 
I cannot give the honourable member specific answers to most of the other matters raised in the question he has asked. Quite frankly, I do not have the information at my fingertips. I will obtain a reply to them. I concede the point that at this stage the progress made has not been very dramatic. Most of the impact statements which have been ' prepared to date have been in the nature of rearguard actions, if you like. They have been in relation to projects commissioned by the previous Government. In the main the decisions taken in regard to them were finalised before the present Government came to power. But I am not crying about that. 
I am sorry, but I do not quite know what the Deputy Leader of the Opposition is getting at. Any environmental impact statement which is prepared is available to those who choose to read it. As far as I am aware, copies of the environmental impact statement on, for instance, the tower on Black Mountain have been available to members of the Parliament, as they have been available to members of the public. Many people have taken the opportunity to read it and to criticise it. It certainly had many defects; I am not denying that. We are learning the technique in the process of calling for these impact statements. As they are prepared and made available to the community, so they will be criticised and so we will learn from our mistakes, we will learn about the shortcomings and, we hope, we will evolve a reasonable technique. 
I might add that nowhere in the world are people yet completely satisfied with the environmental impact statement technique. It is a technique that is still evolving. Whilst conceding our shortcomings here, I am not suggesting that we are necessarily a long way behind the rest of the world. It is a new concept. Developing this technique will not be up to this Government alone; it will depend largely on the community's perception of environmental needs. When the community is more stirred up and more aware of the conflict between conservation and development - the resolving of that conflict is not solely the responsibility of any government; it is the general ethos in the community that needs to be changed. When the community is aware of this, environmental impact statements will rectify more readily what many of us perceive to be errors in decision making in the country, not limited solely to the Government. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. I expect to be in a position to put a submission to the Government in the near future. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) A submission on a national water policy which has taken into account the report of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution has been prepared and will be considered by the Government in the near future. The report of the Senate Select Committee on Air Pollution is still under review. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Department  of  Science, Bureau of Meteorology, Department  of  the Environment and Conservation, Department of Foreign Affairs, The Treasury. The matter has also been discussed in the Australian Environment Council. 
I expect a report shortly on the environmental effects  of  supersonic aircraft from the Australian Advisory Committee on the Environment. I will release the report immediately and discuss it with my colleague the Minister for Civil Aviation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information requested by the honourable member is quite extensive as the all-embracing nature of the term 'environment programs' means that nearly all international organisations are involved in some environmental programs and Australia has been active in many of these. I am arranging for a summary to be made of Australia's involvement in such programs and will lay the summary on the table for the information of honourable members as soon as it is prepared. 
Proposed Multi-purpose Welfare Clinics (Question No. 881) 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
, (3) and (4) The following are the main requests for assistance received since the Government came to office: 
National Health Federation of Australia (unspecified) 
Conservation Council of Victoria (unspecified) 
Port Phillip Conservation Council, $15,000 
Environment Research and Information Centre, $2,250 
Royal Australian Ornithologists Union (unspecified) 
David G. Stead Memorial Wildlife Research Centre (unspecified) , 
Tasmanian Environment Centre, $40,000 
Cape York Conservation Council, $5,000 
Conservation and Bush Rescue Association (unspecified) 
Southern Caving Society (unspecified) 
Victorian INSPECT (unspecified) 
Cairns Environment Advisory Committee, $100 
Combined Universities Recreation Research Group, $500 
Department of Architectural Studies, Canberra Technical College (unspecified) 
Group Action to Stop Pollution, approximately $15,000 
Capricorn Conservation Council, $5,000 
Estuarine Regions Protection Committee (unspecified) 
Victorian Private Water-Diverters Association, $10,000 
Queensland Conservation Council Inc., $60,000 
Australian Conservation Foundation, $8,000 
Australian Institute of Agricultural Science (Western Victoria Branch), approximately $3,500 
Keep Australia Beautiful Council, $50,000 
Australian Wild Life Preservation Centre (unspecified) 
Friends of the Earth (Aust.) (unspecified) 
Victorian National Parks Association (unspecified) 
Australian Wildlife Protection Council, $50,000 
Murray Research and Extension Committee (unspecified) 
Swan Hill Irrigation Research Farm (unspecified) 
Kerang Agricultural Research Farm (unspecified) 
Victorian Irrigation Research and Promotion Organisation (unspecified) 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I informed the Foundation's Executive Commiitee on 13 July 1973 that I proposed to recommend that the grant be so reduced. I was concerned that the Foundation was not truly representative of conservation organisations or individual conservationists and that as a consequence it was inequitable that the Foundation should be the only organisation other than the Keep Australia Beautiful Council to be receiving Australian Government assistance to conservation groups. 
C2) No. However, I did point out that since the Foundation had been established, Departments with responsibility for environmental protection had been formed by Australian and State governments. As a consequence the role which the Foundation could most appropriately play had changed. 
No. My Department was set up not to criticise Government environment policies but to help formulate them. In fact, I urged that the Foundation should adopt a more critical approach to Government policies which it considered to be environmentally unwise. 
In discussions with members of the Executive of the ACF I was assured that the Foundation would review its role and constitution. I am pleased to note that since my discussions the Foundation has been more actively involved in work done by individual groups. In addition, a further $100,000 was included in the Budget to assist conservation groups other than the Foundation. 
Not to my knowledge. 
 The answer to the honourable member's questions is as follows: 
An Australian Delegation led by the Secretary of my Department,  Dr D.  F. McMichael, attended the Plenipotentiary Conference to Conclude an Internationa! Convention on Trade in Certain Species of Wildlife in Washington D.C. early this year. The Australian Government has agreed to sign the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora, which resulted from this conference, and to effect ratification subject to any necessary reservations on completion of legislative and administrative arrangements. 
This Convention includes special provisions relating to species taken in the marine environment not under the jurisdiction of any State. It should be noted of course that the Convention covers more than 'wildlife inhabiting international waters or those which migrate from one country to another' and is designed to conserve all species of wild animals and plants threatened by international trade. 
I have also asked my Department to examine in consultation with the Department of Foreign Affairs and other relevant Australian Government Departments and agencies the desirability of having treaties with other countries on various aspects of nature conservation. 
The Japanese proposal for a treaty has been considered and it is expected that such a treaty would result in a worthwhile contribution to the Conservation of the birds in Australia and Japan and" extend the opportunities for the development of ornithological science in the two countries. 
The Australian and Japanese authorities are considering the terms of a treaty and it is expected that a broad measure of agreement will be reached on the terms of a treaty in the near future. However, it may take some time to complete a list of the species of birds to be protected by the agreement. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) No. However, the Government has g iven approval to the creation of a Bureau of Environmental Studies within my Department. The Public Service Board will be consulted on the establishment and personnel of the Bureau. The prime purpose of the Bureau will be to build up a corps of officers who will study environmental problems in a multi-disciplinary fashion. It would stimulate research into problems which currently are not the province of any existing agency and will co-ordinate and integrate research into the various social, biological and physical aspects of the total environment. The Bureau will work in close co-operation with existing research agencies. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. However, the honourable member may be referring to the Centre for Resource and Environmental Studies at the Australian National University. 
In the event that the honourable member is referring to the ANU Centre, I will make available to him a copy of an article in the Australian National University News, July 1973, Vol. 8, No. 2, which was written by the Director of the Centre, Professor Frank Fenner and which outlines the plans for the Centre. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. The Bureau, the Centre (see answer to Question 940) and the relevant Divisions of the CSIRO will work in close co-operation. 
Prime Minister: Discussions with General Carlos Romulo  (Question No. 946) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am pleased to see that the honourable member is keeping abreast of the Labor Party's environmental platform which was adopted at our recent conference. I plan to ask the National Parks and Wildlife Branch of my Department to examine the implementation of the policy and subsequently to discuss the matter with the Council of Nature Conservation Ministers- 
For the information of honourable members I present a transcript of the minutes of the 15th meeting of the Australian Water Resources Council held at Hobart on Friday, 27 July 1973. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
None. It is the responsibility of the Department or organisation putting forward a proposal to initiate the related environmental impact statement .Nevertheless, my Department has indicated in response to inquiries in numerous cases, that impact statements should be prepared. 
Environmental impact statements have been prepared on the proposed Googong Dam, on the proposed Molonglo Parkway, on the proposed telecommunications tower on Black Mountain, on the proposed water pipeline between Lock and Kimba in South Australia and on the proposed Marri woodchip project in Western Australia. A considerable number are being prepared on a wide range of subjects still under consideration. These include land acquisition, dam, airport and building construction, housing development and roads. 
Impact statements will be released to the public except on those occasions where it is not in the public interest to do so, for example where land speculation might be encouraged or where national security might be endangered. 
No. This is a matter for the department or organisation putting forward a proposal, though in the interests of 'open government' I would hope that they will do so. 
Proposals currently under consideration are designed to give the public an opportunity to participate in decisions on environmentally important issues. An example of the type of public participation that is in mind is provided by the Public Hearing on the Molonglo Parkway which has just concluded. The opportunity for public comment or involvement will come before the decision on the proposal is made. 
See answer to (5) above. 
While this is only part of the problem, it is a very significant aspect. The environmental impact statement technique covers a much wider field, but land use is often a fundamental part of the decision. 
Through the use of the Environmental Impact Statement procedure, environmental considerations including land use are receiving greater attention in decision making than they did previously. In addition the Australian Advisory Committee on the Environment is currently investigating the question of land use planning in Australia, and my Department is examining ways in which better decisions on land use can be encouraged. However it will be apparent that constitutional power over land use rests with the States, some of which have in recent years been paying greater attention to this problem. Organisations like the State Planning Authority of N.S.W. and the Land Conservation Council of Victoria are examples. 
For the information of honourable members, I present a statement of Australian Government policy entitled 'A National Approach to Water Resources Management', dated 10 October 1973. 
 Mr Speaker,'  I second the motion. Australia does not look favourably upon homosexuals. In our predominantly conformist, overtly masculine society, fixed on the 2-child nuclear family mushrooming in suburban wastelands, the homosexual is an unwelcome outsider. Unmasculine by popular consensus, unmarried, non-fathering, anti-suburban, homosexuals are Australia's most obvious minority group. In this country the homosexual is not merely shunned as a mora] leper or despised as a pervert, he is actively discriminated against. Our criminal penalties are severe, and our social sanctions savage. At a particularly barbaric level 'poofter-bashing' is virtually a recognised national civilian team sport, while police harassment in some States is accepted as an office perk by 'the police and as an occupational hazard by the victim. 
Of course, all minority groups suffer by being different. But sexuality and identity are so profoundly connected, and so profoundly important, that homosexuals in a dominant heterosexual society live under unique and potentially crippling psychological pressure, In Australia, they a,ISo have to cope with legal, social, and institutional discrimination. Both sources of pressure, operating simultaneously every day, mean that homosexuals suffer doubly for their difference, they are victims of double jeopardy. Difficulties such as these, however, have not prevented homosexuality from enduring through the ages. Whether treated as an illness, a crime, or an aberration, homosexuality has survived. As an expression of sexual preference, its validity has been confirmed by history. 
There is still, of course, widespread basic concern in the community about the so called abnormal' sexual behaviour of homosexuals. But then, heterosexuals have stretched the meaning of 'normal' by their behaviour as well. The community's selective moral indignation is misplaced. Homosexuals are human beings whose sexual preference differs from hat of heterosexuals. Neither group has a monopoly on so-called 'perversion'. We accept the principle that, as long as it does not interfere with other people's civil liberties, heterosexual behaviour is a personal matter and ought to remain outside the interests of the state. It is now time for us to go one step further and recognise that there is no justification for society or the law to concern itself with any sexual activity - heterosexual or homosexual - which is otherwise legal and mutually acceptable to the people involved. Since, most homosexuals are indeed lawabiding citizens, except in the expression of ' their sexuality, it is bn tait for the rest of us to continue to impose the crushing institutional costs of being a sexually different human. 
As politicians, of course, we are as concerned with public response as with general principles; and it is a fact that limited information is available on the attitudes of Australians towards homosexuality and the law. The Roy Morgan Research Centre has never conducted a survey on this subject. The Australian Nationwide Opinion Poll organisation had conducted only one usable survey before this year. The Australian Sales Research Bureau has conducted 2 vague tests in recent years; and even a pair of academics, Drs Duncan Chappell and Paul Wilson, conducted limited, although well-phrased, surveys in 1967 and 1970 which unfortunately were not strictly comparable. What information we do have, however, suggests a surprising level of public liberality on the issue. The recent survey by the A.S.R.B of attitudes to 10 social issues revealed that fewer people were willing to make moral judgments about homosexuals than about marihuana, poker machines, capital punishment, abortion, censorship and communism. Twenty-eight per cent of 2,000 respondents felt homosexuals were neither right nor wrong', compared with a spread of between 8 per cent and 26 per cent for the other 6 issues. Only the firmly entrenched habits of cigarette and alcohol consumption and the question of 'hippies' extracted a greater level of moral detachment. 
As well, the 1970 survey by Wilson and Chappell of 900 people in Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane showed that 56 per cent believed it should not be a crime for 2 adult males to engage in homosexual practices in a private home. Their previous survey in 1967, while not strictly comparable, indicated support for this move at only 22 per cent. Most recently, A.N.O.P conducted a national survey in August, asking respondents whether they believed homosexuality between consenting adults should be legalised. For the first time in such a poll, a majority were in favour  -  48 per cent agreed, only 46 per cent disagreed and 6 per cent had no opinion. A roughly comparable survey in March 1972 resulted in 50 per cent of respondents opposing the legalisation of homosexual behaviour between consenting adults in private. These responses suggest a high degree of tolerance - in both relative and absolute terms - which is clearly far more liberal than the laws of the land. A few days ago the Federal Council of the Australian and New Zealand College of Psychiatrists approved a clinical memorandum on homosexuality. It strongly condemned 'community attitudes and laws which discriminate against homosexual behaviour between consenting adults in private'. 
Buggery and attempted buggery have been illegal for centuries in the English speaking world - regardless of the gender of the participantsever since the offence was forbidden in ecclesiastical law. However, changes to Britain's criminal law in 1885 introduced the new and specifically homosexual serious offences of 'indecent acts' and 'indecent practices' even when performed in private between consenting male adults. Those changes remain enshrined in Australia's State and Federal laws relating to homosexuality, even though some were removed from the British original in 1967. Lesbian behaviour, which was deliberately excluded from the 1885 legislation and required no attention in 1967, consequently remains non-criminal in Australia. 
The language of legal sanctions against homosexual behavior is as interesting as the penalties themselves. In Queensland, Western Australia and Tasmania sodomy is referred to as 'carnal knowledge . . . against the order of Nature'. In the Australian Capital Territory, New South Wales and Victoria the relevant statutes speak of the 'abominable crime of buggery'. Only in South Australia is the offence referred to merely as 'buggery'. 
Not surprisingly, the more colourful statutes impose the heavier penalties. The Australian Capital Territory law provides for a maximum of life imprisonment and a minimum of 5 years; Tasmania allows a maximum of 21 years; Victora may impose 15 years imprisonment - or 20 years when vio lence or an under-age offence is involved; while New South Wales is content with 14 years. In New South Wales, incidentally, it is possible for an abominable man to be guilty of indecent assault with consent. 
Clearly, there is an urgent need for reform. But,  Mr Speaker,  it needs to be pointed out that to defend the rights of homosexuals is not to endorse or advocate homosexuality; it is simply to recognise that, as long as homosexuals abide by laws to which all citizens are subject, they ought equally to be free to express their sexual preferences. Genuine offences - such as rape, assault, indecent exposure, child molesting and other acts - occur amongst heterosexuals as well as homosexuals, and are capable of being dealt with by laws which apply equally to all. Similarly it is important to recognise that this motion does not seek to legalise homosexuality in the sense of issuing a licence or charter for homosexual activity. Rather, this motion supports the decriminalising of homosexuality - the removal of sexually selective legal discrimination. This is, of course, only the first step. Hopefully, the removal of legal insult will result in the abandonment of social stigma. Social pressures, police harassment, housing difficulties, and job discrimination exacerbate the intense pressures constantly felt by homosexuals in Australia. The passing of this motion would constitute a signal that the time has arrived for the end of sexually biased social oppression in Australia. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
No. 
Please see answer to (2). 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. On 20 September 1973, my colleague, the Prime Minister, informed the right honourable gentleman in reply to a question without notice about interdepartmental committees that, if he wished to know the composition and function of any particular interdepartmental committee, and for what period of time it had been active, the Prime Minister would be happy to provide him with that information. 
If the right honourable gentleman wishes to have information about a particular committee on which my Department is represented, I will assist him as far as possible having regard to the Prime Minister's answer to Question Nos 964 and 1057. 
It is true that the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation is conducting this inquiry. The question was raised at the meeting of the Australian Environment Council in July. The Council, which is a meeting of all the State Ministers and myself, agreed that we sould institute such an inquiry into the question of a uniform substantial deposit on soft drink, beer and other nonreturnable drink containers. I immediately referred the matter to the Standing Committee. About 3 months ago it advertised this fact in the national Press. I understand that the Committee has received 80 submissions. The hearing is a public inquiry. The Committee has heard up to about 15 witnesses at this stage. One of them referred to the matter mentioned by the honourable member in his question. Since the inquiry is still continuing I do not wish to make any comment on the veracity or otherwise of the assertions in that submission. 
Much is made of the point that this scheme of ours is a socialist scheme and that it will lead to the conscription of doctors. I wish to quote from a letter which was published in the Melbourne 'Age' on 15 September. It came from Professor Sykes who is Professor of Public Law at the Melbourne University. The letter states: 
While the  medical  professional organisations express concern at the prospects of the 'socialisation' of medicine it is somewhat doubtful whether they have any clear idea as to what they are talking about. Nationalisation in the sense of placing all doctors on the Government payroll and forbidding the carrying on of private medical practice is legally impossible without a drastic amendment of the Federal Constitution. Doctors are protected against nationalisation and they are also protected against any form of civil conscription . . . 
Much is also made of the point that our scheme will remove the freedom of choice of the patient. What does this really mean? Let us examine how a patient goes to a doctor right now. A person has a pain in the back, in the head or in some other area. That person decides that he needs medical retatment. He goes to the doctor down the road. He does not sit with a phone book in front of him, go through all the names of the doctors listed there and make his choice by judging on the way that they spell their names or on the suburbs in which they live. A patient in fact limits his freedom of choice mostly to the geographical area in which he lives. A patient may know  Dr Bloggs  over the other side of the city because his father and his mother went to him. The patient may decide on this occasion to visit that doctor and will make the trek right across the city to see that doctor. That is all very well. That is freedom of choice. Our scheme will not change that freedom of choice one iota. The patient will still make up his own mind as to which doctor he will go and will go to that doctor. The patient, after the visit, will be given an account and the patient will pay it. 
All the rest of the mumbo jumbo is really an argument about how finally the doctor receives his money. Someone asks by interjection: How about if a person goes to a public hospital? The position will be no different under our scheme from what it is now in terms of freedom of choice when a person goes to a public hospital. When a person visits a public hospital now, that person sees the doctor on duty. The person has no choice. If on seeing a private doctor it is found that the patient has a disease which requires admission to the public hospital, that person has no more freedom of choice, other than if that person's personal doctor is on the staff of that hospital. If the doctor is on that staff, he will arrange for the admission of his patient to the hospital under his care. He can do that now. He will be able to do that under our scheme. If the doctor is not a member of the staff of that hospital now, the patient cannot have that doctor treat him in the public hospital.  His  doctor can simply refer the patient to the doctors at the hospital. The personal doctor may have his pet surgeon at the hospital. He will refer his patient to that pet surgeon. That is the position under the present scheme. Under our scheme the situation will be no different if the staffing arrangements are the same. So much for all the poppycock about freedom of choice. 
Then we are told that there is the enormous loss of the doctor-patient relationship, this sacrosanct situation that prevails between doctor and patient - here is the rub - - only if the patient can afford to pay the doctor some money. What a rotten basis for a relationship between patient and doctor. I would have thought that when a patient comes through the door a doctor does not size that patient up in terms of how much money he can pay or whether he is really going to pay, and on that basis decide whether he will have a decent relationship with him or determine whether the patient will be one of those coots that he will scoot off to a public hospital. Rubbish! The way a doctor sees a patient coming through his door is as a person who happens to be ill and who requires and deserves his personal attention. 
Precisely. That is right. It has nothing to do with the fee- 
Oh! It has nothing to do with the fee which passes betwen the patient and doctor. Why should this make any difference with our scheme or with the present scheme? A patient walks in. It does not matter to the doctor how he receives that money - or it should not matter. All that should matter is whether the patient is sick. If the patient is sick, he deserves the doctor's attention. It is a lot of garbage to suggest that, because the doctor is to be paid differently, he will adopt a different approach. The Opposition is insulting doctors if it suggests that, therefore, doctors will cease to treat patients as responsibly as they do now. Rubbish! I do not believe that. I do not believe that doctors are so inhumane, dishonest or disreputable. 
In other words, our scheme changes nothing at all in terms of the freedom of choice or the relationship between doctor and patient. In fact, there is a good chance that by virtue of the fact that the patient knows that he does not need to find the money to pay for a particular doctor he will not have second thoughts about going to that doctor. A person who is ill at present may like a particular doctor, but the family budget may not be going as well as it might be because of the inflation that we are all complaining about. At present, that person may have second thoughts about going to a doctor, despite his illness. Under our scheme, the personal budget of a person does not matter at this stage of illness. If a person feels sick, he knows that he can afford to go to a doctor because the bill, largely far more than is the case now, will be paid by our comprehensive insurance scheme. 
This brings me to the point: Just what is this argument all about? It is really about how the money is collected. Let us not talk about increased costs as if our scheme will suddenly cost the Australian community more in total. If one says that, one must answer the question: Who the hell is going to get the money? It will not be the Government because I can assure the Opposition, on the basis of the recommendations of the Nimmo report, that a comprehensive national insurance scheme will be less expensive to run administratively. Do not argue on that aspect. 
It has been demonstrated by the types of closed funds which have been operating for years. It has been found that they are more efficient than the open funds, the competitive funds and the funds that spend a lot of money competing with one another. Our proposal is in essence the closed scheme which was found by the Nimmo Committee to be far more efficient. 
Now, the money is collected. The cost to the community is where the money goes, who takes it. Opposition members are all saying that it will suddenly cost us a hell of a lot more. Are they suggesting that hospitals are suddenly going to earn more than they are getting now or that doctors will be receiving more than they are getting now? If that is so, it can be for one or two reasons - either we as a Government are naive and suddenly overgenerous and are just handing the money out or, alternatively, costs have genuinely gone up as they do now. Even now, increases have occurred in the benefits and the contributions. How else will you pay the costs which are increasing today and which have increased over the last umpteen years? The cost is not now what it was 10 years ago. Costs have continued to rise and they will continue to increase. 
We are simply saying that by collecting the funds through a comprehensive national insurance scheme a lot of administrative wastage which goes on with the multiplicity of funds will be saved. The amount of money paid over will still essentially be the same. Where does it come from? The Opposition keep blabbing about increased tax. At present, a person is ill. That person goes to a hospital, sees a doctor and receives an account. If that person has not voluntarily joined a voluntary health insurance fund, that person cannot get any refund from the fund. That is obvious. But, under the present system, that person cannot even receive the Commonwealth benefit for which he has paid by way of taxation. That is paid automatically today. But, if a person does not belong voluntarily to a benefits fund, he cannot receive the payment from the Commonwealth for which he has contributed. In other words, under the present scheme, a person robs himself unless he has voluntarily joined a benefits fund. 
So, let us cut the garbage. There is nothing voluntary about the scheme today. It is compulsory. If a person wishes to get back his taxation contributions, he must belong to a benefit fund. All we are saying is that we must face up to this fact and accept that everyone ought to pay in order to maintain hospital services. At present, the community pays via the taxation scheme. We have just discussed that. In addition, people pay by way of voluntary benefits funds contributions. I am suggesting that that is a clever form of taxation which the people do not realise the former Government imposed on them. But it is a tax. 
In addition, there is the section of medical or hospital bill which is not covered by the benefits funds or by the Commonwealth contribution. This cost which has varied from as much as 36 per cent or more down to, in optimistic times, if one is lucky, about 19 per cent or 20 per cent of the total cost of the service, is borne directly by the individual who happens to be ill. In other words, that essential amount of money is a form of punishment of the sick for being sick by forcing them to pay. In my view, that is social injustice. Why should one, on top of the taxes that one pays and the benefits funds contributions that one pays, then be forced if one happens to be unfortunate enough to become ill, as if to be punished for allowing oneself to become ill, be forced to pay an additional fee which is not covered by the Commonwealth contribution or by the benefits fund contribution? I would have thought that social justice and humanity would suggest that one does not deserve to be ill and that in suffering the affliction of being ill one should not be punished by being taxed further. 
The answer surely is to say that health services are a service for the whole community. All of us at any time may need these services. We have had a couple of examples here recently where unexpectedly some people have required medical services urgently. Why not let us say that the whole community through its taxation contributions will maintain the health service so that if any one of us should be unfortunate enough to become ill we can receive the treatment that we need in a service which is maintained to an adequate standard and not at the same time suffer by being forced to pay for the luxury of receiving that specific treatment? The total sum of money required is in essence the same. The question is whether you wish to penalise the ill in the community or whether you wish to recognise that there ought to be a service provided by the whole community for the whole community in moments of need. 
Finally I come to the question of standards. We have a lot of braying about how efficient the present health scheme is. There is no real measure of the efficiency or quality of the health care in this country. In some public hospitals we have the beginnings of it in surgical and medical orders, but in fact there is no real measure. Some have tried to assess what the quality of medical care might be in terms of the rate of operations. A  Dr Lawson  some years ago wrote that the tonsillectomy and adenoidectomy rate in Australia for doctors paid on a fee for service basis was seven per one thousand, whereas in the United Kingdom and the United States where doctors are paid salaries the rate was 3.6 per thousand. Is the Opposition really suggesting that our children are twice as ill as the children in America or England? In like fashion women in this country have twice the chance of losing their uterus as have women in the United States in services where the doctors are on salary or in the United Kingdom. Is the Opposition suggesting that our women are twice as unhealthy as the women of America and England? In other words, what in fact is happening is that fee for service increases the tendency, in my view, to unnecessary surgery. All the blab about the quality of medical care has no relationship with the reality of whether or not these sorts of procedures are necessary. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
This could happen if the charge were levied at the time of disposal. However, it would be feasible to impose the charge at the point of initial purchase, although I am not aware of plans to introduce this or any other control measure at this stage. 
The Australian Environment Council has a subcommittee which is examining the major problem of waste disposal in Australia. I know that this subcommittee is aware of the particular problem mentioned by the honourable member and I will refer the suggestion for discussions with the Australian Automobile Chamber of Commerce to the sub-committee. 
A telegram and a letter were sent to  Mr Reece,  and quite by chance I have their terms in my pocket for from the correspondence and phone calls that I have received from many parts of the country I had a sneaking suspicion that someone would ask a question such as this.  Mr Reece  was informed that the Australian Government accepts the moratorium proposal contained in the interim report of the Lake Pedder inquiry and indicates to the Tasmanian Government the Australian Government's preparedness to (a) meet the cost of the moratorium and (b) meet the costs arising from further action which might be taken following evaluation of the moratorium by the Australian Government. The answer to the second part of the question is no. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
and (3) I understand that an instance of the shooting of wedge tailed eagles in the northern areas of Western Australia has been reported in  a  Western Australian newspaper and that the Western Australian Department of Fisheries and Fauna are seeking advice on the matter through their district warden. 
At present the wedge tailed eagles are not protected under the Fauna Conservation Act of Western Australia and in pastoral areas they are still declared vermin. However, CSIRO is conducting research into their general ecology and their role as predators and this situation will be reviewed when  a  report of their investigation is available. In the meantime fauna authorities are satisfied that the bird is not endangered in the State of Western Australia. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. As the honourable member is no doubt aware Constitutional responsibility for wildlife in the individual States rests with the various State Governments. lt is therefore inevitable because of differential distribution of species and varying needs of States that variations have occurred in the degree  of  protection afforded individual species of wildlife. 
' Some are. 
For the reasons outlined in (1) above it is not possible for me to introduce a uniform code for wildlife protection nor, perhaps, would absolute uniformity be desirable. Nevertheless, I believe there is a need for greater co-ordination of policies concerning various species of wildlife, and I will endeavour to develop such national policies in co-operation with the various State wildlife authorities. For this reason I am arranging a meeting of Ministers responsible for wildlife and national parks in Australia to establish a Council of Nature Conservation Ministers to discuss matters such as those raised by the honourable member. 
by leave - On 11 January 1973 the Minister for Customs and Excise,  Senator Lionel  Murphy, after consultation with me, announced that he would no longer agree to waive the ban on the export of kangaroo skins, which was imposed in 1923, and furthermore that he had taken action to prohibit the export, without consent, of all kangaroo products. We were concerned about the disturbing rate of destruction of kangaroos. We agreed that the export of kangaroo skins and products would only be permitted when we were satisfied that this would not affect the conservation and preservation of the various species. In order to minimise hardship arising from contracts already entered into with overseas buyers the prohibition was not brought into force until 1 April 1973. 
On 9 March 1973 I called a meeting of Australian Government and State Ministers responsible for wildlife conservation to discuss the implications of the action taken to ban exports of kangaroo products. The Ministers agreed that they were opposed to the uncontrolled harvesting of kangaroos and related species; that for conservation purposes selective culling or harvesting of certain species of kangaroos may be a legitimate management practice; and that a scientifically acceptable range of data gathering and control measures be drawn up to regulate culling or harvesting throughout Australia in the interests of conservation of the species and the general environment. To implement this latter decision the Ministers set up a working party of officers from my Department, the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation and each State and Territory wildlife authority to report on techniques of data gathering, man agement and conservation of kangaroos and related species throughout Australia. 
On 29 May 1973 this working party completed its report which I have now tabled. I forwarded the report to the Ministers concerned under cover of a letter dated 31 May. This letter expressed my opinion of the report in the following terms: 
It seems to me that this report goes a long way towards setting out the essential steps which should be taken to arrive at rational, conservation-oriented, harvesting programs for the various species of kangaroos. Presuming that Ministers accept this report the next step will be for interested State and Territory fauna authorities to submit their detailed programs to my Department for review. I will then consider what recommendations I can make to the Minister for Customs and Excise on the export of kangaroo products and skins. 
I was unable to advise the States that I was prepared to recommend any lifting or easing of the ban at that time, for a number of reasons. Firstly, New South Wales had not agreed that the annual quotas for each species of kangaroos harvested should be determined by consultation between the appropriate authorities of the States or Territories and the Department of the Environment and Conservation. If this means that I and the Minister for Customs and Excise should simply rubber stamp any level of exports which the State regards as satisfactory then I do not regard such a proposition as realistic. 
Secondly, some States had not introduced a tagging system, the purpose of which is to identify skins and carcasses of animals which have been legally taken. It seems clear to me that wildlife authorities cannot adequately police all the controls on harvesting, which are envisaged in the report, unless tagging systems are instituted. In the case of skins and carcasses for interstate trade or export, tagging systems are even more necessary to prevent illegal harvesting across State or territorial borders and to prevent shipment of illegally taken skins and carcasses. 
Thirdly, Western Australia had not agreed that kangaroos should not be classed as vermin. Under the Western Australian Vermin Act 4 species of kangaroos are declared to be vermin and because of this the duty is imposed on all landholders to destroy all kangaroos of those species at all times. This classification is quite inconsistent with the aims of kangaroo management programs as expressed in the report, which is based on the overall conservation of all the various species of kangaroos and embraces the control and management of populations over as wide a portion of their total range as possible. 
The response from the States in which commercial kangaroo harvesting exists has been disappointing. The States concerned are Queensland, New South Wales, South Australia and Western Australia. In reply to my letter of 31 May, the Minister for Primary Industries, Queensland, expressed his opinion that the existing State kangaroo management program met the criteria set down in the working party's report. Nevertheless, Queensland has not yet provided the detailed conservation programs for each species in the form agreed upon. Nor has it introduced, or indicated its intention to introduce a tagging system. However, I am advised that Queensland is preparing new management programs for kangaroos for implementation in 1974. 
Similarly, the New South Wales Minister for Lands and Tourism in his reply to my letter maintained that his State had already established control systems which met the requirements outlined in the report. Again, no programs have been submitted, nor was he prepared to admit any role for the Australian Government in determining the level of harvesting to be permitted. The Department of Fisheries and Fauna of Western Australia has submitted management programs for the species of kangaroos which are commercially harvested in that State. These programs are, in my view, deficient in terms of the requirements set out in the Report. The South Australian Minister for Environment and Conservation has advised me that his State intends to implement a tagging system as part of its kangaroo management program in 1974, and is prepared to co-operate with the Australian Government in accordance with the working party's recommendations. 
The overall situation is that while States have generally claimed that kangaroo conservation is well managed no State has yet submitted full details of its program in the manner recommended in the report of the working party, which its own officers helped to prepare. I am confident that most States have the basis for sound programs of kangaroo conservation which could be readily upgraded to meet the standards set out in the report. However, until satisfactory programs are prepared meeting the full - I stress full' - conditions of the report and implemented I am not prepared to recommend to the Minister for Customs and Excise any relaxation of the prohibition on the export of kangaroo skins or products. I present the following paper: 
Ministerial Working Party on Kangaroo ConservationReportMinisterial Statement, 20 November 1973. 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
This is a good illustration of the confusion that reigns about problems like this and the part which the Australian Govern ment can and cannot play. My attention has been drawn to the report and it seems that the usual blame game is being entered into with the City Council on the one hand blaming the State Government and the State Government on the other hand blaming the City Council for the fact that the works are to be established. Of course, it is difficult to ascertain where the blame really lies but the point is that it does lie at State and local government level and not at Australian Government level. There is nothing that this Government can do because it is purely a State matter. The only sense of realism in this matter has been injected by the Secretary of the Building Workers Industrial Union who pointed out that unionists are likely to withdraw their labour because they take the view that an industry which is potentially dangerous to the health of people, or could have a deleterious effect on the environment should not be established until an environmental impact statement has been prepared and published so that the community can see it and comment on it. I understand that a statement has been prepared but no one has seen it. In line with our policy I certainly endorse the attitude of the building workers. Because of the potentially hazardous nature of the proposed plant, the environmental impact study ought to be freely published and the community should be able to comment upon it. Then, and only then, should the matter be considered for further prosecution. However, I emphasise again that there is nothing which the Australian Government can do about it. It is strictly a State responsibility. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable gentleman to the answer I gave on 7 November (Hansard, page 2975) and to the Prime Minister's answer to his question without notice of 15 November '1973 (Hansard, pages 3373-4). 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Donkeys, like other domestic animals which have gone wild are not protected under the Fauna Conservation Act of Western Australia, and as they are not indigenous fauna I have no power to ensure their protection and safe treatment However I share the honourable member's concern that all animals should be treated humanely and I am pleased to find that the South Australian Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals has taken action in the matter. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable gentleman to the answer I gave to question No. 1316. 
Pre-school Centres (Question No. 891) 
My attention has been drawn to this matter, very recently, I might say. I am pleased to note the interest of the honourable member in this question. I cannot give a specific answer to any of the questions other than to say that the matter is being looked into, I understand by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. As soon as we know what the significance might be we will certainly act upon it. It could signify that it would be a good idea to continue the flooding of Lake Pedder, or alternatively it might be a bad idea. The assessment has not been made. That is perfectly obvious. But the matter needs to be assessed scientifically and not on the basis of one's prejudices about whether one likes or does not like the flooding of Lake Pedder. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
A meeting between the Australian and State Government Ministers held in Melbourne on 9 March 1973 recommended the formation of such a Council. The Prime Minister and Premiers have exchanged correspondence on the recommendation and it is hoped that the first meeting of the Council will be held early in the New Year. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) No staffing establishment has yet been approved for the Bureau. Preliminary discussions have been held between officers of the Public Service Board and my Department on the staffing establishment for the Bureau. 
I believe that recently the honourable member for Hotham indicated that the Government scheme would really only assist the no-hopers. I do not know what sort of definition he applies to them. But leaving aside the no-hopers, he mentioned also that pensioners would be better covered by our scheme and he in turn is proposing the same sort of thing. Of course, the Opposition had 23 years in government to provide for these deficiencies which it is now suddenly prepared to concede do exist. No one stopped the previous Government from doing something about them. 
Another point the honourable gentleman made was that he wished to see appropriate deterrents for unnecessary use of hospital and medical services by patients. I want honourable members to think carefully about that. The suggestion is that if health services are available free, for some reason or other people will go along and use them whether they need them or not - simply because they are free. I suppose the line is: 'Yesterday I could not afford to have my appendix out because it was going to cost me so much, but now that I can have it done for nothing I may as well go and have it done.' Surely one seeks medical treatment because one feels one needs medical treatment. One does not seek medical treatment solely because one can afford it. I would not even claim that today for the rich who arc better able to afford medical treatment and perhaps get treatment more often than others do. But I do not believe for one moment that the rich get treatment simply because they think they can afford it and therefore they will have it. They obtain treatment because they feel that they need it and fortunately for them they can pay for it. But in many situations these days less well-off members of the community have to think twice; whilst they may feel that they need treatment they have to weigh that against the cost to themselves, and they take the view that with a bit of time perhaps they will get over the problem, anyway. 
Then mention was made of the fact that a tribunal would be necessary to ascertain what the level of medical fees should be and, of course, it was not unreasonable to hope that a reasonable number of doctors would adhere to these fees. We were not the ones who discovered that this is a problem; the last Government experienced this self-same problem of finding the medical fees going up in leaps and bounds. It even appointed tribunals and instituted inquiries to seek to find some way to control the ever increasing medical fees. When the common fee was finally agreed upon, rather grudgingly and after difficult negotiations, we then had the galling experience of finding increasing numbers of doctors very quickly departing from the schedule of fees. Even the Liberal Party Government was mumbling about the steps which might have to be taken in order to ensure that doctors would adhere to the schedule of fees. 
Then I come to the amendment which, in essence, contains the criticisms of our proposal. The quality of medical care, we are told, will be lowered by our proposal and, as an indication, the first point discussed was hospitals. Of course, we have to concede that at present the average person is, in the main, unable very easily to get into a large public hospital for a variety of reasons, not the least being that he is often means tested out of those hospitals, and that is part of the problem. So in other words, where there are large public hospitals with a capacity to provide specialist medical care, the indication for admission is either that a person is a pensioner, or he is means tested in because he does not have the prescribed income or he is a special case for which no other facilities are available anywhere else. But any other medical indication which ought to reasonable and proper does not count if a person's income is so high that he cannot be admitted, because he is means tested out of that hospital. 
In other words, in my opinion, under the present system there is a wastage of specialist facilities in the large public hospitals because admission is not determined solely on medical indication, and in my view that is the only reason why people should be admitted to our large intensive care hospitals. It should not be based on a person's capacity to pay or on whether he is so poor that he cannot be sent anywhere else even if the need is a relatively minor one. The indication for providing such expensive sepcialist facilities in large public hospitals is because they are needed for medical reasons, but because that is not what is fulfilled under the present scheme. 
We anticipate that when anybody, irrespective of his means, is allowed to be admitted for standard care treatment in a large public hospital, the justification for admission will become medical indication only and nothing else, and that will ensure that the facilities are used to the best advantage for the community. We will not have, as is often the case now, these very expensive facilities - they are expensive because they must be provided for the most complicated medical care, but they are not used for that purpose all the time - being used in fact for patients who could well be treated elsewhere in much lower cost institutions. 
We are then told that with the institution of our scheme there will be a sudden demand for 900 extra standard ward beds in the Melbourne area, as if suddenly so many more people will need to be admitted to hospital. That is a dishonest argument. What it really amounts to is that because of the availability of standard ward care, more people will be able to be admitted to such beds - they are excluded now because of the means test - and/ or alternatively they will want to be admitted to standard ward beds, but that will not be because they generate new illnesses; it will be the same illnesses which now would force these people into private beds. So, if 900 more standard ward beds are needed, 900 fewer beds will be needed in private or intermediate wards. Honourable members opposite cannot tell me that simply by passing the legislation, suddenly so many more people will become ill and need admission to hospital. I pointed out earlier that the criteria for admission under our system will not be that a person feels like it but simply - and this is the way it ought to be - because medically he needs it. 
We hear a lot about the increase in cost, and we were assured that the Liberal Party's proposal to cope with the few minor deficiencies, such as providing for pensioners and those not covered by the present scheme would require relatively minor adjustments to the present best scheme in the world. But of course the reality is that this has been costed by the Department of Social Security. On the basis of the present scheme and the way payments are made, the cost to provide these minor adjustments would be the not insignificant sum of $200m to $300m. We are hoping that by readjusting the present scheme and by doing away with the gross wastage of the multitudinous health funds competing with one another, with all their administrative costs, we will encompass these minor adjustments foi much the same expense with which we are faced at the moment, or with a relatively minor increase. 
Whenever the cost of the present health scheme is discussed it always strikes me as incongruous how no one takes into account or seems to notice the savings that would result from abolishing or doing away with the need for all these multitudious benefit funds - we are not going to abolish them because if people still wish to use them they are free to do so - which now spend at least 25c of every dollar they collect purely in administration. 
It does not mean that our scheme will require increased public service administration because the technique of collection can be wedded into our present collection schemes - the taxation system and the Department of Social Security which already handles much more money in the way of payments to pensioners and so on every week than health funds do, anyway. 
The next point made related to the apparent loss of the freedom of choice, and we were assured that under our scheme patients will not have freedom of choice of their doctor if they are admitted to the standard ward of a hospital, such as the Mercy Hospital. Let us try to understand what happens today in such private hospitals. A person does not bowl up to the door of the Mercy Hospital and say: I want to be admitted and I want  Dr Bloggs  to treat me'. He first has to go to  Dr Bloggs.  If  Dr Bloggs  happens to be in the custom of referring patients to the Mercy Hospital and he is accepted as one of the doctors who treats patients there, that person is admitted. But if  Dr Bloggs  never treats a patient at that hospital or never admits a patient to it, the chances are almost certainly that if he rings up and says:  'Mrs Jones  wants to be admitted. I have never admitted a patient to yow hospital but she wants to go there', he will be told: 'Well, sorry doctor, we do not have any beds because we have our regular staff. Under our proposal the same thing will hold. We are simply suggesting that standard ward beds ought to be available in the Mercy Hospital but that to be admitted to that hospital ;t person will have to be referred by a doctor who traditionally works at that hospital. It is the same in a large public hospital. 
Br CASS  -  The honourable member can say 'Oh' but the reality once again is that when a person goes to the casualty department of a large public hospital today - where I concede there is no freedom of choice - he is treated by the doctor on duty. This happens under the previous Government's scheme. It will not change for that type of admission. If you go to the hospital because you are referred to a large public hospital by your own general practitioner, he does not treat you in the large hospital but refers you to a specialist of his choice who he knows is on the staff of that hospital. It will not change with us; it will be exactly the same. You have the same limitations on freedom under the present scheme as you will have under our proposal. It will be no different. In other words, there is no such thing as complete freedom of choice anywhere in Australia now. For admission to large hospitals whether private or public, you have to get into either of them by being recommended through a member of the regular medical staff attending either the private of public hospital. To say that we will introduce some limitation is sheer humbug. To put it in another way, the Opposition does not understand how the present scheme works. 
Next, we had the claim that specialists now treat patients in public hospitals in an honorary capacity - a very generous donation to the community. They treat private patients and charge fees. Estimates have been made that some leading consultants working in large public hospitals spend a large proportion of their time attending to their duties in the large public hospitals. They may attend the hospital two or three sessions a week at least; they are on call; they have either to attend outpatient clinics or perform operations and conduct ward rounds in the hospital. When you add to that the time they have to spend travelling - often they work in private capacities far from the large hospital and in private institutions all around the city - you may well find that perhaps at least 30 per cent of their time is spent in treating patients in an honorary capacity. Perhaps they spend as much time again in travelling around the countryside getting from home to the consulting room and to the hospitals. You may well find that they are expected to earn their living in less than half their working week, perhaps 40 per cent. So, of course, they have to charge exorbitant fees. 
One could well ask why the rich, those who can afford to pay fees, should be bled so severely financially to enable treatment for the poor to be provided by the specialists in an honorary capacity in the hospitals The reality is that the medical profession has become sick of this. The Australian Medical Association no longer approves honorary services by consultants in large public hospitals. The Association is in favour of either salaried medical service or sessional payments for consultants working in the large public hospitals. We are not proposing anything revolutionary. If my recollection serves me correctly, the Association has been opposed to honorary medical services in large public hospitals for many years. 
Then we had the claim that there would be an increase in the cost of the scheme due to over-utilisation. I have touched on this matter before, namely, the horrendous suggestion that if you can have an operation for nothing you will have it, whereas if you have to pay you will not have it. That is true, if there is a medical indication for it, I suppose. Indeed I am sure that is so. In some situations you may need an operation for a hernia but, because it will cost too much money, you will put up with the hernia. But to suggest that you will have an operation simply because it is free is ridiculous. Surely there is always a medical indication for people who seek surgical treatment. 
A couple of years ago figures were examined by a  Dr Jim  Lawson, who was seeking to ascertain some guidelines for forecasting what hospital bed needs might be for surgical treatment in the community. To find out, he analysed the incidence of operations in Australia, the United States of America and Great Britain, and he uncovered some very interesting facts. In Australia, where doctors are paid on a fee for service basis, he found on a sample of over 8 million services - he used all the health fund statistics - that the tonsillectomy and adenoidectomy rate, in this country, mainly for children, was seven per thousand. He found that in the United States of America where they have fairly extensive salaried medical schemes - ironically in God's own country of free enterprise - they have doctors working on salaries - the operation rate for the same diseases was only four per thousand. He found also in the statistics from the United Kingdom, where doctors are on salary, the operation rate was 3.6 per thousand. 
Are we suggesting that Australian children are twice as ill as American or English children? I should think that many people would claim that our children are healthier than in either of the 2 countries, because we have fewer people who are less well-off and living in less adequate conditions. Under fee for service it seems that, despite the claims that doctors on salaries will promote overutilisation, the reality is that you have twice the utilisation with a fee for service system as you have with doctors on salaries. In regard to appendicectomy, the rate was five per thousand in Australia, 1.4 per thousand in America with salaried doctors and in the United Kingdom 2.5 per thousand with salaried doctors. There was an interesting control and it might be said that this was because doctors on salary were lazy and would not do the job. In the case of herniorrhaphy the patient can know that he might need an operation, whereas he depends on the doctor's judgment in relation to his tonsils or appendix. For herniorrhaphy the rate in Australia, where the patient has to pay a fee for service, is 1.5 per thousand. In the United States of America it is 1.9 per thousand and in the United Kingdom it is two per thousand - not much of a difference, but an increase. In those countries the doctors are on salary. This suggests that where the patient does not have to pay but knows he needs the operation and can afford to have it done because the doctor is on salary, he has it done. Let us not believe the nonsense that a salaried service means an increase in utilisation. 
Even the President's task force in the United States of America found that where salaried medical service holds, the utilisation rate for hospital beds was often 30 per cent less than when doctors were paid on a fee for service basis. 
Finally, in case one suspects that the quality may be inferior, they also found on examination of equivalent populations that the perinatal mortality rate was lower in places where the doctors were salaried. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Terms of reference were drafted in consultation with the Committee at its first meeting on 9 March 1973. 
The terms of reference were: 
To inquire into the history and the circumstances surrounding the decision to flood Lake Pedder in Tasmania, and in particular: 
to inquire whether there was any failure at any stage, to consider adequately, or to give sufficient weight to, any of the factors relevant to the making of that decision; 
If the answer to (a) is yes, then, (without attempting to attribute any fault or blame) to inquire 
Whether there was any deficiency in the law or decision-making procedures applicable to, or followed by the Australian or Tasmanian Government or Parliament, or the Tasmanian HydroElectric Commission, or any other body which caused or contributed to such failure; and 
What other factors, if any, caused or contributed to such failure. 
To state what lessons, if any, may be learned from the study of the above matters. 
To suggest what action might be taken to remedy or alleviate the consequences or deficiencies if any, in the decision-making processes as they affected Lake Pedder. 
To recommend, with regard to development projects which may have a significant effect on the environment, such changes and improvements in laws and decision-making procedures as the 
Committee may consider necessary or advisable to prevent, or to minimise the likelihood of, any failure to take relevant matters into account. 
In pursuing its inquiries and making its recommendations, the Committee is authorised and requested to seek information and assistance from such Governmental, statutory or private bodies and such persons or organisations, and to make such interim and final reports, as it sees fit, on any aspect of the various matters falling within the scope of the inquiry. The Committee has been asked to prepare its final report before 31 July 1973. 
The Committee did not request a change in those terms of reference. However Tasmanian authorities suggested some modifications which were accepted by the Committee on 23 March 1973. 
The revised terms of reference were: 
To inquire into the history and circumstances surrounding the flooding of Lake Pedder and in particular to consider: 
whether there was at any stage insufficient or inadequate investigation of factors relevant to the decision to flood the lake; 
the legal or administrative procedures leading to the making of such decisions. 
In making such investigation the Committee will concern itself with the facts and matters of principle and will not attempt to attribute fault or blame should any deficiencies in investigational or administrative procedures become apparent. 
To suggest what action, if any, might be taken to alleviate, or compensate for, any adverse consequence which may be considered to have arisen from the flooding of Lake Pedder. 
To state what lessons, if any, may be learned from a study of the above matters, with particular reference to the Australian Government's future role in relation to development projects in the States and Territories. 
To recommend with regard to development projects which may have significant adverse effects on the environment, such changes and improvements in investigational, legal and administrative procedures as may be considered necessary or desirable to prevent or minimise the likelihood of such effects. 
Various conservation groups did make representations concerning this land on Fraser Island. The matter was referred to the National Estate task force which subsequently visited the area, I understand, and made a report strongly recommending that the land should not be allowed to be subdivided and developed but should be incorporated into the park which encompasses part of the island. The task force has reported to my colleague the Minister for Urban and Regional Development and to me, strongly recommending this course of action. We both concur. Our Departments at present are looking into the ways and means by which this may be accomplished. 
The point is that the land, strictly speaking, is not within the confines of a national park that we could purchase directly. It is a small part of a park which is already a park controlled by the Queensland Government, so it requires negotiation and co-operation with the Queensland Government. I would like to end on the note that this case highlights the difficulty of handling a problem like this where one does not have direct power vested in the Australian Government and the State governments seem reluctant at this stage to act directly themselves. Ironically, of course, the whole matter need not develop into a crisis because it would be competent for the local authorities to deny permission to the developers to subdivide the land. But for some reason best known to themselves they seem unable to respond to the very obvious popular pressures to prevent this subdivision. I do not understand why. I only hope that increasing community pressure will eventually force them to consider the sensible approach and not permit the subdivision and allow this matter to rest until the Queensland State Government is able to see its way clear to purchase the land, if need be with help from the Australian Government. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the interim report of the River Murray Working Party, dated September 1973. 
 The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Government does not have the information to compile such a list. However, the Australian Environment Council, through its Marine Sub-committee, is reviewing the problem of heavy metal pollution of the sea and seafoods with particular reference to effluent sources on the Australian coastline. 
When the Government reviewed the question of the Pike Creek Dam it did not repudiate the responsibility accepted by the last Government for the expenses incurred up to that stage. I might add that no definite conclusion had been reached on the final acceptance or otherwise of the proposal; it was still being considered. However, since certain funds had been expended we have informed both of the State Governments concerned that we are prepared to pay our share of the cost - the honourable member cited the figure of about $2m - up to that stage. We have indicated that, subsequent to a number of reviews by both ourselves and the Coombs Task Force, we are of the firm opinion that the Pike Creek Dam is not a financially viable proposition in view of other demands on the nation's resources in other areas. It is up to the Queensland and New South Wales Governments themselves to decide what they do with it. If they wish to go on and so allocate funds in a fashion which, in our view, is not in the best interests of the whole community, that is their business. I am quite sure that for the people in the local area it is a bonanza. Of course, it is worth while for them, but that does not necessarily mean it is worth while for the rest of the community which, in the main, must foot the bill. For those reasons we will not review the question. 
For the information of honourable members, I present a report entitled 'Environmental Protection: The First Year'. This is a summary of my Department's activities within the Labor Government's first year of office. 
The Government received pressing requests from the Premier of New South Wales,  Sir Robert  Askin, about this question because he is most concerned since responsibility for the island is his in the sense that it is part of New South Wales, as honourable members are probably aware. For many years the airline has been threatening to withdraw the services of the flying boats, leaving the Government with the prospect of either letting people rot on the island or supplying them with their requirements by means of a shipping service. A shipping service would not be very helpful because of the difficulties of landing on the island. I take it that the facilities are not the best. The Government was faced with the prospect of either evacuating people or seeking to provide some emergency transport by way of light aircraft which are presently available but which would require the construction of an air strip. 1 did not view that prospect with equanimity. 
However, a study of the environmental consequences was undertaken. I am not sure whether the report is available but I will check to make sure that it is available. I am sure that people passionately associated with the island view the prospect of the building of an air strip with some concern. Nevertheless the alternative of waiting for another type of aircraft - an amphibian - will not resolve the problem because the present air service is about to be stopped. There is no amphibian which could cope with the task of communications in view of the distance, the fact that it must use land facilities at the Australian end of the service and the desire to close down the Rose Bay flying boat base. Notwithstanding all these difficulties the environmental impact statement suggested that despite the anxieties there would not be major disruption of the extremely fragile environment as the honourable member suggested. With this assurance a decision has been taken - I assure the honourable member regarding the anguished entreaties of the Premier of New South Wales - to go ahead and construct the air strip. 
I move: 
That  the Bill be now read  a  second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to correct some anomalies in connection with the conditions of employment of staff of the River Murray Commission. Because the River Murray Waters Act preceded the Officers' Rights Declaration Act and the Superannuation Act, there have been problems in the application of those Acts to staff of the River Murray Commission. Furthermore, the Commission is not an agency of the Australian Government. 
The proposed amendments will ensure that members of the Australian Government services will not be disadvantaged if they obtain employment with the River Murray Commis sion, and will enable staff recruited by the Commission from other sources, who are not covered by superannuation elsewhere, to be covered by the Superannuation Act 1922-1973. In addition, under the Remuneration Act 1973, salaries of statutory officers are now to be determined by that Tribunal. The section in the River Murray Waters Act is being amended accordingly, although under present conditions no salaries are payable to the Commissioner and Deputy Commissioner. 
I would stress that this Bill deals with amendments to the River Murray Waters Act which refer only to the Australian Government, and does not affect the River Murray Waters Agreement in which the three River Murray States are also involved. In addition, I should mention that a good deal of thought is being given to much more extensive amendments to the River Murray administration, but these must be expected to take a good deal of time to develop, and in the meantime it is desired to correct existing anomalies in staff conditions. I commend the Billto the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Fairbairn)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's, question is as follows: 
No. 
See answer to (1). 
 in reply - I have no comment to make on the essence of the Bill. We all concede that it provides a necessary protection for would-be employees of the River Murray Commission. Perhaps I can be excused for making a couple of brief comments on points made in the debate which really do not relate to the Bill. I agree with the suggestions which have been made by honourable members on all sides of the House that the functions of the River Murray Commission need to be reviewed in terms of the area covered and the retail of its concern to cope with the areas that have been mentioned. Also encompassed in its functions should be concern for the quality of water, which is an increasing concern of many people along the waterway. 
In reply to the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  I point out that the Government is well aware of the points he raised. In fact, one of the earliest conferences the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  called was held in March last year when a meeting took place with the Premiers of New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia. We agreed to established a working party to examine this problem which is why I mentioned that fact in passing at the end of my second reading speech. That working party has commenced to review the problem. We have faced some difficulties in its terms of reference because some of the States have felt reluctant to allow the working party to extend its interest too far, in their eyes. The Government has attempted to iron out these difficulties because the way it was going it looked as if we would not in fact have succeeded in coping with the issues raised by the honourable member for Murray. I only say that to the honourable member to suggest that, if we can exert any leverage at all on the views of his colleagues in other States, he should impress upon them the opinions which he has expressed here. I accept his attitude. It would be very helpful if his colleagues in other States accepted his views as well. The Government concedes the point that the River Murray Commission should extend its duties beyond the one it has now, which is mainly to look after the River Murray as a drain, if you like, and should consider also the total environmental consequencies in terms of the area of input into the river and the quality of the water resulting from the land use along the water's edge. But these are very touchy subjects as the honourable member for Murray will find if he discusses this matter with his colleagues. I repeat that I am glad to receive the support of the honourable member. I respond to the request made by the honourable member for Murray by asking him, in turn, to impress upon his colleagues in other places that they too should take the same attitude and allow the working party to deal with all these problems. 
The honourable member for Murray raised the further question of the salinity works and the Dartmouth Dam. Of course the Government has not said that it will stop funds for this project. We are simply seeking to allocate the funds in a different way. When the proposals dealing with the salinity problem in the River Murray are put to the Government we will consider them. If their adoption means that we will have to spend more money than might have been envisaged before, we will look at the matter seriously. We will not knock the proposals back simply because the work will cost more than was previously estimated. The Goverment wants to look at this matter not just in terms of cure but also in terms of prevention. That is the reason why we wish to tie this question up with the whole reassessment of the River Murray Commission and its responsibilities. 
As the honourable member for Murray pointed out, tenders for the Dartmouth Dam have closed. When the information comes to us, we will examine it and make our decision on the merits. The point at issue, of course, is that the cost is crucial to all of us - not only to the Australian Government but also to the States. If the cost has escalated beyond a certain amount which is specified in the agreement, all the States will have to reassess their attitudes to it. I am not saying that therefore they will knock the project back. I am not implying that at all. But the fact is that any increase cannot be automatically accepted. The State governments and the Australian Government will have to review the matter carefully when the tenders have been examined. But I assure the honourable gentleman that there is no thought that the proposal will be abandoned out of hand or that we will proceed with Dartmouth Dam without giving it due consideration by weighing up all the other requirements of management of the water, the basin of the River Murray and so on. 
Once agreement is reached to go ahead we will do so. But the crucial thing is the assessment by all the States and the Australian Government of the latest tenders. We will then, of course, discuss the proposal in concrete terms. But until that time arises I can make no definite promises one way or the other. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Berinson)Order! Interjections are out of order. I think the Minister has completed his speech, and that concludes the debate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
in reply - The figure involved is 10 per cent above the expected estimate when we entered into the initial agreement. In other words, if the escalation of costs is more than 10 per cent all parties involved have to examine it again and agree to it once again before the project can proceed. If the escalation of costs is below 10 per cent we will expect to proceed with the agreement. Further consultation will be required with the States if the escalation of costs is 10 per cent more than $64m. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Conservation Foundation is an independent organisation and is not responsible to me. I have been advised that  Mr Mundey  is not a member of the Foundation's executive but has been co-opted as a councillor. I have been further advised that in that position he will not receive  a  salary and will be eligible for reimbursement of fares incurred whilst travelling to council meetings or when engaged on authorised council business. 
In reply to the honourable member's question I am pleased to inform him on 6 March the Australian Government approved: 
The acquisition by the Government of existing tourist lands and a short term lease back arrangement with existing lessees. The estimated cost is $700,000 to $1 million. 
Rehabilitation of environmental damage which has already been caused in the immediate vicinity of Ayers Rock - Mount Olga. 
The limitation of visitor usage within the Park. The Reserves Board has already made a decision to restrict the number of people who may attend at any one time to no more than 1,800 and has made an announcement to this effect. 
The implementation of a training program in Park management and associated activities for Aborigines. 
The implementation of a positive programof action to protect sites and objects of cultural significance to Aborigines; and, 
The development of a comprehensive plan of management which would include the siting of the tourist village, aerodrome, and other facilities, in the preferred area north of the present Park boundary for further consideration by the Government. 
At present, management and control will remain with the Northern Territory Reserves Board, however a committee consisting of representatives of the Departments of the Northern Territory, Environment and Conservation, Tourism and Recreation, Housing and Construction and Aboriginal Affairs and Aboriginal representatives selected by Aboriginal communities, would advise and assist the Northern Territory Reserves Board in the implementation of the action approved by the Government. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I arranged for a report to be requested, from CSIRO, through my colleague the Minister for Science on 4 December 1973. (2)The CSIRO has provided me with the following statement of the current position in relation to this matter. 
The existence of faults in the general region of Lake Pedder has been known for many years and was taken into consideration by the Hydro-Electric Commission in carrying out a design study of the dams forming the new Lake Pedder. 
Since the Lake Pedder Dams were completed, technology has provided a new method for studying geological faulting based on the study of photographs obtained by the Earth Resources Technology Satellite (ERTS). CSIRO, in co-operation with the Mines Department of Tasmania and the HydroElectric Commission, is investigating whether ERTS can provide new information on faults that will augment that obtained from conventional field techniques. For the purposes of this study, Western Tasmania is being used as a natural laboratory in which detailed comparisons will be made of the geological information obtained from ERTS and that provided by conventional field mapping techniques. As photographs of the area are received, the imagery is being analysed as outlined above. However, the useful imagery obtained to date stops at some 45 kilometres to the north of Lake Pedder and no new assessment can be made of geological structures in its vicinity pending the receipt of the required photographs. While the National Aeronautics and Space Administration in the United States has been requested to provide imagery over the Lake Pedder area, it is uncertain when this will become available due to the rare occasions when the satellite passes over Western Tasmania and the area is cloud-free. 
The investigation in Western Tasmania was initiated by CSIRO in October 1973 and the results of the work will be reported as appropriate in accordance with the Organization's normal procedure of prompt publication of its research activities. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As indicated in my earlier reply on this matter my Department is developing a statement of Australian 
Government Policy related to Nature Conservation which will encompass the aspects raised by the honourable member. I hope that this statement can be discussed with the Council of Nature Conservation Ministers at its next meeting planned for later this year. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
97. 
The number of positions in the various Divisions are: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
An officer who was appointed to lead the small team to undertake the feasibility study commenced duty in the Department on 10.1.74. Due to his recent arrival and other staff resources not being available at this time, preliminary work only has been done so far. Part of that preliminary work has been a study which was undertaken by a firm of consultants to ascertain the sources of environmental data available in Australia. The result of that study was made available to the Department in mid February of this year. 
Push-button Telephones  (Question No.  357) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
(2) and (3) As my colleague the then Minister for the Capital Territory pointed out in his reply to the question referred to by the right honourable member, national emission standards for air pollutants were being investigated by a Sub-committee of the Australian Environment Council. The Sub-committee has not completed its considerations on this matter. The Australian Environment Council will consider the report as soon as it is available. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) A consultant has been engaged to report on the environmental problems of the disposal of plastics waste. I would be happy to provide a copy of the consultant's report for the information of the right honourable member as soon as it is available, probably in July. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Australia, at the first meeting of the United Nations Governing Council for Environmental Programs, offered in principle to establish a baseline atmospheric monitoring station together with a network of regional stations. Australia is now waiting for the United Nations to develop detailed plans for this project. Until these plans are developed further, no decision can be taken as to the number of regional atmospheric monitoring stations that will need to be located in Australia. 
Preliminary cost estimates would indicate the capital costs of establishing a baseline atmospheric monitoring station to be of the order of S1.4 million with annual operating costs tentatively estimated at $370,000. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am unsure of what the honourable member means by 'formal procedures' but impact statements are required where a proposal has significant environmental consequences and Australian Government funds and/or constitutional power is involved. 
Australian Citizens: Legal Status in other Countries  (Question No. 287) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
A meeting to establish the Council of Nature Conservation Ministers was held on 21 January 1974. I hope that regular meetings will now be held at which matters such as Australian Government assistance to ensure the protection of certain areas as national parks will be discussed. 
The question of the reservation of the Precipitous Bluff area as a national park is purely one for the Tasmanian State Government. As the area is Crown land, no question of financial assistance to acquire land is involved. I have expressed publicly my views on the question of mining in the area. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I wrote to the 8 Ministers concerned on 18 December 1973. 
The following Ministers have replied: Minister for Transport, Minister for Defence, 
Minister for Housing and Construction, Postmaster-General, Minister for the Northern Territory and Minister for Science. 
Two Ministers advised that their departments would investigate the question of buying electric cars and that they would notify me of the results of the investigations in due course. 
Three other Ministers replied that in the short term no extension of the existing use was likely, but in the long term, increased use would be likely to follow if performance and cost limitations were overcome. 
One Minister considered that the initial cost disadvantage of electric vehicles tends to be offset by lower operating cost, longer life and reduced air and noise pollution. 
Other matters raised in the replies related to the necessity to initiate research into the impact of electric vehicles; the need to carry out a test and evaluation program of electric vehicles available; the co-ordination of departmental investigations, and the need to develop suitable tender invitations which would state the number of vehicles which might be electrically powered. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have received many representations from individuals and organisations suggesting that areas of the States referred to be reserved for national park or nature reserve purposes. The power for such action generally rests with the respective State authorities. The Australian Government is however assisting in the realisation of some proposals by providing $500,000 this financial year for acquisition of land in the States for nature conservation purposes. 
In the absence of specific detail in the right honourable member's question I am unable to provide specific comment on the conservation proposals he has in mind. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The report of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution and the Statement 'A National 
Approach to Water Resources Management' are quite different types of document. The latter is a broad statement of policies, and an outline of the main components of the program in which the Australian Government expects to be involved. The report of the Senate Select Committee was one of a considerable number of documents which provided useful background in the compilation of the statement on water management, and as far as general policies and programs, as distinct from machinery matters, are concerned, I believe the 2 documents are generally compatible. However, no action has been taken to set up the National Water Commission proposed by the Senate Select Committee - it is hoped that the policies and programs outlined in the Government's statement can be achieved through normal consultative processes. In addition, some of the Committee's financial proposals require careful examination in the context of what is commonly referred to as the polluter pays principle. 
It should be noted also that some of the recommendations in the report refer, quite appropriately, to action that might be taken by State and other authorities. 
I am not aware of the guidelines and criteria that have been referred to, apart from the statement on Water Management referred to above, which could perhaps be described in those terms. We will, however, be continually working at the interpretation and elaboration of the policy statement, with a view to providing more specific guidelines for the management of our water resources. I am hopeful that in this we will have the assistance of State and other authorities with responsibilities and interests in this field. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(2) (3) &amp; (4) Victorian authorities have been carrying out studies of alternative dam sites on the Mitchell River for some time. So far these studies have not resulted in a submission to this Government. 
Committee on Open University (Question  No.  353) 
I have received a lot of representations on this question from a number of organisations up and down the length of the Murray and also, I might say, from a number of members of both sides of this House. They are all a bit late. In fact, in March 1973, the Prime Minister called a meeting of the Premiers of New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia to discuss this very problem. Needless to say, the South Australians are sick of drinking everybody's sewerage. That meeting agreed, among other things, to set up a working party to look initially at the salinity problem which is the major concern of many of the farmers along that area, and also to look at the general question of the pollution of River Murray waters. 
The working party met and deliberated for a long time. Finally, the steering committee of that body, which consists of the Ministers from each of the States and the Australian Government responsible for the administration of the River Murray Commission met at the end of last year to look at the initial report of the working party. Incidentally, that report was tabled in this House. Despite all that 1 have said in lengthy explanation of this matter, I am afraid that the report amounts to not very much. 
The reality is that one does not have to persuade the Australian Government that these moves are necessary. We agree. At least one State agrees. But we are having some difficulty in getting the sort of consensus necessary to restructure the River Murray Commission. 
For example, in the initial discussions it became clear that the problem of the water in the Murray arises from what is done along the banks of the Murray, and that factor largely relates to farming. But we were not allowed to say that. We cannot tell farmers that or we might lose votes. If we are not prepared to face up to these realities and yet at the same time all cry that the farmers are going broke because the water is no good, we will get nowhere. 
So, I suggest to honourable members on both sides of the House that it is not necessary to put pressure on the Australian Government but to put pressure on the State governments, irrespective of their political persuasion, to make them recognise that this is a case where States' rights are nonsense. It is people's rights which are important, and that means all the people along the River Murray in all the States. 
I move: 
That a Standing Committee be appointed to inquire into and report on - 
environmental aspects of legislative and administrative measures which ought to be taken in order to ensure the wise and effective management of the Australian environment and of Australia's natural resources, and 
such other matters relating to the environment and conservation and the management of Australia's natural resources as are referred to it by- 
the Minister for the Environment and Conservation, or 
resolution of the House. 
That the committee recognise the responsibility of the States in these matters and seek their cooperation in all relevant aspects. 
That the committee consist of seven Members, four to be nominated by the Prime Minister, two to be nominated by the Leader of the Opposition and one to be nominated by the Leader of the Australian Country Party. 
That every nomination of a member of the committee be forthwith notified in writing to the  Speaker. 
That the members of the committee hold office as a committee until the House of Representatives expires by dissolution or effluxion of time. 
That the committee elect as Chairman of the committee one of the members nominated by the Prime Minister. 
That the  Chairman  of the committee may, from time to time, appoint another member of the committee to be the  Deputy Chairman  of the committee, and that the member so appointed act as  Chairman  of the committee at any time when the  Chairman  is not present at a meeting of the committee. 
That the committee have power to appoint sub-committees consisting of three or more of its members, and refer to any such sub-committee any matter which the committee is empowered to examine. 
That four members of the committee constitute a quorum of the committee and a majority of the members of a sub-committee constitutes a quorum of that sub-committee. 
That the committee have power to send for persons, papers and records. 
That the committee or any sub-committee have power to move from placeto place, and to sit during any recess. 
That the committee or any sub-committee have power to authorise publication of any evidence given before it and any document presented to it. 
That the committee be provided with all necessary staff, facilities and resources and have power, with the approval of the  Speaker  to appoint persons with specialist knowledge for the purposes of the committee. 
That the committee have leave to report from time to time and that any member of the committee have power to add a protest or dissent to any report. 
That the committee be empowered to confer with a similar committee of the Senate. 
That the committee or any sub-committee have power to consider and make use of the evidence and records of the House of 'Representatives Standing Committee on the Environment and Conservation appointed during the Twenty-eighth Parliament. 
That the foregoing provisions of this resolution, so far as they are inconsistent with the standing orders, have effect notwithstanding anything contained in the standing orders. 
I make the point that the Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation in its operations will conclude the references which had already been placed before it before the double dissolution occurred. 
For the information of honourable members I present the final report of the Lake Pedder Committee of Inquiry on the flooding of Lake Pedder. 
For the information of honourable members, I present an evaluation report of the Dartmouth project, together with the proceedings of the conference between the Australian Government and the State Ministers responsible for water resources and a summary of the decisions of the Steering Committee of the River Murray Working Party. 
Pursuant to section 21 of the River Murray Waters Act 1915-1970 I present the report of the River Murray Commission for the year ended 30 June 1973, together with the Commission's financial state- ments and the report of the Auditor-General on those statements, statements of gaugings and diversions during the year furnished on behalf of the governments of New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following Councils are serviced by the Department of the Environment and Conservation: 
 The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. The Labor Government like the previous Government has endorsed the polluter pays principle and the use of the taxation system is a possible means of applying this principle in the case of pollution from motor vehicles. 
Any action would be a matter for consideration in a Budget context. As a consequence it would be inappropriate for me to comment on possible courses of action. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information sought by the honourable member will be contained in my Department's annual report which I intend to table. 
 The answer to the right honourable member's questions is as follows: 
The information sought by the right honourable member will be contained in my Department's annual report which I intend to table in the Parliament. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) I am not sure what the right honourable member's definition of an inter-departmental committee is. My Department engages in a great number of consultations and meetings with other Australian Government departments on a wide variety of topics. If the right honourable member regards all these meetings as being inter-departmental committees, the answer to his quesiton is no. If on the other hand he is referring to inter-departmental committees established by Cabinet decision or by  arrangement between Ministers  the answer is yes. 
and(3) See answer to (1). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I sought information on the matter from the Queensland State Minister for Lands and Forestry, the Honourable W. A. R. Rae, M.L.A. He has advised me that it is not possible to provide precise figures without a great deal of research in the field to establish the original limits of the rain forest and the purpose of any clearing that has been conducted. On the basis that the Cardwell Shire in which Tully is located is the area to which the honourable member refers the Queensland Minister has had his officers make the best estimates they can. These are as follows: 
About 10,000 hectares in all comprising some 1,500 hectares in the 1930s and the remainder in the 1960s when the industry expanded. 
About 1 14,000 hectares made up as follows: National Parks 12,000 hectares; State Forests, 83,000 hectares; vacant Crown Land and Private Land, 1 9,000 hectares. 
I will provide the honourable member with a copy of  Mr Rae  's letter with further details. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes, according to press releases. This pollution was the subject of litigation between the U.S. Justice Department and the Reserve Mining Company. 
Yes. 
Yes. 
Official U.S. sources are reported as indicating that tailings from the Silver Bay plant contain 'iron, manganese, phosphorous, chlorides and other substances'. An article by Louis Goth in the New York Times of 9 June 1 974 refers to 'asbestos-like substances which may cause cancer' but these are not mentioned by the official sources nor in geological references of the area. 
No other information is available to my Department on the overseas activities of Armco to indicate whether the company has followed desirable or undesirable environmental practices. 
Yes. The Department of Health has advised thatState Mines Departments and Divisions of Occupational 
Health undertake occupational hygiene surveys in plants where asbestos is an atmosphere contaminant. 
Large industrial organisations which process and fabricate asbestos normally provide biological and environmental monitoring programs. 
The West Australian Department of Public Health has investigated the health status up to the present time of  workers at Wittenoom Gorge Mine which closed in 1 966. Until the present time 137 cases of asbestosis have been recognised in Wittenoom miners. Of those surveyed 23 are known to have died, including S from pleural mesothelioma and 4 from carcinoma of lung. Further cases of both morbidity and mortality can be expected. 
The National Health and Medical Research Council in November 1973 endorsed its Draft Model Asbestos Regulations. The States are still considering adoption of these Regulations. 
Establishment of a Bureau of Animal Health (Question No. 504) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Council of Nature Conservation Ministers has met on two occasions: 21 January 1974 (Inaugural meeting); 12 July 1974. 
The meetings are attended by: Australian and State Government Ministers responsible for national parks and wildlife conservation and the Australian Minister for Science. 
At the latter meeting the New Zealand Minister of Lands and of Maori Affairs attended as an observer. 
Matters discussed at the Inaugural meeting were: 
The formation, membership and functions of the Council of Nature Conservation Ministers. 
The ban on the export of kangaroo products. 
Matters discussed at the second meeting were: 
Committees to service Council. 
Kangaroo habitat 
Uniform open season for duck shooting. 
Adequacy of land for nature conservation. 
The ban on the export of Kangaroo Products. 
South Pacific conference on national parks- New Zealand 1975. 
Members of Council agreed at their last meeting that the summary record, which includes all resolutions made, could be recognised as a public document once it had been approved by all Ministers. 
I have presented for the information of the honourable members the summary record of the first meeting. Because of the limited number of copies available I have arranged for two of these to be placed in the library. 1 will present the summary record of the second meeting when it has been approved by the Council. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) Officers of the Treasury and my Department are examining means of implementing the polluter pays principle by Australian Government action. If the full costs of pollution control are charged to the polluter, environmentally desirable processes and products may well prove to have decided cost advantages over less environmentally desirable processes and products. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Environment Council approved in principle the allocation of $25,000 from the Australian Environment Fund for the following two purposes: 
to enable the Public Awareness Sub-committee to develop a project which will lead to a survey of environmental attitudes and the effectiveness of current public awareness techniques; and 
to enable the Public Awareness Sub-committee to expend some funds for national publicity in connection with World Environment Day, 5 June. 
With regard to (a) the Sub-committee has proposed a pilot environmental attitudes survey be funded. This will be examined by the Standing Committee of the Australian Environment Council at its meeting on 2/3 October, 1 974. 
With regard to (b) an amount of $13,347.77 was spent for World Environment Day on 5 June, 1974 for the design, preparation, printing and distribution of World Environment Day charts and posters. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) W. D. Scott and Co. Pty Ltd. to investigate sources of environmental information. 
A. Management Consultants Pty Ltd. to assist in the assessment of an environmental impact statement prepared by a uranium mining consortium. 
The total cost of these studies was $ 1 5, 194.55. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
<para class="block" pgwide="yes">If research is defined as a project designed to reveal new principles, techniques or methods, to make comparative studies or to determine applicability in new situations, grants have been made to the following: 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I draw the right honourable member's attention to the Prime Minister's answer to a similar question. (Hansard 24 July 1974 Page 625). 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I draw the right honourable member's attention to the Prime Minister's answer to a similar question. (Hansard, 24 July 1974, page 626.) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
and (3) I asked a large number of professional, academic, industrial, trade union and community organisations to nominate individuals who would be suitable to serve on the Committee in their individual capacities and not as representatives of particular groups. I subsequently held personal discussions with representatives of some of these groups and made further enquiries as to potential membership. I am not in the habit of publishing details of correspondence and discussions with organisations and individuals without their consent and I believe that the advice which I received was given in confidence and should continue to be treated as such. The members of the Committee are as follows: 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to (4) I draw the right honourable member's attention to the reply to Question No. 583 (Hansard, 23 August 1974, page 1212). 
The following action has taken on the resolutions made at the inaugural meeting of the Council of Nature Conservation Ministers: 
Resolutions 1 to 21 dealt with the formation of Council and the Committee structure to service Council. The Council and its Standing Committee have been established. 
Resolution 22 dealt with the ban on kangaroo skins and products. The Australian Government has continued to enforce the ban on the export of Kangaroo skins pending all States implementing the programs as specified by the Ministerial Working Party which was established to make recommendations on the management and conservation of kangaroos. 
Resolution 23 sought to extend the scope of the South Pacific Conference on National Parks to be held in New Zealand in 1975 to include fauna matters. The proposal was passed to the New Zealand authorities for consideration. 
The summary record and decisions taken at the second meeting of the Council of Nature Conservation Ministers is, as yet, not approved by the members of Council. 
Taking 'research and development work' to be work carried out in, or based on, a research laboratory, the answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (4) Nil. 
) , ( 3) and ( 5 ) See answers to (1 ) and (4). 
The Department is however involved in the administration of research in various fields. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Australian Government Department of Housing and Construction has advised that a survey of pollution levels in Cockburn Sound was completed during the last stages of construction of the causeway in 1973 and another survey was undertaken after the construction had been completed. These surveys were jointly commissioned by the Fremantle Port Authority and the Department of Housing and Construction. When compared with the earlier joint surveys, which had been undertaken from 1970 onwards, they showed that: 
The concentration of trace metals in bottom sediments has not changed during the period of surveys and concentrations are highest near the industrial outfalls. 
Sea grass meadows along the mainland foreshore of Cockburn Sound, i.e. near the industrial outfalls, have continued to deteriorate as they were going before construction of the causeway commenced. 
Sea grass meadows along Garden Island, i.e. remote from the industrial outfalls, have not deteriorated. 
Sea bloom in the waters of the Sound has been more evident than previously. This bloom is partly seasonal and is probably attributable to a nutrient increase related to the increase in industrial activity. 
The Department of Housing and Construction has advised that it is expected that further surveys will be undertaken but they have not been scheduled at this time; the Department is discussing the nature and timing of these with the State Department of Environment Protection and the Fremantle Port Authority. 
Last week, I had discussions with the Minister in South Australia responsible for this matter,  Mr Broomhill,  and we agreed that there should be a public hearing. It will commence soon after the report being prepared by the consortium on the environmental consequences of the proposal is made available to the South Australian Government and this Government. The public hearing will last for a couple of weeks and its report will be available in time for its implications to be considered by the South Australian Government before it presents the relevant bill to the South Australian Parliament. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
Honourable members will be aware of worldwide concern for the conservation of wildlife and of places of natural, scenic, scientific and recreational significance. The environment produced by the billions of years of evolution which has resulted in man in his present state, is being drastically altered in a few decades by man himself. Everywhere the natural systems which evolved with man and of which he is part are under threat. We must make a strong stand in determining that this generation of man will ensure that evolution itself will proceed as much as possible without deliberate or unthinking intervention by man. Over 100 nations have taken action for the permanent reservation of natural areas to represent the range of landscapes and ecosystems within their boundaries, and to protect thenunique wildlife resources. They have assembled professional staff to ensure the effective planning and management needed to consolidate legislation and area reservation. 
Despite the excellent initiatives taken in some States, our record in Australia has not been good. Since the arrival of the white man some 5 species of marsupial and several species of bird have been wiped out. Many other species have been endangered. The area of our vast continent dedicated as parks and reserves is far from sufficient. Both the House of Representatives Select Committee on Wildlife Conservation and the Committee of Inquiry into the National Estate have underlined the pressing need for action at various levels to rectify deficiencies in the system in this country. This Government is taking action which accords with the sentiments of those reports. The Bill proposes the establishment of a professional service to enable the Australian Government, for the first time, to bring a coordinated approach to the management of nature conservation resources in the areas under its direct control. The Bill is the product of 18 months of careful work and thought and is a major initiative aimed at overcoming the inactivity of the past. I will also soon be introducing a Bill to make finance available to the States for nature conservation purposes and a Bill creating a Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority. An amount of $9m has been provided for national parks and nature reserves in this year's Budget. The Council of Nature Conservation Ministers set up on this Government's initiative will, I hope, help in the development of a national approach to the conservation of our unique fauna and flora. The National Parks and Wildlife Service will also facilitate co-operation with the States in the national nature conservation effort, and the meeting of Australia's obligations under the increasing number of international agreements for the conservation of wildlife to which this Government has become a signatory. Its functions will include education of park rangers and the provision of assistance to other countries in nature conservation matters. 
The Bill makes special provision for agreements with Aboriginal people for the operative conservation management of their land and its wildlife resources. In land vested in the Service, regulations will be made where necessary to meet the special needs of the Aboriginal people while ensuring that overall wildlife conservation objectives are met. In all cases, there will be consultation with the Aboriginal people and proper consideration of their traditions and culture which have so much to contribute to the heritage of this nation. The Government has dealt positively with the question of minerals in national parks. Where minerals occur in a park or reserve, no operations for their recovery may take place except in accordance with a plan of management approved by both Houses of the Parliament. We believe that Parliament itself should make the vital decision on whether operations for the recovery of minerals should take place in a park or reserve and then only in the genuine interests of the nation. Under the Bill, the Service will be able to manage parks for a variety of purposes in addition to nature conservation, such as tourism, recreation, and for scientific investigation. 
With the passage of this legislation the Government will move quickly for the proclamation of a number of outstanding areas. Foremost is the proposed Kakadu National Park, in the Northern Territory, which the then Minister for the Interior in July 1970 referred to in the following terms: . . . the area's ingredients of scenic grandeur, interesting and unique flora and fauna and cultural and historical elements, if blended and managed successfully, could produce a great park for public interest and enjoyment as well as making a major contribution to conservation. 
We agree with this assessment and will be proud to proclaim this long-promised, world class, national park. We will also proclaim Gudgenby National Park in the Australian Capital Territory, promised but not established by a former Government. 
In commending this Bill to honourable members, I would like to stress that it is high time that this Parliament enacted legislation on behalf of all Australians to permit the Australian Government to play its proper part in the conservation of our national heritage, which indeed is part of a world heritage becoming increasingly precious to mankind. I regard this Bill as a significant part of this Government's response to the growing awareness of our fragile world. It exemplifies our willing acceptance of the obligation to set the example required of a national Government. 
In conclusion I would like to say that this action accords with the sentiments of the Australian Labor Party platform where it is recognised that 'man lives within and depends upon a complex natural system which must be protected and managed as a whole'. The platform further states: 
The advance of agricultural pursuits and the expansion of cities and their industries have been the cause of much of the natural habitat of Australia's native flora and fauna being severely reduced and in some cases lost completely. Our natural heritage should be fostered and our natural landscapes protected for the sake of social, cultural, educational and scientific purposes as well as for Australia 's future tourist potential. 
To achieve this protection the Australian Labor Party in its platform has pledged to 'conserve for future generations adequate samples of Australia's unique flora and fauna by the development of a comprehensive system of national parks, nature and recreation reserves'. This Bill is a vital step and will be complemented by further legislation. This will deal with important aspects of environmental concern, in addition to nature conservation, aimed at halting man's unthinking degradation of the total environment, the genesis of life on this planet. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hunt)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I draw the honourable member's attention to my reply to a similar question asked by the honourable member for Parramatta (See Hansard 19September 1974page 1635). 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Broadcasting and Television Act has been subject to many amendments in a piecemeal fashion over a number of years and, for some time, the Department of the Media, in association with the Australian Broadcasting Control Board, has been giving consideration to detailed amendments which Will be required to bring the Act up to modern requirements. Meanwhile there are 2 primary matters which in the opinion of the Government are in urgent need of attention and which are the subject of this legislation. 
The first concerns the powers of the Broadcasting Control Board to regulate appropriately the programs of commercial broadcasting and television stations. This power existed in the Act until it was amended in 1 956. Prior to that time it was provided that stations must present programs 'to the satisfaction of the Board', but in 1956 this was amended to provide that stations' programs must comply 'with standards determined by the Board'. In recent years some stations have challenged the Board's powers in the programming area by relying on a narrow legal definition of the word 'standards', and the Government's legal advisers have confirmed that this approach has had some validity. The Board has consistently drawn attention to this lack in its powers of the past 7 years, but no action has been taken until now to correct the anomaly. The relevant section of the Act is section 16, which sets out the powers and functions of the Board. The major function of the Board is stated in that section to be: 
To ensure that adequate and comprehensive programs are provided by commercial broadcasting stations and commercial television stations to serve the best interests of the general public. 
Unfortunately, however, the Act does not provide the Board with a power comparable with that function. The proposed amendments to section 16, which are included in clause 6 of the Bill I now present, specifically provide the Board with a general power to carry out all its functions. Further, it inserts two new specific powers. The first will become paragraph (e) of sub-section (3) of section 16, and provides that the Board shall have power to determine rules and standards to be observed by licensees in relation to commercial broadcasting and television programs. The second new power is provided by the new sub-section (3) (a) which specifically provides power to the Board to determine, subject to the Minister's approval, requirements with regard to programs of Australian origin. 
These 2 new powers will place beyond question the powers which, I think it is fair to say, the general public has always thought the Board to have. I believe they will be generally welcomed within the industry itself as putting these matters which have been the subject of debate beyond doubt. While amending section 16, the opportunity is also being taken to provide that, in exercising its powers under the Act, the Board shall consult not only representatives of commercial broadcasting and television stations, but also such other persons as the Board considers appropriate. It has in fact been the Board's recent practice to discuss matters of programming with appropriate unions and others concerned, but the fact that this consultation has not been mandatory under the Act has given rise to some criticism. Clause 7 of the Bill amends section 21 (2) of the Act regarding the right of a witness to elect to make an affirmation rather than an oath. This merely brings the Act into line with current practice. 
The second important matter which is dealt with by the Bill is contained in clause 11. This provides that, instead of the present licence renewal period of 12 months, licences may be renewed for variable periods from 3 months to 3 years. A somewhat similar proposal for variable licence renewal periods was put forward by the previous Government in 1971. At the time, the matter was referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts, which was charged with the responsibility of inquiring into all aspects of television and broadcasting. In its second interim report, that Committee suggested for consideration a number of measures for strengthening the Board's powers, including one to the effect that the Board be empowered to recommend graded renewal periods to the Minister. 
Apart from the obvious value of this provision, in enabling the Board to recommend short-term renewals in cases where a licensee's performance has been less than totally satisfactory, this is an essential first step towards implementing the Government's policy that all licence renewal applications be considered at a public hearing of the Board. It will be appreciated that, since more than 200 broadcasting, television, translator and repeater licences come up for renewal each year, it would not be possible at the moment for each application to be the subject of a public hearing. It is the Board's intention, as soon as this legislation is passed, to recommend to me that renewal of licences for varying periods so that the work-load may be spread equally over a 3-year period- that is, so that only approximately one third of licences will need to be considered each 12 months. Another important advantage will be that all translator licences will be brought into step with the licence of the parent station so that these can all be considered at the same time, as is of course only logical. 
Clause 12 of the Bill provides for some machinery amendments to section 85 to facilitate the new proposal regarding the renewal of licences, and clause 13 provides the consequential amendments to section 99 of the principal Act resulting from the amendments to the Board's powers in section 16 to which I have already referred. Section 99 of the Act provides, at present, for the Board to determine standards which must be met by licensees in the presentation of programs. The amendments now proposed replace standards by a reference to the determinations which the Board will make under the new provisions of section 16. Though the major legal difficulty regarding the use of the word 'standards' in the Act has occurred with regard to programs, the opportunity is also being taken, in clause 14 of the Bill, to amend section 100 of the principal Act, which refers to standards in connection with advertising, in order to ensure that the Board 's powers under this section are equally unequivocal. Clauses 15 and 16 of the Bill embody machinery amendments designed to make the new proposals which I have outlined regarding licence renewals equally applicable to television translator and repeater stations. 
So far in this outline of the provisions of this Bill, honourable members will have noticed that I have referred to the Broadcasting Control Board as the authority responsible to Parliament for the administration of provisions laid down for commercial broadcasting and television stations in this country. I have done this in order to facilitate an understanding of the continuing provisions of the Act. I should point out, however, that the Government does not believe that the functions of the Broadcasting Control Board are, or should be, confined to the control of broadcasting. In clauses 3 and 4 of this Bill, the Government proposes to change the name of the authority responsible for broadcasting in Australia to the logical alternative: The Australian Broadcasting Authority. Elsewhere in the Bill, it is made plain that the membership of the Authority is to be continuous with the membership of the Broadcasting Control Board as established at the time of the commencement of the amending legislation. Within this Bill, the opportunity has also been taken to incorporate various amendments to bring the provisions for the remuneration and allowances of the various statutory office holders mentioned in the Act into line with the Remuneration Tribunals Bill at present before the Parliament. 
The opportunity is also being taken, in clause 17 and the accompanying schedule, to make some formal amendments to bring the wording of the Act into line with current practice. As I have already said, the Bill sets out to overcome obvious and serious defects in the existing legislation. The Broadcasting Control Board has laboured for years under severe criticism from some quarters for its failure to carry out adequately its function to ensure that adequate and comprehensive programs are presented by licensees. Though legal challenges made it clear some seven or eight years ago that the Board's powers were deficient in this area, this is the first time that any action has been taken to correct the anomaly. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Forbes)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is consequential upon the Bill which I have already presented to the House proposing the amendment of the Broadcasting and Television Act to provide that licences for commercial broadcasting and television stations should be renewed for periods varying from 3 months to 3 years. This Bill is a machinery amendment to the Broadcasting Stations Licence Fees Act 1 964- 1 973, providing for an appropriate method of calculation for a licence fee when, in fact, the licence is renewed for a period other than one year. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Forbes  ) adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is consequential upon the Bill which I have already presented to the House, proposing the amendment of the Broadcasting and Television Act to provide that licences for commercial broadcasting and television stations should be renewed for periods varying from 3 months to 3 years. This Bill is a machinery amendment to the Television Stations Licence Fees Act 1964-1966, providing for an appropriate method of calculation for a licence fee when, in fact, the licence is renewed for a period other than one year. The opportunity is also being taken to make formal amendments to bring the wording of the Act into line with current practice. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Forbes)  adjourned. 
I rise simply to. make some brief comments on the points raised by the honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin)  and to assure him that the matter has been brought to my notice and that interest has been taken in the matter of plant growers' problems in terms of patent rights and so on. This does not come within my responsibility but I assure the honourable member that I shall draw the attention of the Minister for Science  (Mr Morrison)  to it. I assure the honourable member that the Minister for Science will give him his views on the suggestions made. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Nil. 
to (4) See answer to 1. 
Yes in the case of appropriate departments and authorities. 
Department of Housing and Construction: Inter-departmental Committees (Question No. 301) 
The answer to the honourable member's questions is as follows: 
No. 
No. 
ANZUS Treaty (Question No. 1224) 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
In my second reading speech on the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Bill I drew the attention of honourable members to world-wide concern for the conservation of wildlife and of places of natural, scenic, scientific and recreational significance. The House of Representatives Select Committee on Wildlife Conservation, established under the previous Government, stressed the need for a national policy aimed at acquiring sufficient of the total land area of each State and Territory to ensure that all types of wildlife habitat will be preserved. The Committee recommended the grants be provided to the States to enable them to acquire areas of wildlife habitat which are of national significance. 
The Committee of Inquiry into the National Estate, established by this Government, also recommended a system of grants to the States to ensure that adequate funds are made available for acquisition of lands for national parks. This Committee stressed that the selection of areas for reservation should be based on objective scientific criteria which would allow for representative ecosystems, protection of threatened species, and the recreation needs of urban populations. The 
Committee also recommended that the Australian Government, in close consultation with the States, take urgent steps for the preservation of the Australian coastal heritage including a States grants program to assist in land acquisition. The recent report of Professor Specht and his associates, entitled 'Conservation of  Major Plant  Communities in Australia and Papua New Guinea', drew attention to the fact that only about half of the distinct plant communities in this country are protected in national parks and reserves. This Government accepts its responsibilities for the conservation of our natural resources. Australia is now a member of the International Union for the Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources and subscribes to the principles laid down by that Union for the conservation of wild fauna and flora. 
The States Grants (Nature Conservation) Bill, which I now commend to honourable members, complements the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Bill which I introduced to this House on 2 October. It is in accordance with the recommendations of both the House of Representatives Select Committee on Wildlife Conservation and the Committee of Inquiry into the National Estate. To these ends, $9m has been provided on this year's budget as part of a 3-year program for expenditure of $20m for the acquisition of land for national parks and nature reserves. This program will be determined in consultation with the States and I have already written to each State Minister responsible for wildlife and national parks asking for proposals of acquisition to be submitted for consideration. 
We all share a responsibility to conserve for future generations as much of our natural heritage as possible- in terms of both area and diversity. This Bill accepts that responsibility. It enables the National Government- for the first time- to make a major financial commitment so that future generations will have the chance to see, understand and enjoy the special natural qualities of Australia. In short, I regard this Bill as a very significant part of this Government's response to the growing public awareness of our precious but dwindling natural heritage. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Holten)  adjourned. 
I rise to answer some of the points raised. Firstly, the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)-  (Quorum formed). 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Proposed expenditures agreed to. 
Department of Science 
Proposed expenditure, $ 1 26,352,000. 
Department of the Media 
Proposed expenditure, $ 1 1 5 , 4 1 9,000. 
The Wivenhoe Dam primarily was designed for water supply but it has been thought that perhaps by modifying the design it may also be capable of being used for flood mitigation. In March this year the Prime Minister wrote to the Queensland Premier asking for his views on modification of the dam because if the Australian Government is going to assist the State Government it needs to know what will be involved and what financial contribution, if any, the Australian Government will make. We received a reply from the Queensland Premier in September indicating that it is not possible at this stage to give a definite answer before the conclusion of a survey being conducted by the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation into the effects of the floods earlier this year. Of course, the results of this survey will help in the design of the dam and the assessment of whether it will serve a useful purpose. We are now awaiting the results of that survey. 
The Premier also indicated that the water from the dam would be required by 1981-82 which means that a decision needs to be made by February next year. If the survey by the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation, the preliminary design assessment and the environmental impact study can be completed by February next year it should be possible to make a decision and start the final detailed design in March. Construction should be able to start in March 1976. The project has been screened by the screening committee we set up under our national water policy program and the detailed assessment of the final proposal will be under the control or supervision of my colleague the Minister for Urban and Regional Development. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
If the right honourable member had actually read my speech he would have noted my earlier suggestion that threeton motor vehicles, electric dishwashers, record selectors, and exotic cosmetics were symptoms of a system which artificially stimulates, relies upon, and profits from overconsumption. 
To these examples, one can add excessive consumption of alcohol and tobacco. Both are heavily taxed (a Governmentimposed discouragement) and subject to medical assurances that they are harmful in excess- yet both are consumed in increasing quantities. 
Former Australian Governments have implicitly recognised the difference between necessary and luxury goods by the imposition of differential excise rates and sales taxes. This Government has not departed from that principle. No government- of any political complexion- would deny the distinction between essentials and luxuries. 
The general  community in  any country makes these decisions. It is the function of Government to interpret these decisions wisely before it makes political judgments about discouraging the use or consumption of unnecessary or luxury items. Discouragement can take the form of increased taxes as indicated in (3) or positive support for alternatives. For example, governments can encourage public as against private transport, or implement observance of the 'polluter pays 'principle. 
In a democracy which is allowed to work, the people can pass judgment on political decisions at the general election. 
It is true that work, both overseas and in the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories, has evolved a human derived immunoglobulin to combat tetanus to replace the one derived from horse serum which was prone to give reactions to many of us. I am sure there are many members in this place who have been to a doctor for tetanus anti toxin, and have had an injection in the skin and everyone has sat around waiting to see how they would react. It is true that the human product does not give the sort of reactions caused by the product derived from horse serum and therefore is very much safer. It is also a fact that because of its longer persistence in the bloodstream it lasts for three or four weeks which is beyond the average incubation period for tetanus. Therefore it is a safer procedure on these grounds as well. 
Supplies have been available since the beginning of this year. Production is now adequate enough to ensure that all needs can be filled. Therefore the horse serum will in fact be removed from the pharmaceutical benefit listing from 1 December. I am not sure how adequately the medical profession or the community have been informed of this so I shall certainly instruct my Department to make sure that the medical profession does know about it and the fact that it is freely available because all human blood products are free. Therefore even the fee has now been abolished. 
Pursuant to section 44 of the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Act 1961-1970, I present the thirteenth annual report of the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Commission for the year ended 30 June 1974, together with financial statements and the Auditor-General's report on those statements. 
I do not usually read advertisements, but my attention has been drawn to a series of advertisements in the Press on this question. The suggestion in them is a fairly remote conclusion to draw from the Press statements that I have made on the question of the potential air pollution arising from the powerhouse at Newport. I issued a couple of Press statements in August last suggesting that there were some doubts about the safety of the power station, in view of its potential to increase photochemical smog. After this aroused the anxieties of the State Electricity Commission of Victoria, the Commission invited me to come and have discussions with it, and I did so. In the course of those discussions we discussed only this one issue. We did not consider the total environmental consequences of the proposed power station. The discussions were related purely to this one issue of the possible increase in photochemical smog associated with the proposed power station. 
We came to the conclusion that although it would be safe in certain weather situations there were other situations in which not enough data was available for us to be sure that there would not be a danger of photochemical smog occurring. That was the essence of the Press statement I made on 6 October. I repeat that I have at no time considered the total environmental consequences. Even in that last Press statement I did not say that I endorsed the proposal. We simply agreed that more information was required. I do not quite understand the logic of drawing the conclusion from those sons of discussions that I support the proposed Newport power station. On the evidence presently available I certainly do not. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill seeks to improve consideration of environmental factors in the Government's decision making through use of the environmental impact statement technique and public inquiries. The Government's proposals reflect its belief that, in the past, insufficient attention has been given to environmental considerations when decisions were being taken. The proposals we have developed should change this regrettable situation. This Bill also reflects the Australian Labor Party's belief in open government and public participation in decision making. 
The Bill will effect many facets of the Australian Government's activities. Its operation will extend to every Government department and authority. It is the most important piece of environmental legislation ever to be considered by the Parliament. The environmental impact statement procedure introduced through this Bill represents a development and improvement of policies adopted by the previous Government in 1972. That Government had required impact statements to be prepared on environmentally important proposals being considered by Cabinet. In considering requests by State governments for financial assistance for major development projects, the previous Government merely required assurance that associated environmental factors had been suitably investigated and taken into account. 
Under this legislation the Australian Government will extend the impact statement requirement to cover any proposal in which it is involved and which is likely to have a significant effect on the environment, irrespective, of whether or not it is a matter to be decided by Cabinet. In addition the requirement will be extended to cover proposals to which Australian Government funds are specifically directed and which are being developed by State or local government. Thirdly, the requirement will be extended to encompass proposals which involve the constitutional power of the Australian Government. For example, it will be used to ensure that the environmental effects of mining and woodchip proposals are thoroughly evaluated before any decision is taken on export licences. 
Some may seize on these extensions and claim they represent an unnecessary intrusion into matters which are State responsibilities. This, of course, is not the case. These extensions merely use Australian Government constitutional powers which, because of the indifference of earlier government to environmental issues, were never applied. I might say, in fact, that I see very considerable scope for co-operation between the Australian and State governments. In this respect, I am encouraged that all States except Western Australia are requiring, or developing procedures requiring, impact statements on matters that are their responsibility. Within the Australian Environment Council there has been basic agreement on what statements should cover. This will mean that where 2 governments are involved in examining a proposal, only one statement will be needed. 
The Australian Government will have to rely to a large extent on State government advice in assessing the environmental consequences of proposals in which it is involved and which are being developed in the States. But it is not obliged to accept that advice or to leave investigations only to the State authorities concerned. The extent to which it will rely on State environment authorities will depend on the confidence it has in those authorities, on its judgment of their independence and on the significance of the proposals from the national viewpoint. 
In developing the impact statement procedure we have noted difficulties that have accompanied its use in the United States. These have largely stemmed from mandatory requirements for statements and from procedures which result in too frequent a resort to the courts. We hope to avoid these difficulties, firstly, by making the impact statement requirement discretionary so that we can concentrate on the most significant proposals and, secondly, by incorporating the requirement into the normal process of governmental decision making. Although we will be limiting the requirement in terms of the environmental importance of a proposal, we will not be limiting its scope in terms of the type of proposal that could be the subject of a statement. Proposals to change a tax or subsidy, to change a tariff, to plan and develop a particular construction, to become a party to an international agreement, to build a new city, to purchase equipment or to commence to extend a forestry or agricultural operation, for example, could all be the subject of an impact statement. 
A considerable part of the Bill deals with public inquiries into matters of environmental concern. It is a very real reflection of our commitment to open government. Under the previous Government, impact statements were to be made public immediately after a Cabinet decision was announced and before the related legislation or appropriation was passed by the Parliament. These arrangments provided the public with the minimum opportunity to influence a decision on environmental grounds. Under this legislation, except where specifically exempted by the Minister, public comment will be sought before a statement is finalised and before any decision is taken on the proposal concerned. Exemption from comment will occur only in Isolated cases such as where publication of the impact statement could lead to land speculation or endanger national security. The public will be given a real opportunity to influence decisions. The detailed requirements for impact statements and hearings will be set out in procedures to be established under clause 6 of the Bill. These procedures will be tabled in the Parliament as soon as possible after this Bill has received royal assent. They will provide that responsibility for the preparation of the impact statement lies with the organisation putting forward the proposal concerned. The statement will be required to set out the need for the proposal, the objective of the proposal, the alternative means of reaching that objective and the environmental effects of these different alternatives. 
Once a draft impact statement is complete it will then be subject to public scrutiny which will be achieved through advertising the availability of the document and seeking written comment upon it. In addition, where the environmental consequences of a proposal are considered to be particularly significant, or where there is considerable public controversy over these consequences, a public inquiry will be held. Following public scrutiny the impact statement will be finalised and submitted, together with the report from any public inquiry, to my Department for assessment. The assessment of the environmental consequences will be conveyed to Cabinet at the same time as the proposal itself is put to Cabinet for consideration. Thus we will ensure Cabinet considers the economic, technological and environmental consequences of proposals at the same time, before any decision is taken. The procedure will not give to environmental considerations a veto power in decision making. Environmental considerations will become an integral part of the information upon which a decision is taken. This is the first Bill of this type to be introduced into a Parliament in Australia. It represents a very significant step forward in contributing to the adequate protection of our environment and should be of real benefit to all Australians, irrespective of their occupation, their political outlook of their place of living. I commend it to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Ellicott)  adjourned. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill, I would like to suggest that it might suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the River Murray Waters Bill as they are associated measures. Of course, separate questions will be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest that course to permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Copies of ministerial press releases are circulated by hand, by mail and by publication. 
) Copies are circulated to the press gallery, a ministerial mailing list, the Australian Government Digest, and to people or organisations who request them on a casual basis. 
The number of copies circulated depends to an extent upon the particular subject matter of the statement, but in general, statements are sent to about 250 addresses. 
Part of the cost of producing and distributing Ministerial press releases is included in costs relating to salary and administration of the Minister's office. Other costs are borne by the ministerial document reproduction unit, which is part of the Department of the Media. The costs attributable to Ministerial press releases have not been separately identified and it is therefore not possible to give a precise answer to this part of the right honourable member's question. 
None. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is concerned with the provision of grants to the States over the financial years 1974-75 and 1975-76 as an interim program of financial assistance for soil conservation. The Australian Government is seeking to protect those natural resources upon which the nation's well-being is founded, in the interests of present and future generations. In particular, this Bill gives tangible expression to the importance which the Government places upon the preservation of the nation's soil resources. This subject first attracted significant Federal attention in February 1971 when the Australian Agricultural Council received a report from its Standing Committee on Soil Conservation, entitled 'The Study of Community Benefits of and Finance for Soil Conservation'. The recommendations of this report provided a factual basis for the States to request financial assistance for their soil conservation programs. 
The matter was raised at the Premiers' conference in 1972. However, the Government of the day preferred not to make a decision, and instead referred the question to the Interdepartmental Committee of Australian Government officers. The Interdepartmental Committee reported in July this year, after having discussions with representatives of the State soil conservation organisations, and after having examined the report of the Standing Committee. The Interdepartmental Committee agreed that soil conservation activity should be considerably increased above present levels and that it would be appropriate for the Australian Government to provide financial assistance for this purpose. 
The Government has now decided in principle to assist the States with a long term program of soil conservation. At the same time it has recognised that there is an urgent need for a collaborative, nation-wide study of soil conservation in the context of land management, involving the State and Australian Governments, with a view to providing a sound basis for a long term accelerated soil conservation program. This Bill provides for an interim program of financial assistance for the States to step up their soil conservation activities over the duration of the proposed joint study, in preparation for a long-term program. Participation of the States in the proposed study will be a precondition for the provision of financial assistance in the interim program. Agreement to participate in the study has been received from all States except New South Wales. The Australian Government recognises that gearing up for a major long term program of soil conservation will take time. For this reason it regards the interim program as essential so that the results of the joint study can be applied to this most urgent problem without delay. 
While the Australian Government's proposed contribution to each State in this first instance is small in relation to the magnitude of the work which is urgently required, it is a significant first step in dealing with this national problem. With the completion of this essential first program, the government will then assess its responsibilities in the implementation of a national plan to protect and restore Australia's soil resources- which is perhaps, along with water, the most vital of all our natural resources. The sums to be made available were carefully determined after discussions with State officers and examination of the available human and technical resources. The total Australian Government finance to be made available to the States under this program is $0.5m to June 1975 and $2.5m to June 1976. These funds will supplement the provisions for soil conservation already committed or foreshadowed by the States for this period. I now have pleasure in commending the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Chipp)  adjourned. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The number of core positions under the Public Service Act which have been provided is 28. As appropriate for particular investigations it is expected officers may be seconded from other Departments and Instrumentalities or from the States or from industry or academic institutions. Consultants may also be employed within the Bureau from time to time when it is functioning fully. 
The classification and functions of the Public Service positions are : 
Director, Level 3, Second Division- Head of the Bureau. 
Assistant Director, Level 1, Second Division (3 positions) In charge of the following BranchesRequirements and Programmes Studies Management Environment Forecasting 
Clerk Class 10, Third Division and Clerk Class 8, Third Division (2 positions)- Located in the Studies Requirements Section of the Requirements and Programmes Branch. The functions are to analyse data and develop proposals for the formulation of a studies program. 
Clerk Class 10, Third Division, and Clerk Class 8, Third Division (2 positions)- Located in the Programme Analysis Section of Requirements and Programmes Branch. The functions are to collect and collate data on environmental investigations to identify gaps in research and to assess their environmental importance. 

 Clerk Class 10, Third Division, and  Clerk  Class 8, Third Division- Located in the Consultant Studies Section of Studies Management Branch. The functions are to develop and plan programs of studies to be carried out by external consultants and specialists and to oversee the research work concerned. 

 Clerk Class 10, Third Division (2 positions) and  Clerk  Class 8, Third Division (3 positions)-Located in the Internal Studies Section of Studies Management Branch. The functions are to control and undertake research and studies into environmental problems and investigate and advise on the Bureau's capacity to handle proposed areas of research. 
Clerk Class 10, Third Division and Clerk Class 8, Third Division (2 positions)- Located in the Data Collection Section of the Environmental Forecasting Branch. The functions are to review arrangements for the continuous collection and collation of data on the Australian environment and develop means of ready access to the data. 
Clerk Class 10, Third Division, and Clerk Class 8, Third Division (2 positions)- Located in the Indices Development Section of the Environmental Forecasting Branch. The functions are to develop indices methodology and undertake the initial evaluation of the indices to assess their utility. 
Steno-Secretary Grade 2, Fourth Division and StenoSecretary Grade 1, Fourth Division, (3 positions)The functions are to provide typing and secretarial services to Second Division officers of the Bureau. 
Clerical Assistant Grade 3, Fourth Division- The functions are to establish and maintain records and provide general assistance within the Bureau. 

 Mr K. E. Thompson formerly Assistant Director, Bureau of Transport Economics, has commenced duty as Director of the Bureau,  Mr J.  R. Sands has been transferred from the Water and Soils Resources Division of the Department to the position of Assistant Director, Requirements and Programmes Branch. Five other officers (a  Clerk  Class 8, a Senior Research Officer Grade 2, a Research Officer Grade 2 and two Graduate Clerks) have also been transferred to positions in the Bureau. 
Interviews have been conducted for the other positions in the Bureau except one of Clerical Assistant Grade 3. It is anticipated that a number of appointments will be made at an early date. Some positions have recently been readvertised. The total number of positions to be filled at this stage will be considerably less than the approved establishment of 28 because of staff ceilings. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) No voluntary organisation has requested financial assistance from my Department to establish or maintain a federal headquarters. Grants of a general nature have been provided for a number of years to the Australian 
Conservation Foundation and the Keep Australia Beautiful Council. Both organisations have federal headquarters and it is possible that the grants have been used, in part, to maintain the headquarters. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. It is understood that Refuse Conversion Pry Ltd obtained the rights to use in Australia a process developed by Herr. F. FreT of Ulm, Federal Republic of Germany, for converting refuse into building blocks. 
The Department of the Environment and Conservation has approached Herr. Frei and the authorities in the Federal Republic of Germany but to date the Department has been unable to obtain sufficient information to assess the feasibility of the process. The Department has not attempted to have the process evaluated in Australia but will endeavour to do so. 
Foreign Non-accredited Embassy Staff (Question No. 1816) 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the States Grants (Nature Conservation) Bill, as they are related measures. Separate questions will of course be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
I move: 
Omit the definition of 'Aboriginal', substitute the following definition: 'Aboriginal ' means a member of the Aboriginal race of Australia and includes a Torres Strait Islander; 
After paragraph (c) of the definition of 'wildlife' in sub-clause ( I ), insert the following paragraph: '(ca) migratory animals that periodically or occasionally visit Australia, the Australian coastal sea or the sea over the continental shelf of Australia'; 
At the end of the clause add the following sub-clause: '(3) In this Act, a reference to public notice is a reference to notice published- 
in the Gazette; 
in a local newspaper, if any, circulating in the area concerned; and 
in each State and Territory, in a newspaper circulating throughout that State or Territory. ' 
The first amendment substitutes a different definition for the word 'Aboriginal'. After discussion, including discussion with members of the Opposition, it was felt that the definition was too restrictive as it did not necessarily include the people of the Torres Strait Islands. The second definition relates to 'wildlife'. This matter was raised by some conservation groups in South Australia. They questioned the case of migratory birds. We feel that they are certainly covered if they usually migrate to this country but there are occasions when some animals and birds periodically or occasionally visit this country. For that reason I have moved the second amendment. The third amendment has been moved because we wish to indicate further on in the Bill that certain actions that are about to be taken should be widely advertised. It was drawn to our attention, again in consultation with members of the Opposition, that it would be better to state this in clause 3 than to state it each time throughout the other clauses of the Bill and that it would be better to broaden the interpretation to include not only the Gazette but also local newspapers, if any, circulating in the area. That is the reason for the third amendment to this clause. 
I have thought a lot about the proposed sub-clause. As I indicated earlier, there was considerable discussion of this Bill. I make it clear that the Bill does not empower the Government to buy land; that power rests solely in the Lands Acquisition Act. This Bill simply indicates our areas of concern and what we would like to do in relation to the preservation of our natural resources. I am not inclined to accept the proposition that we should have in this legislation, which is not related to the acquisition of land, an inhibition on what the Australian Government now or in the future might or might not be able to do with respect to the acquisition of land. During the second reading debate and on a number of other occasions I have heard the comment that this legislation provides the means for the Australian Government taking over. It would be the height of folly for any Australian Government to seek to do so. 
The intention of this whole exercise- people generally will not realise it because it is accepted in this place- is that the legislation should be associated with State grants for nature conservation purposes. In other words, we are seeking to allocate funds to the States to help them buy land. It is not intended that the Australian Government should take over land they have already reserved or conserved and are managing. If they need help we will seek to provide it by way of financial support. In my view, given the inadequate areas of total land reserved for park purposes in Australia, it would be foolish to take away from the States in the manner suggested. 
I appreciate that this is rather far off the mark but it has reference to the fears expressed about the powers we are seeking under this Bill. The honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  is worried about any reviewing of the Australian Government's powers concerning offshore areas. He is concerned with whether the Government may do something about establishing a marine park in the Great Barrier Reef area so depriving fishermen of their right to earn a livelihood. That is not the intention. It may well be necessary in some areas, for the purpose of genuinely conserving fish life, to impose restrictions on fishing or other forms of activity. In some limited areas it may be necessary to exclude such activity. However, by and large in legitimate fishing areas, which may be somewhat close to areas we seek to reserve, we do not intend to declare the whole area a national park which would involve strict measures of control. That is the position with respect to the Great Barrier Reef. Such an area would be a marine park, not a national park. We recognise that in this area there will be shipping, fishing and other sorts of rights but we want control so that there is no deterioration of the area. Having deviated a little I reiterate that the Government is not willing or anxious to include in this Bill restrictions on the powers of the Australian Government to acquire land for any purposes at all which are not encompassed in the Lands Acquisition Act. If such provision is necessary the right and proper place for it is in that Act. The Government declines to accept the amendment. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 7. 
1 ) In this section, 'area' means- 
an area of land, including an area that has been dedicated or reserved as a national park or public park under a law of a Territory, in respect of which all right, title and interest is vested in Australia; 
Where an area is declared by Proclamation under subsection (2 ) to be a park or reserve- 
the subsoil beneath any land within the area, extending to such depth below the surface as is specified in the Proclamation; 
the waters and sea-bed beneath any sea within the area; and 
the subsoil beneath any such sea-bed, extending to such depth below the sea-bed as is specified in the Proclamation, shall be taken to be within that park or reserve. 
I move: 
In sub-clause (l)(a), omit 'as a national park or public park', substitute 'for the purposes of a national park, nature reserve or wildlife sanctuary or for similar purposes'. 
This clause defines what is meant by 'area'. It was thought that the reference to a 'national park' or 'public park' was not a sufficiently wide definition for the sort of areas that might be regarded as important for assistance. The amendment is designed to widen that definition. 
The Government believes it cannot accept this amendment. Much thought has been given to the implications mentioned by the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  but the Government is reluctant to include in this legislation conditions, exclusions or special privileges which properly should be part of other legislation. For that reason the Government declines to accept the amendment. 
Amendment negatived. 
This amendment involves a very long addition to the clause. Again, it arises from discussions with the Opposition. It relates to the powers of the GovernorGeneral and the fact that he can make a proclamation relating to an area of land as a national park, whether to increase it, decrease it or do what he will in relation to that area of land. It was felt that before this action is taken the public should have the opportunity to examine the recommendations and, if they care to do so, to make comments upon them. It is a rather long amendment. Rather than read it out- I trust that all those who are interested have read it- I draw the attention of the House to the fact that once again it is part of our move to ensure that the public is fully involved. This matter had slipped our attention. We had not realised the position until the Opposition brought it to our attention but we readily accept the proposition. It gives time for all those who are interested to have some say in the matter. In fact, the time is not less than 60 days after the date of publication of the notice in the Gazette. The notice is to signify to what address the objections or comments can be sent. When finally recommendations are made by the Director to the Minister and in turn to the Governor-General, all these views must be taken into account. I move: 
At the end of the clause add the following sub-clauses: '(12) Before submitting a report for the purposes of subsection (II), the Director shall- 
by public notice- 
state the nature of the report and of any recommendations proposed to be made in the report: 
invite interested persons to make representations in connexion with the report by such date, not being less than 60 days after the date of publication of the notice in the Gazette, as is specified in the notice; and 
iii ) specify an address to which such representations may be forwarded; an. 
give due consideration to any representations so made, and. when submitting the  report  he shall attach to the report any representations so made, together with his comments on those representations. '(13) Where any land is acquired by Australia for the purposes of this Part, the Minister shall, as soon as practicable after the acquisition, but subject to compliance with subsections ( 1 1 ) and ( 1 2 ), cause the carrying out of that purpose to be submitted for consideration by the Executive Council. '. 
I am very glad to hear the sentiments expressed by the Opposition spokesman on this subject, the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt).  Of course, this is exactly what I feel about all those sorts of things. If anything should be done in a national park which is of such environmental significance as this, an environmental impact study should be conducted. However, I suggest that this is in fact encompassed in the legislation although those exact words are not used. Clause 11 of the Bill deals at some length with plans of management. Clause11 (6) states: 
The plan of management shall set out a detailed description of the manner in which it is proposed to manage the park or reserve and shall include- 
a general description of any existing or proposed buildings, structures, facilities, or other developments; and 
a detailed description of any operations for the recovery of minerals, or excavation, works or other operations that may be carried on, in the park or reserve. 
That is the first thing. Nothing like the activity suggested in clause11 can take place unless it has been very carefully and clearly described in detail in the plan of management. In addition to that, the clause goes on to. state how the plan of management is to be reviewed and vetted, if you like, not just by the Minister but by the whole community. So in essence it becomes a sort of environmental impact study procedure. It is available for discussion. It has to take into account what people think about it. It has to be widely publicised. For example, sub-clause (10) of clause11 states that when the director has prepared the plan of management he shall state that the plan has been prepared. He has to advertise this fact in the newspapers, local and national. He has to state that the plan has been prepared to invite people to make representations in connection with the plan by such a date, not being less than one month after the date of publication of the notice, and so on and so forth. In other words, there is a lot of time for people to become aware of the fact that what is contemplated may in some people's eyes be an assault on the sanctity of a national park and these people can seek to do something about it. 
I am reluctant, for another reason, to accept the proposed amendment because it specifically refers to a procedure for which we have prepared and presented separate legislation. The purpose of this separate legislation, which with a bit of luck we may debate later today or tomorrow, is to ensure that anything that is considered of environmental significance, and quite clearly mining in a national park in anyone's estimate would be environmentally significant, in which the Australian Government has a say and for which it is responsible- and unfortunately we can only hope that the States will follow this lead because we cannot impose anything upon them- will be subject quite apart from the plan of management which will have gone through the whole vetting process which has been discussed, to our Environmental Protection (Impact of Proposals) Bill, which will insist that an EIS or environmental impact study be drawn up. What is more, I would assert that a public inquiry would automatically be held in regard to a proposal which concerned mining in national parks. 
For those reasons I am reluctant to accept the amendment, not because I disagree with the sentimentsI completely agree with them- but because I firmly agree that our proposed approach encompasses all that the amendment seeks to achieve. 
Amendment to the proposed amendment negatived. 
Original amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 8 and 9- byleave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 10. 
) This section has effect notwithstanding anylaw of Australia or of a State or Territory. 
No operations for the recovery of minerals shallbe carried on in a park or reserve other than operations thatare carried on, with the approval of the Minister of State for Minerals and Energy, by or on behalf of or in co-operation with Australia or an authority of Australia and in accordance with the plan of management relating to that park or reserve. 
Notwithstanding sub-section (4)- 
a ) no excavationshallbe carried on; 
b ) no building or other structure shall be erected; 
no works shall be carried out; 
no timber shall be felled or taken; 
no tracks shall be established; and 
f) no vehicle, aircraft or vessel shall be used. in a wilderness zone except by the Director, in accordance with the plan of management relating to the zone, for the purposes essential to the management of the zone and to the safety of persons in the zone. 
I think that I should indicate that my reading of this provision is a little different from that given by the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  and the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott).  I want to make it quite clear that the Minister of State for Minerals and Energy has no power at all under this legislation except that he is to do something in accordance with the plan of management relating to a particular park or reserve. In fact it is not even up to the Cabinet to decide whether there should be mining in a park. The way the provision is written means that mining can be allowed in a park only if it is in accordance with the plan of management relating to that park. The plan of management of the park has to be approved not just by the Minister for the Environment and Conservation or his 
Cabinet colleagues, or the Party; it has to be approved by both Houses of the Parliament. So this in fact is a very severe restriction on the freedom or idiosyncrasies of any Minister of State for Minerals and Energy. He cannot do a damned thing until both Houses of Parliament have agreed to change the plan of management to allow it. 
-Given that both Houses of the Parliament have agreed that there should be mining we take the view that mining in a national park, even if the Parliament agrees, is still a very serious business. For this reason no matter how we might try to describe it, it will be seen by the community- certainly some sections of the communityas a betrayal of our trust in alienating a park. Even if it is agreed that because it is of sufficient national importance and interest we should overrule what would normally be the accepted view that a national park should be inviolate, we feel that the Government should be responsible and be seen to be responsible for these actions. In real terms if we say 'the GovernorGeneral' this obviously means a recommendation from the Cabinet. The Cabinet will decide on a recommendation of the Minister for Minerals and Energy once a decision has been taken that there should be mining. I want to make it quite clear that the Minister for Minerals and Energy cannot set the thing off, but once that decision has been taken I think the government of the day should be seen to be completely responsible. True, in the wording of the provision our philosophy is that it ought to be done and on behalf of the Australian Government. But I do not think the wording excludes the Minister, if he so wishes, from designating that private enterprise should carry on the operation. It think this is in fact a discretion which this wording leaves to the Minister. 
-' By or on behalf of the Government' would allow the Minister to approve a private operation. 'Other than or in co-operation with' means that it does not have to be exclusively Australian; it could be an agent or some private consortium. This is how we have read the provision. Of course we stick to our view- it is a philosophical one, if you like- and we must agree to disagree on this. 
I take the point that the plan of management could theoretically allow for private mining. As I have tried to indicate, we take the view that it is such a serious question that even if mining is allowed it is still in a national park and it will still be the national government's responsibility. So I think we should be seen to be responsible (or the actions of mining. For these reasons, as much as I can see the point of the honourable member's arguments, for these philosophical reasons if you like, on which we disagree we decline to accept this amendment. 
Amendment negatived. 
I feel that the amendment is superfluous. I must say that I am not terribly hung up on it. I would hope that no rational director would proceed to stop legitimate and authorised scientific research. I accept the amendment moved by the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  though I think it is probably unnecessary. 
A suggestion here has come from the same source. It was brought to my attention primarily by the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt).  In the clause relating to the wilderness zone there are certain things that should not be done; there should be no excavations, no buildings, no works and so on, except in accordance with the plan of management relating to the zone for purposes essential to the management of the zone and to the safety of persons in the zone. This I find rather humourous but again I accept the proposal. The suggestion is that the words: 'and to the safety of persons in the zone' should be omitted. The reason is that if it is a wilderness area, but under the plan of management it is accessible to those hardy souls who wish to pit themselves against nature in the wilderness, they do not want to feel that if they do go into the area God, in the form of the director, is hovering over them caring for their safety. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)  -A sort of twilight zone. 
Yes, a twilight zone. They want to go feeling that they are threatened. 
That is exactly my observation. If they get lost they will be very glad to see the helicopter zooming over looking for them. I am quite sure of that. However, if they feel happier in the knowledge that the Bill does not say that their safety is being looked after I will accept the honourable member's amendment. I do not oppose the omission of the words 'and to the safety of persons in the zone '. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 11. 
1 ) As soon as practicable after a park or reserve has been declared, the Director shall prepare a plan of management in respect of that park or reserve. 
) Before preparing a plan of management in respect of a park or reserve, the Director shall, by notice published in the Gazette and in such newspapers as he thinks fit- 
state that he intends to prepare a plan of management in respect of that park or reserve: 
invite interested persons to make representations in connexion with the proposed plan by such date, mil being less than 1 month after the date of publication of the notice in the Gazette, as is specified in the notice; and 
specify an address to which such representations may be forwarded. 
When the Director has prepared the plan of management, he shall, by notice published in the Gazette and in such newspapers as he thinks fit- 
a ) state that the plan has been prepared; 
14) Where the plan of management has been so referred to the Director, he shall give further consideration to the plan, having regard to the suggestion of the Minister, and again submit the plan, with or without alterations, to the Minister, together with his comments on the suggestions to the Minister. 
When the plan of management is again submitted to the Minister, he shall accept the plan as so submitted or after making such alterations as he thinks fit. 
I move: 
In sub-clause (2), omit 'notice published in the Gazette and in such newspapers as he thinks fit', substitute 'public notice'. 
In sub-clause (10), omit 'notice published in the Gazette and in such newspapers as he thinks fit', substitute 'public notice '. . 
In, sub-clause (14), after 'shall', insert ', as soon as practicable after receipt of the plan, '. 
In sub-clause (15), after 'shall', insert ',as soon as practicable alter receipt of the plan, '. 
The first two of these amendments relate to the third amendment which was made to clause 3 where it specified that in this Act a reference to a public notice is' a reference to a notice published and .sped ties all the things it could be published in. Concerning the last two of these amendments, it was brought to my attention that in some situations where it states that the director shall give further consideration to a plan it was thought that we ought to insert the words 'as soon as practicable after receipt of a plan' because we did not want the plan to lie around gathering dust. Once again the Government accepts these proposals to insert in sub-clause ( 15) 'as soon as practicable after receipt of the plan, '. 
I agree. I think it cuts both ways. In fact, I envisage the situation where the Government may want to extend a park area. After all, if the States Grants (Nature Conservation) Bill is passed $9m will be allocated for that purpose alone. I would think that a few State governments around the country are going to start looking for land to buy. If it is Crown land they will not have to buy it. So clearly the money is for land that they are going to seek to buy. It strikes me that there is no harm in letting people know what is likely to happen because I think it would be a poor situation for some poor blighter not to know that it is envisaged that the State- I am not talking now about the Australian Government but about the State governments- intends to buy some land because the Australian Government is giving them the wherewithal to do it. The State Government knows that it is contemplating acquisition. If it is talking about a plan of management and could foreshadow the buying of land so that people might be aware of it but does not do so the result could be that somebody sells some land to someone else in good faith and then soon after the purchase the new owner suddenly finds that he is submerged in a park. I think that bearing in mind the frailties of human beings in these sorts of activities and our passions in relation to these things and the fact that we do not want to lose, and we do not want to be taken down by people who can make a profit out of this kind of situation, there are 2 sides to it. I feel that the fairest thing, if an extension to the park is contemplated, is to have the plan of management indicate this possibility. It does not actually take any positive action. The clause states: 
The plan of management may include provisions in relation to an area that is proposed to be added to the park or reserve, but those provisions shall not have effect until the area is added to the park or reserve. 
Nothing can be done. It is warning people of something that is likely to happen. We will always have arguments about whether or not compensation should be paid. In this case what is  obviously involved is compensation. The Australian  Governmernt  if it is ever involved in acquiring land anywhere, has to pay compensation in terms of market value. The States are the ones which might behave in a contrary fashion. I do not believe that they often do so. I think most governments, whether State or Federal, seek to be as just as possible to the people who may be victimised by their actions. 
I must admit that particular point had not been drawn to my attention. I would like to think that if a government bothers to specify in a plan of management that it intends to extend an area it is not going to sit twiddling its thumbs waiting for a long time to do it. After all, it could be accused if it did of bad faith and it may well rebound electorally on the government. I would suggest that any government anywhere that seeks to do that would be well advised to act quickly afterwards in fairness to the people involved. Delay could only rebound against the government itself. Imagine the hue and cry that some  agrieved  person could raise on this sort of issue. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 12 to 17- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 18. 
1 ) This section applies in relation to- 
land vested in an Aboriginal or Aboriginals or in a body corporate that is wholly owned by Aboriginals; 
) land held upon trust for the benefit of Aboriginals; or 
any other land occupied by Aboriginals. 
Subject to sub-section (3), the Director may assist and co-operate with Aboriginals in managing land to which this section applies for the purpose of the protection and conservation of wildlife in that land and the protection of the natural features of that land. 
The Director shall not take any action under subsection (2) in relation to any land except in accordance with an agreement between the Director and- 
in the case of land vested in Australia- the Minister of State for Aboriginal Affairs; 
in the case of land vested in a State- the Minister of the Crown of that State or the authority of that State, as the case may be, having responsibility for the administration of that land; or 
in the case of any other land- the person in whom, or body in which, the land is vested. 
With the consent of the person, authority or body with whom such an agreement is made by the Director in relation to any land, the Governor-General may, by Proclamation, assign a name to that land. 
I move: 
Omit the clause, substitute the following clause:- ' 18 ( 1 ) Subject to sub-section (2). the Director may assist and co-operate with Aboriginals in managing land to which this section applies for the purpose of the protection and conservation of wildlife in that land and the protection of the natural features of that land. '(2) The Director shall not take any action under subsection ( 1 ) in relation to any land, except- 
) after consultation with the Aboriginals, if any. as  to  whom the Minister is satisfied that they have traditional rights in relation to the land; and 
in accordance with an agreement between the Director and- 
in the case of land vested in Australia- the Minister of State for Aboriginal Affairs; 
in the case of land vested in a State- the Minister of that State or the authority of that State, as the case may be, having responsibility for the administration of that land; or 
in the case of any other land- the person in whom or body which, the land is vested.  '(3)  With the consent of the person with whom, or the party or body with which, such an agreement is made by the Director in relation to any land, the Governor-General may. by proclamation, assign a name to that land. '(4) This section applies to- 
land vested in an Aboriginal or Aboriginals or in a body corporate that is wholly owned by Aboriginals: 
land held upon trust for the benefit of Aboriginals: or 
any other land occupied by Aboriginals. '. 
This matter was brought to my attention by the Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs on which both sides of the House of Representatives are represented as honourable members are aware. It has been pointed out to me that whilst the Committee agreed with the sentiments expressed in the clause as it was originally, it felt that it could be misinterpreted. For this reason we have turned the clauses around a bit to make it clear that if we are going to deal with Aboriginal land we will first of all ensure that the complete understanding, co-operation and agreement of the Aborigines is obtained beforehand. A fairly delicate exercise has been required. It is often difficult to know to which group of Aborigines one should address one's attention, so we have specified what is required in these terms in proposed clause 18: 
Subject to sub-section (2), the Director may assist and co-operate with Aboriginals - 
We are not wishing to take anything away from them or deprive them of anything:  ... in managing land to which this section applies for the purpose of the protection and conservation of wildlife in that /and and  the  protection of the natural features of that land. 
The new clause then continues: 
The Director shall not take any action under subsection ( I ) in relation to any land except- 
after consultation with the Aboriginals, if any, as to whom the Minister is satisfied that they have traditional rights in relation to the land - 
This matter was brought to my attention quite forcefully by the Committee. It pointed out that while the Government is setting up land councils of various sorts, often the question of ownership is a most delicate one. Many Aborigines do not recognise that it is the prerogative of land councils to make these sorts of decisions. Aborigines have very strong views about who owns land. While we often squabble about land rights, they in many ways could be said to be far more civilised than we are. Over the aeons of time they have established who owns the land and whose rights to the land should predominate. 
I think that they are far more civilised in many ways than we are. Because of this situation, we wanted if possible to find the Aborigines whom other Aborigines would concede have the traditional rights to that land. If it is not possible to do that, the sub-clause then goes on to provide: 
in accordance with an agreement between the Director and- 
in the case of land vested in Australia- the Minister of State for Aboriginal Affairs - 
In other words, as some of the Aboriginal land is vested in Australia we cannot ride roughshod over the Aborigines and we cannot ride roughshod over whoever is their representative as far as the Australian Government is concerned: 
in the case of land vested in a State- the Minister of that State or the authority of that State, as the case may be, having responsibility for the administration of that land - 
In fact, we leave it open in the case of any other land by providing: 
in the case of any other land- the person in whom, or body in which, the land is vested. 
We have cast the sub-clauses as widely as we could to ensure that we did not clash with traditional Aboriginal land rights. Sub-clause (3) of proposed new clause 18 specifies some of the other aspects which we do encompass initially in the provision. It states: 
With the consent of the person with whom, or the party or body with which such an agreement is made by the Director in relation to any land, the Governor-General may, by proclamation, assign a name to that land. 
Sub-clause (4) provides: 
This section applies to- 
land vested in an Aboriginal or Aboriginals or in a body corporate that is wholly owned by Aboriginals; 
any other land occupied by Aboriginals. 
For the reasons that I have outlined, I have moved the amendment proposing the new clause, the provisions of which I have just set out. It says somewhat the same things, but in a slightly different way with more emphasis being placed on land owners. 
I move: 
Omit the clause, substitute the following clause: ' 1 9. ( 1 ) The Director may- 
a ) formulate and implement: and 
co-operate with a State or an authority of a State in formulating and implementing, programs for the purposes of the protection, conservation, management and control of wildlife. '(2 ) A program formulated under sub-section ( I ) shall be based upon, among other matters- 
an examination of the habitat of the wildlife to which the program relates: 
an evaluation of the extent to which parks and reserves (including parks and reserves established under the law of a State or Territory) assist in the conservation of the wildlife to which the program relates; 
an assessment and analysis of the population of the wildlife to which the program relates; and 
consideration of the obligations of Australia under agreements between Australia and other countries relating to the protection and conservation of wildlife, and shall provide for the review, at appropriate intervals, of the matters referred to in paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (d). '(3) A program shall not be implemented by the Director under this section until it has been approved by the Minister.'. 
Again, this amendment represents almost a complete redrafting of the original clause. It was pointed out that it was a bit incongruous to have in a Bill ostensibly for the purpose of national parks and wildlife conservation a clause which is noted in the margin as relating to: 'Culling and commercial harvesting of wildlife'. It seemed, to say the least, a little incongruous and quite contrary to the spirit of the whole Bill. By the amendment, we seek to change the clause to a more positive expression of what we are seeking to do, that is, to protect wildlife. The clause has been redrafted in terms of its new marginal definition which is 'Wildlife conservation programs' rather than 'Culling and commercial harvesting of wildlife '. 
The amendment specifies in essence that we are to seek the co-operation of the States or the authority of the States in formulating and implementing programs for the purposes of the protection, conservation, management and control of wildlife. It indicates some of the points that should be examined in deciding those programs. These include habitat, an evaluation of the extent to which existing parks and reserves may achieve the purpose which we are seeking and the techniques for an assessment and analysis of the population of wildlife. After all, if we have claims and counter claims on, for example, how many kangaroos can be culled, the answer quite clearly depends on how competent our assessment of the kangaroo population is. We will seek to assess and analyse the population of wildlife and also give consideration to the obligations of Australia under certain agreements between this country and other countries relating to the protection and conservation of wildlife. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Lucock)Order!  It will be necessary first to resolve the question now before the Committee. The question is: 'That the clause proposed to be omitted  (Dr Cass's amendment)  stand part of the Bill'. Those of that opinion say aye, to the contrary no, I think the noes have it. The question now is: 'That the clause proposed to be inserted  (Dr Cass's amendment)  be so inserted '. 
This particular issue has raised a lot of emotion, anxiety and anger on all sides. I think the point which the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  has raised is the key issue which has triggered off the whole matter. Before I answer him I point out while I feel cool, calm and collected that we do not envisage domineering or forcing people to do anything. This is a simple proposition if a reasonable and controlled program is drawn up in consultation with the States. That is the purpose of our proposed amendment. It states: 19.(1) The Director may - 
formulate and implement; and 
co-operate with a State or an authority of a State in formulating and implementing, programs for the purposes of the protection, conservation, management and control of wildlife. 
If any State or all States adopt reasonable, rational and sensible control programs there is no earthly reason why the Australian Government should step in. Now, let me get a bit excited. I refer specificially to the kangaroo problem. I remember sitting on a back bench in this House while day after day the former honourable member for Henty,  Mr Fox,  the then Liberal-Country Party Government Whip, introduced petition after petition praying that we would save the red kangaroo. No one ever counted the number of signatures but I guess there were hundreds of thousands on those petitions. To do  Mr Fox  credit, he finally succeeded in stirring the government of the day, a LiberalCountry Party Government, to establish a committee of inquiry into the whole business. The Labor Party was represented on that committee together with supporters of the government of the day, the Liberal-Country Party. 
The House of Representatives Select Committee on Wildlife Conservation in its recommendations strongly suggested the need for strong Australian Government participation and action in ensuring that sensible control programs were evolved. The report was made but, as is so customary with all reports, it tended to lie undisturbed gathering dust. Still the petitions came in. Still nothing was being done. I concede that when the Australian Labor Party got to power many of us on the Government side in 1972 and at the beginning of 1973 felt that we had gained office because- among other reasons- of our concern for the environment and conservation. The continuing slaughter of the kangaroo, as most people saw it, was worrying a lot of people. 
The Australian Government has no direct power over kangaroos. Any State government could decree that every single kangaroo in that State be shot and we could do nothing about it. At least, there was nothing we could do about it at that stage. The position has changed a bit now. The story that the so-called ban was imposed by the Minister for Customs and Excise,  Senator Murphy,  without any consultation is not quite right.  Senator Murphy  indicated to me that he had power and that he was prepared to act. I accepted his offer with alacrity because in fact it was the only way of getting some action. All  Senator Murphy  did was to observe the law of this land as it has been since about the 1930s when the government of that day passed a law which provided that no native species could be exported without a permit. So unless there is a permit it is illegal. That is all there is about it. That is the law of the land. All  Senator Murphy  said was that he would not allow any more permits until he had been advised by the Minister responsible- who was myself- that the product was taken in conformity with a rational and acceptable management program. Of course when everybody learnt that we had forbidden the export of kangaroo products that raised merry hell. Kangaroos could still be killed. They could still be canned, made into goods and used in Australia but they could not be exported. 
We had a meeting of Ministers, I think in March 1973. It was very early on. We were assaulted on all sides by the State people. We agreed that something had to be done about the matter. We agreed to establish a working party to work out a management program. We proceeded to do that. It was not the Australian Government but a group of the fauna authorities of all States. It was their recommendation which we sought and which we asked the State governments to accept. I regret to say that they have still not accepted the recommendation. That is the problem. This matter raises a lot of heat. I do not want to enter into any more argument. When we have a reasonable program the ban will be lifted. That is what we have said all along. We want to ensure that whatever animals are taken- that is what our proposed amendment suggests- it will be done in conformity with a reasonable management program. We decline to accept the amendment. 
Amendment to proposed amendment negatived. 
Original amendment agreed to. 
Clauses 20 to 39- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 40. 
) A warden may, without warrant, arrest any person, if the warden reasonably believes- 
that the person has committed an offence against this Act; and 
that proceedings against the person by summons would not be effective. 
I move: 
After sub-clause ( 1 ), insert the following sub-clause: ( 1a) Where a warden (other than a member of a police force who is in uniform ) arrests a person under sub-section (l),heshall- 
in the case of a member of a police force- produce for inspection by that person, written evidence of the fact that he is a member of a police force; or 
in any other case- produce his identity cardfor inspection by that person. '. 
Under the clause as it stood. a warden could apprehend people without signifying who or what he was. We realise that that was unreasonable. 
I move: 
In sub-clause ( 1 ), after 'vehicle, ' insert 'aircraft, '. 
In sub-clause (2 ), after 'vehicle, ' insert 'aircraft,'. 
In sub-clause ( 3 ), after 'vehicle, ' insert ' aircraft, '. 
In sub-clause (4), after 'vehicle,' insert 'aircraft,'. 
The word 'aircraft' was inadvertantly omitted initially. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 42. 
1 ) A warden may, in a park or reserve in Australia or the Australian coastal sea, search a vehicle or vessel for the purpose of ascertaining whether there is in or on that vehicle or vessel- 
any animal, plant or article in respect of which an offence against this Act has been committed; or 
anything that will afford evidence as to the commission of an offence against this Act, and for that purpose stop or detain a vehicle or vessel. 
A warden may, anywhere in Australia or the Australian coastal sea or in a park of reserve outside the Australian coastal sea, search a vehicle or vessel if he believes on reasonable grounds that there is in or on that vehicle or vessel 
any animal, plant or article in respect of which an offence against this Act has been committed; or 
anything that will afford evidence as to the commission of an offence against this Act, and for that purpose stop or detain a vehicle or vessel. 
3 ) A warden or ranger may, in a park or reserve- 
require any person whom he finds committing, or whom he reasonably suspects of having committed, an offence against this Act to state his full name and usual place of residence; 
require any person whom he finds committing, or whom he reasonably suspects of having committed, an offence against this Act to leave that park or reserve; and 
require any person whom he reasonably suspects of having done an act in respect of which the person is required to hold a licence, permit or other authority under this Act to produce such a licence or permit or evidence of such an authority. 
Where a warden (other than a member of a police force who is in uniform ) proposes to search, stop or detain a vehicle or vessel, he shall, on demand by the person in charge of the vehicle or vessel- 
in the case of a member of a police force- produce, for inspection by that person, written evidence of the fact that he is a member of a police force; or 
in any other case- produce his identity card for inspection by that person, and, if he fails to do so, he is not authorized to search, stop or detain that vehicle or vessel. 
Where a warden (other than a member of a police force who is in uniform) or a ranger makes a requirement of a person in pursuance of sub-section (3), he shall, on demand by that person- 
in the case of a member of a police force- produce, for inspection by that person, written evidence of the fact that he is a member of a police force; or 
in any other case- produce his identity card for inspection by that person, and, if he fails to do so, that person is not obliged to comply with the requirement. 
I move: 
In sub-clause (1) after 'vehicle', first appearing, insert ', aircraft'. 
In sub-clause ( 1 ), after 'vehicle', second appearing, insert ', aircraft'. 
In sub-clause (1), after 'vehicle', third appearing, insert ', aircraft'. 
In sub-clause (2), after 'vehicle', first appearing, insert ', aircraft'. 
In sub-clause (2), after 'vehicle', second appearing, insert '.aircraft'. 
In sub-clause (2), after 'vehicle', third appearing, insert 'aircraft'. 
Omit sub-clause (4), substitute the following sub-clause: '(4) Where a warden (other than a member of a police force who is in uniform) stops, or proposes to search or detain, a vehicle, aircraft or vessel, he shall- 
in the case of a member of a police force- produce, for inspection by the person in charge of the vehicle, aircraft or vessel, written evidence of the fact that he is a member of a police force; or 
in any other case- produce his identity card for inspection by that person, and, if he fails to do so, he is not authorized to search or detain that vehicle, aircraft or vessel. '. 
In sub-clause ( 5 ), omit ', on demand by that person '. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 43 to 64- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 65. 
In any proceedings for an offence against this Act, an averment of the prosecutor, contained in the information or complaint, that, at a specified time- 
the defendant was in a specified park or reserve: or 
an animal, plant, vehicle, vessel or article referred to in the information or complaint was in a specified park or reserve, is prima facie evidence of the matter averred. 
I move: 
After 'vehicle ' insert ' aircraft, '. 
At this stage I would prefer to leave it as it is. I will certainly mention the matter to the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Murphy)  and obtain his views on it. At this stage I wish to persist with the clause. 
Clause agreed to. 
Proposed new clause 69a. 
I move: 
After clause 69, insert the following new clause: '69a  (  1 ) Subject to sub-section (2 ) and to the operation of this Act in relation to parks and reserves, nothing in this Act prevents Aboriginals from continuing, in accordance with law, the traditional use of any area of land or water for hunting or food-gathering (otherwise than for purposes of sale) and for ceremonial and religious purposes. '(2 ) The operation of sub-section ( 1 ) is subject to regulations made for the purpose of conserving wildlife in any area and expressly affecting the traditional use of the area by Aboriginals. '. 
The proposed new clause relates to the use of parks and reserves by Aboriginals, in accordance with law, for their traditional use of the area of land or water for hunting, food gathering and so. Certainly we will have national parks where obviously we will have to observe the rights of the Aboriginals to use them in a traditional fashion but, of course, not to destroy the purpose of the park. Therefore the operation of the sub-section will be subject to regulations made for the purpose of conserving wildlife in the area. . Proposed new clause agreed to. 
Clause 70. 
1 ) The Governor-General may make regulations, not inconsistent with this Act, prescribing all matters required or permitted by this Act to be prescribed or necessary or convenient to be prescribed for carrying out or giving effect to this Act. 
Without limiting the generality of sub-section (1), regulations may be made- 
a ) providing for functions and powers to be conferred, and duties to be imposed, upon wardens and rangers; 
providing for the protection and conservation of wildlife; 
c) regulating or restricting trade and commerce in connexion with wildlife; 
regulating or prohibiting the pollution of water in a manner harmful to wildlife; 
regulating or prohibiting the use of vessels in, and the passage of vessels through, parks and reserves and the landing and use of aircraft in, and the flying of aircraft over, parks and reserves; 
Regulations with respect to a matter shall be regulations applicable to that matter only so far as that matter may be dealt with under the powers of the Parliament, including its powers with respect to- 
the government of a Territory; 
b ) places acquired by Australia for public purposes; 
the Australian coastal sea; 
) matters arising out of the rights (including sovereign rights) of Australia in relation to the continental shelf of Australia; 
external affairs, including the implementation of agreements between Australia and other countries; 
wade and commerce with other countries and among the States, including the import or export of animals and plants; 
The Government opposes this amendment. We are prepared to concede the omission of the words 'or restricting' so that paragraph (2)(c) will read:  regulating trade and commerce in connexion with wildlife: 
I suggest that the clause be amended simply omitting the words 'or restricting'. 
I apologise. 
Amendment negatived. 
I move: 
In paragraph (2 ) (c) omit 'or restricting'.  Amendment agreed to.  Mr HUNT  (Gwydir) (5.0 )-I move: . At the end of paragraph (2)(d) add 'in parks, reserves or wilderness areas'. 
Omit paragraph (2 )(s). 
Omit paragraph (4)(e). 
In paragraph (4)( f), omit 'and among the States. '. 
In relation to the first amendment, the Opposition feels that there should not be regulationmaking powers to encompass an area other than an area to which this legislation is directed. I have moved the second amendment because the Opposition feels that paragraph (2)(s) gives far  too much power by way of regulation by regulating or prohibiting the use of vessels in, and the passage of vessels through, parks and reserves and the landing and use of aircraft in, and the flying of aircraft over, parks and reserves. This type of regulation should be contained in a Bill for an Act. Paragraph (4)(e) gives regulationmaking powers with respect to external affairs, including the implementation of agreements between Australia and other countries. International agreements are very important and surely they should be contained in a Bill for an Act rather than just be pushed through the Parliament by way of regulation. Of course, there are ways and means of blocking regulations but this is an easy way of trying to achieve things inconspicuously. If we adopt these procedures the Parliament could well not know what is going through by way of regulation because of the way in which regulations are made. It is no good saying that all members of Parliament are watching every regulation that goes through the Parliament. Not every honourable member- certainly not on the Opposition side- has the staff or the departments behind him to check the volume of regulations that is flowing through. 
The last amendment refers to paragraph (4)(f). Here we have a regulation making provision with respect to trade and commerce with other countries and among the States, including the import and export of animals and plants. The Opposition has moved an amendment to omit the words 'and among the States' because it feels that the Government should not take unto itself regulation making powers in respect of trade and commerce matters that may apply among the States. Indeed it is questionable whether there is constitutional provision to entitle the Government to make regulations in this regard. 
Amendments negatived. 
I should like to say a few words because, despite the gag, I was listening to the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly),  and I agree with much of what the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  has said. Therefore I indicate that the Government accepts the amendments. I should also like to elaborate on the conditions which are mentioned in clause 4(5). The honourable member for Wakefield raised this question, so I shall read the details from the letter sent by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam ) to the Premiers. In that letter he suggested that the Australian Government was interested in providing funds for this sort of program and sought their co-operation. He set down certain conditions under which we were prepared to offer funds. It is to this letter that all the States, excepting New South Wales, replied in the affirmative accepting the conditions. The letter reads: 
The main condition associated with the allocation of these funds is that the State and Australian Governments should collaborate in a study program to be completed by 30 June 1976 to establish a basis for a long-term national program of soil conservation in the context of an integrated approach to land management.  Major components  in the study program will be: 
The development of a national approach to land resources survey and evaluation. 
The drawing up of a co-ordinated research program aimed at meeting the most urgent needs associated with soil conservation. 
Study of legal, administrative, financial and land tenure systems associated with soil conservation and land management, including the matter of cost allocation and reimbursement in relation to works on private property. 
Requirements for the recruitment and training of all categories of staff. 
Integration with other areas of Government policy including rural reconstruction, conservation and flood mitigation. 
Other conditions are that your Government will not reduce its planned level of expenditure on soil conservation and that funds for the interim program will not be made available for works on private property unless the landholder undertakes responsibility for complementary land management activities. 
In other words we will do the very things about which the honourable member for Wakefield was talking. We are interested in the grass-roots response. The letter goes on: 
In accordance with its current practice, the Australian Government also reserves the right to consider the environmental implications of projects prior to agreeing to provide funds for those projects. 
They are the conditions to which we have referred. I have placed them on record. They are contained in the letter to the Premiers, and on the basis of that letter the majority of the State Premiers have accepted the proposal. With those few words, I accept the amendments proposed by the honourable member for Gwydir. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
On 2 March 1973 at a meeting between the Prime Minister and Premiers of New South Wales. Victoria and South Australia it was agreed to establish a working party of senior officials of the four governments to: 
Examine and recommend in an initial report urgent interim measures which might be implemented in the short term to deal with the salinity problems of the River Murray waters and the means by which tho.se measures might be financed and operated. 
Examine and recommend types of measures which need to be taken to protect and where necessary improve the quality of the River Murray waters in respect of (a) long term salinity control, and (b) other forms of water pollution. 
Examine and recommend changes which would herequired in the River Murray Waters Agreement to enable the River Murray Commission to undertake the measures referred to in 2. 
Following a report by the Salinity Committee the Working Party submitted an Interim Report to Ministers in September 1973 which made recommendations on a number of minor salt mitigation works. State Governments are continuing to carry out investigations in a number of problem areas and when these investigations are completed it is expected that they will be considered by the Salinity Committee which would submit a further report to the Working Party. Working Party Committees on water quality and irrigation farm practices will be submitting reports to the Working Party in the near future. 
One problem area concerns the Working Party's biological conservation Committee. The Steering Committee of Ministers agreed at their meeting on 7 November 1973 that conservation along the Murray should be considered by the 
Working Party. Nominations for this Committee were received from Victoria and South Australia by March 1974. While on a number of occasions queries were addressed to New South Wales regarding their nominations it was not until 31 October 1974, that I was advised by the New South Wales Minister for Conservation that it would not be possible for New South Wales to nominate representatives to the Committee. I will be writing to the New South Wales Minister for Conservation to determine the implications of this action as to the future activities of the Working Party. 
I have already approached the Minister for Customs and Excise in relation to the only 2 States which so far have notified us that they have accepted the advice provided by the working party made up of the experts from the States, not from the Australian Government, on an acceptable program of control of kangaroos. So far 2 States have complied with the working party's suggestions, namely, South Australia and New South Wales. I have approached the Minister for Customs and Excise and expect a reply from him shortly on a lifting of the ban or some modification of the ban to accommodate the 2 States which are complying with the required program. 
Until the other States agree with their own expert committee I am not prepared to advise the Minister for Customs and Excise that he should consider lifting the ban for those States. Yet I share the honourable member's concern about the kangaroo and the fact that the problem will lead to the sort of indiscriminate slaughter about which the honourable member is talking. In fact the honourable member for Wakefield in the debate on this question yesterday indicated that in some situations it is quite likely that the farmers will commence poisoning kangaroos because they do not want to be harassed by excessive populations of kangaroos. I concede that this is a problem. We have never been so foolish as to say that the problem would not arise, but it is entirely in the hands of the States. When they are prepared to accept a program which their own experts drew up we will oblige by modifying or abolishing the ban. 
For the information of honourable members I present the first report of the Department of the Environment and Conservation covering the period from the establishment of the Department in December 1972 to 30 June 1974. 
The answer to the honorable member's question is as follows: 
No, but on 18 October, the Minister for Agriculture, the Minister for Health and I jointly issued a Press statement that allegations being made in Taiwan that southern hemisphere milk powders contained possibly high levels of radioiodine were quite unfounded. 
See reply to Part (1). 
The need for such a statement as issued (see Part 1 above) was to counter the allegations which were apparently being made to cause fear in the minds of consumers of Australian dairy products on the island of Taiwan. Unfounded reports of this nature might also have had repercussions in other markets of importance to Australia in that region. 
The answer to the honourable member's question, as advised by the River Murray Commission, is as follows: 
1 ) De-snagging operations on an initial 1 5 mile section of the Murray River upstream of Howlong will begin as soon as possible, after river levels return to normal and investigations of the environmental impact of the removal of snags on fish and wildlife have been completed. 
The work will be carried out jointly by the Water Conservation and Irrigation Commission of New South Wales operating from the northern bank and the State Rivers and Water Supply Commission on the southern bank. The commencement of the work has, as indicated in the reply to question ( I ) been delayed because of the need to examine environmental aspects, but in any event would not have been possible over the past twenty months because of continuous high river levels and wet conditions. 
The answer to the honourable member's question, as advised by the River Murray Commission, is as follows: 
The River Murray Commission has instructed its Technical Committee to initially assemble and review all available information on this section of the river with a view to reporting back to the Commission on a need for additional studies. At the same time, the Committee has been asked to determine the effect of the Barmah Choke on regulated flows, operational losses and available supplies. The investigation should also consider what operational procedures may be necessary to achieve the maximum benefits from the existing situation and the extent of any theoretical loss of resources arising from present limitations of channel capacity through the Barmah- Millewa Forest. These investigations are proceeding but until they are completed, the extent of any works, if necessary, to enlarge the capacity of the Murray River in this area will not be known. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(1)- 

 Mrs C. Settle  (Chairman) Department of the Environment and Conservation, Canberra. 

 Mr J. A. Ligertwood, Engineering and Water Supply Department, South Australia. 

 Mr M. R. Till, Department of Agriculture, South Australia. 

 Mr P. B. Allen, Department of Agriculture, Canberra. 

 Mr P. A. Witschi, Department of Agriculture, New South Wales. 

 Mr S. Pels, Water Conservation and Irrigation Commission, New South Wales. 

 Mr E. P. Robinson, State Rivers and Water Supply Commission, Victoria. 

 Mr K. R. Garland, Department of Agriculture, Victoria. 
Twice. The Committee met on 29 July 1974 and on 2 1 October 1974. 
Yes. Submissions that have been considered by the Committee to date have been those received from: 
 State Rivers and Water Supply Commission, Victoria. 
Department of Agriculture, Victoria. 
Water Conservation and Irrigation Commission, New South Wales. 
 Department of Agriculture, New South Wales. 
Department of Agriculture, South Australia. 
The Committee will also be considering submissions received from the following: 
Victorian Irrigation Research and Promotion Organisation. 
Torrumbarry System Irrigators Association. 
Victorian Irrigators Central Council. 
Australian Dried Fruits Association. 
Loddon Regional Committee. 
Murray Research and Extension Committee. 
Kerang Agricultural Research Farm. 
Swan Hill Irrigators Research Farm. 
The Committee aims to submit a report to the River Murray Working Party by the end of January. 
5 ) Australian Government financial assistance to encourage the adoption of improved practices recommended by the Committee, may be available through the Australian Extension Services Grants to the States. 
The answer to the honourable member's question insofar as it relates to water research projects in which my Department has had a direct interest is as follows: ( 1 ), (2) As pan of the research program of the Australian Water Resources Council, administered by my Department and financed by the Australian Government,  Dr Clark  has carried out the following research projects: 
Legal, institutional and administrative aspects of groundwater management in Australia. 
b ) The Law of Allocation of water for private use. 
The Department of National Development under the previous Liberal-Country Party Government commissioned a study by  Dr Clark  on the administration of interstate rivers. Finance was provided by the Australian Government. 
As a consultant to ECAFE  Dr Clark  compiled a comparative study of water legislation and administration techniques in the ECAFE countries. This project was managed by the Department of National Development on behalf of the Department of Foreign Affairs and financed by the Australian Government. This project was financed under the Multilateral Aid-Regional Projects for Economic Co-operation in Asia section of the Australian External Aid Program (RPECA) 
(a) The Law of Allocation of water for private use. 
Vol. 1 Legislation and Private Rights; Vol. 2 Specific Problems; Vol. 3 Australian Case Notes; Vol. 4 Interstate Rivers. These reports were received by the Department of National Development. 
Project on Administration of Interstate RiversDraft Working Paper on the Administration of Interstate Rivers. This report is an incomplete draft of what was proposed as a background paper to form the basis of discussions with interested parties as to the various ways in which existing requirements for the management of Australian interstate rivers might be revised. The report was received by the Department of the Environment and Conservation. 
Guidelines for the Drafting of Water Legislation. This report was transmitted to ECAFE 
3(a) A copy has been placed in the Parliamentary 
Library. 3(b) A copy has been placed in the Parliamentary Library. 3(c) A copy will be placed in the Parliamentary Library as soon as one becomes availaWe 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to ( 1 1 ) I refer the right honourable member to the information provided by the Minister for the Media in reply to Question No. 1S81 (House of Representatives Hansard 4 December 1 974 page 4590). 
For the information of honourable members I present a report on the meeting of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development Environment Committee at ministerial level on 13 and 14 November 1974. 
I am aware that there has been newspaper comment recently about the prospect of Concorde aircraft flying to this country. No decision has yet been taken. The matter is being investigated. As part of our commitment, any assessment of whether these flights should be made will include an assessment of the environmental effects. If a proposal does in fact come eventually from British Airways it will be accompanied by an environmental impact statement prepared by British Airways in conjunction and in co-operation with the Department of Transport. It will no doubt encompass research being undertaken in the United States on the environmental effects of Concorde nights and until this has been assessed and until the Australian community has had a chance to see the document and to comment on it, the Australian Government will make no decision. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Safety regulations in general and for petro-chemical plants in particular are the responsibility of State governments. 
One aspect of safety regulations in which we would hope to attain uniformity throughout Australia is emission and effluent standards. Such uniformity would ensure that overseas investors were not given a licence to pollute Australia by an environmentally irresponsible State. However, at  tins  time, I must report that this is a project for the future. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (3) The publication entitled" The Packaging Plague", prepared by the Australian Conservation Foundation, was brought to my attention, and officers of my Department have examined the document and the figures contained in it. As the figures are of a derived nature, they depend on a number of assumptions and thus cannot be readily substantiated or disproved. Nevertheless, the paper does reflect a concern that the amount of waste generated in our society by packaging is a significant environmental problem. This problem was acknowledged by the Australian Environment Council when it established the Packaging, Recycling and Waste Sub-Committee. 
My Department, in co-operation with the Department of Urban and Regional Development, is currently considering the development of a comprehensive policy on waste management in Australia and the magnitude of the. packaging wastes problem will be an important element to be identified in these considerations. The bases for any policy development, including figures which indicate the magnitude of elements of the problem, will be made known publicly. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to (5) See the answer provided by the Special Minister of State to Question No. 1862 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, page 4841). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Waste paper generated within Parliament House is removed in a non-compressed form, by contractor, on a daily basis. The number of loose bales collected range from S-20/day depending on whether Parliament is in session or not. The bales each weighing approximately 100 lbs. are transported to his depot where the various paper types are sorted, compressed and recycled by arrangement with the Australian Paper Manufacturers Ltd. Material of a confidential nature including that from Ministers' suites is shredded before baling excepting for a small quantity which is incinerated. The Chief Executive Officer of the Joint House Depanment has closely observed this system over the past two years and regards it as a highly efficient recycling operation for the present building. All non-returnable glass containers are also collected by the same contractor who handles the waste paper recycling. 
Republic of Korea, India and the People's Republic of China : Imports  (Question No. 1106) 
Although asked without notice, I must say that this question was not unexpected because I certainly did notice both the newspaper comment and the comments made by some honourable members opposite. Quite clearly there appears to be some misunderstanding of what in fact the Australian Government has decided. So perhaps the best way in which to clear up this misunderstanding would be for me to quote from the letter the Prime Minister sent to the Acting Premier of Western Australia. I will quote the relevant portion of the letter in terms of the conditions that the Australian Government is seeking to impose, which was dealt with in the question. The letter was sent on 3 February and it reads: 
From the Australian Government's examination of the Environmental Review and Environmental Management Program- 
I might indicate that they were prepared by the Western Australian people and not by us- 
It is considered that these documents need to be supplemented by the provision of further information on wildlife research proposals, and the technical problems of refinery emissions and proposed solutions to minimise their effect. Further information is also needed on the details of the transport infrastructure, including the temporary storage of materials at terminal points and the environmental effects of these components of the project. The Australian Government is, as you are aware, committed to the principle of optimum public participation in discussions on environmental aspects of those projects in respect of which it has constitutional responsibilities. 
There is nothing new in that; we have been saying that all along. The letter continues: 
I should therefore be grateful if, following inclusion of the supplementary information suggested above, the documents were to be released immediately for public review and comment. 
The Australian Government has also decided that its approval of the Alwest Project be conditional upon: 
Here, in some people 's eyes, comes the rub- 
The provisions of the Environmental Management Program being made mandatory rather than voluntary requirements as currently expressed; 
New environmental protection measures being incorporated within the Environmental Management Program as they arise from ongoing research and are found necessary from monitoring or operational programs; and The MonitoringResearch and Environmental Management Programs being reviewed prior to commencement of the operations and at 3-yearly intervals, timed to precede the export licence renewal. 
I could comment further on the way in which this decision has been misunderstood- I will put it as a misunderstanding- but the misunderstanding is fairly widespread, so in an effort to resolve the difficulties or the misunderstandings senior officers of my Department are in fact going to Western Australia tomorrow. The arrangement has been made for them to meet departmental officers and the responsible Minister in Western Australia. It is hoped that we can iron out the misunderstandings. But I believe that what we have proposed is completely consistent with what we have been saying all along and is completely encompassed by the environment protection Act which this House in fact enacted in December last. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The Department of the Environment and Conservation administers the Technical Assistance Program. The Interim Committee on the National Estate which is the joint responsibility of the Minister for Urban and Regional Development and me, administers assistance to groups for specific purposes. Further information on its activities will be provided by  Mr Uren.  The answer to (3) to ( 1 8) below relate to the Technical Assistance Program. 
To ensure that environmental/conservation groups receive the professional assistance necessary to enable them to prepare sound cases on specific issues and thus help the community to become its own environmental advocate. 
The guidelines for eligility are: 
Organisations will need to be properly constituted, locally oriented, voluntary, and accountable for expenditure of any funds received. Individuals are not eligible. Nor are local government bodies, universities or organisations with access to public monies. 
The grant should be sought to help resolve specific environmental controversities of significant community concern. Funds are not available for administrative, developmental, publicity or managerial purposes, for publication of reports, or for the purchase of land, property of equipment. Funds are not available for completed tasks. 
The receipient organisation would be required to apply its grant towards the obtaining of technical assistance of an expert consultant nature that would otherwise be beyond its existing resources. 
Before a grant is issued the organisation would need to provide the following details: 
The aim of the investigation. 
The consltant to be engaged. 
Start and finish time of the project. 
Budget details, separating consltant 's fees from itemised costs. 
The first advertisement appeared in the Press on 12 January 1974. 
The program was introduced in the 1973-74 Budget; funds for the program were appropriated by Appropriation Act (No. 1) 1973-74. 
The community is informed of the existence of the program, and applications for assistance are invited, through advertisements in the Press. 
A total of 90 applications were received in 1973-74. This financial year, 86 applications had been received to the end of November 1974. 
The applications are considered by a committee chaired by a senior officer of the Department of the Environment and Conservation, with members from the Department of Science and a member of the public from the conservation movement. This committee makes recommendations to me for decision. 
In 1973-74, 26 applications were successful representing 29 per cent of applications. No funds have been distributed so far this year. 
) No allocations have been made to individuals. 
1 2 ) and ( 1 3 ) The Department is in constant consultation with the voluntary conservation movement. It is an on-going process. The fact that the committee has a member from the conservation movement ensures adequate feedback. 
Yes. 
Copies of any reports issued are furnished to the Department. 
16) and ( 17) In 1973-74, $84,400 was paid out under the Technical Assistance Program. 
18) I am satisfied that the process of inter-departmental consultation and liaison is adequate to ensure that grants approved under the Technical Assistance Program do not duplicate the assistance provided under the other Australian Government programs. 
The answer to the honourable member 's question is as follows: 
Discussions took place on this matter some time ago between the Secretary of my Department and the Secretary of the Department of the Capital Territory. 
Now that the National Parks and Wildlife Bill has been debated in Parliament I have arranged for further discussions between Departmental officers to formalise these arrangements as soon as possible. Such discussions will also cover the formulation and administration of wildlife policies. 
The interim arrangements made are that the Director of National Parks and Wildlife will have responsibility in the first instance for the proposed Gudgenby National Park. The remaining responsibilities for park and reserve management will remain for the present with the Depanment of the Capital Territory. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The question of the location of the headquarters of the Australian National Parks and Wildlife Service is still under consideration, bearing in mind the distribution of its responsibilities. I hope to be in a position to give the Honourable Member for Gwydir a precise answer to his question shortly, when the extent of the Service 's responsibilities in the Northern Territory and elsewhere become clearer. 
I move: 
That Senate's amendment No. 4 be disagreed to, but that in place thereof the following amendment be made: Omit clause 69, insert the following new clause- 69 ( 1 ) The Governor-General may make regulations for and in relation to giving effect to an agreement specified in the Schedule. 
Regulations made under sub-section ( 1 ) in relation to an agreement that has not entered into force for Australia shall not come into operation on a date earlier than the date on which the agreement enters into force for Australia. 
Sub-sections 71 (5), (7) and (8) apply in relation to regulations made under this section in like manner as they apply in relation to regulations made under section 71. 
That all sounds a bit complicated, but during the initial debate on this Bill it was pointed out that this proposed section in essence purports to allow us to make regulations in relation to international conventions that we may enter into from time to time- they may relate to wildlife, wet lands or what you will- in order to enable us to achieve whatever the international conventions were seeking to achieve. There are a number of these conventions to which we have agreed to become a party. Perhaps I should mention them briefly. We are proposing that they should be listed in the Schedule to the Bill. Just before I list the conventions perhaps I should go on with the general argument. We suggested that the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Bill should permit the formulation of regulations to cover any conventions we might enter into from time to time. The objection was raised by the Opposition that this was a bit far reaching, that it was perhaps giving us power for conventions as yet not considered. In the course of discussion the suggestion was made that if we were prepared to amend the Bill- this came out more forcefully in the Senate- in order to provide this power to make regulations for conventions to which we had agreed to become a party up to this stage and perhaps to specify those conventions in a Schedule to the Bill the Opposition might be interested in the proposition, but it insisted upon future conventions being put to the House for agreement before we proceeded to make regulations relating to those conventions. That is the reason why we are now proposing the amendment I have just moved. It would in essence allow us to make regulations for conventions which, subsequent to this motion being agreed to, I will move for inclusion in the Bill in the form of a Schedule. Perhaps we should deal with this proposed section first and then discuss the schedule of conventions after I have moved a motion concerning the inclusion of such a Schedule in the Bill. 
It may well be that when we finalise this matter, the Bill will need a little tidying up. We are aware of this fact. We wanted to accept the amendments that were put by the Senate and try to get the Bill back there with this amendment. Despite the view that was expressed by honourable members opposite, we feel that the usual procedure of moving to disallow regulations does in fact allow for debate. We must agree to differ on this; obviously honourable members opposite do not hold that view. I certainly concede the point that we had agreed to look into the matter raised by the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock),  but at this stage we are not amending what the Senate has put forward. We are dealing only with the amendments that the Senate has put up. It would not be the appropriate time now to consider the matter raised by the honourable member. When we look at the whole matter again, I assure him that we will consider the matter that he has raised because there are a lot of people on this side of the House who agree with him. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I move: 
At the end of the Bill, add the following Schedule: 
Schedule 
Section 69 
For the information of honourable members I present the fourth report of the Australian Advisory Committee on the Environment entitled 'Land Use in Australia', dated December 1974. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Bureau of Environmental Studies will, over the next few years, be engaged, inter alia, in evaluating waste disposal systems in Australia and in determining areas where there is a need for new technology. It is likely that, in many instances, it will be found that new technology already developed overseas could be applied in Australia. But, I also expect that it will be necessary for new technology to be developed in Australia.I have, in fact, received a number of applications for financial assistance in the development in Australia of plants for the disposal of specific wastes. These proposals will be considered on their merits. 
Yes. In April 1972, the Union Electric Company in the United States of America entered into an arrangement with the city of St Louis to carry out tests to see if the city's garbage could be burned efficiently in its pulverized coal fired boilers. In February 1974, it was announced that Union Electric would build a $70 million system to burn all the solid waste from metropolitan St Louis, where 2.5 million people live and where 7-8000 tons of garbage a day are produced. The system will include provision for the recovery of non-combustible materials, such as glass and metals, for recycling. 
For the information of honourable members I present reports by the Australian Ionising Radiation Advisory Council and the Australian Radiation Laboratory entitled 'Fallout over Australia from Nuclear Weapons Tested by France in Polynesia during July and August, 1973'. 
For the information of honourable members I present the summary record of the fifth meeting of the Australian Environment Council. 
Pursuant to section 21 of the River Murray Waters Act 1915-1970 1 present the report of the River Murray Commission for the year ended 30 June 1974, together with the Commission's financial statements, the report of the Auditor-General on those statements, and statements of gaugings and diversions during the year, furnished on behalf of the governments of New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia. Due to the limited number available at this time arrangements have been made to have a number of reference copies placed in the Parliamentary Library. 
As the House will recall, in the course of the debate on the National Parks and Wildlife Service legislation, we conceded the need to allow public participation in the decision to declare areas national parks. I know that the 2 areas mentioned by the honourable member have been discussed for a long time. However, the legislation laid down a certain train of procedures. This provides that the director has to prepare a proposal which has to be made available to the community for general discussion or criticism before it finally comes forward for processing through my Department and through this House. At the time when the Bill was passed, we did not have a director. I finalised the appointment of a director only last week. 
That procedure has been set in motion. It may sound long winded to many people in the community who want me just to declare areas national parks, but many interests are involved and we intend to pursue the procedures which, I might say, were modified, on the basis of proposals made by the Opposition, to take into account various community interests. However, I hope I can allay the community's anxieties by pointing out that the train of events has been set in motion, that the parks will be declared in the foreseeable future and that everyone will have a chance to discuss each program for the control and management of national parks. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The current staff members of the BES are: Director,  Mr K..  E. Thompson; Assistant Director, (Programs &amp; Requirements),  Mr J.  R. Sands; Clerk/( Class 10) (Internal Studies Section),  Dr L.  A. Woods; Clerk/(Class 10) (Requirements Section),  Dr B.  H. Pratt; Clerk/(Class 8) (Programs Section),  Mr M.  E. Lester (presently on leave without pay); Senior Research Officer Grade 2, (Consultant Studies Section),  Mr H.  J. Rose; Research Officer Grade 2 (Requirements Section),  Mr M.  G. Hyman; Graduate  Clerk  (Programs Section),  Dr R.  St. L. Bruce; Graduate  Clerk  (Environmental Indices Branch)  Mr J.  T. Craig; Graduate  Clerk  (Environmental Indices Branch)  Mr G.  S. Yeomans; StenoSecretary,  Mrs M.  Cutler; Steno-Secretary,  Mrs K.  G. France. 
The following additional staff are expected to commence duty with the BES in the near future: Assistant Director (Studies Management),  Dr R.  M. Green; Assistant Director (Environmental Indices Branch),  Mr D.  MacRae; Clerk/(Class 10) (Consultant Studies Section),  Mr J.  A. Sa; Clerk/(Class 8) (Internal Studies Section),  Dr N.  A. Gradwell; Clerk/(Class 8) (Consultant Studies Section),  Dr E.  N. Can. 
The professional qualifications of staff appointed to the BES include biochemistry, civil engineering, mathematics, zoology, chemical engineering, business administration, environmental studies, marine biology, operations research, agriculture, economics, inorganic chemistry and physics. 
The experience of BES staff covers a wide range of research and studies activity which has been carried out in research institutions, universities, government and private industry. The experience includes environmentally relevant work relating to water, sewerage, soil conservation, transport, industrial wastes, air pollution, biological ecosystems, urban planning, mathematical modelling, welfare economics, health physics, radio-activity, agriculture, forestry, fishing, plant pathology and natural history. 
Interviews have recently been conducted following advertisement for sociologists, economists and human geographers. 
Applications are currently being received in response to an advertisement for persons with expertise in statistics, mathematical modelling, meteorology, geography, earth science, botany, environmental law, institutions and organisations, psychology, resource economics and ecology. 
The BES manages the Australian Water Resources Council Water Research Fund, which is financed through my Department. Current research projects in this program are as follows: 
Field study of evaporation. 
Hydrologic investigation and design of urban storm-water disposal systems. 
Drilling and development problems in unconsolidated sediments. 
Modelling a stream-aquifer system. 
Burdekin artificial groundwater recharge study: Numerical modelling of an aquifer system with intermittent recharge. 
Burdekin artificial groundwater recharge study: The effect of siltation on recharge rate. 
Burdekin artificial groundwater recharge study: Analysis of the movement from recharge channels and pits. 
Land use and salinity particularly in South Western Australia. 
Corrosion of groundwater pumping equipment. 
Technical and economic evaluation of surface treatments for increasing runoff from small rural catchments. 
Representative basins Program. 
Burdekin artificial groundwater recharge study: biological problems in artificial recharge of groundwater. 
Photogrammetric measurement of surface velocities in streams. 
Efficiency in industrial, domestic and municipal water use. 
Influence of metering, pricing policies and incentives on water use efficiency. 
Water flow measurement in channels. 
Application of Remote Sensing techniques to hydrogeological problems. 
Multi-objective planning for water resources management. 
Direct measurement of seepage from channels. Transmission losses in streams. 
Legal, institutional and administrative aspects of groundwater management in Australia. 
Review of Australia 's water resources. 
Geomorphic parameters of representatives basins. 
Movement of seawater into a coastal aquifer. 
Soil moisture in a representative basin. 
Morphometric analysis of Tasmanian freshwater bodies. 
Effects of plantation management on timber and water yield. 
Genesis of nitrate in groundwater. 
Effect of water pollution on substratum fauna. 
Chemical forms of heavy metals in water. 
Systems for analysis of organic pollutants in water. 
Survival of coliform bacteria in saline sediments. 
Runoff from cattle feedlots. 
An econometric model of water quality. 
Irrigation development in the Gwyder Valley, New South Wales. 
Relationships between BOD and instrumentally determined fractions in water. 
Effects of sublethal levels of pesticides on estuarine fish. 
The release and recycling of toxic metal pollutants from lake and river sediments through biological action. 
Management of water quality in reservoirs. 
Lethal and sublethal effects of cadmium on aquatic animals. 
Mineral nutrient requirements and utilisation by algal flora of freshwater lakes. 
The following additional projects have recently been commenced, or are about to commence: 
Soil conservation study (an Australian/State government task force project). 
Field testing an algal harvesting process under summer conditions. 
Time as a social indicator. 
Water quality problems in national parks. 
Institutional framework of water resources management. 
Water resources data collection network design. 
A dynamic approach to the optimisation of a complex urban water supply scheme. 
Nutrient, major ion and heavy metal budgets within aquatic ecosystems. 
Hydrological relationships between small and large catchments. 
Simulation of the urban runoff process. 
Hydrologic parameter assessment in Queensland using remote sensing. 
Relationship of shallow groundwater supplies to geomorphology and stratigraphy in eastern Tasmania. 
Hydraulic behaviour of an unconfined aquifer. 
Rapid spectroscopic methods for trace element investigations in natural waters. 
A field investigation of the drainage processes in a tropical rainforest catchment. 
Application of mathematical models to management of phytoplankton growth in lakes and reservoirs. 
Effects of artificial aeration and destratification on water quality. 
Eutrophication of the North Pine River Dam. 
Phosphorus balance of Lake Burley Griffin. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In reply to the honourable member's question I have compiled for each Australian State and Territory (excluding external Territories) a list of unprotected native fauna. Species of native fauna not listed are protected. This approach was adopted because there are in excess of 1300 species of native mammals, birds and reptiles. 
The honourable member will notice that the status of some species varies from State to State for example the Freckled Duck (Stictonetta naevosa) is regarded as a game species in Victoria while in New South Wales it is considered threatened and consequently fully protected. 
This situation creates particular management problems near State borders where a species is protected in one State but unprotected in the adjacent State. This is the type of nature conservation problem which is appropriate for consideration by the Council of Nature Conservation Ministers. 
In answer to Part 2 of the honourable member's question I have given the titles of the international conservation agreements which refer to individual species and the names of Australian native species currently listed. 
Australian Capital Territory. The Animals and Birds Protection Ordinance 1 9 1 8- 1 966 protects all native fauna except the following animals which appear in the Schedule: 
Animals- 
Rabbits, Native Dogs, Foxes,*Tiger Cats, Hares, *Native Cats,*Flying Foxes,*Venomous Snakes. 
Birds- 
Sparrows, Starlings, Lorikeets (including all fruit eating parakeets), Crows, Silvereyes, Cormorants, White Cockatoos. 
All domestic pests and parasites. 
Northern Territory. The Wildlife Conservation and Controt Ordinance 1962-1969 protects all fauna except those species listed in the Sixth, Seventh, Eighth and Ninth Schedules to the Ordinance. 
Sixth Schedule-Ducks and geese of all kinds except Magpie Geese, Burdekin Ducks and Pygmy Geese are protected from 1 November to 30 June in the Territory north of the 1 8th parallel of south latitude. 
Magpie Geese are protected from 1 January to 3 1 July in the Territory north of the 18th parallel of south latitude. 
Seventh Schedule- The following species are partly protected and may be taken under licence: 
*Red-collared Lorikeet (Trichoglossus rubitorquis ) 
*Varied Lorikeet (Psitteuteles versicolor) 
*Red-tailed Black Cockatoo (Calyptorhynchus banksii ) 
*White Cockatoo (Kakatoe galerita) 
*Galah (Kakatoe roseicapilla) 
*Corella (Kakatoe tenuirostris) 
*Little Corella (Kakatoe sanguinea) 
*Cockatiel (Leptolophus hollandicus) 
*Red-winged Parrot (Aprosmictus erythropterus) 
*Port Lincoln Parrot ( Barnardius zonarius ) 
*Mulga Parrot (Psephotus varius) 
*Bourke Parrot (Neophema bourkii) 
*Budgerigah(Melopsittacus undulatus) 
*Zebra Finch (Taenipygia castanotis) 
*Banded Finch (Stegnopleura bichenovii) 
*Black-ringed Finch (Steganopleura annulosa ) 
*Chestnut-breasted Finch (Donacola castaneothorax ) 
*Yellow-tailed Finch (Donacola falviprymna) 
*Pictorella Finch (Donacola pectoralis ) 
*Star Finch (Bathilda ruficauda) 
*Crimson Finch (Neochmia phaeton) 
*Long-tailed Finch (Poephila acuticauda ) 
*Black-tailed Finch (Poephila atropygialis ) 
*Masked Finch (Poephila personata ) 
*Gouldian Finch (Poephila gouldiae) 
*Marine Crocodile (Crocodilus porosus) 
Buffalo (Bubalus bubalis) 
*Red Kangaroo (Macropus rufus) 
Eighth Schedule-Pests 
Feral Rabbits (Oryctolagus cuniculus) 
Feral Donkeys (Equus asinus) 
Feral Pigs (Sus scrofa) 
Feral Camels (Camelus dromedarius) 
Feral Cats (Felis catus) 
Foxes ( Vulpes vulpes crucigera ) 
Feral Goats (Capra prisca) 
Dingoes or Wild Dogs (Canis familiaris) 
Black Rat (Rattus rattus) 
Norway Rat (Rattus norvegicus) 
House mouse (Mus musculus) 
*Snakes of all species 
*Little reddish fruit bat (Pteropus scapulatus) 
*Goulds Fruit Bat (Pteropus gouldii ) 
Great Toad (Bufo marinus) 
Ninth Schedule- Prohibited Imports 
Domestic Sparrow ( Passer domesticus ) 
Java Sparrow (Padda oryzivora ) 
Spice finch (Lonchura punctulata) 
Red-whiskered Bulbul (Pycnotus jocosus) 
Indian Myna (Acrodotheres tristis) 
English Starling (Sturnus vulgaris) 
Senegal Turtledove (Streptopelia senegalensis ) 
Indian Turtledove (Streptopelia chinensis) 
Great Toad (Bufo marinus) 
NEW SOUTH WALES 
 All exotic fauna other than the Javan Rusa Deer (Cervus timorensis) is unprotected. All native fauna other than that which appears on Schedule 1 1 of the National Parks and Wildlife Act 1975 is protected: 
 Schedule 11- Unprotected Fauna. 
Mammals- 
Carnivora other than Pinnipedia-Bears, lions, dogs, etc. 
Insectivora- Moles, hedgehogs. 
Artiodactyla, other than Cervus timorensis (Javan Rusa deer)- Cloven hoofed animals. 
Perissodacryla- Horses, donkeys, etc. 
Primates- Apes, monkeys. 
Subungulates- Elephants. 
Pteropus policephalus and Pteropus scapulatus- Fruit bat or flying fox. 
Lepus europaeus- Hare. 
Oryctolagus cuniculus- Rabbit. 
Sciurus palmarum- Indian Palm Squirrel. 
Birds- 
Card uelis carduelis- Goldfinch. 
Chloris chloris- Freenfinch. 
Passer domesticus- Sparrow. 
*Zosterops lateralis- Eastern Silvereye. 
*Phalacrocorax carbo- Black Cormorant or Shag. 
*Phalacrocorax varius- Pied Cormorant. 
*Phalacrocorax salcirostris- Little Black Cormorant. 
*Phalacrocorax melanoleucus- Little Pied Cormorant. 
*Corvus cecilae- Crow. 
*Corvus coronoides- Raven. 
*Strepera graculina- Pied Currawong. 
*Cacatua galerita- Sulphur-crested or White Cockatoo. 
*Cacaua roseicapilla- Rose-breasted Cockatoo or Galah. 
*Platycercus elegans- Crimson Rosella. 
Platycercus eximius- Eastern Rosella. 
Sturnis vulgaris- Common Starling. 
Pycnonotus jososus-Red-whiskered Bul Bul. 
Turdus merula- Blackbird. 
Passer montanus- Tree Sparrow. 
Acridotheres tristis- Indian Myna. 
Streptopelia chinensis- Indian Turtle Dove. 
*Corvus bennetti- Little Crow. 
Lonchura punctulata- Spice (nutmeg) Finch. 
Lonchura ferruginosa- Black-headed Mannikin. 
Anas platyrhynchos- Mallard Duck. 
VICTORIA 
All native fauna with the exception of reptiles and amphibians that is listed on the Third Schedule of the Game Act 1958 is fully protected. There are however a number of species of birds on this list which may be taken by licence during an open season: 
*Blue-winged Shoveler ( Anas rhynchotis). 
*Chestnut-breasted Shelduck (Tadorna tadornoides). 
*Freckled Duck (Stictonetta naevosa). 
*Black Duck (Anas superciliosa). 
*Grey Teal (Anas gibberifrons). 
*Hardhead (Aythya australis). 
*Maned Goose (Chenonetta jubata). 
*Pink-eared Duck (Malacorhynchus membranaceus). 
*Chestnut Teal (Anas castanea). 
*Stubble Quail (Coturnix pectoralis). 
*Japanese Snipe (Gallirago hardwickii). 
QUEENSLAND 
The Queensland Fauna Conservation Act 1 974 protects all the State's fauna except the following species which are listed specifically as unprotected. 
Feral Pigeon (Columba livia). 
Indian Spotted Dove (Streptopelia chinensis). 
Sparrow (Passer domesticus). 
Starling (Sturnus vulgaris). 
Indian Myna (Acridotheres tristis). 
Hare (Lepus europaeus). 
Rabbit (Oryctolagus cuniculus). 
House Mouse (Mus musculus). 
Norway Rat (Rattus norvegicus). 
Ship Rat ( Rattus rattus ). 
Dingo (Canis dingo). 
Fox (Vulpes vulpes). 
Feral Cat (Felis catus). 
Feral Pig (Sus scrofa). 
Feral Goat (Capra hircus). 
Feral Dromedary (Camelus dromedarius). 
Feral Donkey (Equus asinus). 
Brumby (Equus caballus). 
Water Buffalo (Bubalus bubalis). 
SOUTH AUSTRALIA 
Exotic fauna is unprotected. All Native fauna is protected with the exception of the species listed in the Ninth Schedule to the National Parks and Wildlife Act 1 972. 
*Zebra Finch (Taeniopygnia castanotis). 
*Budgerigah (Melopsittacus undulatus). 
*Red Wattlebird (Anthochaera carunculata). 
*Grey-backed Silvereye (Zosterops halmaturina ). 
*Galah (Kakatoe roseiapilla). 
*Little Corella (Kakatoe sanguinea). 
*Australian Raven (Corvus coroncides). 
*Little Crow (Corvus bennetti). 
*Australian Crow (Corvus orru cecilae). 
*Little Raven (Corvus mellori). 
Wild Dog (Canis familiaris). 
*All venomous snakes. 
Western Australia. Exotic species are unprotected. The Fauna Conservation Act 1950-70 protects all native fauna except amphibians, venomous snakes and the following species of birds and mammals: 
*Agile Wallaby (Macropus agilis) 
*Gould's Flying Fox (Pteropus gouldii) 
*Little Flying Fox (Pteropus scapularis) 
*Black Cormorant (Phalacrocorax carbo) 
*White-tailed Black Cockatoo (Calyptorhynchusbaudini) 
*Galah (Cacatua roseicapilla) 
*King Parrot (Aprosmictus erythropterus) 
*Port Lincoln Parrot (Barnardius zonarius) 
*Western Rosella (Platycercus icterotis) 
*Budgerygah (Melopsittacus undulatus ) 
*Goshawk (Accipiter fasciatus) 
*Collared Sparrowhawk (Accipiter cirrocephalus ) 
*Wedge-tailed Eagle ( Aquila audax) 
*Little Falcon (Falco longipennis) 
*Silvereye (Zosterrops gouldi) 
*Raven (Corvus coronoides) 
*Little Crow (Corvus bennetti) 
*Crow ( Corvus orru ) 
The following species are considered game species and may be taken under licence during a declared open season. 
*Red Kangaroo (Megaleia rufa) 
*Grey Kangaroo (Macropus fuliginosus) 
*Wallaroo (Macropus robustus) 
*Emu (Dromaius novaehollandiae) 
*Black Duck (Anas superciliosa) 
*Grey Teal (Anas gibberifrons) 
*Mountain Duck (Tadorna tadornoides) 
*Maned Goose (Chenonetta jubata ) 
*White-eyed Duck (Aythya australis) 
*Whistling Tree Duck (Dendrocygna arcuata ) 
*Pied Goose ( Anseranas semipalmata) 
*Plumed Tree Duck (Dendrocygna eytoni) 
*Blue-winged Shoveler (Anas rhynchotis) 
*Pink-eared Duck (Malacorhynchus membranaceus) 
*Blue-billed Duck (Oxyura australis) 
*Chestnut Teal (Anas castanea) 
*Musk Duck (Biziura lobata) 
*Brown Quail (Synoicus ypsilophorus) 
*Stubble Quail (Coturnix pectoralis) 
*All species of finches. 
In addition to this the following species of native fauna are regarded as vermin in certain districts in Western Australia under the Vermin Act 1 9 1 8- 1 970. 
*Agile Wallaby (Macropus agilis) 
*Red Kangaroo (Megaleia rufa) 
*Wallaroo (Macropus robustus) 
*Wombats (Vombatus spp.) 
*Emu (Dromaius novaehollandiae) 
*Galah (Cacatua roseicapilla) 
*Little Lorikeet (Glossopsitta pusilla) 
*Scaly-breasted Lorikeet (Trichoglossus chlorolepidotus) 
*Musk Lorikeet (Glossopsitta concinna) 
*Port Lincoln Parrot (Barnardius zonarius) 
*King Parrot (Aprosmictus scapularis) 
*Red-capped Parrot (Purpureicephalus spurius) 
*Regent Parrot (Polytelis anthopeplus) 
*Crimson Rosella (Platycercus elegans) 
*Eastern Rosella (Platycercus eximius) 
*Western Rosella (Platycercus icterotis) 
*Wedge-tailed Eagle (Aquila audax) 
Tasmania-The National Parks and Wildlife Act 1970 protects fully all the fauna native to Tasmania with the exception of reptiles and amphibians and those species listed in part II of the First Schedule which are partly protected and may be taken under licence during an open season. Females and spikies of the Fallow Deer (Dama dama) are fully protected. 
Part II-Partly Protected Wildlife 
*Grass Whistling Duck (Dendrocygna eytoni) 
*Freckled Duck (Stictonetta naevosa) 
*Mountain Duck (Tadorna tadornoides) 
*Black Duck (Anas superciliosa) 
*Pink-eared Duck (Malacorhynchus membranaceus) 
*White-eyed Duck (Aythya australis) 
*Wood Duck (Chenonetta jubata) 
*Blue-billed Duck (Oxyura australis) 
*Musk Duck (Biziura lobata) 
*Grey Teal (Anas gibberifrons) 
*Chestnut Teal (Anas castanea) *Blue-winged Shoveler (Anas rhynchotis) 
*Cape Barren Goose (Cereopsis novaehollandiae) 
*Muttonbird (Puffinus tenuirostris) 
*Brown Quail (Synoicus ypsilophorus) 
*Japanese Snipe (Gallinago hardwickii) 
*Black Swan (Cygnus atratus) 
*Yellow Wattlebird (Anthochaera paradoxa) 
Chinese Ring-neck Pheasant (Phasianus colchicus) 
Fallow Deer ( Dama dama) (adult males only) 
*Brush Possum (Trichosurus vulpecula) 
*Water Rat (Hydromys chrysogaster) 
*Bennett's Wallaby (Macropus rufogriseus) 
*Pademelon (Thylogale billardierii) 
The following five species may be taken without licence. 
*Swamphen (Porphyrio porphyrio) 
*Little Black Cormorant (Phalacrocorax sulcirostris) 
*Black-faced Cormorant (Phalacrocorax fuscescens) 
*Mute Swan (Cygnus olor) 
*Wombat (Vombatus ursinus) 
* Native species 
The Australian Government is a signatory to the following six International Conventions and Agreements which obligate the protection of native fauna: 
Agreement between the Government of Japan and the Government of Australia for the Protection of Migratory Birds and Birds in Danger of Extinction and their Environment. 
Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora.* 
Convention for the Conservation of Antarctic Seals-. 
International Convention for the Regulation of Whaling. 
Convention Wetlands of International Importance Especially as Waterfowl Habitat. 
Convention Concerning the Protection of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage. 
The first four Conventions and Agreement specify the protection of particular groups of animals which for convenience have been appended. The remaining two Conventions imply the protection of Australian waterfowl and fauna in general which can be regarded as being part of this country's natural heritage. 
*It should be noted that the list of fauna contained in Attachment II is currently being rationalised and will differ in some groups from the present form. 
Attachment 1 
I cannot recall the exact dates. However, I was told that the Minister was contemplating granting permission to the company to enter contracts to supply mineral sands. As I recall, that is as far as the specific information goes. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of a working group established to review the economic and environmental aspects of the export hardwood woodchip industry, dated April 1975, together with attachments constituting volume 2 of the report. 
Tl ; answer to the honourable member's question i-: as follows: 
Yes. Spasmodic mining of marine fibres in Spencer Gulf and St Vincent's Gulf has occurred for decades and I am aware of recent mining proposals. I understand that the sole company concerned at present, Lithominerals Pty Ltd, has been granted exploration rights to prove the deposits subject to a number of conditions imposed by the Government of South Australia. 
Preliminary studies of the effect of mining on the environment have been carried out during the exploration phase. Some of these studies were undertaken by the South Australian Department of Fisheries and reports on these studies were tabled at the recent Redcliff environmental inquiry. These studies are being overviewed by the South Australian Department of Environment and Conservation. 
Preliminary product evaluations indicate the cellulose produced would probably be suitable for kraft paper manufacture. Further evaluations are to be carried out. At present it seems that any industry established following satisfactory resolution of the technical and environmental problems associated with the mining would be of small to medium scale. It is unlikely to be a significant alternative source of cellulose for Australian industry and export. 
Australian Industry Development Corporation  (Question No. 2202)  Mr Malcolm  Fraser asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What investments has the Australian Industry Development Corporation made since its inception. 
Which investments have shown (a) a loss and (b) a profit. 
Why has the AIDC operated behind a cloak of security to date. 
Why have its annual reports been designed to confuse rather than to recirculate information. 
What is his attitude in relation to public accountability. 
Is it his attitude that, at a minimum, public bodies such as AIDC should conform to the public standards applicable to public companies. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  17 December 1974. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
On Thursday 21 November I was informed that the Department of Environment had received from the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet a copy of a letter from the Minister for Minerals and Energy dated 20 November, which indicated the Minister intended to approve an application from D. M. Minerals to negotiate an export contract (Hansard, page 1776). The proposed response from the Department was discussed with me and I agreed with the line taken as it was in accordance with previous Government decisions on environmental questions. 
On Friday 29 November, a copy of a letter dated 26 November from the Prime Minister to the Minister for Minerals and Energy (Hansard, page 1776) was received in my Ministerial Office in Parliament House indicating the Prime Minister's approval of the proposed action by the Minister for Minerals and Energy, and his opinion that the decision and the reasons for it should be given early and appropriate publicity. I do not recall the date when I read the letter. 
I learnt of the authorisation for D. M. Minerals to negotiate overseas contracts for the sale of minerals from mineral sands on Fraser Island-action taken on 13 December 1974 (Hansard, page 1916)-from a phone call and a newspaper report on 4 or 5 March 1975. 
Australian Capital Territory TAB Investments  (Question No. 2406) 
For the information of honourable members I present a report on the South Pacific Conference on National Parks and Reserves held in Wellington, New Zealand, during 24 to 27 February 1 975. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to accept amendments which were proposed by the Opposition in the Senate when the original Bill was being debated late last year. At the time the amendments were acceptable to the Government, but if we had agreed to implement them then the Bill would have had to come back to the House of Representatives early this year. Both sides in the debate agreed that it would be wise to have the Bill agreed to and assented to at that time on the condition that we brought in the amendments at a later stage. This Bill brings in the amendments. One relates to the insertion of the word 'direct' before the word 'financial' to make it clear what the financial assistance suggested is. The other one relates to the powers of the Commissioners to enter into properties for the purposes of their inquiries. It was thought by the Opposition that the way the original Bill was worded potentially it was too far-reaching. Hence the amendment. I commend the Bill. 
Leave granted for debate to continue forthwith. 
I did not ignore it all. The decision taken at the time was strictly legal- there is no question of that- as is perfectly obvious to those who care to try to understand the question. The Australian Government has no power at all to stop any State government at all from issuing mining leases to dig up any areas it likes within that State. That is a fact of life. All that the Australian Government has power to do is to have a say at the end of the line in relation to whether or not the products mined can be exported. Since this clearly relates to Fraser Island, let us examine the situation. 
The Queensland Government alone provided the prospecting licences in the early sixties. The Queensland Government alone granted the mining leases in 1971, 1972 and 1973; there is a whole range of them. Queensland Titanium Mines has been mining there for two or three years already. There is nothing that the Australian Government can do to stop that. The miners could dig up all the minerals on Fraser Island and ship them to the mainland and there would be nothing that we could do about it. That is the reason why I noted the advice. It came at the end of a long line of a whole series of procedures which had been authorised by a State government, as was its legal right. The question of whether, after a company has committed itself so much financially, we are entitled to stop it from exporting what it legitimately intended to export when it first embarked upon a project is a question which clearly is difficult to resolve. The law is not on anybody's side. 
We are genuinely seeking to implement our environmental impact procedures generally. In this situation, as I have pointed out, a large step had been taken before we were ever involved or before we were ever asked. Clearly, to overcome the bottleneck we need to get agreement with the States. This is where I suggest that those people on both sides of the House who have contact with the States could make the point because I think the environment is at risk if we do not have this sort of responsibility being shown. Whenever any mining corporation applies for a prospecting lease or a mining lease we should, if we are all honest, make sure that the environment departments of both the State and the Australian governments are informed. There is no law that can require that. Co-operation is required. When that is done we may then be able to institute environmental impact procedures in co-operation. 
As the Prime Minister has mentioned, it would be ludicrous to have 2 separate environmental impact studies. There is no reason why anyone on either side- the miners or the people who object- should be put to the bother and expense of having 2 separate inquiries. Of course we ought to work together when the first approach is made to a State government. We cannot become involved unless the States are prepared to cooperate. Maybe, in view of the difficulty being experienced in the present situation, we can serve notice now that we will be very bloody-minded, if you like, about export permits if we are not invited to take part right from the beginning, but that again will depend upon the support received from both sides of the House. 
I have every confidence that the Australian Labor Party will stick to its policy on the environment. I wish people would understand the issue which has recently blown up. There has not been a conflict in the implementation of the Government's policy. The question is: How does the Government implement its policy in this difficult transitional period when it does not have any legal backing? 
That is irrelevant to the point of whether we have legislation or not. 
I am sorry. I have neither seen nor heard the criticism the honourable member talked about. I have not read the newspapers or listened to any news broadcasts today. I do not know what the comments are. I do not know what  Senator Gietzelt  might or might not be doing. I am sorry. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Bill before the House contains provisions relating to the furnishing of information to the Department of Health by manufacturers or distributors of pharmaceutical benefits and is consistent with a recommendation of the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Prices, which inquired into the effect of the December 1972 revaluation of the Australian Dollar. In its first report of November 1973 the Committee recommended among other things, that:  the National Health Act be amended to allow the Department of Health to obtain cost and financial information in respect of products in the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme. 
More than 80 per cent of all dispensed medicines are supplied under the provisions of the pharmaceutical benefits scheme. At present there is no power under the National Health Act requiring manufacturers or distributors of pharmaceutical benefits to supply information about costs to the Government and consequently the Department of Health depends on negotiations to try and achieve fair and reasonable prices for pharmaceutical benefit items. Such negotiations depend for their effectiveness upon the cooperation of the parties. If a satisfactory price cannot be achieved an item may be removed from the list of pharmaceutical benefits. Such de-listing may not, however, always be in the public interest because of the therapeutic value of the particular drug. For this reason compromise and offsetting savings, rather than the analysis of cost information, currently play the more significant part in establishing prices of benefit items. 
The Government recognises the need to have information about costs at its disposal when considering the reasonableness of prices for pharmaceutical benefits. Attempts to obtain information on costs from manufacturers and distributors on a voluntary basis have not always been successful, particularly in respect of patented drugs. Under the provisions of the Bill, drug manufacturers and distributors may be required by notice to furnish financial information, including information on prices and costs, about pharmaceutical benefits. The information will be required to be furnished within the time and in a manner specified in the notice. The Bill imposes penalties for failure to comply with the terms of the notice, without reasonable excuse, and for the supply of false or misleading information. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Edwards)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
Honourable members will recall the recent enactment of the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act and the States Grants (Nature Conservation) Act. These historic Acts represented the first, firm evidence by an Australian Government of a co-ordinated approach to the protection and management of this nation's natural resources. More recently, my colleague, the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren),  and I have introduced a Bill to establish an Australian Heritage Commission. This Bill builds on these foundations. 
The Great Barrier Reef, a vast collection of islands and coral reefs, extends along some 1 900 kilometres of the Australian coast. This nationally and internationally important marine ecosystem encompasses many unique forms of sea life, and is the largest and most complex expanse of living coral reefs in the world- quite possibly the largest which has ever existed. It is an area of unique beauty and of irreplaceable scientific value. Most simply, the Reef is a significant part of the world 's heritage- a priceless heirloom which we must safeguard for future generations. No previous Australian Government has demonstrated the conviction necessary to act on this obvious truth. Marine ecosystems, especially the rich inshore parts, are vital to the survival of many species- including man. They are the breeding grounds and nurseries of species upon which the world 's commercial fisheries depend and of many other species vital to the complex food webs of the marine environment. To ensure that marine ecosystems generally are protected in a comprehensive manner, I will be introducing a Marine Environment Protection Bill in the Budget Session of Parliament. 
Only recently has the 'park concept' been applied to the oceans, but already it has achieved world-wide acceptance as an important conservation priority. This is due partly to the realisation that man is increasingly turning to the sea to solve food shortage problems and because of concern that he is over-using the seas as a cesspool for the toxic wastes resulting from his ever-increasing activities. The creation of viable marine parks is not without problems; even so, many marine national parks have been created throughout the world. Highly industrialised Japan, one of the most populated parts of the world, for instance, had reserved 23 marine park areas by 1974. 
Undoubtedly the future declaration of marine parks and reserves will be difficult for most countries. Those with highly-developed technologies will be torn between the desire physically to exploit the sea's resources and the demands of conservationists and recreationists for areas to be reserved. Less developed countries, particularly the small island areas, also will be torn between the desire for commercial exploitation of their off-shore areas and the traditional dependence of their people on marine resources for subsistence. While the Australian Government cannot stand apart from such conflicts of interest, it has decided that protection of our unique Barrier Reef is of paramount importance to Australia and the world. 
This Bill proposes the establishment of a Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority which will examine the entire Barrier Reef region, determine which sections of the region should be proclaimed as part of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park, and decide appropriate uses for its various sections. It has been prepared after extensive consultations with departments and organisations concerned with all aspects of the Reef. Once the legislation is passed, the Government will be able to declare and protect zones of the Reef as national parks or nature reserves, which will then be managed by the National Parks and Wildlife Service. Other zones will be set aside for tourist development, for shipping, fishing, and other appropriate uses. However, conservation and protection of the Great Barrier Reef will be the paramount aim of the Authority in all zones of the Marine Park. The Bill specifically excludes operations for the recovery of minerals within the declared Marine Park areas except by or with the approval of the Authority for the purpose of research and investigations relevant to the establishment, care and development of the Marine Park or for scientific research. 
I am sure this Bill will receive the support of all Australians who are concerned that our magnificent natural heritage should be preserved. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Adermann)  adjourned. 
Minister for Environment) ( 10.28)- We agree with the sentiments expressed in this proposal but we have been advised that the actual terms used by the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  in his proposed amendment will not quite achieve what he is setting out to do. In fact, we tried to think of some alternatives but we did not succeed either. We are in somewhat of a quandry. So we are proposing that we concede the point that the sentiment that there should be full and free consultation with the State governments, local government and the whole community be accepted and suggest that this could be considered in the Senate, where a more judiciously worded amendment can be put. We did this with the National Parks and Wildlife Bill so I am giving the same sort of undertaking now that I gave then. I trust that the honourable member will accept that as a guarantee we shall do that. 
As the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  has indicated, he is aware of the amendment we wish to move in place of his own amendment. We accept the basic proposition that is made in the Opposition amendment. We do not feel that the way it is worded is the most appropriate way and I indicate that if the honourable member's amendment is disposed of I shall move the one which I have circulated. The honourable member made the observation that the words 'so far as he considers appropriate' are not adequate. I think this is a realistic assessment of what the situation always would be. We cannot measure it in any other way. We can only consult. How does one measure the degree of consultation? It was always going to be appropriate only insofar as the person who is asked to consult does consult. We can argue about that matter later. It can be discussed in the Senate if need be. We will persist with it because I believe that it is a realistic statement of the situation. I do not believe that it can be done in any other way. 
For the information of honourable members I present the minutes of the 16th meeting of the Australian Water Resources Council held in Melbourne on 30 August 1974. Owing to the limited numbers available, reference copies of this document have been placed in the Parliamentary Library. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The National Air Monitoring Program has so far been comprised of feasibility studies on the establishment of a baseline monitoring station in Australia. These studies have been administered by the Department of the Environment. 
$23,086.30. 
The reply to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 based my assessment of this proposal on the environmental impact statement prepared by the Forests Department of Western Australia and on answers to supplementary questions which I asked the W. A. Minister for Forests. Both the impact statement and the answers to the questions have been available to the public for more than 1 8 months. 
In the circumstances, having regard to the fact that no environmental impact statement procedures had been finalised at the time this matter was considered by the Government and having regard to the fact that the Government had decided not to insist on public comment on impact statements prior to January 1974, 1 was prepared to accept the Western Australian approach. 
I am satisfied that the major areas of environmental concern were identified prior to any Australian Government decision being made, but it was recognised at the time that many of the details associated with the proposal, such as potential salinity effects and the adequacy of reserves of representative ecosystems, could only be determined by research and monitoring programs. There has been some dialogue on these more detailed aspects since the basic decision was taken. I would expect this to continue and to take cognisance of the report arising from the interdepartmental working group on the economic and environmental implications of the export woodchip industry established by the Minister for Agriculture and myself in 1973. 
Charitable Organisations in Colac Area: Grants (Question No. 2497) 

 - Mr Chairman, I move: 
Omit sub-clause (3), insert the following sub-clauses: '(3) Subject to sub-section (3a), one of the pan-time members shall be a person appointed on the nomination of the Queensland Government. '(3a) Where- 
the Australian Government has invited the Queensland Government to nominate to the Minister a person to be appointed to a vacant office of parttime member (whether or not the office has been previously filled); and 
at the expiration of 3 months after the invitation, the Queensland Government has not nominated a person having the qualifications referred to in sub-section ( 5 ) for appointment to the office, a person other than a person nominated by the Queensland Government may be appointed to the office notwithstanding that, upon the appointment, there will not be a part-time member who is a person appointed on the nomination of the Queensland Government. '. 
My amendment relates to the appointment of members of the Marine Park Authority. As the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  indicated, we discussed the appointment. We are happy to move this amendment which gives the Queensland Government the specific right to appoint one member of the 3-member Authority. If the Queensland Government should not comply with a request by the Australian Government to provide such a nomination within 3 months, the Australian Government undertakes to appoint that member itself. 
I must accept that this sub-clause is a let-out .provision for the difficult situation, as has been suggested. We have tried to define the sort of people who should be appointed. Perhaps we can have another look at this matter to see whether there is any obvious defect in its wording which would allow the irregular appointment of a member. I understand that all the legal eagles think that this is a not unreasonable proposition. I am not a lawyer either. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 11 to 21- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 22. 
1 ) The Committee shall consist of- 
a member of the Authority nominated by the Authority; 
such persons as are appointed members of the Committee by virtue of arrangements under sub-section (2); and 
not fewer than 12 other members. 
The Minister may enter into an arrangement with the Queensland Government for not more than 3 persons nominated by that Government to be appointed members of the Committee. 
The members of the Committee shall be appointed by the Minister. 
A member of the Committee referred to in paragraph ( 1 )(c) may be appointed to represent a Department or authority of Australia or an organization, being a Department, authority or organization with interests in the Great Barrier Reef Region, and the Minister shall ensure that, as far as practicable, Departments and authorities of Australia with those interests are so represented. 
A member of the Authority is not eligible to be a member of the Committee referred to in paragraph (l)(b) or (D(c). 
The preformance of the functions of the Committee is not affected by reason only of there being a vacancy or vacancies in the membership of the Committee. 
Clause 22 relates to the appointment of the Great Barrier Reef Consultative Committee to advise the Authority. As forecast in the second reading speech, we will be seeking to have on this Committee people interested in this area who can advise us on how best to manage it. The Government again has accepted the representations made by the Opposition and has clarified the position of the would-be nominees of the Queensland Government. The provisions conform fairly closely with what basically was agreed to in regard to the appointments to the Authority. 
The  CHAIRMAN (Mr Berinson)  Does the Minister seek leave to move amendments Nos 2, 3 and 4 together? 

I move: 
In sub-clause (1) paragraph (b), omit 'that act', insert 'National Parks Act'. 
This is a purely technical amendment due to a misprint in or omission from the Bill. Without the amendment, the reference is not clear. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 36 to 46- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 47. 
1 ) where a court convicts a person of an offence against this Act, the court may order the forfeiture to Australia of any vessel or article used or otherwise involved in the commission of the offence. 
An inspector may seize any vessel or article that he reasonably believes to have been used or otherwise involved in the commission of an offence against this Act and may retain it until the expiration of a period of 60 days after the seizure or, if a prosecution of an offence against this Act in the commission of which it may have been used or otherwise involved is instituted within that period, until the prosecution is terminated. 
The Authority may authorize a vessel or article seized under sub-section (2) to be released to its owner, or to the person from whose possession it was seized, either unconditionally or on such conditions as it thinks fit, including conditions as to the giving of security for payment of its value if it is forfeited. 
A vessel or article forfeited under this section may be sold or otherwise disposed of as the Authority thinks fit. 
A warden may seize any animal or plant that he reasonably believes to have been killed or taken in contravention of this Act. 
Where an animal or plant has been seized under subsection ( 5 ), the Authority may cause it to be- 
retained; or 
b) sold or otherwise disposed of. 
7 ) Where an animal or plant seized under sub-section ( S ) was not killed or taken in contravention of this Act, any person who has suffered loss or damage by reason of the seizure is entitled to reasonable compensation. 
-This clause relates to the situation in which somebody in authority seizes a vessel or article because it is felt at the time that it might have been involved in some misdemeanour in the area, but subsequently that is found not to have been the case. The Opposition spokesman made the point to the Government that this could mean some considerable burden to an individual who, for example, was unnecessarily deprived of the use of his vessel while the position was being clarified. On the other hand, the Government has sought to provide some time in which to establish the truth or otherwise of the claim that something has been going on that should not have been going on. In discussion we have agreed to a compromise which allows the vessel or article to be held for a period not exceeding 7 days. If in that time some resolution can be achieved, well and good; but, if it is felt necessary to detain the vessel for longer than that time and subsequently it is found that it was not involved in any misdemeanour, the owner could reasonably expect some compensation. The Government is quite happy with this amendment. 
-The Government is quite happy to accept the amendment. We agree with the principle mentioned by the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock). 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Remainder of the Bill- by leave- taken as a whole. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Government consults with the State Governments on uniform emission and effluent standards through the Australian Environmental Council and the National Health and Medical Research Council. 
The Australian Environmental Council has taken the view that it might be possible to establish Australia-wide ambient standards as a minimum standard on a national basis, but individual States might wish to impose more restrictive standards under some circumstances. I expect that discussions in this forum will continue. 
The National Health and Medical Research Council has recommended national emission standards for a wide range of air pollutants. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Australian Agricultural Council has referred the general question of aquatic weeds to the Australian Water Resources Council of which I am chairman. Officers of my Department and myself are giving urgent consideration to the problem. 
The Bureau of Environmental Studies, a division of my Department, is trying to obtain the services of a particular overseas expert to conduct a study of the occurrence of water hyacinth in Australian inland waters and the best methods of water hyacinth control. 
Apart from several inquiries from interested organisations and individuals requesting information on the water hyacinth problem or pointing out particular areas of concern, my Department has received only one detailed request for funds to investigate the water hyacinth. This was from Professor W. D. Williams of the Zoology Department, University of Adelaide, and is the study referred to earlier being considered by the Bureau of Environmental Studies. 
The answer to the honourable member 's question is as follows: 
None. 
In accordance with Cabinet's Decision of 17 September 1973 the areas which it is proposed to vest in the Director are Simpsons Gap, Finke Gorge and Katherine Gorge National Parks currently controlled by the Northern Territory Reserves Board. Kakadu National Park, based largely on the Alligator Rivers Wildlife Sanctuary now under the control of the Department of Northern Territory, will also be vested in the Director. At a later stage other areas of national significance such as Ayers Rock/Mount Olga National Park and Coburg and Tanami Desert Wildlife Sanctuaries may also be vested in the Director, or managed under an appropriate agreement with the Aboriginal people in accordance with Section 18 of the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act, as the case may be, dependent upon further consideration of, and action to implement, the recommendations of the Aboriginal Land Rights Commission. 
Discussions have been had between my officers and the Northern Territory Reserves Board. I have also had discussions with the Majority Leader of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly,  Dr Letts. 
The Reserves Board has indicated to us its concern for the fragmentation of its organisation and suggested we should take over all its areas and staff rather than the nationally significant areas only.  Dr Letts  indicated his concern not to have the Reserves Board disbanded, as he was anxious to retain a viable Northern Territory body to administer reserves of local significance. In a press release dated 26 May 1975 the Board has stated as follows: 'The Board still insists that it either be left to continue to function in the manner which it has successfully done for the past eighteen years or else surrender all its reserves, assets and staff to the Commonwealth Organisation.' 
I have indicated that the question of a body to control locally-significant, as distinct from nationally-significant areas, is a matter for the Northern Territory authorities themselves. It is up to them to decide what they want to do, and while I will do all I can to assist them, I cannot be diverted from the primary task of assuming responsibility for the nationally-significant areas. I have given instructions that preliminary action towards the vesting of these areas in the Director of National Parks and Wildlife is to proceed, in keeping with Cabinet's decision of 1 7 September 1 973. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The question of staff ceilings and approved positions for the Australian National Parks and Wildlife Service are currently under consideration by the Public Service Board. 
I hope to be able to give the honourable member details in the near future. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. It should be noted however that before being televised, the program referred to by the honourable member was approved by an ABC School Broadcasts Advisory Committee. 
Other ABC television programs for schools include sequences on the natural feeding of babies. 
I rise to endorse the nomination of the honourable member for Scullin for the position of  Chairman  of Committees. I will not traverse the historical facts that have been given by the honourable member for La Trobe. However, if you will forgive me,  Mr Speaker,  I would like to make one or two personal reminiscences. I have known  Dr Jenkins  for many years in the Australian Labor Party and my comments relate to my personal experience with him in that period and particularly to his capacity as a  chairman.  Many of us aspire to be chairmen. We all like to think that we know how to control things and people, and I can be accused of that; but, sadly, very few people are competent in this field. 
I am reminded that the very first occasion on which I got to know Harry Jenkins was when he was  chairman  of a Labor Party committee that was dealing with a very controversial topic, a topic which was known to be of an explosive nature. The people appointed to the committee were all at sixes and sevens. It was a measure of Harry's skill as a  chairman  that the committee brought in a unanimous report. He has shown that same skill in his time in this Parliament as  chairman  of committees which have dealt with quite controversial topics relating to the environment. He has managed so to encourage- not suppress- the full expression of points of view, and yet at the same time to maintain relevance on the part of the contributors, that he has succeeded in getting a large measure of unanimity or consensus of opinion on most of the committees with which he has been concerned. In short no doubt I will suffer like the rest of the members of this place if  Dr Jenkins  is appointed to this position because he will force me, I hope like the rest of the members of this place, to be relevant. For these reasons I endorse his nomination. 
I had a sneaking suspicion that such a question might arise in view of the fact that I am depicted as a goateed Goebbels, or words to that effect, in seeking to control what the Press says and does and so on. 
I thought it was incredible too. However, it was offered in a humourous fashion so I did not take offence. In November last year the station broke the rules as laid down by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board. The breach was of the rules laid down in regard to the time for which advertisements can appear on television stations. I might point out that those rules were laid down by the Control Board long before we came into power. They are the sorts of rules that the Opposition when it was in government lived with and we are still living with them. That is not to say that the Opposition when in government necessarily liked them any more than we necessarily like them, but that is the situation. As a result of the breaking of the agreement which every other commercial television station seeks to observe- and I want to point that out- the Minister at the time wrote to this station in the following terms: 
In view of the fact that TVT has had a very satisfactory record of compliance with the Board's standards you will understand it is not my desire to exercise my power under Section 86 of the Broadcasting and Television Act - 
This is the answer to the question raised by the honourable member about which part of the Act we are operating under-  to take action to suspend the licence for the operation of the station. However, as I have stated publicly on several occasions, the Australian Government is not prepared to countenance breaches of the standards. In the present case, therefore, I have decided to take no action pending an assurance from you that steps have been taken to bring the seriousness of the matter to the attention of the management and that adequate procedures have been established to ensure that there will be no further cause for complaint in this area. 
That was written in November 1974. Sure enough, a letter was received from  Mr McRae  pointing out that the letter was acknowledged, stating what had happened and assuring the Minister at the time that this would not happen again.  Mr McRae  wrote: 
We have critically reviewed our procedures in order to ensure that breaches do not occur. 
That is not very long ago. However, it was drawn to my attention that on 3 and 4 May this yearless than 6 months later- the same sort of thing had happened. So I wrote another letter pointing out the situation and suggesting that something had to be done because, after all, the station has been warned and it had undertaken not to let it happen again. 
I personally do not care much about this particular regulation. I think that people who look at commercial television have to expect to view advertising. I take it that the rule was brought in because people, while they want to look at commercial advertising and are prepared to accept the screening of advertisements as a penalty for doing so, still want limitations placed upon the amount of time during which advertising can be shown. Limitations were placed by the previous Government and we are still abiding by the same rule and regulation. The station concerned gave an explanation as to why the breach had occurred and I accepted its explanation. But it does not alter the fact that the station had broken the rules. 
So we are faced with the question as to whether we should ignore the law. If we should, I will stop the Control Board bothering trying to implement that particular law. Why waste money having people sitting in front of television sets timing the length of advertisements if when one discovers that someone has broadcast an advertisement for longer than he should have, one does nothing about it? Let us stop pretending. However, that is a different question. 
The fact is that the law is as it is. So I chose to suggest to the station that I would require it to go off the air unless it could make some alternative suggestion. I will not bother reading the letter. Needless to say, I gave warning that I intended to suspend the station. I again want to point out that there is no alternative for me. I either ignore the station's transgression or I suspend the station. As one critical letter to me pointed out, any school child could have suggested an alternative penalty. I quite agree. But the law does not allow me to impose an alternative penalty. That is the fact. Needless to say, the gentlemen from the station came over to talk to me. I made it quite clear, after they had agreed that they had broken the regulations- they did not deny it- that something had to be done. I gave a very broad hint that as far as I was concerned, I had no desire to impose a penalty. If, in recognition of their transgression, they were prepared to - 
The answer to the honourable member 's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Government's policy is to guarantee political and programming independence to the ABC. Under the provisions of the Broadcasting and Television Act, the ABC is responsible for the content and standards of its programs in radio and television. The Commission acknowledges, but is not subject to, the program standards determined by the Broadcasting Control Board. The Commission has laid down guidelines and standards which are communicated to the program staff. If the Management of the ABC believes these standards are being misinterpreted then Management deals with the matter internally at an appropriate level. This is a long standing ABC practice. 
I am aware of no 2JJ programs which, if transmitted on a commercial station, would nave required the consideration of licence revocation. As far as I am aware, only one of 2JJ's programs has been the subject of particular complaint. I am advised that the reports of these complaints do not represent a fair review of the output of the station, which devotes a great deal of time to community service programming. In making any recommendations concerning the licensing of commercial stations, I believe the Broadcasting Control Board similarly would take account of a station's overall performance. 
and (4) When the Government allocated a new frequency to the ABC in Melbourne, the ABC chose to use it for access broadcasting. The new station opened on 12 May and the ABC advises me that there are no present plans to establish an ABC Rock Station in Melbourne. Although there are reception difficulties connected with its temporary use of standby equipment, 2JJ has been extremely well received by its target audience, thus proving the need for such stations despite already established commercial stations. I have been informed that 2 JJ has a significant audience in Wollongong and that even in Melbourne young people tune in to it at night. 
Those people who don't like it can simply tune in to another frequency, a beloved commercial station perhaps. I assure the Honourable Member that there is no intention, and indeed it would be impossible, to make listening to 2JJ compulsory. 
The success of 2JJ highlights a need which might well prompt the ABC to consider catering for this potential audience in other States, although this is for the Commission to decide for itself. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's questions is as follows: 
and (2) I refer the honourable member to the reply given by the Prime Minister to Question No. 2789, which appeared in Hansard (page 3546) on 5 June 1975. 
The answer is short and simple. The gentleman is not employed by the Department of the Media. He is employed by the Labor Party members themselves and it is their business what he does. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Day to day selection of speakers for the program rests with the producer who has a responsibility to the Director of the Radio Special Projects Department. The Director in turn has responsibility to the Assistant General Manager (Radio). 
The guiding principle behind selection is that the potential 'Guest of Honour' is a person who through his or her background is able to make some stimulating, thoughtprovoking and informed contribution to the more important public issues. 
Yes. Final approval before broadcast is given by the Director of the Radio Special Projects Depanment. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) There is no separate budget allocation for  Lateline.  It is one of a number of programs produced by the Radio Special Projects Depanment, drawing on that Department's artists' fees allocation and its staff resources. 
The program is produced by staff of the Radio Special Projects Depanment, who vary from time to time. 
Yes. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of a survey conducted in all Australian schools from May to November 1974 entitled:  Television Equipment in Australian Schools 1974. 
Due to the limited number available reference copies of this report have been placed in the Parliamentary Library. 
The answer to the honourable member's questions is as follows: 
In view of all the allegations made by the honourable member I shall take the matter up with the Australian Broadcasting Commission. I have no knowledge of any of the details he has mentioned. I will give him an answer in writing. 
I have seen very briefly a report in the Press today which completely misunderstands the situation in relation to the Australian Information Service. So much is the position misunderstood that, for example, for the newspaper to talk about the enormous amount of money spent by my Department is to fail to recognise that this money is spent mainly on instrumentalities which were either set up or developed to their present level by the previous Government and not by this Government at all. In fact, the extra funds allocated for that sort of thing upon which it is hoped we can be attacked are infinitesimal. However, in view of the enormous confusion, rather than take up the time of the House at this stage in giving a detailed answer, I intend to prepare a statement which I shall make in the House. 
I will conclude on this note: I think that democracy is founded upon the free availability of information. That includes all that goes on in this Parliament, including the views of the Opposition as well as of the Government Party. I am not going to cavil about what at times appears to me to be biased reporting by newspapers because I am aware that honourable members on the other side of the House have the same view sometimes about the newspapers. This is a fact of life; I do not even cry about it as far as the newspapers are concerned. The purpose of newspapers is to print what they think is news which will attract readers and maintain their position in the market, if I may use that term. That is just a reality. Much of what we say on both sides of this House from the point of view of news is boring; let us face it. Yet, whether it is boring or not, it is still information which should be available to the whole community. I have some ideas on what ought to be done to enable the Australian community to be better informed about the views from both sides of this House. However, I shall elaborate in my statement and honourable members can debate it at leisure. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
and (3) Officers of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board have conducted extensive investigations into areas of Sydney where poor reception of television has been reported. The investigations have shown that a very high percentage of the difficulties can be overcome by improvements to home installations particularly by the use of more adequate aerial systems. 
It has also been shown that there are certain areas in Sydney where, due to the presence of obstructions to the radio path between the television transmitters at Gore Hill and the area in question poor reception exists which is beyond the viewers' ability to correct. Methods of overcoming the difficulties in these areas are now under consideration by the Board and I am advised that I will receive recommendations on the subject within a few months. 
The Board will make special reference to Sydney television coverage in its annual report which I will table shortly. 
The answer has been provided in today's  Hansard. 
Pursuant to section 28 (3) of the Broadcasting and Television Act 1942-1975 I present the twenty-seventh annual report of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board for the year ended 30 June 1975 together with financial statements and the report of the Auditor-General on those statements. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Australian Government Weekly Digest Vol. 1 No. 4 page 1 13 reported that the then Minister for Social Security,  Mr Bill  Hayden, had announced a pilot program of grants to Community Information Centres. Further details can be supplied by the Minister for Social Security. 
No. 
The Department of the Media has no activities planned in Blackwater, Emerald and Biloela. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I ) The staff of the Australian Government Publications and Inquiry Centres are: 
Adelaide-  Mr J.  Hoban (Manager); Miss L. Rawley;  Mr R.  Woolman; Miss C Blair;  Ms J.  McInerney  Ms J.  Dunning. 
Albury-Wodonga-Mr F. Griffin (Manager);  Mr T.  Percy. 
Brisbane-Mr D. Hill (Manager);  Mr K.  Neale;  Mr N.  Tracey;  Ms H.  Bilney 
Canberra-  Mr J.  Connors (Manager);  Ms N.  Waters;  Ms M.  Hellyer;  Ms I.  Shannon. 
Hobart-  Mr D.  Kelly (Manager);  Ms E.  Johnston. 
Melbourne-Mr W. Mehegan (Manager);  Mr R.  Sutton;  Mr A.  White;  Mr T.  Fiteni  Mr P.  Reid;  Ms M.  Brodzik  Ms N.  Furlan 
Sydney-  Mr H.  Kilganon (Manager);  Ms E.  Mangan  Mr B.  Wright;  Ms B.  Ferrier;  Ms M.  Musico;  Mr N.  Smith. 
Penh-  Mr A.  Peebles (Manager);  Ms K.  Gregson  Mr L.  Savey  Ms S.  Beranec 
Mobile-Mr P. West (Manager);  Mr K.  O 'Connor. 
Some experience in the handling of government publications or in public inquiry or library work is considered desirable. In addition, a general interest in government and in dealing with the public is an advantage. 
Some training of new staff is provided in Canberra by officers of the Central Reference Unit in inquiry matters and by staff of the Retail Outlets Support Group in sales matters. Additional on-the-job training is provided by the Manager of the Publications and Inquiry Centre where the office is to be located. Depending on staff resources, it is also sometimes possible to provide on-the-job training in another Centre. 
See (3). 
See (3). 
Inquiries which cannot be answered from within the resources of a Centre or by a phone call to the responsible Department are redirected to the appropriate Section of that Department. Where inquiries are complex the responsible Department is more capable of providing an answer rapidly to the inquirer. Complex mail inquiries are redirected to the responsible section of the appropriate Department and the inquirer notified of the action taken. 
The Central Reference Unit exists to supply the Centres with source and reference material and answer inquiries referred to it from the Centres that cannot be handled locally. 
The staff of the Central Reference Unit consists of:  Mr A.  Barry (Officer-in-charge);  Mr A.  Reeves;  Ms J.  Muddle;  Mr N.  Watts;  Ms J.  Kusio  Ms L.  White;  Mr F.  McLean;  Ms R.  Smith. 
Experience required of each member of the Unit varies with the position held. In general, knowledge of the public service and government programs is required, together with knowledge of government publications. Experience in answering inquiries about government and with information systems is also preferred. 
10) Reliance is placed on training received prior to joining the Unit. 
1) An appropriation of $1,630,000 has been approved for the Publications and Inquiry Centres for the 1975-76 financial year. Of this amount, $950,000 has been provided for the purchase of stock at normal trade discount terms from the Australian Government Publishing Service, and it is anticipated that receipts from sales totalling in excess of $1,000,000 will be repaid to consolidated revenue during the financial year. 
The appropriation covers salaries and all operational expenses, including the cost of telex and telephones. As the answering of inquiries is involved with the sales function, it is not possible at this stage to isolate details of the cost of finalising inquiries. 
I want to make it quite clear that I cannot give a specific assurance because I cannot tell the Australian Broadcasting Commission to do something about the programs one way or the other. The ABC is a statutory authority and, as honourable members on the other side will recall, when they were in power and sought to give a positive direction like that, quite reasonably, the ABC thumbed its nose at them. No doubt it would do the same to us. The ABC reassesses at regular intervals the value, the effect, and the acceptance of its programs by the community. It has .done so recently with regard to its science program. I have received lots of protests from people claiming that the ABC was curtailing the science program. We now find that 2 separate programs have been amalgamated into a larger and what the ABC hopes will be a more effective and informative- and, I regret to say, a more expensive- program. However, that is the ABC's right. I regret this step only in the sense that we have to find more money for the program. I do not regret that the ABC should think it worth while spending more money on such a program. It is seeking to reassess the religious broadcasts. I have been informed that there has been no 
*uj*gestion-that the-ABG wilicutthese-broadcasts------ " out. In fact, it has been hinted that there will be a change in quality which it is hoped will be better received by more people in the community than the very small group who now feel that such broadcasts are worthwhile. It is thought that religion, like sex and politics, is all important and ought to be discussed. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. Both 'Insight' and 'Innovations' had been broadcast for several years without a change in format. 'The Science Show' is designed to stimulate interest in science broadcasting and is expected to cost approximately the same as the two individual programs combined. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Twelve (12), of whom five (5) are located in Canberra, and one in each State Capital and Darwin. 
(3) and (4) N. Bennell, (Acting A3 Grade), Messrs M. Fishpool and W. Cooper (Al Grade), Messrs J. Martin, G. Chamberlin, W. Kingsley Ord, J. Knight, R. Perry, K. Kessell and J. Bowditch (A Grade),  Mr G.  O'Neill and Miss A. Pressler ( B Grade) 
The salaries paid are in accordance with the award for journalists employed under Determination 85 of the Public Service Act. 
The duties of AGLS journalists are to: 
Give the disadvantaged media and the community generally better access to national government information. 
Target and co-ordinate the distribution of national government information from both the executive and administration. 
Produce reference material on national government activities. 
Each Officer has had considerable experience in the private media industry, involving newspapers, radio and television. In most cases, there is also previous experience in public relations, both private and government. 
Before becoming attached to AGLS the immediate previous positions were: 
Bennell (Department of the Media); W. Cooper (Department of the Media); M. Fishpool (Office of the Attorney-General); G. O'Neill (Australian Press Services); A. Pressler (Department of the Media); J. Martin (South Australian Government); G. Chamberlin (Queensland Government); J. Knight (Eric White and Associates); R. Perry (ADS Channel 7); J. Bowditch (Freelance journalist); W. Kingsley Ord (Freelance journalist); K. Kessell (Perth Daily News). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The ABC has been authorised to develop plans for an extension of the Australian national broadcasting service to provide for a second ABC network to rural areas, and initial planning for this has begun. 
It is a fact that 25. 1 per cent of program time on metropolitan networks was devoted to classical music; compared with 9.0 per cent on regional programs during 1973-74. 
It is not a fact that no coverage at all of parliamentary proceedings is provided on regional programs. The ABC broadcasts through its regional stations the Budget Speech and the Leader of the Opposition's reply. Otherwise, parliamentary proceedings are broadcast upon such national broadcasting stations as are prescribed, upon such days and during such periods as the Joint Committee on the Broadcasting of Parliamentary Proceedings determines. 
Subject to development finance being available, when the Government authorises the ABC to provide a second national broadcasting network to rural areas. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Your letter was answered by me on 1 8 September 1975. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Your letter was answered by me on 30 September 1 975. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Nil. 
Does not apply. 
Does not apply. 
Department of the Media: Grants  (Question No. 2768) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Nil. 
Does not apply. 
I shall speak only for a short time. I shall just go seriatim through the things honourable members have raised. The honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar)  commented that the Hobart television station I suspended was harshly done by. He used words to the effect that I could have dealt with the situation in a more effective way. Sadly, the reality is that I could not. The Broadcasting and Television Act specifies that the only form of punishment, if you like, for breaking the rules and regulations consists of suspension of up to a week. Quite frankly, I think that is nonsense. In fact, I am not altogether sure that I feel that the breach of the Act was of that significance either. I have some doubts about whether these sorts of controls are worth having. However, the Act is there. It is not the Government's Act. It is an Act which the previous Liberal Government accepted and worked under for many years. That Government could have changed it if it thought it was unreasonable. 
It is the duty of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board, not the Government, to draw the Minister's attention to excessive periods of advertising or failures to observe the required conditions. The Control Board drew to the attention of the previous Minister such a case involving the Hobart station and he did what was reasonable at the time. He asked for an explanation from the station and got an assurance that it would not happen again. The station faithfully promised that it would not happen again, and within 5 months it had happened again. What was I supposed to do? I even discussed the matter with the manager from the station. I could have ignored it, but that would have made a farce of the whole Act. I think the Act probably is a farce. 
We discussed the possibility of the station itself voluntarily deciding not to show any advertising for that period or, alternatively, if it had to screen advertisements because it did not want to lose faith with its advertisers, agreeing to donate the funds to some charity it could choose itself. I did not even want to have a hand in that. I would have happily accepted that. However, I understand that when it filtered through to the rest of the commercial stations that that is what the Hobart station was considering it was leaned upon and told not to do it, with the result that I had no alternative. I could have suspended the station for a whole week. I just flicked it with a feather duster for a few hours. I am quite happy to consider any submissions from the commercial stations suggesting that this sort of regulation could be changed to make it more reasonable in their eyes. I am on their side. 
I shall not deal with the Press council controversy because I think honourable members on my own side discussed it during the course of the debate. Of course there is a need for ethnic radio. A complaint was made that we had allotted only $100,000 in this area. That is an interim sum, pending formulation of policy on the whole question of community broadcasting. It is all very well to say that the Government has not done anything about it. The Liberal Party was in government for 23 years. In all that time there were significant numbers of migrants in this country. The former Government chose to do nothing at all about ethnic radio. The present Government has moved quickly, although it does not mean that we have a well denned policy. It is just like mothers' milk; everybody accepts that it is a good idea. But no one has yet worked out how it can or should be done. We have a working party working on this question. Hopefully I will be receiving a report from it very shortly, and then we will be able to formulate policy for discussion in this Parliament and outside it. I intend to have the working party 's paper distributed to anybody interested in the community before we discuss it to try to evolve a rational system which will permit not just ethnic radio but all community and access radio to be established in the country, because that is the point of the exercise. The Bayutti report on ethnic radio is available. I announced that last week. I have not tabled it in the House for the very simple reason that at this stage we do not have enough copies printed, but it is available for honourable members if they wish to see it. If there is a big enough demand, of course, we will run off copies. It is not true to say that it has not been made available, because it has. 
The honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  complained about the Australian Government Liaison Service and the number of people it employs. All twelve of them are terribly busy distributing handouts of information from the Parliament, including Press handouts from the Opposition. I might point out that the propaganda machine, the Australian Government Liaison Service, employs 12 journalists. I am informed that  Mr Lewis  employs 14 journalists in his media centre, and I understand that  Mr 
Bjelke-Petersen employs more. So it seems we are running a very poor third in that race to try to brainwash the community. Anyhow, my own views of the functions of this service are that they are not to brainwash but to ensure that the information from the Parliament is freely available. I know we have a lot of journalists in the Parliamentary Press Gallery, but they select news in terms of its value to the needs of their newspapers. That does not necessarily mean that a lot of the material from this Parliament gets out, because the journalists make a valued judgment that as far as their paper is concerned certain information is not newsworthy enough. But that does not mean that various minority groups of all sorts in the community are not going to be interested in a lot of the material which is not published. That is the job of the Liaison Service. In fact, it is overwhelmed with inquiries from people seeking information, usually about the sorts of things that do not get into the newspapers. That is its prime function. 
The honourable member suggested that the socialist answer is to control everything that is published. I wish he would talk to his colleague, the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  who complained about the bulk of material that is going out and suggested that there ought to be a bit more co-ordination and control. Ironically enough the honourable member for Mackellar answered himself a bit later. He first of all complained about the mass of material which goes out, incidentally, not from the Department of the Media but from the various departments, keeping the community informed. I take it that that is what the honourable member wants. He does not want just the socialist point of view but he wants the departmental point of view as well in their reports which are usually tabled in this Parliament. The honourable member complained about the bulk of the material and suggested that it ought to be coordinated and that it ought to be more selective. That was the general tenor of his comment. He said there ought to be some selection. I pose the question: Who ought to do the selecting? Who is going to be the selector? Needless to say, having criticised us in this way, the honourable member for Mackellar then proceeded later on to complain that the Department of the Media may get a stranglehold on things. He said that it may be more inefficient to allow a wider cross-section of the Government to distribute the material but it would ensure that it would not all be collected in one hand. He himself commented: 'Who will be the guardian of the guardians?' That is the answer to his own criticism earlier on. I suggest that the Opposition is quite confused. 
The line we are taking in the Department of the Media is not to throttle, censor or inhibit in any way the expression of views. That is the reason why honourable members opposite presumably are unhappy about the ABC- because we are indicating that we do not intend to curtail the discussion on any sort of controversial issue or unpopular issue as long as it is considered by some people in the community that it ought to be aired and discussed, and ridiculed if that is what most people feel ought to happen to it. I am not even suggesting the way in which it should be dealt with. But I refuse and this Government refuses to be a judge of what is right and wrong in terms of community opinion. The community itself must make up its own mind. The only way to permit that is to allow free ventilation of all these controversial, seemingly unpopular views. Put them; have people answer them; have arguments about them and let the community itself ultimately make its own decision. 
As for the nonsense about how much money the Liberal Party would save if it were in government by abolishing the Department of the Media, I think it is being terribly hypocritical. The bulk of the services in that vote of $ 137m cover the Australian Broadcasting Commission, the Australian Broadcasting Control Board, the Australian Government Publishing Service, the Australian Office of Information and what we now call the publication inquiry centres which were previously the bookshops. All of these things were in existence while honourable members opposite were in government. They were maintained by honourable members opposite. I would not think that we have changed them very much qualitatively and not much quantitatively. There has been a need to increase some of them; we have tried to do this but I hope not excessively. So it is pure humbug to suggest that money would be saved by abolishing the Department of the Media. Honourable members opposite would have something like $3m which is the administrative cost of the Department itself, leaving aside all those other functions. I think honourable members opposite should stop deluding themselves and trying to confuse the rest of the community. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Last week I was asked a rather similar question. 
Not only was the honourable member listening but also apparently a lot of the people on the Opposition side did not understand what I said. Perhaps I did not explain it adequately. Let me try again. The Australian Broadcasting Commission is an independent statutory authority in the sense that once Parliament has provided its funds we no longer have any right to tell it what to do. There have been 2 relatively recent events- one a little while ago and one just a few weeks ago- which illustrate the point I am trying to make. I will quote them both to illustrate that both political sides, and the Ministers responsible under both the former Liberal-Country Party Government and the present Labor Government, have given a hint in one case or tried to issue a direction on another occasion and both were rebuffed. 
The first occasion was during the Opposition's period of Government and related to a broadcast by a Frenchman who was attacking  President  de Gaulle. At the time a direction was issued to the ABC that it should not televise the criticisms and comments of this gentleman, Monsieur Bidault, about General de Gaulle because it was thought it would not be a friendly action on the part of the Australian Government to allow such a broadcast. The direction was issued and the ABC ignored it for the very good reason that the interview already had been televised by an independent commercial television channel. The ABC saw no reason why it should not be in the act also. Thereupon a threat was made to the ABC in essence to cut its funds. A direction was given that too much money was being wasted on news and news commentary and that the funds should be allocated elsewhere. Quite rightly the ABC ignored the direction. 
In recent weeks a monster called Cass dared to think aloud and suggest that in Melbourne the ABC might try to change the format of its experimental station 3ZZ. I will elaborate a little, if I may, because I was misunderstood and misreported. I did not say, as the headlines in the newspaper suggested: '3ZZ to go rock- Cass'. That is not what I said. I suggested to the ABC that if it chose to increase the broadcasting time for 3ZZ we would not object and we would not consider it to be a waste of money; after all the ABC has to justify its expenditures and if it gets a hint that we do not think it is a waste of money it is some encouragement for the organisation to be a bit adventurous. My view was that if the broadcasting time of 3EA was to be extended in order to allow ethnic access programs, there might be more time available for 3ZZ to allow for some other experimental broadcasting formats. I suggested that in view of the success of 2JJ in Sydney- I know it is a bore to many people but a lot of young people happen to like it- it might not be a bad idea for the ABC to try the same sort of experiment in Melbourne, not by making 3ZZ a rock station only but simply by trying some rock in the extra time it would have to see what sort of response there would be. 
The ABC chose to ignore my thinking aloud, and that is all it was. I have had letters saying that it intends to continue with the present format except that it has increased the broadcasting time. I have no quarrel with the ABC. However I still like to think that there may be a few listeners amongst the young people in Melbourne who would like rock stations and with a bit of luck we can encourage the establishment of a frequency modulation station to provide that facility. I emphasise again that the ABC is independent. If it has chosen to review its religious broadcasts, that is its business, not mine, and I will not interfere. 

 - Mr Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Travel Agents (Deposits and Levies) Bill as they are related measures. Separate questions will of course be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
The answer to the honourable member's questions is as follows: 
and (2) I refer the honourable member to the reply given by the Prime Minister to Question No. 2586 which appeared in  Hansard(page  3545) on 5 June 1975. 
Since that time I have announced in Parliament that a report of the Departments of the Media and of Education, entitled 'Television Equipment in Australian Schools 1974', is available in the Parliamentary Library and have released an information paper by the Department of the Media entitled 'A consideration of the implications of section 13 of the Australian Labor Party's media platform*. With the Postmaster-General, I have released a report on cable television services in Australia. Further details of publications are given in the annual reports of the Department and authorities for which I am responsible. 
Australian Broadcasting Commission: Conference on Science and Broadcasting  (Question No. 2981) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
It is not possible to provide a total cost for the conference because of components like the salaries of those attending and various overhead costs. Two people had their travel and accommodation costs paid by the ABC. 
To promote closer understanding between the scientific community and the ABC and to examine problems relating to the broadcasting of science information in feature programs, News Bulletins and Public Affairs programs in radio and television, to promote the flow of information from scientist to broadcaster direct or through information officers of universities or scientific institutions, and generally to assist in the creation of an intellectual climate within which both scientists and the ABC can work together to serve the interests of both broadcaster and scientist; and to follow up the initiatives of the ABC's Science Advisory Committee. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to Parts ( 1 ) and (3) of my reply to Question No. 2934 which appeared in House of Representatives  Hansard (page  1 707) on 2 October. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I refer the right honourable member to the reply given by the Prime Minister to question 3110 which appeared in House of Representatives  Hansard  (page 1598) on 1 October. 
I am sorry but I have not seen the report. I can only say that it is utter nonsense. I have answered questions like this before. I see no point in anyone thinking or seeing what virtues we would find in trying to use the Department of the Media for the political purposes the honourable gentleman suggested, for a very simple reason. 
Of course there is no virtue. If we could get away with it so could the Opposition if it were in government. So we would be numbskulls to try it. I assure the honourable gentleman that I have no intention at all of trying that tactic. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Balance in ABC programs is maintained within the context of the ABC's total program output. 
Radio Station 3ZZ (Question No. 3040) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
Yes. 
3 ) The political affiliations of  Mr Zangalis  are not known to the ABC. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) No funds appropriated to my Department have been spent to advertise Government policy. Advertising expenditure by my Department has, however, at times been incurred to gain public awareness about rights and entitlements available to the public arising from Government policy. 
In the 1973-74 financial year for example, $1,250,000 from my Department's 'Machinery of Government' vote was expended on an advertising campaign which included advertisements on the workings of Parliament and on community/Government joint responsibilities in areas such as migrant assimilation and pollution of the environment. In the 1974-75 financial year, $392,000 from the 'Machinery of Government' vote was expended on an advertising campaign which highlighted community response to Government initiatives in the fields of community health, child care and education. 
) and (3) Not applicable. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (4) I refer the right honourable member to the answer to Question No. 1581 in House of Representatives Hansard, 4 December 1974 (page 4590). 
My attention has been drawn to the remarks by the honourable member for Gippsland. I am not quite sure what the honourable member intends to answer. Whether or not he said what he is reported to have said, a report has appeared in the newspapers. I will not necessarily suggest that that is what the honourable member did say but since it is a view that seems to have some currency at times I shall attempt to answer it. I think it illustrates the rather odd situation that if there is a Press report- I include radio and television in the same way- if there is a media report which is in some way complimentary to us we are all absolutely certain that it is completely correct and totally unbiased. We are all the same. However, if any one of us makes a bit of a slip in the eyes of the reporter, again irrespective of the medium, we are convinced that it is a totally biased report against us. That is a failing that we all have, of course. 
In the present situation, my guess is that if any psychiatrist reads the newspapers carefully, that is the news reports and then the editorial comment, he will suggest that the newspapers are suffering from schizophrenia because the news reports often do not tie up with the editorial comment. If the claim that the honourable member has been criticising the ABC is correct, it is understandable. The ABC is a government instrumentality albeit it has statutory independence. Nonetheless one does not have to be too naive not to realise that governments can persuade in the sense that they can be bloody minded about, for example, applications for increased funds for the budget. So quite clearly the ABC could well feel pressurised. If the honourable gentleman is exerting this sort of pressure I think it is a bit unfair. I suggest that it may well make the ABC unhappy. It is not the sort of pressure he could put on to the other sections of the media, the Press, because they are not dependent upon him for their support. I think it is a far fetched suggestion to imply that somehow or other deep in the bowels of the ABC there is a little cell working away systematically to distort the news reportage and somehow or other to paint the Labor Government in glowing terms consistently and the non-Labor Opposition as an utter monster. My guess is that the ABC often succeeds in displeasing both sides of the House because it is attempting to be as impartial as is humanly possible. 
I have not seen the article. I know nothing of the allegations. A writ has been served and it has been referred to the AttorneyGeneral's Department. Until that matter is resolved I intend to make no decision at all. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the report of the working party on public broadcasting. Due to the limited number available reference copies of this report have been placed in the Parliamentary Library. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Because this was a transaction involving another party, McKinsey and Co. Inc., the ABC believes it would not be proper to make public the terms of the transaction. 
Yes. 
A number, such as the appointment of Radio and Television Media Heads, measurement of the total cost per ABC-produced television hour, and the establishment of an analytical support group for the Commission and Senior Management. 
Australian Broadcasting Commission: McKinsey Report (Question No. 2736) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
I am aware that in recent days the number of criticisms made of the ABC has increased. I want to put it that way because most of the time there are people, disgruntled individuals, on both sides of the House who feel badly done by by the ABC- and by the rest of the media, incidentally. However, it is not so easy to lean on the newspapers and the private radio stations and so on. It is much easier for parliamentarians to lean on the ABC because it is financed through this Parliament. I have also noticed that the complaints fluctuate depending on the fortunes of the day and the time. Whilst some weeks ago it seemed as if the Government was doing nothing right in many people's eyes and the Press seemed to be echoing that view, there were very few complaints from the Liberal Party side about bias in the ABC. 
There may well have been complaints, which have never ceased, from the Labor Party people- I will grant the honourable member that- but the Liberal Party side was very happy with the reporting that was going on. 
I concede also that the particular honourable member mentioned in that interjection has been running a fairly consistent campaign, attempting in my view to frighten or to terrorise officers of the ABC and to ensure that they do not do as the Government has indicated we think they should do: Expose all controversial views, discuss any point of view at all which has some currency in the community and causes people concern and therefore in our view it ought to be the proper concern of an organisation like the ABC to ventilate it. The programs that have been mainly criticised by the honourable member mentioned have related to these terribly touchy moral issues and our view is that they are a concern of the whole Australian community. 
It may not be in the honourable member's view but there are a lot of people who consider that these sorts of topics can and should be discussed openly, not because the people who think they should be discussed necessarily agree with them. Many people feel that they are worrying aspects of modern society. But one does not get rid of one's worries by refusing to face up to them and discuss them. In fact, one is more likely to cope with them if one sees them as problems if one understands the problem. For this reason we have sought to encourage the ABC to discuss these sorts of controversial issues. But to get back to the thing that is really niggling the Opposition at the moment: In the last couple of weeks the mood in the community has changed, if the newspapers- not just the ABC- are any reflection, if one leaves aside the schizophrenic nature of the newspapers, where the editorials are taking a line at variance with the news reports and the general commentary. If the Press can be taken as any measure the Opposition is in a little trouble at the moment. The ABC has been reflecting that same approach which has appeared in the Press. True, I have received a complaint. I have not managed to view a particular segment which appeared on television. I have seen a transcript and I must confess that I do not see what the fuss is about. The answer has been: 'Oh, it is not what he said, it is the way he said it'. If the matter reaches that sort of level, it is very difficult. After all, it depends on one's point of view. To take a biased Labor view, it is possible to say that the transcript which I saw looks very similar to the sort of material being published in all the newspapers. So there is no bias in that sense. If there is any intonation which inevitably must come out if a person puts a view passionately, a Labor man would say: 'Beauty, get stuck into them'. Quite obviously Liberal Party people say: 'Bias, bias, terrible bias'. It is a very difficult area. 
I am glad to see that at least one member of the Opposition takes and concedes my point. It is a very difficult area in which to ensure absolute impartiality. If one is honest it is impossible in this sort of area ever to guarantee impartiality. The only thing one can do is to ensure that all points of view are allowed to be expressed. Quite frankly, the suggestion has been made that there has been pressure from the Liberal Party side to get more viewing time for it. Again quite frankly I confess I do not mind so much because when the Liberal Party spokesmen appear, in my view they tend to put their foot in it. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
Yes. 
No. 
Yes. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 have no definite proposals for the establishment of access radio stations in the Shepparton area. However, as I' 
2 ) Number of positions for quarter ending indicated in the statement to which the honourable member refers, I regard it feasible for a station, or stations to be established should sufficient public support be generated from within the region. 
See (1) above. 
No requests for licences from local groups have been received by either myself, my Department or the Australian Broadcasting Control Board. 
The question of financing such access stations will be a matter for consideration when and if a definite proposal for their establishment is made. 
I give notice of my intention to present on General Business Thursday No. 13 a Bill for an Act relating to the prevention of pollution of the marine environment. 
My question to the Prime Minister relates to his comments about the sacking of staff of the National Capital Development Commission and his concern expressed in his communication to the various heads of departments that, if possible, people should not be sacked. The question refers to the Australian Broadcasting Commission, on which he made some comments. In view of the sacking of 150 ABC contract employees already, such as members of the Adelaide Chorus and the Sydney Showband what is his view of the proposed sacking of a further 220 staff from the ABC in order to save $600,000 and reach the target of cut-backs for the ABC of $8.4m, which represents a massive 20 per cent cut in its budget for the next 5 months? 
When the Australian Labor Party first revealed its intentions to introduce a national health insurance scheme in the late 1960s the reaction from the Liberal-Country Party Government, the medical profession, as represented by the Australian Medical Association, and the so-called voluntary health insurance funds was intemperate and illadvised to say the least. Despite the valiant attempts to distort our intentions the Australian Labor Party's free and open discussion of the concept together with the specific details given during the 1969 election campaign, gained a sympathetic response from the electorate. Despite the persistent protests from the medical business lobby the Leader of the Liberal Party at the time, John Gorton, felt the hot breath of the Labor Party on his neck. During the election campaign the Liberals offered their guarantee to cover medical expenses up to all but $5 of the medical bills. This was a counter to our plan to cover 85 per cent of medical expenses. 
During the course of the last Liberal-Country Party Government we continued to elaborate our views on a national health insurance scheme, fortified by the findings of the Nimmo inquiry into health insurance which had been published in 1969. During that time of course nothing of real significance was done by the LiberalCountry Party Government to correct the deficiencies exposed by the Nimmo Committee. From reading between the lines of the Nimmo report it was quite clear that within the constraints of the terms of reference the Committee was exposing gross inadequacies in the so-called non-profit funds. By the time of the 1972 election, despite the cat calls from the Liberal Party and the Country Party, the AMA and the very profitable so-called non-profit medical and hospital benefit funds- the medical business lobby I referred to earlier- we had amended out financial assessments upwards and we won the support of the Australian community. 
The primary intention of our program, now known as Medibank, is to provide complete insurance coverage against the costs of standard ward hospital treatment and an appropriate and predictable level of coverage against medical costs. For those who choose private hospital care private hospital insurance is available and in like fashion insurance cover can be purchased for the portion of the medical fees not covered by Medibank or the costs of ancillary and allied health services. The Labor Government never pretended that the Medibank program was anything more than a more efficient and more socially equitable way to pay for people's medical and hospital treatment irrespective of the capacity of the individual to pay. 
I will not recite the mechanical details of the obstruction offered by Liberal and Country Party members to our legislation but will recall some of their heartfelt objections, presumably based on sincerely felt matters of principle. I recall, for example, the obstruction of the legislation to authorise the collection of a levy on individual taxable incomes. This has meant that Medibank now is financed out of general taxation revenue and so is free in the same fashion as pensioners receive free medical treatment- free services supported by legislation implemented by past Liberal-Country Party governments,* not us. Having forced us to bring in the scheme in a fashion which is recognised as free when used in other cases, the present Government members then protested that it was not a free scheme. They wanted two bob each way. In similar fashion their objections to other pieces of associated legislation simply complicated the transition from the old health insurance scheme to the new Medibank, deprived members of the public of protection of their rights as contributors to private health funds and stopped implementation of reforms in the supervision of health insurance organisations, as had been recommended by the Nimmo Committee inquiry into health insurance which was set up, honourable members will recall, by the then LiberalCountry Party Government in the late 1 960s. 
One of the main reasons offered by the then Opposition parties for rejecting the legislation at each and every stage, presumably because they had sincerely felt objections in principle, objections of some great moral significance, was that Medibank would lower the quality of medical care. How? At no time does Medibank intrude any more than did the former Liberal-Country Party Government health insurance scheme intrude. Are you condemning the whole concept of health insurance? You called your scheme voluntary. Do you forget that a mandatory condition for receiving the Commonwealth medical or hospital benefit was that one had to belong to a private health insurance fund? There was nothing voluntary about that. Everyone must pay for those benefits by taxation; they have no choice. If our scheme, Medibank, can lower the quality of medical care, so did your health insurance scheme. Then why did you ever promote it? Why did you ever implement it in the first place in the 1950s? What is the Government's real view on this question? 
Another objection was that Medibank would increase costs for the Government and for the taxpayers. In answer to that accusation let me simply quote the Liberal-Country Party spokesman at the time who claimed, in a speech outside the House- having forgotten what he was claiming in the House, namely, that the concept would be expensive- that the basic problem was due to Drs Scotton and Deeble. I will quote him. He said: 
They are in fact social economists, and I believe that is the basis of their scheme and its weakness- that they looked at national health in purely economic terms and not in an approach towards the best in medical care. 
We never claimed it was anything more than a method of health insurance. The spokesman continued: 
This, I think, is the basis of their scheme 's faults. 
Note the word 'faults'. The spokesman continued: 
It would appear to be directed simply to establishing the cheapest, most efficient and easiest way of solving national health problems. 
That was not my claim, though we would make a claim like that. That was the claim of the spokesman for the Liberal Party at the time. Perhaps that explanation does not go down with the Government any more, as the shadow Minister of those days is not a member of the present ministry. So deeply felt are the principles of the Government parties that if they do not think those principles are electorally attractive they dump the person who was responsible, on their behalf, for enunciating them. Then the Liberal Party feels cleansed, done with the embarrassing principle. Does it help the Australian citizen to know, to understand, to believe what the Government says? 
But let me come back to the objection. I presume the Government still believes that Medibank will result in increased costs for the 
Australian community. Why else would it set up a 3-man inquiry into Medibank, then argue with one another about what the committee will inquire into, with the Minister for Health saying one thing and the Treasurer saying another? I think- I am not completely sure- that the final decision is to have the committee report on the value of imposing a levy to finance Medibank. But stop. Was not that one of the things the Labor Government wanted to do and the Liberals opposed with passion, saying that they would 'go to the barricades'? They said that there was no way in the world that they would pass a Bill to finance the program. Have they changed their minds? Has the great principle on which they were prepared to go to the barricades become redundant? What are the Liberals' principles? Are they anything more than cheap, short term opportunism? How many more promises, solemn avowals, are simply to be dismissed by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  with a smile, of course? I know he has offered the rationalisation that his broken election promises should be seen as evidence of his flexibility in the light of better information. Bully for him. But it raises a worry that he can so readily make so many promises on so little research and so little solid thinking. He has already changed direction on nearly everything on which he claimed he won the election. He certainly won the election. I presume he would insist he won on the program he presented. So one must conclude that he won on a dishonest program. You protest. He has changed from his own program, which was contradictory of much of what we were doing, yet every day he seems to be embracing more of the Labor Government's policies and arguments. 
Which is the true Malcolm Fraser- the December 1975 model, the February 1976 model or the 22 March 1975 model? When  Mr Fraser  was elected Leader of the Opposition he said that he would not force an early election and he would not block Medibank. There are interesting questions to the ordinary man and woman who must try to assess whether Medibank will be maintained by the Government and encouraged to develop or whether it will be permitted to wither. On their assessment depends the answer to the next question. Does one take out private health insurance? If so, at what level? If one opts for the Fraser model March 1975- remember the categorical promise not to block Medibank- one would not bother taking out extra health insurance. If one fears that the December 1975 approach might prevail- remember the promise to curb all the Labor Government's extravagances and inefficiencies, of which Medibank was a part, in Liberal eyes, and this view has been reinforced by the move to set up a 3 -man inquiry very soon after the election, I suggest you toss a coin. If one accepts the slightly later view, after the LynchHunt differences over the committee's proposed recommendations, recognising that the Treasury line won the day and that 2 of the 3 committee members are of the Treasury persuasion, still toss a coin. The committee will probably recommend a levy, but Government members when in Opposition were prepared to fight to the end, which they did- and succeeded- to stop us introducing a levy. The Prime Minister is a man of high principle. I am sorry, dear listeners, I cannot tell you which contradictory principle he will stand by. That is the $ 1 ,500m question. 
What is the Government's policy on the health care of the community? What is the Government's policy on anything? You will not find out by reading the Prime Minister's policy speech. If you read it quickly without pausing to weigh it carefully you will get a warm glow. That is what happened to the voters, and they voted the Liberal-Country Party into power. Already every major promise, as one perceives it when hearing the speech or reading it carelessly has been broken. If you read the speech carefully, as you should read the Governor-General's Speech, which is, of course, the Prime Minister's speech, you will find that both really say nothing in specific, unequivocal terms. It is like buying something on hire purchase from a supersalesman. When you read the fine print you discover you have been conned, and you are unfortunately stuck with a product and must continue to pay for it for the term of the contract- 3 long years, in this case. 
I congratulate the honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Thomson)  on his maiden speech. I must say that I was particularly impressed by the sensitivity of his remarks in relation to the Aborigines and the problems of the inhabitants of the Torres Strait islands. I shall not touch on some of the other points because I would rather concentrate on the remarks made by the Governor-General. In a debate in the House last week I had occasion to mention that the Governor-General's Speech said nothing, I thought, in unequivocal, specific terms. Take for example this statement: 
The Government will place great emphasis on directing welfare assistance to those in real need. 
That is a beautiful sentiment. How could anyone disagree? But what is really meant by the word 'real'? By the way it was put, one might have thought that the Labor Government threw money away. On whom? Was it on the pensioners who were expected to eke out an existence on less than one-fifth of average weekly earnings? We quickly brought the pension up to a quarter of average weekly earnings- still not a princely sum but at least permitting a more dignified existence. More important in many ways, we set the pattern for regular twice-yearly adjustments to the pension, getting away from the undignified spectacle of pensioners having to beg for increases and never being sure when they would be granted. Clearly that was not considered a real need before we brought the change about. Even so, we find that the Liberal Government still feels the urge to tamper with the whole concept by making the adjustments related to increases in the consumer price index and not keeping pensions as a set proportion of average weekly earnings. 
In my view this is a cynical move to reduce eventually the real value of the pension, in view of the trends over recent years. In those recent years the rate of increase of average weekly earnings has been faster than the rate of increase in the consumer price index- at least until the last few months anyway. I presume that this recent situation will be temporary. If it is not, of course, the Government will be in trouble. If the consumer price index rises faster than average weekly earnings the Government will have a lot of problems on its head. So I assert that it is to be hoped that average weekly earnings will go up faster. So that by tying the level of the pension to increases in the consumer price index the Government will reduce the real value of the pension for the pensioners; in other words, revert to the situation when we got into power. 
One should recall that when there was a Labor government in the 1940s the pensioners were receiving 25 per cent of average weekly earningsone quarter of the average wage in the community. When we got into power in 1972 the pensioners were receiving less than 20 per cent of average weekly earnings. That is what I am getting at- the way the Government is seeking to manage the adjustment of the pension rate it is quite likely that the pension rate will fall relatively in the way it did from the time Australia last had a Labor government in the 1940s. I invite the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Newman)  to write it down on a bit of paper if he does not follow it and he will see that it is correct. 
In other areas we also demonstrated our concept of real need such as by recognising the need of the unemployed to more substantial support. I know aU the arguments about the bludgers who are not working. But most of the people who are unemployed at the moment cannot find jobsquite genuinely are unable to find work. This has been the case regrettably for some time. Until we made the adjustment the support for those people was totally inadequate. In like fashion we recognised the need or the right of a supporting mother, irrespective of the reason why she is on her own and attempting to support herself and a child or children- it is irrelevant- to the same support that was offered by the last Liberal government to first-class widows- or were they Class A widows? The whole concept of categorising women in that fashion was inhumane and insulting, in our view, but it was a graphic demonstration of the repressive interpretation of 'real' as seen by honourable members on the Government side. Already there are hints that they would dearly love to revert to their retributive approach, namely that the unfortunate in society must be punished because in the eyes of government supporters those people must deserve their misfortune. 
The Liberal Government claims- I quote from the Governor-General 's Speech:  . . . that adequate opportunities for the disadvantaged as well as the most rapid improvement in social service provision, are dependent on people being free and encouraged to achieve their best. 
I would have thought it was the other way round. For those who are not free and able to achieve their best, adequate opportunities must be provided. The most significant limitation of freedom of choice in this society would be poverty and inadequate opportunities for reasonable education. To overcome these burdens we encouraged the study of poverty by Professor 
Henderson- true the previous Liberal Government set up the inquiry in the first place, but we enlarged it and gave it more support- so that we might better understand the problems. We poured funds into the education systems, both State and private, where investigation snowed that standards were inadequate and the children attending schools were being penalised. The then Opposition crowed that it was all waste, particularly in the innovations area. It was claimed that there was lots of waste in the education area but particularly in the innovations area. By so doing the previous Opposition illustrated how little it understood, how little feeling it really had for the underprivileged. Just bricks and mortar, important as they are where there are no classrooms, are no consolation to many poor children whose parents do not understand or appreciate the value of education, and who therefore offer no encouragement and even place obstacles in the way of their own children deriving the greatest benefits from their schooling. 
With flexible approach offered to teachers in the innovations program there was some hope that positive discrimination could be provided, particularly in disadvantaged schools in areas of high migrant concentrations where the children have not mastered the language adequately, where they have very few facilities at home and very little encouragement, because of the difficult situation with their parents, to make the best of their education opportunities. The innovations program was an attempt to overcompensate, if you like, in their favour. But now the Government threatens the survival of this concept, not in the words of the Governor-General's Speech- which does not say anything in particular- but in its actions. Its attitude to the poor could best be summed up as: 'Serves them right for being born poor or for being born migrants'. Incidentally, by 'poor' I do not necessarily mean poor in dollars and cents. I revert to my point about how some people suffer because their parents do not appreciate the value of or need for education. Of course this need is increasing as our society becomes increasingly technological. 
Elsewhere in the Speech the Governor-General said: 
At the root of the economic crisis is a steadily increasing tax burden required to finance, at the expense of the private sector, an ever-growing public sector. 
What is meant by 'at the expense of the private sector'? Who or what is the private sector- factories, real estate, great manufacturing concerns or people? Is a public servant not part of the private sector? Just close all the Public Services down and stop the public servants performing their functions and see how well society, the private sector, functions. How has the public sector been created if not by the powerful, the private sector? It is nonsense to say that it has been created at the expense of it as though the private sector would be better off without any public sector at all. The Speech also states: 
There will be a major direction of resources away from government towards individuals and private enterprise. 
What is the government if it is not the people in the country. There is no evidence that anyone has yet produced to suggest that the members of the Australian Labor Party while in government were creating private wealth for ourselves. I say that because there are some places where that is what governments do. We were not doing that. Money, resources, were being directed to serve people's needs- people in the total community, the public sector and the private sector. They are inter-related. Who were the people getting supportjust pensioners, just children, just the ill? How about the car drivers on the new roads, or the air travellers receiving the benefit of the support for airport facilities, or the farmers receiving the benefit of the Government's endeavours to find export markets or its endeavours to bring in marketing regulations and giving support to the wool industry by supporting the wool price? Is that not all, as part of the government endeavours, support and help for the private sector? In my view the government policy could be seen as nothing more than cutting back on what we as a Labor government tried to establish to improve the quality of life, to protect the freedom of the community from exploitation by ruthless business practices. Thus the Trade Practices Act provided a comprehensive framework for all manner of protective devices. But the GovernorGeneral says: 
The Government will ensure that business activity is regulated by law to prevent exploitation of consumers. 
Good! Bully for the Goverment! That is why we introduced that legislation. The GovernorGeneral continues: 
It will also review existing regulations to ensure that they are in the public interest- 
That is what the regulations were brought in for-  and do not needlessly hamper business efficiency. The Government will review the operation of the Trade Practices Act and closely cooperate with the States in protecting the consumer. 
I reiterate 'needlessly hamper business efficiency'. What efficiency? The efficiency of producing products of quality or the efficiency of increasing the quantity of profit? I wonder which the Government really means? I have not noticed enormous complaints from the general community about that Act and the things that might hopefully spring from it if it is implemented. I have not seen consumer organisations complaining that it would increase their opportunity to check on the quality of the goods produced in the private sector because not only public servants' wives shop in supermarkets. None of the consumer organisations has complained about the added powers that Act will provide to ensure that what is supposed to be in the packet is in fact in it. But the Government is going to review the Act. It is going to ensure close co-operation with the States in protecting the consumer. Well in real terms that means nothing. The States could have done much of this themselves. They could do so right now. They talk a lot but they do nothing. I suggest that that is precisely what the Government means by that comment. Then in the Governor-General's Speech there is talk of bringing about the most important reform of the Federal system since Federation. The Governor-General said: 
Its core will be the principle of tax sharing. . . . Under this Government, the States will have access to a secure proportion of personal income tax revenue. 
Let us stop the humbug. What do Government supporters think that the States get right now? If it is not taxation revenue, what is it? If it is not a secure proportion in the sense that the States know what they are going to get each year, what is it? The grizzle is, of course, that the States feel that they are not getting enough. The Government's answer is to hand them back powers to levy taxes themselves. Elsewhere in the Speech I think is comment on the need to increase the autonomy and responsibility of local and State government. In my view this will simply be a reversion to massive social inequality because, after all, the Australian Government will have priority in collecting funds. The Australian Government will decide how much it wants initially, then the States will have to find the extra funds they feel they want. We are giving them the right to raise those funds by levying taxes. The more populous States may do all right, thank you very much, but how about the less populous States? They tend to be the largest in area and their difficulties are greatest in terms of development. They will have the greatest difficulty in raising funds. In real terms, of course, the Labor Government's policy was to recognise that Australia is one country. The States were fortuitous divisions created early in our history but, if the country as a whole is going to progress, we need to think as a country and take funds if needs be from the richer areas in order to promote development in the poorer areas. 
-We need to take funds from the richer areas in order to promote development in the poorer areas such as the State of the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Martyr).  It is for these reasons that all governments in the past have adopted the basic principle of taxation whereby more is taken from those who are better off and more is given back to those who are less well off. Not even the Government of which the honourable member for Swan is a supporter would propose to turn that theory totally upside down but certainly in his Government's activities it will try to reverse the trend a good deal to make a sort of flatter distribution which, of course, will penalise the poorer sections of the community. 
It is claimed that there will be a re-assertion of the Government's role in establishing an appropriate legal framework for economic life. Just what does that mean if not government control? If the Government is going to do it, it may be weak, watered-down and a biased version in favour of the rich, but it will still be government control. The Government cannot get away from it. It proves that the Government does not believe in the freedom it carries on about when it attacks the Opposition because it knows there is no such thing as complete freedom. There is only controlled power. All the things that the Government accused us of destroying- the supports that we discovered in many areas where in our view there was no need for support- the Government had implemented as a private enterprise government to try to bolster that particular part of the private sector it felt under economic threat, under danger of going under, poor dears, because the profit margin, the return on the investments, was not quite as good as it could have been. The way the Government got that support, the way it obtained the funds to give that support to that section of the community, was usually by depriving the poorer sections of the community. That is why when we came into power we found the inadequacy of pensions, the total inadequacy of the education system and so on  ad infinitum.  Anyone would think from the way the Government protests about 'the freedom of Australians to choose'- these words are contained in the Governor-General's Speech- that this country was governed initially by some communist monstrosity which laid down all sorts of restrictions and that since then the job of government, the course of human progress, has been to break it all down. The trouble is that there has never been a communist government in power. Most of the time honourable members opposite have been in power. Of course when they talk about breaking down government controls they are really joking. What they mean is that they are keen to break down any controls which tend to increase the cut that the bulk of the community gets of the wealth. They are keen to increase those controls that will guarantee that the privileged maintain their hold on the bulk of the resources of this country. 
One could conclude, I suppose, by discussing the Government's moves to control inflation because that is the great threat to the survival of this community. The Government's moves to control inflation include cutting, down government spending. Of course the problem of cutting down government spending is that the Government somehow tries to suggest that government spending is something way out on its own and has nothing to do with the Australian community. But of course government spending goes into schools built by private enterprise, it goes into hospitals built by private enterprise to treat the private citizen and it goes into schools to educate the children of the private citizen. The funds for government expenditure go into providing services and utilities used by the private sector. The Government says that it is going to cut expenditure down. Bully for it! It will cut down on providing funds for government housing so that there Will be fewer houses for those who cannot afford to build their own houses. But then that does not solve the Government's problems because it is worried about excess liquidity. The Government has to stop the demand because of excess money giving rise to further inflation so it does a couple of things, including bringing in the Australian Savings Bonds. What a brilliant success that was. The bonds took all the money away from the housing institutions so that they could not afford to lend any money out to people who wanted to build houses. The bonds were such a raging success that they threatened to be disastrous and the Government had to close them before they really got under way. In fact I had complaints from people who had applied while the bonds were still theoretically open and were told that they could not get their bonds. What has been the result? As I said, there was the flight of funds from the building societies, a drop therefore in the amount of money available for people to build their houses, then retaliation by the building societies increasing their interest rates. That is a very clever way of controlling inflation. 
I wish to ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. In view of the public controversy concerning the Concorde supersonic transport aircraft, the availability of the draft environmental impact statement prepared by the United Kingdom Government and the British Aircraft Corporation, and the claim in the report by the Environment Protection Authority of Victoria that the area of Melbourne affected by the excessive noise of Concorde will be far greater than that affected by the Boeing 707, the noisiest of the present aircraft, and the Authority's assertion that the introduction of Concorde into service at Melbourne airport is contrary to its noise control policy, will the Minister inform the House whether and when a public hearing will be held under the terms of the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act? 
-These are the specific measures for which we sought the cooperation of the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  in withdrawing from the Bill; we agree with the bulk of the Bill. I should like to make a couple of comments because of some of the remarks that were made after I spoke previously. I offer one tip to the Government apropos the cost of drugs and the claim by the pharmaceutical companies that they are having a very hard financial time. It strikes me that it would be tactically unwise for the Government to sell the drug company that was purchased during the term of the Labor Government. The point of the exercise was not to produce all the drugs that the country wants and put every other drug company out of business any more than the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories have done that in the area in which it has expertise. But the point is that it will permit the Department of Health to better advise the Government on the real cost of pharmaceuticals in this country. We found, and I am sure the Government will find the same, that it was exceedingly difficult to find out the real cost to the drug firms. So that is a tip which has nothing specific to do with these clauses other than it relates in the long term to the cost of drugs to the Australian community. Again we wish to emphasise that we too were troubled by these particular proposals. I do not know how we would have decided the issue, but we wish to register our objection to increasing the charge to patients who go to see a doctor, get medical treatment for nothing or next to nothing, depending on whether the doctor bulk bills and does not get his rebate or so on. But for all practical purposes Medibank has removed the bugbear of medical costs- then we burden patients as was very eloquently illustrated by an honourable member from the Minister's own side of the chamber- the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges).  He beautifully illustrated the burden which can finish up being placed on the patient. 
Much has been made of the enormous increase in the cost of drugs to the community and the increasing number of prescriptions written by doctors. We talk about over-usage, but I would like to make the point that patients cannot overuse the system; it is the doctors, because patients cannot write their own prescriptions. If there are too many prescriptions it is because doctors are choosing to write them. Again if one looks basically at the whole question of medical care and what we are seeking to do, accepting the way in which the Minister and the honourable member for Petrie put the case, I think, they would concede the principle that anyone who is ill should have a right to medical care irrespective of capacity to pay. That being the case, I think that for too long we have separated medical care in terms of the doctor's treatment or consultation from the drugs which are an integral part of the treatment. If we accept the proposition that through Medibank the Government in essence bears the burden of the medical fee and collects the funds to pay the doctors via taxation of one sort or another, or a levy, if the Government so chooses, then why not accept the same principle for pharmaceutical benefits? In other words, let us stop the false division. Let us consider it all as medical treatment. Let us find the extra funds that are necessary to pay for the drugs in the same way as we find the money to pay the doctors for the treatment they provide because in essence the drugs are still treatment provided by doctors. The actual material is supplied by chemists and pharmaceutical firms, but the treatment still depends on the doctor. In that sense I think the Government would be wise to reassess the whole scheme. Any alternative which seeks to impose some sort of restraint on patients using drugs is going to fail because it is not up to the patients; it is up to the doctors. 
I suggest that if honourable members are interested they might read some articles which appeared in the  New York Times  recently which discussed the rip-off in medical services and fees paid by the community, and, I might suggest, inadequate standards of medical care. All these issues were discussed in the  New York Times  early this year, in some depth and, I suggest, with some anger. It discussed the way the medical profession itself is more often than we have ever cared to admit in the past, responsible for these gross abuses in the system. I think that these are the sorts of things the Government's review needs to look towards. I am sure that if we were still in government we would have the same difficulty that the present Government is encounteringthe cry of abuse of the system of Medibank itself, of over-treatment and so on. Sure, the patient decides to go to the doctor, and it may well be that in many cases the doctor decides that the patient has not got anything physically wrong with him; the problem is that he is neurotic. But that is still an illness. I am neurotic and I bet that the Minister is too. There are occasions when you feel that you are ill and you want and seek medical advice. You are reassured that you are not going to drop dead tomorrow, that you have not got cancer of the lung, and that it is really just a cold. That is the reassurance you deserve and that is a legitimate function that the doctor is performing. All of us, including doctors, are in that position. 
For these reasons I hesitate to suggest that patients institute unnecessary medical care. My point is, and I think this is borne out by those articles in the  New York Times,  that once the patient gets to the doctor there is then a danger on the whole fee for service concept that doctors may institute unnecessary medical treatment. They may get the patient to come back more frequently than is required. In a way, the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  conceded this sort of point himself. He said that at times he felt that he had over-prescribed. That is the point I wish to make. I think the fee for service concept is the motivation behind this overusage by doctors. Maybe we are entering into a deeper philosophical argument and we can pursue it some other time; but I am sure we need to assess these things when we look into the cost of the pharmaceutical benefits scheme. I think it ought to be abolished. I think it ought to be seen as part of medical treatment. Then we face up to the problem of how to ensure that there is no over-usage of the medical services- doctors' treatment, drugs and incidentally also hospital beds. How do we stop it? I suggest that we do not have to look to socialist countries but to good old capitalist America to find the answer to that sort of assessment of how medical services are used and abused. 
There are beautiful studies to show that again the fee for service concept is the bugbear. Comparisons were made in America of patients treated by doctors on a fee for service basis and patients treated by doctors on a salaried basis. The quality of medical care is at least as good if the doctor is on a salary, and there is some evidence that it may even be better. Yet when the doctor is on a salary, dramatic reductions in bed usage, operation rates and drug prescribing are found. That is a long dissertation telling the Government how to suck eggs, but nevertheless I hope that in its review it will take these things into account. We wish to divide on this issue because we wish to make the point quite strongly that the approach that the Government is now taking- just bumping up the fees, just increasing the amount the patient has to pay, particularly those in the community who cannot afford it, the ones who were on the scheme the Government itself introduced to subsidise these people- is a mistake. We agree that there ought to be a review. 
-The Opposition, whilst agreeing with the bulk of the Bill, regrets the necessity to oppose it nonetheless because of a number of clauses it contains. I will not dwell on the points with which we agree because they are largely machinery matters and items that we anticipated would be necessary. In fact I think we tried to put some of them in the Act. I regret to say that whilst the present Government parties, the Liberal and National Country parties, were in Opposition their members opposed these items, namely, clause 4 and clause 7. 1 do not want to dwell for long on this matter and will deal simply with the few items to which we intend to object. If there were the time and inclination we would suggest to the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  that in our view the wisest thing would be to withdraw the Bill and re-draft it in order to cope with the objections we seek to discuss. 
The first objection relates to clause 12, which seeks to increase to $2 the general patient contribution for pharmaceutical benefits and to remove the concession for subsidised health benefit plan beneficiaries. In simple terms it means that for reasons of economy, etc., while in government we increased the patient contribution for pharmaceutical benefits from $1 to $1.50. We did that in the last Budget.That was in the middle of last year. A patient saw a doctor, got a prescription and went to the chemist. The charge had been $1. We increased it to $1.50. Already the Government is seeking to increase it from $1.50 to $2. 
I am not interested in support or lack of support from my troops. I am interested in discussing the issue which may, if you listen; be constructive even to members of the National Country Party. 
Medibank seeks to make medical treatment freely available to all sections of the community, irrespective of their financial capacity to pay. The community has recognised that. The LiberalAustralian Country Party Government has recognised that. With all its huffing and puffing about opposing the legislation when we sought to introduce it in the first place, during the election campaign and since then the Liberal Party has indicated quite firmly that it intends to maintain Medibank. We may quibble about how well the Liberal Party will maintain Medibank, but it has accepted the principle. We believe that the community deserves the right to get the medical treatment it requires, irrespective of the financial resources of the individual patient. To put it another way, one does not deserve to be ill, so why should one be punished by having to pay for medical treatment? One presumably does not choose to be ill. Therefore, when one is sick, in our view, one is entitled to receive medical treatment. If one accepts that principle, clearly the imposition of an ever increasing charge for the drugs prescribed by a doctor to treat the illness for which one went to the doctor is in conflict with the basic principle enunciated in relation to Medibank. 
I confess that we on this side of the House have not been without guilt either. We sought to continue the principle of charging a fee. We had a lengthy discussion about whether it should be raised from $ 1 to $ 1 .50. 1 feel that in view of the ever-persisting pressure to increase the cost of drugs the time has come when the Government should give consideration to overcoming this further financial obstacle to the sick in the community receiving medical care. It happens to be the Liberal Party now. If we were in government I feel it would have been time for us to give the same consideration to the matter. There is not much point someone on a low income going to see a doctor, because Medibank allows him to do so free of charge, and then get a prescription which will amount to a $2 bill if he cannot afford that. That aspect comes into the question because the following clauses, clauses 13 and 14, making consequential amendments to sections 87 and 99, remove the right which up until now has prevailed for people registered under the subsidised health benefits plan to receive their pharmaceutical benefits at a reduced charge. For some time it had been 50c. We increased it to 75c. Perhaps that was a mistake. We certainly did it. Now, in one fell swoop, the Government is seeking to abolish the whole concession so that the people which even this Government conceded required special help, hence the subsidised health benefits plan, will now be expected to pay the full sum for their prescriptions. 
Once again we think it would be not unreasonable to withdraw the Bill or to take out those parts and rethink this matter so that the concession could remain. I think the whole community accepted the principle of a concession to people on lower incomes, to people on social security benefits of various sorts or to migrants after the first two or three months of their arrival in the country- I forget the period, but it is not very relevant. It applied to the short period after migrants arrived and were necessarily settling in and getting themselves a job. It was thought that if they became sick and required drugs they should be able to get them at a concessional rate. The Bill abolishes all those concessions. For these reasons we feel constrained to oppose the legislation. If the Minister withdrew it and redrafted it so that those controversial parts were removed we would certainly support the remainder. We certainly agree with the proposition that the overall subsidised health benefit plan should be abolished, because clearly its purpose is superseded by the implementation of Medibank which provides the medical care, without cost to people who could not afford it, that that plan sought to provide. I think that summarises the attitude of the Labor Party on this matter. We agree with many of the machinery matters, but we object to and will vote against the propositions which seek to raise the fee for prescriptions from $1.50 to $2 and the proposition that people in economic need should be denied the privilege which they have had up to now of getting their prescriptions for 75c. We object to their having to pay $2. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) When is the Health Policy Development Task Force of the Hospitals and Health Services Commission, established under the previous Government, expected to report to him. 
Will the undertaking by the previous Minister to table the report for the information of the Parliament be honoured. 
It is interesting that a lot of the anxiety in the community over the future of ethnic radio stations and the Australian Broadcasting Commission stems largely from a large measure of anxiety, or paranoia one might say, on the part of the commercial broadcasters. When I was Minister for the Media I noticed that when we tried to encourage the development of a broader service by the ABC, catering to a wider range of minority interests than it had been able to cater to previously, and opened radio station 2JJ to appeal to a certain age group, the major broadcasters became panic stricken when they perceived the success of 2 JJ. 
There was nothing in what we said while in government which prevented the commercial broadcasters providing the type of program provided by the ABC over station 2JJ. So far as I am aware, neither has this Government forbidden them to develop this type of program. They did not do it in all the years when the Liberal and National Country Parties were in power before we thought of the experiment after becoming the Government and established station 2JJ. No one told the commercial broadcasters that they had to ignore this significant section of the Australian community. 
Station 2JJ has proved extremely successful. Its ratings are keenly felt by the commercial broadcasters; so much so that I was told when I was the responsible Minister that the commercial broadcasters- perhaps they are still doing this - were very carefully tape recording everything broadcast by station 2JJ. If they came across anything that they thought was slightly controversial or a little naughty- they concentrated on the naughty bits because they tended to view these as the most susceptible avenue for exerting pressure on the Australian Broadcasting Control Board- they would hasten to submit their little snippets of tape recordings to show that someone had used a four letter word over station 2JJ. They hoped that the Control Board would do something about 2JJ. It was reported to me by the ABC people that the commercial broadcasterswho also had given other hints- were very upset about the type of programming. The commercial broadcasters said that they could not do that sort of thing because they were controlled by the Broadcasting Control Board and its standards. My rejoinder was that if action against them by the Broadcasting Control Board depended upon my approval- and I understood that it did, that the Control Board could only make recommendations to the Minister- then I promised publicly, and I said it on a number of occasions, that I would not approve any action against them if they were imitating and trying to compete with the ABC. I approved of what the ABC was doing. I said that the success of the station proved that it was of value to a significant section of the community. I told them to go ahead and compete if they wished to do so. At least I was paid a compliment by the talk back group of one commercial station which said that it was very glad that I took that attitude because it enabled them to be more adventurous in the discussion of issues on its radio program. 
I view with quite a lot of scepticism the concern by commercial broadcasters when they say that station 2JJ is only an experiment and now must be stopped, that the whole thing must be handed over to the commercial broadcasters. What has happened to this great thing called free enterprise? We are not stopping them from providing a competitive program. If they do not choose to do so I presume it is because they are afraid of the requirements. It takes a bit of guts to put on a program such as a 2JJ program. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  commented that the request by the ABC for additional funds of something over $7m, I think, above the Budget allocation, was unreasonable and that in keeping with the warning given by the Government the Government had cut back. He said the Government also expected the ABC to cut its expenditure by a further $lm-odd. I understood that the increased funds sought by the ABC related to 2 factors beyond its control. One was the increase in wages which are not budgeted for but which have to be included in supplementary estimates when the time comes. That is where a considerable portion of that $7m arose. It was not the fault of the ABC that in the time between the Budget allocation and the time it put in its supplementary estimates there had been wage increases in the community nationally, and it was clearly expected to keep up with them. 
Thank you. That was the second factor. I said there were two. One was the increases in salaries and the second one was the increase in staffing due, again, not to the fault of the ABC but of the last Government because we had expected the ABC to provide more services after the Budget. I assumed the portfolio of Minister for the Media after the Budget Estimates had been prepared and so on. I quite unashamedly admit that in the short time I held that portfolio I sought to encourage an extension of ABC services. For example, we talked about- I thought we had agreed about it before we were removed from office- the broadcasting of fine music 24 hours a day. The Government attempted to curtail that but the ABC insisted upon sticking to what it considered had been the agreement in the first place. I had also discussed with the ABC the possibility- I thought I had agreed to the proposition- that the 2JJ program should be broadcast from Melbourne as well as Sydney 24 hours a day and moved to FM. To do that would have required extra staff. I had understood that the transmitting facilities were available. 
In fact to my knowledge there are 2 FM transmitters in Sydney and Melbourne. The ABC had been broadcasting for some time using the old equipment which had been used in the 1960s. I think it is referred to as the Marconi equipment. When we decided to establish the fine music station network centred on Adelaide we ordered a set of new transmitters from Japan. Those transmitters have subsequently arrived. So in Sydney and Melbourne we have new transmitters plus the old ones. We had agreed to try to extend 2JJ to FM broadcasting. That was going to take extra facilities, staff and so on. That was the reason for some of the proposed funding. 
Once 2JJ had moved from AM in Sydney to FM we had hoped- there had been some preliminary discussions- that the standby 2JJ transmitter could continue to be used in Sydney in another type of program even. The thought was that it might be specific broadcasting for women or a women's broadcast station. These standby transmitters have been standing around doing practically nothing for many years. In fact it is very difficult to find out when they have ever been used by the major stations. Part of the agreement establishing 2JJ and 3ZZ was that if one of the major stations broke down a button would be pushed and 2JJ would go off the air and the standby transmitter would be used for its legitimate purpose. But there has been no need ever for that in the time we have been having 2 JJ broadcasts. It is difficult to see that it will he likely to be the case in the future. If so, people could accept it. We sought to prove by experimentation the need for stations like 2JJ and 3ZZ. 
I think 2JJ proved its point. We had agreed to establish it in the FM band which meant that initially we would have simultaneous broadcasting from Sydney and Melbourne but hopefully we would establish a separate 2JJ programming complex in Melbourne because the essence of the 2JJ format is that it should have a fair measure of topicality and local interest. That again would be another reason for the increased costs the ABC was seeking to offset by its submission for additional funds. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications also mentioned that the Government is contemplating establishing an inquiry into the whole industry. I would welcome that. I think it is certainly a good idea. I was toying with the idea myself. I still felt that the things I was trying to do with the ABC and with community broadcasting were worth doing even before there was an inquiry. I think it is quite clear that there is a good case for community access stations, certainly centred on tertiary colleges, colleges of advanced education and universities. I think there is a good case for extending the ABC network in the country areas anyway and allowing the ABC to establish better local radio servicing for country areas. At the moment it is on a regional basis and that really satisfies no one. I certainly would agree that there is a good case for having an open inquiry into the whole radio industry. In my view the tragedy is that the commercial networks appeal to a very narrow segment and within that narrow segment they provide very little real alternative, one to the other. That is the tragedy of commercial radio. The danger the commercial stations see is that the ABC may become adventurous and try to provide an alternative, and they feel threatened. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Health. In view of the growing community concern at the inadequate number of salaried specialists appointed to the staff of the Canberra Community Hospital and the concurrent increase in popularity of the salaried hospital services, has the Minister met, and if not when will he meet, the salaried medical specialist staff at the hospital to learn its needs at first hand, rather than depending solely upon discussions with the Australian Medical Association and the private specialists in the Australian Capital Territory, both of which groups have been opposed to the whole concept of salaried medical staffing for the Canberra Hospital? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. When will the National Parks and Wildlife Service be able to take up the responsibilities recommended for a national body by the House of Representatives Select Committee on Wildlife Conservation established in 1970 and provided for in the National Parks and Wildlife Act 1974? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Health. In view of the growing community concern about the future of Medibank, aggravated by persistent rumours of gross abuse and thus rapidly increasing wasteful expenditure, can the Minister indicate whether statistics are available from Medibank to ascertain whether there has been a sharp increase in medical services rendered? If so, how much of an increase has there been in first visits by patients to doctors -in other words, patient initiated increases in services? How much of an increase has occurred in repeat visits by patients on doctors' recommendations or referral by general practitioners to other doctors for further medical investigation or treatment- in other words, doctor initiated increases in services? Will the Medibank Review Committee provide answers to the fundamental question of whether there has been a real increase in medical services, and whether that increase represents a genuine need or a Medibank rip-off and if so by whom, patients or doctors? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What are the anticipated capital and recurrent costs of the School Dental Health Scheme in the various States for the year 1975-76. 
What decisions have been taken by the Government on Australian Government financial support for the Scheme. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Health. He will recall that on 24 March I asked a question concerning the inadequate number of specialist medical staff appointed to the Canberra Hospital and that in his reply he expressed concern at the shortage of medical staff. Has he had the discussions which he foreshadowed at that time with members of the salaried medical staff of the 2 Canberra hospitals? What steps have been taken to overcome the acute staff shortage? Has the Australian Capital Territory Medical Association given any indication of its reaction to further appointments of salaried medical staff, even if only to restore the staffing to previously established levels? Does the staff shortage mean that inadequate medical care is available to patients seeking to exercise their rights as hospital Medibank patients? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker - 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  agreed to: 
That the business of the day be called on. 
-Can the Minister for Health explain how the Government's decision to allow doctors who bulk bill to charge their patients the 15 per cent gap between the Medibank rebate and the scheduled fee, and at the same time not to allow patients to submit unpaid accounts to Medibank for payment in the doctor's name, will assist low income earners? Will the Minister also inform the House what review mechanisms the Government proposes to control rises in doctors' fees, bearing in mind that before the advent of Medibank the free play of competition between the health funds did nothing to curtail increases in doctors 'fees? 
-The Government is either lying or deceiving itself on the question of Medibank. It is not Medibank which is becoming increasingly expensive but hospital and medical services. Whatever system the Government adopts, patients will continue to get sick, consult doctors, be admitted to hospitals and consume medicines. All of this is paid for by the community eventually. Until the early 1950s many people who felt that they should consult a doctor were unable to do so because they could not afford to pay. It was this socially unacceptable situation which led a Liberal-Country Party Government years ago to introduce the health scheme based on voluntary health insurance funds. This was a mixed private enterprise and government scheme where everyone paid taxes to provide Commonwealth hospital and medical benefits and many voluntarily paid contributions to so-called voluntary health insurance funds. A condition imposed by the Liberal-Country Party Government at the time was that no one could claim their Commonwealth medical benefits, for which everyone had paid their taxes, unless they belonged to a voluntary health fund. Unfortunately many failed to contribute to these funds and so finished up, in effect, with no cover against illness. 
Medibank was devised to overcome this deficiency which was identified in the findings of the Nimmo Committee of inquiry into health insurance. The Committee, set up by the LiberalCountry Party Government, reported in 1969 and confirmed as follows: 
The operation of the health insurance scheme is unnecessarily complex . . . contributions ... are beyond the capacity of some members of the community and involve considerable hardship for others ... An unduly high proportion of the contributions received by some organisations is absorbed in operating expenses. 
In other words, Medibank is simply a more efficient mechanism for collecting funds from the whole community to pay to the doctors and hospitals and nursing homes. We of the Labor Party proposed, when in government, to collect some of the funds via the usual taxation route and some via a levy but the Liberals, when in Opposition, stopped that idea. Now the LiberalCountry Party Government is to introduce a levy and pretend that that will somehow save money. All that the Government is doing is indulging in an accounting sleight of hand. The same total sum of money will have to be found to pay the doctors and the hospitals. Under the Labor Government most of this money was to be collected by the Australian Taxation Office as income tax. Under the present Government's proposal a proportion will still be collected by the Taxation Office as tax and a larger proportion will be collected via the levy from the whole community but still through the Taxation Office. Thus the total sum collected by the Government will be the same. By collecting a levy the Government is pretending that it is not a tax. Funds collected by the levy will pay part of the cost of doctors' and hospitals' bills. The Government will pay less from the other money collected from the community via what it still calls tax and so will appear to reduce its deficit. It has said that it will not increase taxes, but what is its levy if not a tax? The Government is fooling itself but I am sure it will not fool the community with this sleight of hand, this dishonest juggling of words. In reality, and simply and honestly stated, the Government is increasing our tax and by using the word 'levy' is pretending that it is not a tax. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! I am interested in what the honourable member for Maribyrnong is saying but a number of honourable members are talking. 
That is enough of these financial deceptions. I now wish to touch upon another deception, a far more dangerous one. Perhaps it could best be summarised as public subsidisation of legalised murder. Much is made of the abuses of Medibank but at least the Government, judging by a reply from one of its Ministers to a question I asked today, is beginning to recognise that these abuses are mainly due to excessive doctor originated services- unnecessary medical treatment of patients by doctors. 

 Dr Esselstyn, in an article in the  New England Journal of Medicine  in 1962, gave details of the findings of a number of studies on the utilisation rate for medical services under varying conditions of payment of doctors. One study relating to the United Mineworkers of America reported: 
When group practice teams of salaried physicians provided services for beneficiaries of the fund, in a carefully studied area, hospital admissions declined 32.5 per cent, all surgery 16.S per cent, and appendectomy S9.4 percent. 
The Special Study of the Medical Care Program for Steelworkers and their Families, a study encompassing over 1 million steelworkers, 'corroborated the United Mineworkers of America findings by revealing that the 38 879 who obtained their health care through a prepaid, direct service, comprehensive group practice plan, where doctors were on salary, had similar experiences. Hospital admissions declined in this instance from 135 per 1000 beneficiaries for those under the care of solo practitioners on a fee-for-service basis to 90 per 1000, hospital days per 1000 from 1032 to 570, and surgical cases per 1000 from 69 to 33. ' 
Another study by the Health Insurance Plan of Greater New York, a community sponsored prepayment comprehensive direct service movement, agreed with the other studies and showed '20 per cent less hospitalisation than a comparable Blue Shield population' where the doctors are paid on a fee for service basis. Well, that was in 1962 and honourable members may say that it is old hat. However, the New York Times of 27 January this year reported: 
In studies sponsored by the United States Department of Health Education and Welfare, comparisons between Federal employees who are covered by Blue Cross (where doctors receive a fee for service) and those enrolled in a prepaid group health plan (where the physicians are paid the same amount whether they operate or not) showed that - 
Yes, it is that sort of thing. The newspaper report continued: showed that surgery rates were 44 to 54 per cent higher among the Blue Cross participants. 
That is when doctors received fee for service.  Dr Jim  Lawson addressed the Australian Hospital Association Congress in 1 969-1 think it was held in Melbourne- and discussed operation rates per thousand members per year for fee for service and salaried medical services and compared these operation rates in Australia, the United Kingdom and United States of America. I have a  table showing these results and I seek permission for it to be incorporated in  Hansard.  However I would like to quote a couple of the examples. 

<graphic href="099131197605263_59_1.jpg"></graphic>

I will quote a couple of the figures. For example, the tonsillectomy and adenoidectomy rate in Australia for doctors on a fee for service basis was 7 per thousand per year. In the United States it was 10.6 on a fee for service basis and 4 per thousand in the case of the salaried group. In the United Kingdom it was 3.6 in the case of salaried doctors. The appendicectomy rate was 5 per thousand in Australia on a fee for service basis and in the United States it was 2.6. In the United States on a salaried basis it was. only 1.4 and in the United Kingdom on a salaried basis it was 2.5. The final rates relate to hysterectomies. Ladies, hang on to your  uteruses.  In Australia a woman has twice the chance of losing her uterus. On a fee for service basis the rate in Australia was 2 per 1000 and in the United Kingdom on a salaried basis it was 1 per 1000. 1 will quote what was said in the  New York Times  to show that this is a fairly common phenomenon. This report appeared in January this year and stated: 
Some doctors have been accused by others in the profession of performing ' hip-pocket hysterectomies ', where the only beneficiary is the donor's wallet. In England and Wales where doctors are salaried, the rate of hysterectomies is only 40 per cent of that of the United States, where most surgeons are paid by the operation. 

 Dr Lawson again said: 
It has been suggested that the higher operation rates among patients receiving medical care under 'feeforservice' arrangements reflects a higher quality of care among this group. In New York State, Shapiro et al. have demonstrated that the contrary situation exists in that community, the perinatal and infant mortality among patients receiving care from salaried doctors in group practice being substantially lower than under fee for service plans. 

 Dr Milton Roemer  discussed in an article in the  Journal of Health and Human Behaviour  the relative merits of fee for service and salaried staffing. He gave the figures for this particular study of the health insurance plan of Greater New York. For the salaried medical staff the perinatal mortality rate was 2 1.3 per 1000 births in contrast to a figure of 38.1 per 1000  births - a  much higher figure- for patients in the controlled population treated by fee for service doctors.  Dr Roemer  said: 
Moreover, it is generally conceded that the best quality of medical care in the United States is found in the medical schools and the great teaching medical centres, where physicians are conventionally on salary. The same high regard is held for non-university centres like the Mayo Clinic where physicians are on salary. Even in governmental installations, despite their social handicaps in attracting good personnel, the quality of medical care from salaried physicians is generally high; a survey of the Veterans Administration medical care program by the American Medical Association drew this conclusion. 
The  New York Times  of January 1976 goes into the other side of the question and what it means. I again quote from the  New York Times: 
Fourteen million non emergency operations are performed annually- 
In the United States-  of which 2.38 million -  That is about 1 7 per centwere  considered unnecessary by  Dr Eugene  McCarthy of Cornell University Medical College and in his view 1 1 900 people died during unnecessary surgery. 
That is right, in one year. The article continued: 
Six billion doses of antibiotics it is estimated are consumed in the United States each year and 22 per cent of these are considered to have been prescribed unnecessarily, and ... 10 000 fatal and near fatal reactions to this unnecessary medication occur, according to the Food and Drug Administration, the Health Research Group and the Ohio State University. 
The  New York Times  continued: 
About 2200 hospitals, nearly one-third of the total in the United States, fail to meet the minimum standards of safety and adequacy of patient care required by the medical profession's Joint Commission on Hospital Accreditation. Despite this, there is no legal restriction on the medical and surgical procedures these hospitals may attempt on patients. 
The  New York Times  at a later date stated: 
Hospitals with fewer than 100 beds- and there are more than 3000 of them in the country- have death rates 40 per cent higher than other hospitals when the severity of their cases is taken into account. 
According to the  New York Times: 
The cost of this unnecessary surgery . . . was $3.9m and 1 1 900 lives, using a conservative estimate of a 0.S per cent mortality rate associated with elective surgery. 
Using the same mortality rate, which is a conservative one, and judging the unnecessary surgery from the figures supplied by  Dr Lawson,  it is reasonable to suggest that through the voluntary health insurance scheme and the Commonwealth medical and hospital benefits system in 1967-68 we subsidised 52 000 unnecessary operations for tonsillectomy and adenoidectomy, appendectomy and hysterectomy. Probably 260 of these patients died from the unnecessary surgery. So we subsidised legalised murder.  Dr Lawson  stated: ... the fee for service system of payment appears to lead to a higher utilisation of surgical services than when surgeons are paid by salary. Therefore the problem is to introduce a means of reviewing the quality of medical care and in particular the indications for surgical operations, admission of patients to hospital, for the conduct of expensive investigations, etc. 

 Dr Lawson went on to suggest the introduction of the American surgical and medical audit which had then become compulsory in many United States hospitals before payment of hospital costs by health insurance organisations. He claimed: 
Since the introduction of the 'surgical audit' as a means of continuing education and quality control, some American hospitals report a reduction of over 40 per cent in the rate of some surgical operations. 
How about Australia? Professor R. A. Joske, in an address to the annual meeting of the Royal Australasian College of Physicians in June 1971, described the experience at the Royal Perth Hospital with honorary and salaried specialist staffing. Making a plea for geographically fulltime appointments of specialists to the large hospitals he commented: 
This has at times been cited as too costly. Experience in Perth shows that it is not; it is honorary service which is costly to the hospital and community. Sessional payments for physicians at the Royal Perth Hospital began in November 1968 . .  Since then, and without extra beds, monthly admissions have increased from 1600 to 2200, and the average bed stay fallen by 2 days. This is equivalent to an increase of 225 beds, with a capital cost at present rates - 
That was in 1971-  of over $5.5m. 
Finally I should like to quote from the report of the Health Manpower Commission made in 1967 to the American Government which gives an assessment of the Kaiser Foundation Medical Care Program in which doctors are employed on a full-time salaried basis. The report states: 
Although the survey was constrained both by time and experimental design, it was the strong impression that the quality of medical care delivered by the California Permanente Medical Groups is equivalent, if not superior, to that available in most communities. Compared to the California averages, Kaiser had significantly fewer hospital beds and physicians per member served, and for roughly comparable medical services, Kaiser expenses per member are 35 per cent to 45 per cent less than the expenses of the average Californian. Between 1960 and 1965 - 
We talk about hospital and medical expenses racing ahead-  total expenses per member for the services provided by Kaiser increases by 19 per cent. During the same period, national per capita private consumer expenditures for comparable medical services increased by 44 per cent. 
The major source of economy within Kaiser appears to be good control over what medical care is provided and where it is provided. This source of economy is most apparent in hospital care, with the age-adjusted days of hospital care per year for Kaiser members being only 70 per cent of the State 's per capita average. 
The most striking relative economy of Kaiser is in its requirements for hospital beds and its per member cost of hospitalisation. On an age-adjusted basis, Kaiser required only 59 per cent as many hospital beds per person as did the State of California. Similarly, Kaiser's per person cost for providing hospital care on an age-adjusted basis was only 6 1 per cent of the statewide cost. 
So one could go on, but I think we are bored with the figures. The reality is, when one looks at the real - 
I am glad that the honourable member for Holt has made that observation because, contrary to many comments made about the British health scheme and its cost, in total terms the cost of the British health scheme is not as high as that of the Australian health scheme or the American health scheme. The figures show that there is considerable restraint in the number of unnecessary operations performed on patients and therefore, one presumes, the unnecessary death rate is lower. There is inevitably some death rate associated with surgery because it is a serious enterprise. Nonetheless, when a person is operated on unnecessarily and then dies it is a deplorable situation. 
We talk a lot about the cost of Medibank. We are fooling ourselves. Medibank costs very little. In terms of administrative costs, the cost of Medibank will be less than the cost to the community of the multitudinous voluntary health insurance funds which now will get much more business. The Nimmo Committee pointed that out years ago. That Committee was not appointed by us; it was appointed by a previous 
Liberal-Country Party Government. The reality is that that Committee showed that the running expenses of the health funds absorb something near 15 per cent to 20 per cent of every dollar collected. The running expenses of Medibank, I am informed, probably will be less than 5 per cent. By the Government's manoeuvre it is increasing the cost of administration by forcing many people back to the voluntary funds and of course increasing the complication and the nuisance value to many members of the community. 
But, as I said, that is not what the real cost of health service is all about; the real cost is the cost of doctor services and hospital services. Those services are dictated, in the main, not by patients. A patient cannot decide to have his appendix out. A doctor has to advise him to have his appendix out. It is a matter of a doctor's judgment. If in fact excessive medical services are provided, in the main they are doctor originated. Nothing will be resolved in this dilemma of increasing costs of health services until we grapple with the basic way in which doctors provide their services. The faultis not with the medical profession. In all my speech I have not been criticising the doctors, I have been criticising the system. I suggest that anybody in the same position as a doctor, given the option of operating or not operating with a fee of $100 attached to operating and a fee of $5 for not operating, would be under severe pressure seriously to consider the operation despite the medical indications. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
-In the few moments left I would like simply to make the point that, as I understand it, the Premiers were not informed of this package and that is what they are complaining about. They feel that maybe they did not comprehend what was being put. I suspect that most of the Australian community is beginning to find itself in the same position. If one reads carefully in retrospect what the present Prime Ministe said during the election campaign and the way he tends to put policy, when the facts start showing themselves it is easy to see that one can be deceived. One takes at face value what he says. The details in fact are not there and when finally the light dawns for all of us we recognise that the Prime Minister in the way he expressed the proposition leaves the option open - 
-I wish to make a couple of comments on the remarks made by the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Newman).  He justified the change to Medibank by saying that growth of public expenditure is out of control. 
All right. One argument was that the growth of public expenditure is out of control. The answer in the Government's view, therefore, is to push people out of Medibank into private insurance so that their expenses are not covered by Medibank. In other words, the Government can appear to reduce the cost of the public sector because many people will insure themselves privately. But the irony of it is that it is just a bookkeeping trick on the part of the Government. It has nothing to do with the total cost of health services for the community. People still have to pay for it. They can pay either by paying the doctor directly or they can insure themselves in a voluntary health insurance fund and pay via that. They still pay only the doctor's bills, but if they do so via an insurance fund, they pay in addition the administrative costs of the voluntary insurance fund. Alternatively they can pay via a Medibank levy in which case they are still paying the doctor's bills and the administrative costs of Medibank. In the Government's own Nimmo Committee inquiry report which was presented in 1969 it was shown that the open voluntary health funds were inefficient administratively when compared with closed funds. The closed funds are the ones into which people have part of their pay automatically paid as contributions No advertising is involved. The contributions are paid out of an employees salary. 
Medibank, if you like, is a closed fund for the whole of Australia. In its case there would be no need for advertising or for nonsense competition. Medibank could have the virtues of the closed system because that is precisely what it was. The Nimmo Committee report indicated that the administrative costs of the open funds ranged from somewhere between 15c and 20c in the dollar collectively, that the administrative costs of the closed funds were from 7c to 10c in the 'dollar, and that as a result they were much more efficient. The costs of Medibank, I understand, are proving to be less than 5 per cent of the administrative costs. So in that case alone, if you were honest with yourselves, dear supporters of the Government, you would concede from a businessman's point of view that the Australian community would be better off if all its health funds were collected via Medibank, purely on the grounds of efficiency. 
Honourable members opposite complain about the cost of Medibank going up. The cost of Medibank is not going up. What is going up is the cost of health services. Medibank might pay for them. The voluntary health funds might pay for them. The individual might pay out of his own damned pocket. But the costs that are going up are the bills that doctors submit to patients and the bills that hospitals submit to patients. The changes to Medibank will do absolutely nothing to that. All that is happening is that the Government is forcing people to pay out of their pockets in, now, 3 ways. 
Of course if they choose. They are forced if they choose. But where is the choice? One has to pay the levy or one has to contribute to a voluntary fund. Therefore what is voluntary about the system? In any case whether one pays via Medibank or the voluntary funds one still pays income tax and some income tax also will go to pay for hospital and medical costs. So the Government's scheme is a fraud. What the Government is in fact doing is forcing people to choose an inefficient system- a voluntary health fund system- which will have a higher administrative cost and, I can assure honourable members, much nuisance value when we try to work out all these bits and pieces to check on who is in and who is not in the funds. It is going to be an administrative nightmare, whereas Medibank was so simple, straightforward and automatic. The Government is going to have to carry the can. I can assure the Government that the total cost will go up. When we add up the costs and document them at the end of the first year we will find that there will be hospital and doctors' costs and, in addition, the Government will have to count the costs of running the benefit funds and weigh against or add to them the cost of Medibank. The cost of Medibank will be roughly the same no matter what happens because with the computer system it will not make much difference whether half the population, threequarters of the population or all the population are covered by Medibank. Basically its costs will not go up much at all. But it will make a big difference to the voluntary funds. I can assure the Government that it is ensuring an increased cost for total health care for the community; it is forcing the people to indulge in the voluntary health insurance funds. 
I wish to come back to the inequity of the levy proposal. The Labor Government was in favour of a levy, but not a levy so high that there was need for a point at which people could opt out. There was a ceiling, but everyone had to pay the levy. The Government has proposed a ceiling, but if people choose to do so they can opt out and not pay the levy. Let me tell honourable members what will happen. The people who pay income tax- that is everybody- and the people who pay the levy together will maintain the basic public hospital services and the services which are used in cases of emergency. When an emergency arises one does not go to a private hospital. In a critical situation one is taken to a public hospital. The maintenance of the public hospitals system will depend upon the contributions of the taxpayer and the people contributing to Medibank. Those few people who choose to take out private insurance with private benefit funds and who choose not to use standard wards in public hospitals but only private wards and intermediate wards which they think are better- they are wrong, of course; these wards are inferior- do not take into account that when an emergency arises they will scuttle as fast as the ambulance can take them to a public hospital. This person will not be charged as an emergency patient in the standard ward of a public hospital. It could be that such a person is suffering from a near fatal illness or accident resulting from his being bowled over by a motor driven by a driver who is drunk, because most of them are. Most of the fatalities on the road are caused by drunk drivers. But that is another debate that I will enter into at some other time. I think in this sense we oppose the levy because of that inequity. Our levy was to include everybody and for the additional cover for private treatment people could take extra insurance. That would be more reasonable. 
Finally, I come back to the point of quality, the thing we all crave for, the right to have private treatment from the doctor to one 's own choice in a private hospital, in a private bed or an intermediate bed. Dear brothers and sisters, I was asked the other day what am I going to do. I will tell you straight: Stay in Medibank. I would not trust the standard of medical care in small private hospitals. The Americans have done a survey in respect of hospitals. I gave the figures last night but I cannot remember the exact details. The survey conducted in respect of 2 000 or more hospitals in America showed that the mortality was 40 per cent higher in those smaller hospitals of 100 beds or less than it was in public hospitals when balanced in terms of the nature of illness. We have no measure at all of the quality of health care in the luxurious motels that masquerade as private hospitals. If one suddenly becomes seriously ill or something goes wrong after one has had what seems to be a simple gall bladder operation in a private hospital- this might be a small nice comfortable private hospital, not an impersonal institution like these great big monstrosities, the public hospitals- what can the nursing staff do? They have to chase and find the consultant who may be over the other side of the city. What happens if one is in a public hospital and the same dilemma arises? In such a case a resident medical officer can be on the spot within the minute. That is the difference. 
What is the position with regard to nursing standards? Private hospitals, of course, are always scrounging to find nurses and trying to make do with the smallest possible staff because they have to make a profit- that is what they are in business for. Public hospitals have nursing staff laid on because they are teaching young people so they have to be sure to maintain the standards. For my money, fellow citizens of this country, I will stay in Medibank and I will ask to go to large public hospitals for my treatment. I am just - 
I am trying to persuade them that if they want the best of quality they should opt for the public hospital system. 
It was quite obvious when we looked into this matter- clearly the Government has accepted this propositionthat the grizzles of the doctors are far less significant than the inconvenience which would have been caused to patients. I am glad that the Government has seen fit to revert to our scheme. As difficult as it may have been, the proposal that it had put initially would have been far worse and the burden would have been placed on the poorer sections of the community. I think the doctors can suffer. In fact, if there are doctors who are refusing to accept Medibank cheques, then to blazes with them; they can do without the money. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 7 to 10- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 1 1 omitted. 
Clauses 12 to 16- by leave- taken together. 
-I should like to join with the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  in congratulating the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  and also the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  for facing some of the problems in this area that have only been vaguely referred to in the past. The honourable member for Prospect and myself have talked about this matter at length at various times but not many people have understood it enough to take much notice. I am glad that the Minister has now recognised the basic problem which is, first of all, the sort of minor loopholes by which the various organisations and institutions were sliding out of their financial responsibility and sponging on Medibank. The Government is closing those gaps. But most important and significant is the question of the quality of health care in the community. 
Again I congratulate the Minister for his answer to the question of the increasing cost of health care. He is not saying, as some of his colleagues and many people in the community are saying, that the cost of Medibank is becoming prohibitive. That is not what is becoming prohibitive; it is the cost of medical care. The Minister is conceding that this is largely a result of the excess services, the unnecessary services ordered by doctors. True, patients can make some unnecessary claims. I do not deny that. They can go along to doctors seemingly unnecessarily. One could argue that if a person does that it is because he needs psychological support, and that is perhaps something that we are not too good at coping with. But all such people can do is run up a string of general practitioner consultation fees which is chicken feed compared with the areas in which major costs are being increased. 
The Minister's experiment is to offer the possibility that if doctors' fees go up too fast and if voluntary health insurance fund premiums have to go up too fast, people will be forced back into Medibank. I hope that does happen. If I had my way, and if I could persuade people, they would not leave Medibank in the first place for the sorts of reasons I gave earlier this afternoon. I repeat briefly that I am firmly convinced that the best standards of medical care are available in the public hospital system, not outside it. That, of course, does not cover general practitioner services. We started to nibble at this problem by establishing the health centres- not a revolutionary concept. I refer to the Australian Medical Association publication  General Practice and its Future in Australia  put out by the AMA study group on medical planning. It discusses the future of general practice in Australia and makes very cogent arguments in support of the concept of health centres. But I have not got the Minister's confidence that this is what will happen. 
I fear that unfortunately, despite all the remarks some people make- and maybe I have been terribly critical of the medical profession too- there is still a certain amount of witchcraft associated with doctors. There is still a certain awe in which an individual member of the com.munity holds his personal doctor. The ordinary person may consider that doctors as a group are a terrible lot; they make too much money and they sponge off the community in a variety of ways. But their own doctor is beaut. Sadly, therefore, they are not likely to question their own doctor's increasing charges. They are still likely to feel that the increasing charges imposed by their own doctor are somehow justified and they will just grit their teeth and bear it. Because the Government does not want to establish too great a discrepancy- at least that is what has been said; I hope it goes back on this actually- of Medibank payments below the prevailing cost for people in private insurance, it will increase the upper limit of the Medibank levy. I think that that also will defeat the purpose of the Minister's experiment. 
I refer again to some figures I mentioned last night. I referred to a study done for the American Government in 1967 on costs in America and a study of the Kaiser system, which is a sort of salaried medical staff health care organisation. The study found that in the years 1960 to 1965 there was an increase of total expenses per member for services provided by the Kaiser doctors of 1 9 per cent. In the same period the national  per capita  private consumer expenditure for comparable medical services increased by 44 per cent. In my view the secret was the system under which the doctors worked. The report makes the claim that these doctors were no better or worse than the general run of doctors in the community. They did not have better techniques of treatment or new revolutionary approaches. The only difference was the way in which the doctor was rewarded for his effort. Ironically it is quite contrary to the generally accepted view that the only way to get the best out of a doctor is to have him charge fee for service. I think this study proved that is not the case. In the view of this manpower commission which made the study, the quality of salaried doctor service was at least as good and perhaps better. The cost was very significantly lower than in the general community where the doctors charge fee for service. 
The Government's experiment is placing the onus on the patients to exert pressure on the doctors. That was the situation before Medibank was introduced. If there was to be any curtailment of increases in costs it would be because patients would complain about the increasing amount of money they had to pay out of their own pockets as the combined medical benefit from the Commonwealth and medical benefit refund from the benefit organisations covered less and less of the doctor's fee. That is what used to happen. What was the result? The community complained: 'Why does the Government not pay more?' People did not ask the question: 'Why do the doctors keep charging more?' They simply asked 'Why does the Government not pay more or why do the benefit funds not pay more?' So, sadly, costs would continue to go up. The Government would be embarrassed. An election would be held and the Australian Labor Party or the Liberal Party- whichever was in Opposition -would say: 'We will come up with a better offer; we will cover medical expenses at a higher level than was the case before the pressure was put on.' 
I fear that the only way out of the dilemma will be for the Government to stick to its intention of trying to achieve some assessment of the quality of services and so on. I hope that the Government is able to stick to that intention and I compliment the Minister for Health for saying it. I hope that he sticks to the threat contained in his comments that failure to have workable systems in operation within 3 years could result in the introduction of mandatory systems. I have spoken to doctors quietly, outside the political arena, and most of them agree with this sort of scheme. Sadly I had doctor colleagues who forever ribbed me about the introduction of Medibank while we were the Government. When it was finally introduced I asked them how Medibank was going and whether they were enjoying it. They said: 'Yes. We are afraid that the other mob- the Liberals- will get in an destroy it'. I was surprised because I know that they are Liberal supporters. I said: 'Really?' They said: 'Yes, because some of our colleagues will misuse the system and make enormous rip offs from Medibank. ' That is precisely what is happening. I think that most of the doctors are sincere, are not making a rip off and would be quite happy to have the sort of system about which the Minister is talking. But I fear that the Government's moves may not succeed and it may have to introduce the mandatory system which it foreshadowed. 
I want to echo the comments made by my colleague the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden).  I would Uke to congratulate the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  for having the guts to proceed with this legislation. It is quite clear that this sort of thing was necessary. It was obvious to us. Let us put aside the arguments we had previously. This legislation is vital if we are going to get anywhere in trying to make sure that the rights of ordinary people are protected. This reinsurance scheme designed to make sure that the funds do not offload their responsibilities for the chronically ill is certainly something that had to come some day. What was happening was what had happened in America where organisations like Blue Shield issued insurance for all comers, the young and the very old among whom there is a very high incidence of illness, and had to try to compete with the insurance sharpies who came in later and offered package deals for those above the age of 15 and below the age of 40, or below my age. I am getting to the stage where my likely dependence on the medical profession is going to increase. The sharpies picked the age group among which by and large the incidence of illness was low. These sharp insurance groups were able to offer very competitive insurance rates feeling confident that they would never get anybody with any sort of demanding illness, or very rarely. The people in this age group left Blue Cross or Blue Shield, whatever it is called, and made the burden even worse and more difficult for people who were forced to support those organisations. 
In Australia, because of these subsidies which were operating before this Bill was brought in, the people in the community with chronic illness, the people who were rather a larger burden on the medical services, were carried by the general taxpayer. 
That is right, the special account, and the benefit funds got off scot-free, in essence. It is time the funds were called to heel and forced to recognise that they have a responsibility for the total spectrum of people in the community, not just Medibank. For that reason it is a commendable move. Given that the Government has taken steps to allow people to stay in Medibank up to the premium level, and if they then want cover for private or intermediate treatment, they can take that cover outside. I do not understand why the Government does not allow people to take that cover with Medibank. 
The purpose of the exercise seems to be to get more money out of the pockets of the people. That is what it means. People can stay in Medibank and pay the $300. Then if they want cover for private care they have to pay an extra contribution to a voluntary fund. That means that more money is coming out of their pockets and the voluntary funds are paying the extra to have them go into a private hospital or into a private bed. I do not see why, for administrative simplicity, the Government does not allow people who want to stay in Medibank to take out the extra cover with Medibank on the same basis as they can do so within the private organisations. This would save a lot of administrative nonsense. After all, if a person wants to take the Medibank cover because he believes it is best, for the general arguments which I would support, but wants private insurance, he has all the membership requirements for Medibank. In addition there are the further administrative costs associated with joining and paying extra money to the voluntary funds. I am talking about a good business principle, not Labor Party policy. I hope I am talking plain common sense. 
Surely it would be sensible to let people pay the extra premium, over and above the $300, specifically for private hospital treatment. If that is what they want, let them pay it to Medibank. I would be interested in the comments of the Minister for Health on this point. For all that, I repeat that we completely endorse the other aspects covered by this legislation because it is time the voluntary health funds were forced to be honest. 
I have a brief question which was sparked from the comments made by the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  when he quoted the second reading speech of the Minister for Health (  Mr Hunt)  dealing with health insurers in the US  having made substantial progress in developing methods of monitoring. I thought one of the strengths of Medibank was that since it covers everybody statistics will be readily available to allow the monitoring the use of medical services. That relates to the Minister's observation about what happens in America. With the present proposal, with people being able to opt out  of  Medibank and go to the voluntary funds clearly the statistics will no longer be listed in one place. Some will be listed with Medibank and others with the voluntary funds. My question simply is: Does the Minister anticipate- not hope for it setting up procedures with the voluntary funds  so  that we will still be able to get those statistics?  I  would think that would be fundamental  to  the Government's objective. 
I direct a question to the Acting Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development I ask: In view of his answer to the question from the Deputy Leader of the Opposition and in accordance with the administrative procedures of the Environment Protection Act, when was the final environmental impact statement prepared by the proponent, which I take it was British Airways? When were the 5 copies of the final statement provided to the Department? Were copies made available to the Department or to authorities of Australia, to any State or authority of a State, to any local government authority or any other person or body which made written comments on the proposed action? I ask the question because I made written comments. I have not received a copy of the final impact statement. Where is the final environmental impact statement available to the public for sale? 
I want to make only a few brief remarks because clearly no one is in disagreement about this Bill. I am pleased to see it brought forward because it represents an initiative started while I was Minister for the Environment in the last Labor Government. Most of the technical arguments have been put and I simply want to make the point that this Bill is only the beginning. 
I seize upon a remark made by the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Simon).  He mentioned that the major problems are population and pollution. I beg to differ. I think the problem is population. One could say, in a way, that there is no such thing as pollution. What we call pollution is simply the end product of a particular process which if there is not too high a concentration simply becomes the beginning of the next process of the cycle. What creates the problem is population demands or the demands of our growing populations in ever-increasing concentrations. This creates, in the end product of its metabolism, if you like, the things we see as pollution because they cannot be dissipated or absorbed by the environment. The importance about air pollution is not that it is the most important facet of this problem but that it is probably the most easily recognised by most people. I refer to the oppressive atmosphere in cities. No one quite knows what it is about until he or she gets out into the fresh air of the country. Then people recognise that air pollution is the problem in cities. This is the reason, clearly; why we all seize upon it. 
We have not led the way. The States have been doing this in their own particular ways. The virtue of this legislation is, hopefully, to bring about a co-ordinated approach and compatibility of data so that we can make meaningful comparisons, one with the other, and therefore decide areas of priority and so on. I conclude, because I think there is no point in continuing the debate, by trying to emphasise that this is only the beginning. In this sort of area it is not a question of States rights or the new federalism. Pollution of this type does not recognise city boundaries or State boundaries. The sort of demands that we will have in order to cure the sort of pollution we are now concerned with extends to every other facet of human activity. If we are to cope with it we need not only a national program but also an international program. As the honourable member for McMillan pointed out, we are involved in this international project- an international pollution monitoring program. In fact when we were in Government we were contemplating the establishment of an air monitoring station, probably in Tasmania, for the collection of world data in an area where, hopefully, there is minimal or no pollution. I hope that this Government pursues what we initiated. 
In conclusion, we all support this legislation. We need to recognise that it is important because it is in this area where most people first see pollution. It occurs in cities where most people live. It is not because it is the most important but because it is most easily observed by people. If we succeed in getting data to show what we are doing to our environment then hopefully it will be easier to proceed to the next steps and deal with other aspects of what we like to call pollution but which really is an abuse of the basic biological life cycle. That is what we need to understand if we are going to survive for much longer on this planet. 
-In reply to my question yesterday to the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  he quoted a letter received by him from the Department of Environment in the United Kingdom. 
I must admit that that changes the argument slightly but I still think the point I want to make is valid. The letter, whether from our Department or the British Department, indicated that the proponents of Concorde, British Airways and Air France, had been asked to prepare a final environmental impact statement. In other words, no such final environmental impact statement is yet available, at least not at the time the letter was written. The writer in the DepartmentI thought it was the United Kingdom Department but apparently it is our own- indicated that in the view of the Department only minor editorial changes would be made to the draft. That is a tendentious statement if ever there was one. What does editorial mean? Does it mean that there are a few spelling mistakes or that the grammar is not quite correct, or that the content, the line, the meaning, needs to be clarified, modified, changed, just a little? Does it mean, in short, that the meaning, the argument, the justification, is to be changed? No matter how slight the change, it is still a change. Does it mean that the final statement will not say and will not mean what the draft said? The editorial line is the significant line or argument in any document. It is up to the reader to make his assessment of the significance of the change and this will depend not only on the changes but on how the reader perceived the original argument. 
So the final statement will not be the draft statement which is all that we have seen. The final statement was not prepared at the time the letter was written. In addition, the Department informed our Minister that an addendum to the environmental impact statement would be prepared by it and it would reply to the comments received as a result of the public circulation of the draft environmental impact statement. Thus that addendum will become an integral part of the total final statement. That addendum, not prepared at the time of despatch of the letter to our Minister, will be an integral part of the final statement which is still clearly some way off preparation since presumably it must await the arrival of the statement on editorial changes from the proponents. 
Thus, on the basis of a promise of a statement from the proponents of Concorde incorporating unspecified changes in content and meaning compared to the draft statement, and with the assurance that an addendum will be added by the Department to that document when it is received, to answer the queries and worries of those who questioned the original draftwhether the addendum will satisfy those worries is open to question- the Minister, on the basis of this conditional document not yet written, decided that it was 'pointless for me to postpone a decision'. 
Magnificent, brilliant, just what we want! That is why we bothered to bring in our legislation when the Labor Party was in government. That is why we discussed the details of the legislation with many groups in the community and with members of the then Opposition, the present Government. That is why the Liberal Party and the Country Party supported the legislation- so that it could be ignored, so that we could just take the word of someone else for how something they want to do is going to affect us. The Minister for Transport must be joking or he must be a fool or a knave. 
Let us examine our legislation which was supported by the whole Parliament and which is the law of the land. Section 5 of our Act specifies 'that matters affecting the environment to a significant extent' should be fully examined. The fact that the United Kingdom and the United States of America required an environmental impact statement would confirm that our own legislation is not excessive on this score. Next, in section 6 it is indicated that, in order to fulfil this requirement to examine fully and take into account environmental effects, certain administrative procedures must be followed. Section 8 (b) indicates that each Minister shall do all that is necessary, consistent with relevant laws, 'for ensuring that any final environmental impact statement'- I emphasise the words 'final environmental impact statement'- 'formulated in accordance with those procedures, and any suggestions or recommendations made in accordance with those procedures, are taken into account, in matters to which they relate, in the department administered by him and by any authority of Australia in respect of which he has ministerial responsibilities'. 
The Minister for Transport claimed that there was no need to wait, according to the terms of the Act; but the terms of the Act are quite specific. We have to await a final environmental impact statement. But no final environmental impact statement has yet been prepared by the proponents. We called for an environmental impact statement and the draft was received and distributed as required by the administrative procedures, as the Minister pointed out. In the United Kingdom and, I think, the United States of America there were public hearings on the draft EIS, but for some reason Australia's Ministers considered that we Australians are less intelligent and less interested than people in those countries and therefore decided that there was no need to call for a public hearing on Concorde in Australia. They can make that decision. Despite this assessment of our inadequacy, a large number of submissions were received- I think the Minister said fifty- examining, discussing and dissecting the draft EIS. 
According to section 8. 1 of our procedures, if it is intended to proceed the proponent shall revise the draft EIS to take into account any written comments, reports and comments on reports received at public hearings. Of course a public hearing was not held. The revised draft EIS becomes the final EIS and, according to section 8.2, the proponent is to provide 5 copies to the Department of Environment, a copy to a commissionerif there had been a public hearing-and copies to any department, authority of Australia, State, State authority, local authority or any person or body which has submitted written com: ments on the draft EIS. Finally, under this procedure, copies of the final EIS are to be available to the public by sale or otherwise. None of this has been complied with. But, on the Minister's own admission, the final EIS has not yet been received by the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development. I was going to say that it had not been received by the United Kingdom department; but, from what the Minister said, our department has not yet received it. In fact, it may not have been written yet. 
Section 9.1 of our procedures requires the Department of Environment to examine the final environmental impact statement. This is a bit difficult when it has not been written yet, let alone received by the Department; or is there someone in the Department with extra-sensory perception? After all that, section 9.3 requires the Minister and the Department to make comments, suggestions and recommendations concerning the proposed action. That would include, if appropriate, for the benefit of our enthusiastic Minister: 'Aw, you beaudy lederrip'- or should I say 'roar'? Forgive my Strine. Perhaps I should translate this, slightly freely, as: 'Oh, jolly fine show, let her fly! Never mind the noise. After all, it will affect only the proles. Who else would live in that part of Melbourne?' I am not saying that that is what the Department would say. It is not what I would say; but, by implication, it is what the Minister has said. He also has said: 'But wait, patience please. Of course we thought of everything'. 
The procedures allow for an exemption from their application, in section 11.1. The Minister for Transport could have asked the former Acting Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development for an exemption from the requirements of the procedures. Could either Minister table the correspondence, or was the communication by telephone or mental telepathy? Perhaps, in accordance with section 11.2, the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development consulted the Department of Transport concerning the request for exemption. The Minister for Transport said that he had talks, but he did not mention exemption. He talked only about a public hearing, not exemption from all the procedures. Of course, I would have presumed that these documents could be tabled by someone; but clearly they cannot be tabled because they do not exist. Again, in accordance with section 11.5, 'unless the Minister is satisfied that to do so would be contrary to the public interest, an exemption and a summary of the reasons for granting the exemption, shall be made public'. When? Or is it all so top secret that the Minister cannot answer that either? He should stop insulting the intelligence of the Australian community. He should stop insulting the Parliament and his own back benchers. 
I note the letter that the Minister for Transport received from the former Acting Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, which says, in part: 
In summary, in the light of the foregoing observations-  which really related to whether there would be a public hearing; it was always the Minister's right to deny a public hearing-  1 agree with your contention that a public inquiry is not warranted and I am prepared to recommend to the Government that Concorde operations into Australia in the form described in the Environmental Impact Statement be not opposed . . . 
It looks to me as though the former Acting Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development has made the mistake. He has not obeyed the law because he had not had a final EIS made available to him. He is the one who has absconded from the proper requirements. He could have got out of the obligation by suggesting that the requirements of the Act be not observed, but he has not done so. I do not care which Minister takes the blame, but one of them is to blame for not adhering to the Act which they supported enthusiastically when it passed through the Parliament. Shame on them! 
I enter this debate with some hesitation because I feel that there is a certain air of madness about it. It is a certain game that we play. We spend billions of dollars a year on it. Of course, one feels it is never in earnest. 
I ask honourable members please to listen. I am not at this stage plugging the Labor Party line for the honourable gentlemen who are interrupting. I am about to disagree with some of my colleagues also. I feel that the justification given by us for arming is that we must arm to protect ourselves against 'them'. But of course 'they' use exactly the same arguments to themselves to justify their arming against us. So it goes on in ever increasing little madnesses, if you like. As much as I deplore this approach to life, the feeling that the only way you get anywhere in this world is to be tough enough so that you can belt anyone else down who might threaten you instead of perhaps concentrating more on trying to talk to our would be enemies and recognising that the common humanity that exists between the 2 parties may enable us to get to a position where there is no need to arm to protect ourselves against the other fellow or vice versa. But that is a pious, naive hope on my part, and as would be expected it is greeted with laughter on all sides. So I have to rationalise and accept the fact that we arm ourselves and the other side will arm itself. 
At various times hopefully there will be only minor brush fires to cope with because if ever there was a major war in these days of nuclear weapons that would be the end of us all. I think that the military planners are aware of the dangers spelt out in those 2 beautiful films,  Dr Strangelove  and  Fail Safe.  The films showed what would happen if something went wrong and nuclear weapons were dropped. If a nuclear war were to occur, I have a sneaking suspicion that we would experience the kind of horrifying scene depicted in  Fail Safe.  In that film the  President  of the United States of America was depicted as speaking with the Premier of Russia. They were the 2 warring nations, and the bomb was being dropped on Moscow. The  President  of America said:  'Mr Premier,  what do I have to do to persuade you it is only an accident?' The Premier said: 'Do I have to tell you?' The  President  said: 'No ', and he proceeded to order one of his own pilots to drop an atomic bomb on New York in order to prove to the Russians that it was not a deliberate attack but an accident. That is the sort of madness that I think will ensure that we do not ever have a nuclear war. 
I do not believe that any military leader on either side would finally push the button for that sort of madness. But we are continuing to arm as though it is a possibility and we are spending billions and billions of dollars on it. We will probably have minor wars and that is what I want to talk about. Again we will have all the beautifully designed popguns of various sorts, tanks and so on with which to protect ourselves, but there is entering into the equation something that is worrying me. It was announced this morning when the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said that nuclear powered vessels would be entering our harbours. 
One honourable member up in the back benches on the Government side says: 'Hear, hear!'. We are reassured that this is perfectly safe and that the vessels are not going to blow up in our harbours. This may surprise honourable members opposite, but I accept that view. I think that is true. We are assured that there is a minimal prospect of the leakage of radiation and that it is not going to be a real danger to the citizens of Sydney or Perth. I think that is probably true. However, on looking through the document entitled  Environmental Considerations of Visits of Nuclear Powered Warships to Australia  I am tempted to mention a couple of things. For instance, in Part V of that document the authors cover the subject 'Consideration of Accidents'. There have been some accidents. The United States submarine  Thresher  sank in 1963 and another United States submarine, the  Scorpion,  sank in 1968. The authors have a little note after the reference to those sinkings which states: 
Sea water and bottom sediment samples taken near both wrecks show no measurable release of radio activity. 
For how long, I wonder? For how long will the nuclear material stored in those reactors stay there and remain harmless? 
Maybe with skill and care we will not have any more of those sorts of accidents. On page 14 of this report there is the heading 'Hypothetical Accidents' and beneath that a sub-heading 'Reference Accident'. The report then states: 
A reactor accident of sufficient severity to cause a hazardous release of radio activity to the environment has an extremely low probability . . . 
I think that that is perfectly correct, and a completely honest statement. But the report continues and says that if it does happen there may be a 'break of the primary coolant circuit and a complete loss of reactor cooling water. This might be followed by a meltdown of the uranium fuel elements, including their cladding, and a release of fission products into the reactor containment'. The report continues: 
The  radioactive  fission products released in this manner would be almost completely confined within the reactor containment and hull of the ship. However, there would also be a build up of pressure within the containment from the high pressure, high temperature reactor cooling water escaping from the ends of the broken pipes and flashing into steam. 
So it goes on. It could cause a leakage because of the increased pressure level. So we must avoid accidents. 
Forgive me for asking an innocent question. Are these ships ever going to be used in earnest or are they meant to be sailed around to show the flag in the capital cities of the world? As long as all they do is sail around and show the flag in the capital cities of the world I will regretfully accept them. But are we serious? I am not now contemplating a nuclear war; I am contemplating an old fashioned war with ordinary shells. If these nuclear powered vessels take part in such wars and an ordinary old fashioned bomb or an ordinary old fashioned torpedo hits them, blows them apart and sinks them, does what happen come within the category mentioned in the subheading to paragraph 6 which is 'Collision"? In that paragraph it is stated: 
Fission products could also be released into the atmosphere as the result of a high speed collision of sufficient energy to rupture the containment and reactor primary coolant system. This is very unlikely but collisions severe enough to cause this type of damage have occurred in the operation of conventional ships on the high seas. 
Exactly, and particularly in war time. In fact I understand that that is the point of the exercise. When you belt hell out of the other side what you aim to do is to sink as many of their ships as you can. You do not do it gently; you do it with as much power as you can to make sure they go to the bottom and no one on that damn ship can do anything about it. Is that not the sort of collision being discussed in this document? 
What then? Do we not then have a situation where we are releasing unknown quantities of nuclear material, maybe not immediately but sending it to the bottom in these beautiful reactors that are beautifully safe and marvellously efficient in producing energy when in the right place, in a ship floating on the surface of the water? What happens when the ship is sent to the bottom in this way? In my view we have a very strange situation- a  Dr Strangelove  effect. There is no doubt about that. 
We have these beautiful ships parading around the world and when war comes they will shoot at one another. Of course, if we are better armed than the other side we will sink more of their ships but we will lose some of ours. However we will win the war and that will be marvellous. We will win if you count the number of ships sunk, but what will happen when the level of radioactivity builds up? What is the point of winning the war and committing suicide? Do we know what the end result of it all will be? When all the shouting and the tumulit dies, when all the shells have stopped flying and someone has surrendered, we will then find, dear friends, that we cannot contain the radioactive waste from those beautiful ships we sent to the bottom. 
That is what I think about this whole stupid defence debate. I seriously question the validity of this document placed before us and headed  Environmental Considerations of Visits of Nuclear Powered Warships to Australia.  It is irrelevant to the real world of warfare, if that is what we are talking about. I am not against nuclear powered ships. I am in favour, perhaps, of nuclear powered merchant ships, but that could be another argument. I do not want to enter that at the moment. I have reservations. But let us accept that they are safe and that nuclear powered vessels could get around more cheaply in the long run than oil or coal powered vesselswell, oil powered vessels these days. That is all right. If we are serious about warships and if they are really going to engage in warfare, what then? Where is the final environmental impact statement on warfare conducted by nuclear powered ships? That is the impact statement that the whole world community deserves to be shown. 
In my view that one has no right to be labelled 'Top Secret'. I have a sneaking suspicion it has been written and that it says what I fear it says. That is why it is top secret. Brothers and sisters, if we use these ships in earnest we all commit suicide. 
-The main rationale for the Liberal Government's so-called improvements to the Labor Government's Medibank was to constrain the mounting costs of Medibank. With this simplistic view, which the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  has repeated today, of the cause of mounting health costs, namely the cost of Medibank, the simpleton solutions were obvious for a Liberal Government with its ideological blinkers on- just drive people out of Medibank and at the same time impose a tax on those who stay in it; but do not call it a tax, call it a levy. So the Government does not have to find money out of tax revenue to pay for those who are forced out of Medibank; and for those who stay in, the poorer section of the community, they pay for it themselves through the high levy imposed on them. Hey presto! The cost of Medibank, against the usual taxation revenue, that is, has been dramatically reduced and so the cost of a program which was going to bankrupt the country has been curtailed. Who do supporters of the Liberal Government think they are fooling other than themselves? Quite contrary to their claims, the basic cost of health services to the community will be unchanged in that the cost of doctor and hospital charges will be the same. Added to this basic cost is the cost of the administrative system devised to collect the money from the community and to pay it to the providers of the health services. Under the Labor Government's Medibank system the administration was relatively simple. Everyone pays tax, so the collection of funds from the community for all medical refunds under Medibank and to pay the cost of standard ward care in public hospitals required no, or a negligible, additional administrative cost. If additional money was required, all that had to be done was to increase the rate of tax, still with no additional administrative cost. 
Under the Liberal Government's proposal a separate levy has to be assessed and collected by the Taxation Office from those who stay in Medibank. That will require additional administrative costs. Because there is a ceiling to the levy, people have to make decisions, and hence choices, about whether they opt out of the levy and pay the ceiling, depending on their individual and family incomes, and whether they opt for intermediate or private cover with Medibank. This all represents added administrative costs to them and Medibank, costs not incurred under Labor's Medibank. 
Under Labor's Medibank those wishing to take out additional insurance for intermediate or private ward accommodation could do so by simply joining a private fund of their choice. There was no limitation of that freedom of choice. This represented no additional administrative cost for Medibank, which automatically provided the same cover for medical services as will now be provided under the new system, and also provided automatic cover for standard ward care. Most of those wanting intermediate or private ward cover, as the Minister has mentioned, were already in private benefit funds. Therefore no additional cost was incurred with the introduction of Medibank, as far as administrative costs to the funds are concerned. 
Now, with the new Liberal proposals we will have to decide between Medibank and more than 100 private funds. When people choose a private fund they will opt out of Medibank. That means that Medibank will be involved in additional costs in updating its membership lists. At the same time, the Taxation Office has to be informed of movements from Medibank to private funds and  vice versa.  This will require additional administrative effort and, hence, additional costs. Initially, the Liberal Government proposed that the funds would have to advise the Taxation Office. The funds complained early and now, as I understand it, the burden is to be imposed on Medibank and the Taxation Office. This increased cost- an unnecessary administrative cost- will make Medibank look less efficient in relation to the funds whereas under our Medibank plan the government service was clearly much more efficient than that offered by private funds. The administrative costs of Medibank were less than 4 per cent. The administrative costs of the private funds were about IS per cent. 
Some administrative costs were much higher. That is true. I suggest to the honourable member that he read the Nimmo report and the reports presented by the Government on the whole financing of the private sector. He will see that the administrative costs are IS per cent. The honourable member should not lie to himself. None of this takes into account the additional waste of money with the enormous advertising campaigns now being waged by the funds and Medibank Private, all of which add to the contributors ' costs. That means all of us. 
For Medibank alone, we had the first abortive pamphlet which cost more than $150,000. It had to be withdrawn because it was misleading. Now more than $500,000 is being spent by the Government in an attempt to explain all the changes- without pointing out the increased costs, I might add. Still more government money is being spent in advising people to leave Medibank and join private funds. At the same time Medibank Private spends more public money wooing customers back. To all this must be added the contributors ' money being spent by the funds themselves in their advertising endeavours to coax people to join a particular fund. None of this takes into account the loss to the community in the destroyed potential for Medibank to provide the Government with real statistics for the first time on the state of health services for the whole community. It was the potential for the Medibank computer to provide truly comprehensive figures for the whole of the Australian community which was such a valuable spin-off, as it were, without significant additional administrative costs. It is this information which is vital if any government is to do anything intelligent about the planning of our future health service needs. All that is destroyed by the Liberal Government changes to the Labor Medibank scheme. So much for the administrative skills, wisdom and foresight of the businessman's government- the Liberal Government. 
Finally, I should like to deal with the one remaining advantage claimed for the changes to Medibank by the Liberals. The Government claims that the freedom of choice will improve the health services for the community. From what I have said it is clear that there will certainly be no improvement but rather the reverse, as far as administrative costs are concerned. How about the basic costs- the cost of doctors' bills and hospital charges? The changes will tend to increase these costs for a number of reasons. Firstly, the potential statistical surveillance to be provided by the Medibank computer has now been destroyed. This means that in those areas where there were abuses, the abusing doctors or patients will go undetected. I have been told that the incomes of some unscrupulous doctors have soared to well over $100,000 a year. Such incomes in a profession dependent on personal exertion are impossible without fraud. When the Government destroys the computer it will not detect such abuses. Such abuse was going on and it will increase, even with the modifications being proposed now. 
A possible restraint proffered by the Liberal Government is the fact that if doctors raise thenfees the private funds, which will be carrying the cost of medical refunds- which they did not have to carry under the Labor Medibank scheme- will have to raise their contribution rates. This may make private insurance too expensive and people will be forced back into Medibank standard. This will mean that doctors will lose their private hospital patients. That is the theory. The argument so put by the Liberals is dishonest, as we have the assurance by the Government that the Medibank levy will be reviewed. 
The disciplinary effect on the doctors would work only if the Medibank levy remained static. I take it that the Minister for Health did not say that but I am afraid that the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  argued that the levy would be reviewed. 
That is not the way I read his report. The increase in costs would be borne either by the patients themselves having to pay increasing gaps between rebates and bills or the Medibank refund would have to be increased. If the Medibank refund increases that will increase the cost to the general taxation revenue unless the Medibank levy is increased. This the Liberals have promised already to review- a euphemism for 'raise'. Thus patients will not be financially encouraged to return to Medibank. To stop the complaints of people finding that they have ever widening gaps between bills and rebates, the funds and Medibank will simply increase contribution rates. It has no restraining effect on the doctors' fees, the real and basic cost of health services. Quite apart from all that, which I think is superficial to the basic argument as far as the Australian community is concerned- the quality of health care and none of this has anything to do with the quality of health care- it is only an argument about how the bills are paid. The so-called competition between the various funds has nothing to do with the quality of health care. It is only a competition between one fund and another and Medibank and Medibank Private over who will handle the money. That in no way controls the distribution of medical services or their quality. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, relates in part to the question asked by the honourable member for Newcastle. Will the Minister confirm that the Trade Practices Commission has received a number of complaints concerning misleading advertising by private health insurance funds, such as the Hospital Benefits Association Ltd and the Australian Natives Association Insurance Co. Ltd in Victoria? If  so,  what action has the Government taken to ensure that private health insurance funds do not gain a competitive advantage over Medibank Private through the use of misleading statements and unfair trade practices? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Health. Will the Minister confirm that on 3 September Commonwealth and State legal officers met and agreed on a form for the Heads of Agreement under which the revised hospitals agreements with the States were to be drafted? Is it also true that  Dr Sax  advised the States by telex on 7 September of a substantial amendment to paragraph 5 of the Heads of Agreement which could limit Commonwealth funding of hospitals in the States to a fixed amount and not 50 per cent of the approved operating costs? Will the Minister deny that the Government has ignored assurances it gave to the State Health Ministers on 1 1 June that unilateral decisions on hospital funding would not be made by the Commonwealth, nor would the Commonwealth exercise any power of veto in relation to funding? 
-Mr Acting  Speaker,  this is an important question for a lot of people who have come to Australia for a variety of reasons, some of them because they had no choice and others because they chose to come. But in every case, once people have arrived here their capacities have been wasted. In a way their lives have been wasted because they have not been able to pursue their professions and, ironically, the Australian community has been robbed of their services. Obviously the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  is well aware of that. There is nothing we can do about it, but I should like to offer my support and encouragement, particularly in relation to this statement: 
The Committee has proposed principles which it believes, if embodied in State legislation concerned with registration, would achieve a major Committee objective. 
That is the point I wish to make. We cannot do anything about it in this place. It is really a matter for the States and, in my view, for too long the States have succumbed to the pressure of some professional organisations which have sought to limit the facility with which foreign graduates can be accepted. It is a protection of the closed shop situation, and I deplore it. 
I recall that during my time of medical training I studied alongside people who were older than myself, graduates from overseas who were obviously highly qualified doctors. Some of them were better qualified than many of the teachers who were teaching them, yet they still had to go through the ritual of doing this training. I might point out that the sort of training we expected of them and the exams we expected them to pass were such that a significant proportion of qualified medical practitioners in this country would not have been able to pass them. I hazard the guess that if Australians went to another country and had those sorts of exams imposed on them, many of them would fail. I think that we have been terribly arrogant about this matter for a long time. I am concerned about the next comment which appears in the Minister's statement. In relation to the proposals that the Committee has suggested should be embodied in State legislation, it is stated: 
These have been widely endorsed. Necessary changes to State legislation are being considered by the professions concerned. 
I am worried that once again there is going to be a means of delaying the introduction of thus sort of legislation. I am not seeking an enormous debate on this issue, and I can see that there is some agitation on the other side of the chamber. I simply wish to endorse the statement on behalf of honourable members on this side of the House and make the point that we feel fairly strongly that these Governments should act and not be too browbeaten by the professional organisations. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Bourchier)  adjourned. 
-The Opposition has an amendment to clause 13. The reason for agreeing to consider the Bill as a whole is that there is only one amendment. To facilitate the business, I feel that this is the appropriate way to deal with the Bill. I move: 
Omit clause 13. 
This is the clause dealing with the reinsurance accounts hospital benefits funds. I discussed this in my speech earlier today. I will reiterate our argument. In essence, this proposal restores the special account which existed before the introduction of Medibank. The special account was a very clever device whereby chronically ill patients, after a certain time, were transferred from being the financial responsibility of the private funds to the special account where their medical and hospital bills were paid by the Government. When the Labor Party took office we found that the cost to the general taxpayer was soaring well above $50m. I think it reached a figure of about $70m a year. It could well have finished up at around $ 100m. 
We were not providing anything. The Liberal-Country Party Government was providing money. That Government was responsible at that time, and when we came into office it looked as though the cost of the special account would go above $70m and could reach the $100m mark. 
When we introduced Medibank, we changed that. That all fell by the wayside, because Medibank has covered and will cover medical bills until 1 October and for hospital cover we invited people to take out extra insurance cover with private funds. The benefits funds did not like that. This was one of the very profitable areas for them, because it allowed them to increase their reserves. The funds ceased to be financially responsible for the chronically ill patients although they still collected their contributions, of course, and the general taxpayer carried the financial burden in the special account. Typical of the values of the LiberalCountry Party Government, seeking to bolster private enterprise at the expense of the rest of the community and with no relationship to the basic quality of the service provided, this Government has offered a bonanza in the form of $50m. Ironically, it was such a generous handshake that the 
Government had to find ways of making sure that the money would be spent. The reason for this is that in the original special account those funds had to cover both medical an hospital expenses. 
The Government has not reverted to medical expenses being covered by the same sort of device. Before it worked that out, it offered the $50m. When the medical expenses are cut out, $50m will cover the hospital expenses very easily. There would have been quite a credit at the end of the year, I would guess. So to facilitate the spending of the community's money, the Government lowered the qualifying period from 60 days to 35 days. The hospital treatment needs to be for only 35 days for the patient to qualify for payment of benefits through the reinsurance account. In our view, this is wrong. In our view people opting for private or intermediate cover should pay the full price for that medical treatment. In our view, it is wrong to expect the general community to pay for that out of taxation revenue. Someone mentioned that Medibank contributors will contribute only $300m or $400m. I was not saying that Medibank contributors will pay that. I was saying that the whole community, contributing via general taxation revenue, will provide this subsidy. That includes Medibank contributors and everybody else. 
I am arguing against the principle that the whole community, through taxation, should subsidise a small privileged section of people who seek to have additional facilities provided for them. Why should they? I do not understand it. If that is fair and reasonable, why should not the same sort of standards in the Government's terms- I happen to disagree with the standards anyway- mean that everybody is subsidised to the same extent? What is wrong with an ordinary individual who belongs to ordinary Medibank being entitled to the same sort of subsidy? 
If they pay extra money into a private fund; but I do not see why that burden should be placed upon them. Honourable members opposite cannot establish to my satisfaction the reason why, if some people choose to go into private insurance, the rest of the community should subsidise them. 
For those reasons we are moving that this whole clause be removed from the Bill. I agree that it will mean that the cost of treatment for the chronically ill who want private or intermediate care will go up. I suggest that, if those people are chronically ill, the right and proper place for them to be treated is the same as for most other members of the community, namely, the public hospital system. People have false ideas about the virtues of private treatment. This subsidy relates only to hospital treatment. It does not relate to medical treatment. When a person is admitted to hospital is the only time when this function comes into operation. Everywhere in the world chronic illness is a drain on the whole community. There is no sensible reason why the community should subsidise treatment for such patients in intermediate ward accommodation. 
It is not a question of victimising patients. If the Government want to spend that money, it should spend it on the public hospital system to increase the standards for everyone who needs chronic medical care. 
It would be much better for the whole community if there were no subsidy which allowed some patients to go into private hospitals which do not give anything for this extra money because it simply goes into increased profits for the private hospitals. It does not go to the quality of care provided in these hospitals. Honourable members opposite know very well that if public hospitals had more money it would go by and large towards improving the standards in those hospitals. 
Despite the fact that in my view public hospital standards are much better than standards in private hospitals, I am not saying that in this country public hospital standards are optimal- we do not know. If the Government wants a hint on how to spend the money which would be saved by not subsidising unnecessary intermediate ward care, I suggest it could be used to finance a study of the standards in public hospitals and work towards the establishment of an accreditation system, of medical and surgical audit. Then the Government might find out what value it is getting for its money in both public and private hospitals. I would hazard a guess that honourable members opposite would be shocked to learn of the poor levels of medical care available to far too many patients in private hospitals. I was in this field for a while. 
The survey would need to be done by the Australian Government in co-operation with the various colleges of medical practitioners. I am not seeking to do it myself. I am not suggesting that the Labor Party should do it. I am suggesting that the Government should get the medical profession itself to do it. I do not think that even the bureaucrats in Canberra, as well intentioned as they may be, should do it. It is something that doctors should do themselves. It is something that is being done all over the world. Let me give some figures since the honourable member seems to be interested. I refer to what  Dr Eugene  McCarthy said and what was reported in the  New York Times.  The honourable member should look this up. The report was made in January this year. The views of a lot of other people also are quoted in this article. He said in his original article: 
To quantitate the proportion of unwarranted operations, several investigators have compared the surgical utilisation rates - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-These 3 Bills deal with a fair range of items; so I will deal with them seriatim. I refer, firstly, to the National Health Amendment Bill (No. 2). I think that it is quite inappropriately named. It ought to be named the Private Benefit Funds Subsidy Bill. It is true that many of its clauses provide for corrections to be made to the drafting of previous legislation that was inadequate. We are not quibbling with that. 
I would like to concentrate my remarks on 2 clauses which strike the Opposition as being the guts of this Bill and which, as I have indicated already, could be interpreted as being a technique whereby the private benefit funds will be subsidised. I refer, firstly, to clause 13, which deals with reinsurance accounts in relation to hospital benefits funds. The point of the exercise is to try to provide some cover for those people who are sick for a long period of time and who need hospitalisation for more than 35 days in a year. Of course, that would be a burden upon any fund. The way out that has been chosen by the Government is to have these people transferred to a reinsurance account. On the surface that sounds good. That special account would then cover them for their hospitalisation for however long they need to be receiving such care. 
The Bill deletes the previous provision relating to the payment of medical fees for chronic illnesses, which is an advance. Before the introduction of Medibank- under the old scheme of the Liberal-Country Party Government- there were special accounts for people who were chronically ill, and anyone who became too much of a burden for the private funds was transferred to the special accounts. That meant that the patients continued to pay their contributions to their benefits funds, but the funds did not have to pay the doctor rebates and the hospital rebates after the appropriate time had elapsed or the appropriate conditions had been fulfilled. The Australian Government did that because the patient was transferred to a special account and the money came from the taxpayer. We recognised that. Under Medibank we sought to change that situation. We thought that people who took out private insurance should pay a contribution that was adequate to ensure that they were covered for all of their private health needs. If they did not want to do that and, as they had to pay their taxes like everybody else, they could get their care under Medibank. Under plain, ordinary Medibank their doctors' fees would be rebated and they would have access to public wards in public hospitals- the best possible treatment available in the country. 
That is not good enough for the benefits funds, of course, because part of their appeal is the offering of lush care in private hospitals. That usually means fancy hotel-type accommodation. Generally speaking it has nothing to do with the quality of the care that will be available to the patients. Of course, private hospitals are in business to make money for the entrepreneurs who set them up. So they charge fairly hefty fees. The fees charged by private hospitals would clearly have to be higher than any fees charged by public hospitals, but of course, now no fees have to be paid by public patients in public hospitals. 
Because of Medibank no fees are charged to public patients in public hospitals. I thank my colleague for his assistance. Because the fees charged by the private hospitals are high, the benefits fund contributions could well have to be rather higher than most people really would want to pay, particularly if a patient is chronically ill. As we get older we tend to come into the bracket in which we are likely to want many services and are likely to become chronically ill. The private funds could not or would not willingly forsake that group of patients. They want to hang on to them for as long as they can. So they have cried to the Government and the Government has made a generous offer to pay $50m into the reinsurance accounts. 
I would not be terribly worried if there were some evidence that the benefits funds themselves were going to make some positive financial contribution to the reinsurance accounts. I understand that these sorts of arrangements apply to the ordinary insurance companies. What happens is that when a more than usual burden falls upon a particular insurance company it refers the matter to the reinsurance pool and, according to a previously agreed formula, all the insurance companies share the expense. I cannot find any evidence in this legislation to suggest that that is what the private funds will do. One of the sources of revenue that appear to be available to the funds is the contributions of those people transferred to the reinsurance accounts. Presumably, what is transferred is not the contribution that they make to the benefits funds for the period prior to the 35 days of hospitalisation but only that proportion that relates to the period after the 35 days of hospitalisation. So the first contribution to the funds of the reinsurance accounts is from the poor, chronically ill contributors themselves. 
The second contribution, as far as one can detect from the legislation, is the generous donation of $50m by the Australian Government. To emphasise the point I am making, namely, that I consider it to be a generous donation, I point out that I think the Minister for Health (  Mr Hunt)  himself agreed that it was a generous donation. At page 5 of the circulated copy of his second reading speech he said: 
Basically, the reinsurance arrangements enable an organisation, after it has paid standard hospital benefits to a contributor for 35 days of hospitalisation in a year, to debit to its reinsurance account benefits payable to that contributor for the remainder of that year. 
That is what I have said. There is no argument about that. The Minister went on to say: 
The Bill provides for the reduction of the qualifying period from 60 days to 35 days. 
That is a very considerate action on the part of the Government. It makes it easier for the private funds. If they had had to carry such contributions for 60 days, the burden would have been greater. The Minister's second reading speech continues: 
This does not, in any way, affect the benefits entitlement of any contributor. 
The Minister is right again. Whatever happens, whoever pays their accounts, such contributors are still covered. The Minister went on to say: 
It -  these arrangements-  will ensure that the $50m a year the Government has undertaken to pay towards the reinsurance arrangements will be utilised. 
I emphasise the words 'will be utilised '. In other words, the Government lowered the qualification period from 60 days to 35 days because it was afraid that the $50m would finish up with a surplus; that it would not be used. Incidentally, it is $50m a year- not a one-off payment. This means, in essence, that a person pays as a contributor to a private fund and thereby supports himself as far as hospital and medical insurance is concerned, but when he becomes chronically ill he is transferred to a reinsurance account and the burden of paying his expenses rests with the taxpayer because the Australian Government is contributing $50m to support that fund. I am not objecting to the taxpayer doing it. I think the taxpayer should do it for everybody. Why should the taxpayer have to subsidise those people who stay in shared ward accommodation in private hospitals- we are not allowed to call such wards intermediate wards any more; we have to talk about shared ward accommodation- and not those - 
I am talking about intermediate patients in private hospitals and intermediate patients in public hospitals. The taxpayer subsidises their treatment because presumably, theoretically, it is supposed to be superior. Why should the person who cannot afford that treatment but who still pays his taxes, the poor mug who has to stay in Medibank, who is not able to get the additional benefit of private or intermediate ward care, be forced to contribute to the maintenance of someone who wants to stay in an intermediate ward and collect the frills? What is the moral obligation on the poor section of the community to grant that privilege to those who are richer? If they are chronically ill and need extra hospitalisation, why is it not at the same rate as that for every other taxpayer? Why not in a public ward hospital? Of course the irony of all this is that we fool ourselves and so we charge the community extra money to provide these people with private and intermediate hospital treatment on the assumption that it is superior to public hospital treatment. 
I ask honourable members to consider one situation carefully. You are walking along the street on Friday evening. That is probably the best evening for this to happen. You get knocked over by a motor car, usually a drunk driver. The ambulance is called. The ambulance picks you up and the ambulance officers recognise that you are seriously ill, at death's door. They rush you to a hospital- the nearest public hospital, not the nearest private hospital. Think of another situation. You suddenly fall ill at home. You ring the doctor. You might be lucky enough to find him at night. I am talking about the conscientious doctor. You find him. He realises it is an emergency. 
You find a general practice doctora good one. There are plenty of them around still. He says: 'It is a waste of time my coming to the house. From what you have said I know the patient needs urgent treatment. I will arrange for an ambulance to go immediately to pick up the patient and take the patient to the nearest public hospital, because that is the only place where you will find the facilities, the resources, to treat such a patient properly'. 
A person might go to a nice private hospital and have a lovely cholecystectomy done with the surgeon of his choice, and three or four days later suddenly something happens. A complication sets in and he needs an urgent transfusion perhaps or resuscitation. The facilities, the resources, are not available at most private hospitals to provide that sort of care. I have seen it as a resident and I saw it when I was in practice at the trade union clinic. I recognised what used to go on. The ambulance is called and the patient is transferred from the beautiful private hospital to that dilapidated, run-down, rotten public hospital- the only place where real facilities are available and where the best of care is available, so you can be sure that in fact you do not suffer the luxury of lying in seclusion in a private room in a private hospital and, on your own, privately expiring. 
Of course the reality in a private hospital if something goes wrong is that there are no residents. The private doctors do not live at the private hospital. They conduct their practices elsewhere. If an emergency arises the nursing staff get on the telephone and they try to track down the doctor. He may be over the other side of town playing golf or quite legitimately, operating on another patient somewhere else. Who will look after the patient suffering an unexpected relapse in this lush private hospital? There are no residents available. The doctor may find a colleague handy who might be willing to drop in and do something about it. I suppose it depends on the sort of working relationship a specialist has with his colleagues, but it is highly unlikely that he will be able to get anyone else. It is a fairly competitive game, as it were, or business. 
If an emergency arises in a public hospital, what happens there? In half a minute or less a resident medical officer can be at your bedside to start examining you to see what is wrong. Sure, they are only just out of medical school and still wet behind the ears, but they are still better than nobody. A resident medical officer can make some assessment of your position. If he feels there is something really the matter, or if the nursing staff badgers him into accepting that the patient really is in need of some urgent treatment and he does not know what to do, he can call upon the registrars, who are also in the hospital. If the worst happens, a specialist can be notified. The specialist, even if he is somewhere else, can at least say: 'Get moving on something- this, that or the other. Institute resuscitation procedures'. Resident medical officers can at least do that. They can start that sort of procedure, which you cannot get done in a private hospital. I assure the House that to give up the privilege of dying in seclusion in the luxury of a private hospital, I will opt out of the private funds. I will stay in Medibank and I will have myself admitted to a public ward in a public hospital if I feel I need hospitalisation. So much for clause 13. It provides a subsidy for the treatment of private patients in private hospitals at the expense of the rest of the community. Why should those sorts of funds not be spent on everybody? What is special about people taking out private insurance? In the Committee stage we intend to move that clause 13 be deleted. 
Clause 20 also provides a hidden subsidy for benefit funds. When the Government proposed its marvellous scheme the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  indicated that he thought that the costs for intermediate ward cover would be $ 135 a year. That was a rough guess, and I do not blame the departmental officers sitting behind the Minister for making the mistake, but when they came to do their sums in leisure a bit later they found that the real cost would be more. They found it would not be $135 but something like $185. The real figure is irrelevant. It was going to be more. So as not to lose with the community - 
That is right. The Minister murmurs 'To do the right thing', whatever that may mean. To do the right thing the Minister has guaranteed that people will not have to pay more than $135 for standard hospital benefit, which means intermediate ward cover. Marvellous! Most of the funds, apparently, and Medibank, have found that they will have to charge more, so the gap will be paid by our benevolent Government. 
For hospital only. I am talking about hospitals only. Again the point arises: It is the general taxpayer subsidising, admittedly only slightly, the better off section of the community which feels it can afford to insure itself for intermediate ward care. Taxation money comes from the whole damn lot, not just the rich. In fact, in proportion to the amount collected and the effect it has on individuals' pockets it is the poor who suffer most by this sort of tax scale, but we all accept that. So it is the poor people who will subsidise the few who take out intermediate cover. We are going to subsidise the poor richer section of the community. Forgive the Irish phraseology, but that is what it means. The poor section of the community will subsidise the poor richer section of the community which desperately needs to have intermediate ward cover. Because these people cannot afford the true insurance rate of about $ 185- please do not sling that figure back at me; whatever the figure is it is well above the $135 which was initially estimatedthe general taxpayer is going to subsidise them. I just think that is crazy. I think that is wrong. If people want the luxury of private hospital care they should pay the real cost so that the community knows what the real cost is. We should bear in mind that in those countries- Australia is not one of them- where an attempt has been made to measure the quality of care available in private hospitals results suggest quite strongly that the quality of care is not as good as that available in public hospitals. 
I realise it will apply to intermediate wards in public hospitals. The irony is that if you take this extra money, if you take the donation from the general taxpayer, to pay extra, as likely as not in a public hospital you will finish up in the same ward as the public patient. Public hospitals do not have separate private or intermediate wards, they simply designate the beds. Intermediate patients are in 4-bed wards because intermediate patients are always in 4-bed wards, but particularly in the newer public hospitals such as Canberra they are surrounded by public patients in the same ward and in the same cubicle. The public patients get exactly the same treatment as the intermediate patients. They get the same food and the same hospital medical personnel looking after them. That is one of the bonuses in going to a public hospital. 
The message of my speech is this: Whatever happens, even if a person is foolish enough to join a private fund, he should always get himself admitted to a public hospital. I think that situation is crazy; I think it is wrong. The facilities in public hospitals ought to be available free of charge to anyone on the basis of medical need. Of course, the facilities are not free. We pay for them with our taxation contributions, and that is the right and proper way to do it. On that basis one contributes in accordance with one's capacity to pay and is treated in accordance with medical need. That is what the situation ought to be. 
I pass now to the next Bill in the three we are discussing, the Health Insurance Amendment 
Bill. Basically, the Bill deals with hospital financing arrangements and pathology services. The Opposition raises 3 rousing cheers for the pathology proposals, but I warn the Government now that there will be some cunning doctors who will still slip under its guard and cheat it. I will deal briefly with the pathology services. In essence, the proposal is to try to limit the number of pathology services performed on a patient in any one day. We know it is all free. We know that there is a lot of wasteful prescribing by doctors. I hope that people recognise that patients do not order pathology tests, it is the doctors who order them. I commend the Minister for this proposal; I am not attacking him. I commend him on his attempt to limit the excessive use of pathology services. He has been well advised by his department. 
The legislation now states that a patient cannot get the full price for more than 3 services in one day. If a doctor is lazy, instead of talking to the patient for half an hour to try to work out what the problem is, he will talk to the patient for 5 minutes and order 6 tests. Hopefully, the tests supply the answer and they give the pathologist a good income and the GP a further consultation. This measure will inhibit that practice to a certain extent, but where is the trick? The doctor orders 3 tests and tells the patient to go and have them done. The pathologist tells the patient to go back and see the referring GP 2 days after the tests have been done. The patient goes back and the doctor, probably without even looking at the tests because he had intended having 6 tests done in the first place, tell the patient that he needs another 3 tests done. Off goes the patient for another 3 tests 3 days later. They are not done on the same day and it is not the same service. The patient has the additional 3 tests and the specialist gets the full fee, instead of only 20 per cent. 
Precisely. The patient may well finish up with 2 needles in his arm instead of one, and then has to go back a third time to the general practitioner. So the GP gets an additional consultation out of it and the pathologist gets a fee. That is just a trick. I am not suggesting that most doctors will do that because I like to think that most of them are not like that. Only the Minister can tell us whether that is so because Medibank was going to come up with figures to expose those practitioners, both specialists and general practitioners, who are abusing the system. I hope the Minister accepts the assurance from this side of the House that we will commend him if he exposes those rogues to the whole community, including the honest members of the medical profession who are being blackened by this sort of behaviour. I am now talking as a doctor and not as a member of Parliament. The Opposition agrees with the proposals relating to pathology services and trusts that if these do not work the Minister will go from strength to strength and bring in a few more. 
I turn now to hospital financing. Aye, there's the rub, and at the Committee stage the Opposition will be proposing an amendment. I understand that on 2 or 3 September a meeting was held between the health officials of the States and the Commonwealth Government and that they agreed to the new schedule listed in clause 10. It is Schedule 2 to the principal Act, the heads of agreement. Those officials agreed to all the heads of agreement. Personally, I do not agree. I disagree with clauses 7 to 11, but that is my personal idiosyncrasy. I accept that the States have accepted all the clauses. A few days later,  on  about 7 September, the States were notified that the Federal Government was going to add another clause to the schedule. The interpretation made by the States- and as I read it, I fear that I have to agree with that interpretation- is that, if interpreted maliciously, the clause is an escape clause for the Australian Government. I am sure that the present Minister would not want to interpret the clause maliciously, but he has to get his money from Treasury and I know how Treasury behaves, so I persist with my comment. If the clause were to be interpreted in the way the States suggest, the Australian Government could be absolved from any responsibility for some of the additional unforeseen costs imposed on the States. 
As I have said, I object to some of the other clauses, but I will leave them to my colleagues to comment on because I want to discuss one more Bill. Again I emphasise the point that the initial heads of agreement, the proposals which were agreed to by the States, suggested that the Australian Government would pay the same amount of money as the State government for accepted costs for the hospitals in a particular State. Quite clearly, that was based on Budget estimates, and we all know that Budget estimates are notoriously inaccurate. That is not the fault of anyone. It happened with our Government, it happens with the present Government, it happens with anybody. There is a suggestion that a committee set up for the purpose will first of all review the initial budget and then will meet again later in the year to review any changes which may have occurred. 
Retrospective changes and changes for the future, but the meeting still will not take place until the end of the year. If the State and Commonwealth people agree and draw up a modified budget which takes into account the past changes and possible future changes, that is good. It is marvellous, bully. But what happens if the budget then proves to be wrong, if something happens in the remaining period? The Bill provides that it is possible for the Government to consider making additional payments. Clause 5(c) of Schedule 2 states:  . . . is to submit budgets so formulated, and any such variations, for approval in accordance with the agreement . . . 
If that provision were read generously, it would take into account changes that had not been foreseen in the Budget. But the next provision, the one to which the Opposition objects, in essence gives the Australian Government the prerogative to refuse to accept any increases not encompassed by the previous discussions. There is the difficulty. Under the agreement which the Labor Government had, the Commonwealth was to pay 50 per cent of whatever the States had to pay. It was said that the States would waste money, but the States are up for half the money anyway. If they waste money, they waste half of their own money. They are not likely to do that. As a measure of the bona fides of the States, the Labor Government took it that the States would be careful because if they were not careful and wasted $ 1 m they would have to find $500,000 of that $lm. That was a very severe restraint on their foolishness, and that was good enough for the Labor Government. 
That provision still holds. The States still have that burden, but the Minister has now taken upon himself the possibility of saying that, despite the best of intentions and the best efforts of the committee assessing the budget, if something unforeseen happens after the last review and an additional cost is incurred which has not been taken into account, he may approve further payments, but he may not and that is the rub. It is the Minister's sole prerogative. It will not be up to the committee again, it will not be negotiated. The Minister will be able to say: 'Sorry, barley Charlie, it did not come up at that last meeting. Stiff cheese, you have to carry it yourself. The States could be left carrying more than their fair share of the burden, and the Opposition therefore intends to move for the elimination of that particular section from the heads of agreement. 
The final Bill is the Health Insurance Commission Amendment Bill, which in essence sets up Medibank Private. Some members of the Opposition are worried about this Bill because we do not believe that it is right and proper. We do not think that private insurance is worth while, but we have to accept the fact that a significant proportion of the Australian community feels that it is essential. I have already pointed out that I think the only luxury one has is to expire in isolation in a private ward of a private hospital. That is the only benefit I can see in belonging to a private health fund and being admitted to a private hospital. 
Let me refer to strong evidence about the standard of medical care in private hospitals. That evidence is based on statistics. I agree that they have not been obtained in Australia because we have not measured the quality of care anywhere, not even in our public hospitals. In order to forestall criticism from honourable members opposite I point out that I would not necessarily be happy with the quality of care available in the public hospitals either. I do not know. I am not saying it is bad; we just do not know. On measurements taken in other places, such as America, it seems as though, for example, in hospitals below a 100-bed capacity- they are all private hospitals at that level- the mortality rate for seemingly equivalent types of illness is about 40 per cent higher than when patients are treated in larger hospitals, some of which tend to be private and most of which tend to be public. As I say, I would be happy to have a study conducted in this country to prove that that is wrong. I insist that we ought to do such a study to find out. However, except for that reservation and the fact that people still want private and intermediate cover, we will accept that Bill which deals with Medibank, but we will propose some changes. We think it should not be called Medibank Private; we think it should be called Medibank Supplementary. I shall enlarge on that aspect during the Committee stage. 
-The Opposition wishes to move an amendment to clause 10. Clause 10, in part, states: 
Schedule 2 to the Principal Act is repealed and the following Schedule substituted: 
SCHEDULE 2 Section 30 
I move: 
In clause 3, omit the words 'medibank private' (wherever occurring), substitute 'supplementary'. 
In clause 7, omit the heading 'PART IIa- MEDIBANK PRIVATE', substitute 'PART II a- MEDIBANK BENEFITS FUND AND HOSPITAL BENEFITS FUND'. 
In clause 7, omit the words 'medibank private' (wherever occurring), substitute 'supplementary'. 
In clause 8, omit 'medibank private', substitute 'supplementary'. 
In clause 9, omit the words 'medibank private' (wherever occurring), substitute 'supplementary'. 
In clause 10, omit the words 'medibank private' (wherever occurring), substitute 'supplementary'. 
In clause 12, omit the words 'medibank private' (wherever occurring), substitute 'supplementary'. 
Consistent with our view about Medibank and Medibank Private and the fact that we do not wish to encourage people to indulge in unnecessary insurance by arranging for what in our view is inadequate and unnecessary cover from private funds, we suggest that if people want to take out some form of extra cover, as far as Medibank is concerned, it is a supplementary cover to the basic cover provided by Medibank. For this reason, all these amendments refer to the changing of the words 'Medibank Private' to read simply 'supplementary'. So, we have the general functions of Medibank which hopefully will cover most people in the community eventually, and for those in the persistent minority who, it seems, will insist on insuring themselves for inadequate medical services of a private nature, it will be a supplementary function of Medibank. That is the reason for our amendments. 
-I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the Minister for Business and Consumer 
Affairs from speaking to his statement on the Prices Justification Tribunal and the honourable member for Port Adelaide from replying, each speaking for a period not exceeding 10 minutes. 

 Mr Acting Speaker, I make this suggestion because, as we witnessed during the last speech by the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan),  rancour is still high. Feelings are distinctly ruffled over what I might suggest is an area of misunderstanding. I do not accept that there was necessarily any intention to deceive on either side. From what I heard of what occurred earlier on when there was an attempt made - 
I take advantage of the opportunity offered by the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  and commence my remarks by making some brief comments on the Prices Justification Tribunal. We have heard a lot and we have been lectured a lot by the Government on the need to be responsible, particularly if one belongs to the wage and salary earning section of the community, and the need to lower our demands and contain our desires for a better way of life, all in the cause of reducing in effect the share of the wealth of the community flowing to wage and salary earners so that more of the resources in terms of the gross national product can flow back to the private sector. There are various legal restrictions inhibiting increases in wages. There is a need for those workers who want to have their wages increased to go to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission year in and year out and put their case. But we hear nothing of the other side of the coin. After all it is not just wages that are of concern to the whole community; it is also prices. 
We now have the intriguing spectacle of the Government proceeding to modify the Prices Justification Tribunal- an instrument set up by the previous Labor Government to attempt to control increases in prices in much the same way as increases in wages have been controlled in this country for many years. The essence of the Government's proposals is the drawing of the mere two or three teeth that the Prices Justification Tribunal has had. The effect of the Government's proposals will be to leave it solely at the discretion of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  whether there ought to be inquiries or requirements for certain types of companies to present some justification for increasing their prices. That is to be left purely to the discretion of the Minister. The turnover level beyond which companies are expected automatically to apply to the Prices Justification Tribunal for permission to increase prices has been increased to such an extent that very few companies will be now covered by the requirements of the Prices Justification Tribunal. 
We are living in an atmosphere in which the trade union movement and the Australian Labor Party generally are forever being badgered and told that workers must be responsible and that their demands must be restrained in order to ensure that the country can get onto its feet economically again. At the same time the Government is removing the very modest restraints which may have persuaded the private sector to moderate its price increases. It is making a mockery of the very advice it is giving the trade union movement. It is quite clear that the whole thrust of the Government's approach is simply to beat down the working section of the community. Imagine what sorts of effects this will have on the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the whole trade union movement when they next apply to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission for wage justice. Why should they be restrained? Why should the trade union movement not threaten industrial action in view of these sorts of activities being undertaken by the present Government? The call for responsibility should apply to all sides. Quite frankly, I think we are all on the wrong track. I think the cry for this sort of restraint will not solve the problem, but I do not want to lecture on that at the moment. Accepting for the moment the Government's assumptions about the causes of inflation and about where we need to have restraint, it seems totally unjust that the only restraint is being placed on the trade union section of the community and not on the private enterprise sec.,tion of the community. I am quite sure it is not difficult to find cases- there have often been reports of such cases- of blatantly unreasonable increases in prices that have had no relationship to cost increases but simply to the fact that they were as high as the market would bear. 
So much for the Prices Justification Tribunal. In keeping with the whole Government approach- restraint in all areas- this Budget has shown that, whereas the Labor Government may have made some mistakes in attempting to stimulate development in areas which have been stultified for 20 years, the only positive actionthis is a rather Irish approach, I guess- the present Government has taken has been to stifle every initiative the Labor Government put forward, every initiative the Australian community voted for, and every initiative we talked about in the period from about 1968 onwards until we were elected which clearly excited the Australian community and prompted people to vote for a Labor Government. 
In all these areas of restriction and strangulation of programs which were applauded when they were introduced, the area of health service expenditure is an area where the effect is perhaps the greatest. The Liberal Government's austerity measures have been amongst the most brutal and shortsighted and eventually will be recognised as having been quite counter-productive. Let me start with a comment on Medibank. With the help- in ignorance, I might point out- of the Liberal and Country parties while in Opposition the Labor Government was able to introduce a truly comprehensive national health insurance program, Medibank, financed in the socially most equitable fashion possible, via general taxation revenue. That was not our original proposal. When we originally put the proposal for a national health insurance system, we proposed a levy. We recognised that the money had to come from somewhere. 
Before our proposal, the money was coming from the taxpayer via his contributions to voluntary health funds, via his contributions to taxation revenue and via the payments he made out of his pocket directly to doctors. We knew that. We knew what the position would be if we took the radical step of introducing a comprehensive national health insurance system. I put the word 'radical' in inverted commas, because it was not a radical step. Any sensible Liberal Government would have seen the point of it and taken the step itself. When we took the step of introducing a comprehensive national health insurance system, quite clearly the money which had previously been channelled to the health services, the doctors and hospitals, by the other means I have just mentioned, had to go through a central agency- the national health insurance office. Funds for that office could have been raised in 2 ways. The money could have come via the taxation system or a levy could have been imposed. Put another way, instead of people contributing to voluntary funds they could contribute to the national health insurance fund. That is still a levy. 
The Labor Government, not wanting to be too revolutionary, proposed a levy. It was in keeping with what the community was used to. Payments to benefit funds were in essence a levy. There was nothing voluntary about them, because if a person did not contribute to a so-called voluntary fund, when he was sick and paid the bill he could not get his Commonwealth medical or hospital benefit. Just understand that. There was nothing voluntary about the previous system. People were forced to contribute to the voluntary funds in order to be able to claim Commonwealth hospital or medical benefits. So it was perfectly logical to suggest a levy to take the place of contributions to the benefit funds. Taxation revenue was still to continue to provide the same subsidy as it provided under the Liberal and Country parties when they were last in governmentno difference. But I concede that the levy was not as socially equitable as taking the whole lot out of taxation revenue. The former Opposition, in its blind ignorance, opposed the levy. We quite happily accepted defeat of our levy Bill, because we were then able to finance Medibank, the national health insurance system, completely via taxation revenue, which was a much more socially equitable system. 
That is an idiot comment, because everybody has to pay for his health services. If a person is sick he has to pay out of his pocket somehow. All our system did was make sure that there was more social equity in the way people had to pay. Foolishly, the former Opposition in its blind opposition to anything any opponent of the Labor Party cares to call socialist rushed in like a bull in a china shop. Ostensibly its purpose was to nip a socialist experiment in the bud andsuch was the then Opposition's blind beliefsave the Government and hence the taxpayer money. Honourable members opposite should take off their ideological blinkers and see what they have done. In terms of cost to the community, money paid out by the community, whether via the taxation system, via the Medibank levy, via contributions to benefit funds or in the form of direct payments to doctors and hospitals, the real total cost- not just the payments via the taxation system, which is what honourable members opposite crow about- will go up dramatically because of the stupid meddling of honourable members opposite. 
I ask them to think for a few minutes, if they can sustain the effort for that long without becoming over-emotional and irrational. The cost of our health services are the costs of the medical services. These costs include the fees paid to the doctors. Whether they are paid by Medibank or private fund or paid directly from the patient's pocket is irrelevant. They include also the bills paid to the hospitals, again irrespective of how they are paid, and finally the administrative costs of getting the money transferred from the community to the doctors and the hospitals. Honourable members opposite crow a lot about the cost of Medibank and the disastrous increases in the cost of Medibank. They are talking balderdash. Under Medibank the money which eventually must be paid to the doctors and the hospitals was to be collected via the taxation  system. In  order to collect that money the Taxation Office did not have to increase its expenditure one cent. All it had to do was increase the scale of taxation people had to pay. The present Government has done this, but it is so dishonest that it is not prepared to admit that it has done it. Its levy is nothing but a tax. 
Collecting the money via the taxation system saves everybody a lot of bother. They do not have to fill in forms and apply to particular funds. They do not have to make sure that they pay their contributions weekly, monthly, yearly or however they decide. Under such a system they tend to forget and find that they are in arrears. It is all done automatically in the same way as, hopefully, people pay their superannuation contributions. The money is automatically taken out of people's pay packets. That is all the Medibank collection system was about. The money having been so collected, it could be distributed by one central agency with a large efficient computer facility, which would have made it far more efficient from everybody's point of view. Of course, Medibank was so efficient that its administrative costs were less than 4 per cent of total costs. I admit that for every dollar paid by the taxpayer 4 cents was wasted by Medibank. That is still the situation, and we have not yet reached 1 October. But what is the situation under the voluntary health fund system? People have to make their own individual private arrangements. If they are lucky and belong to a firm that is prepared to put in a closed system then their contributions are automatically taken out of their pay packets by the company. It is a tax. Does it matter whether the tax is for a private fund or for the Government? It is still a tax. But most people are not in that happy position. Most people have to make a conscious effort to go to a chemist shop or to make up their mind which fund they will join and then write into the appropriate fund in order to make their contribution. It is not just the money, it is the time and effort as well which is never counted. 
There is also the question of the size and variety of the funds. Until recently there were more than 100 different funds in the hospital and medical areas. I know that over the last year that figure has dropped and the number is now in the mid eighties, but there are still a large number of different funds, all with their separate administrations, all with their different techniques, all dealing across the country with a variety of patients and doctors. How can that be as efficient as the Medibank system? It cannot, and the facts prove it. If one looks at the last report tabled in this House on the costs and financial dealings of the benefit funds one will find that for every $ 1 a contributor pays to the voluntary funds 14.8c- 15c- is lost, wasted, compared with only 4 cents for Medibank. In short, the end result of the Government's meddling is at least a doubling of the administrative costs of the whole system, as well as an enormous waste of time and effort by the community to fulfil all the requirements, make all the extra decisions, fill in all the paper etc. 
Medibank is a great achievement of the Labor Government but it is now being mutilated beyond recognition by unnecessary Liberal Government surgery. The Liberal Government surgery on the funding of the community health facilities might well prove fatal. In its last Budget, Labor allocated $70.7m for these services and, if our programs had been sustained and our commitments fulfilled, $88m would have been allocated this year instead of the $7 1.8m this Government has allocated. True, only $55m was spent last financial year because as soon as this Government came in it dilly-dallied and delayed and many of the projects that we had approved were stopped, crippled, destroyed. That is why the Government has spent less than Labor budgeted for. At the same time, because of those restraints, State governments imposed restrictions on the appointment of new staff and even on the replacement of staff. If someone resigned he could not even be replaced. That has created an idiot situation where, because of previous approvals, in many areas the necessary elaborate facilities are being built, and people trying to run health centres in cramped temporary quarters with half a dozen staff are faced with the prospect of running their services in the elaborate facilities with a third or a quarter or even less of the staff they need to run the service properly. 
The community has shown its appreciation and is flocking to these centres. Figures are available indicating the patronage of the centres in Canberra. No one could suggest that the public servants in this city are being forced to frequent the health centres. No one could suggest that the community in Canberra is being forced against its will to patronise the community health centres. Yet I notice that the figures coming out indicate that doctors in these centres are expected to cope with three or four times the number of patients that it is reasonable to expect a general practitioner anywhere else to cope with. What is the response of the Government? The people are showing what they believe in. They are voting approval for these centres by going to the doors. So the Government has said: 'You cannot now go unless you live in a certain area', thereby imposing geographical limitations. The Labor Government was accused of that sort of potential restriction, but we never imposed such a restriction. People should be free to go wherever they choose. The Liberal Government is imposing restrictions on who can go to what health centre- if they do not live in the appropriate area they are not allowed to go. Honourable members opposite talk about Labor being dictators! If people continue to go to the centres, the centres are not allowed to increase their staff. They wear their doctors into the ground, they wear their nursing staff into the ground. They have to let the standard of service deteriorate because the staff just cannot cope with the work load. 
Then, because the service falls off, the Government encourages private practitioners to come in and set up in opposition to the centre. There are even ancillary medical personnel such as chemists and other people in these health centres, and it is recognised that that is necessary. The Government is encouraging private chemists to come in and set up their private chemist shops, selling all the things that chemists sell. That is a sheer waste of community resources. Articles have appeared in the academic pharmaceutical Press suggesting that there are too many chemists, but the Government is busy encouraging more of them. They come in and set up near the health centres and the Government then says that is does not need to have a chemist in the health centre any more. They put the chemists out and increase the inconvenience to patients, who cannot then get their drugs and medicines at the health centres and have to go to a nearby chemist. All this is being done to prop up a system which is going to strangle the community. It will encourage excessive pharmaceutical consumption, excessive administrative costs, and blatant waste all round. The Government's approach in the Budget is sheer hypocrisy. It is not business efficiency, it is business inefficiency. The approach of the Labor Party was the efficient approach. This Government's approach is just a blinkered ideological opposition to anything which might be more efficient if it is in any way similar to anything the Labor Party may have thought about and may therefore be called socialist. 
-I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: 'whilst not declining to give the Bill a second reading, the House is of the opinion that Medibank should be funded out of general revenue'. 
I also foreshadow that at the Committee stage the Opposition will be moving an amendment to clause 4 paragraph (a) by inserting some words. I will give the details of that later. By not denying the Bill a second reading yet seeking to have the House express its opinion that Medibank should be funded out of general revenue we are seeking to indicate our persisting opposition to the concept of a levy. In case people should think that at this stage we should oppose the Bills outright, let me say that the sad reality is that by doing that we would leave on the statute books the Health Insurance Levy Assessment Act (No. 1 ) and the Health Insurance Levy Act (No. 1 ) which were passed earlier this year, and which we also opposed. Since we did not have the numbers we could not prevent their being passed. Obviously, they are less adequate than the 2 Bills before the House now, which is precisely the reason why the Government has introduced these 2 Bills- to modify the earlier Acts because they are not appropriate to Medibank model 4 or 5, or whichever model we are up to now. Medibank changes have been brought in progressively in fits and spurts by the Government since it started meddling with the original Labor Government Medibank. That long explanation is to show why we are not opposing the Bills outright. These Bills when passed will at least be better than the present legislation. We seek to show that we still disagree with the concept. 
Now I have to cover another seeming inconsistency. When the Australian Labor Party Government first proposed Medibank- not in the form of Medibank but in the form of a national health insurance fund- it proposed the imposition of a levy. We talked about it often enough. I like to think that in the years from 1968 to 1972 no one in the community talked about the Liberal 
Government's policy. They spent their time discussing the Labor Party's policy. We were in Opposition then and in those years in the community right across the country people discussed our proposals for a national health insurance system. In that original system we proposed the imposition of a levy. I would like to discuss what it was meant to do and why we proposed it. To do so I need to analyse for a short time how the private or so-called voluntary health insurance system worked before the Labor Party's election in 1972. If anyone wants to talk about the thin end of the socialist wedge let me remind him that the voluntary health insurance system was introduced by  Sir Earle  Page on behalf of the Liberal-Country Party Government back in the 1 950s. Up until then people were more or less responsible for paying their own bills. It is common knowledge that this resulted in a lot of social inequity and hardship, particularly for those on lower incomes or those who were hard hit by illness. 
So in those early days, in the 1950s, the Liberal Government proposed a system of insurance based on a concept which had been around for many years before them. It was based on the benefit fund or lodge system. As I say, that had been around for many years. I can remember my father, when he was in practice as a doctor in the country areas in Western Australia, talking about his list of lodge patients, his panel of patients. It was a well known system of taxing people- voluntarily, in the sense that people decided to belong to a benefit fund of some sort, or a friendly society or a lodge. They paid a contribution. Part of the contribution made to the friendly society was paid by the friendly society to a doctor who undertook to treat a certain number of patients, the patients on the lodge list. The doctor was not paid a fee for service. The doctor was paid a capitation fee. So much for the dishonest obstruction and opposition by a considerable section of the medical profession and the Liberal-Country Party Government in their ignorance of the Labor Party's concept. The opponents of the concept objected to a third party intruding between the doctor and the patient. They objected to government- they did not say 'government', they said a third party- breaking this sacrosanct doctor-patient relationship which they said depended on the patient paying the doctor a fee. They were quite dishonest. That relationship had been broken in many places in the last century. 
This concept of a third party-a benefit fund, a lodge, a friendly society- intruding between the doctor and the patient is old hat. It was not introduced by the Labor Government. So  Sir Earle  Page sanctified it in his voluntary health insurance scheme. He invited or encouraged voluntary health funds to set up- in other words, he enlarged the number of organisations which were already doing this sort of thing- by setting a restraint on the freedom with which members of the community could get their tax contributions back in the form of medical or hospital rebates, because an integral part of the system was that the patient had to contribute to a voluntary fund. When they were sick, went to a doctor, got a bill and paid the bill or assigned it, their account either way went to the health fund or the friendly society that was registered as a medical or hospital benefit fund. That fund then made a refund to the patient for the amount of money that he had paid to the doctor. 
The refund consisted of 2 parts. One part from the benefit fund was based upon the contributions that the person had made to the fund. The other part, usually roughly the same amount, came from the Government as a Commonwealth hospital or Commonwealth medical benefit. That had been paid for by everybody in his taxation payments. But the rub was that the person who voluntarily chose not to belong to a benefit fund could not claim his legitimate Commonwealth hospital or Commonwealth medical benefit refund. In other words, he robbed himself unless he paid an extra contribution to a voluntary fund. I hope that is clear. It is the truth. It is the way the system worked. We have been fooled for years into not understanding the position and therefore thinking that the cost of health services under the Liberals was the cost which the taxpayer paid via Commonwealth hospital or medical benefits or Commonwealth Government contributions to hospitals via the States. The Labor Party's point was that because of that restriction I have mentioned, the total payment in contributions represented a tax. In other words, the real cost of health services, even under the Liberals, was far more than was ever measured in the budget figures. At least, it was twice as much in terms of the hospital or medical benefits contributions and payments. 
That is the first dishonesty in the whole argument and it is continually perpetrated by people on the Government side. It happened even today after my comments in the Budget debate. The next  speaker  from the Government side got up and talked about the terrible cost of Medibank. How dishonest can one be? For how long will honourable members on the Government side deceive themselves? That is what they are doing. The cost of health care is the sum total of the money the sick person finally has to pay for his treatment. It does not matter a damn whether he pays it via a benefit fund, via the taxation system or directly out of his own pocket. The whole amount still comes from his pocket. The cost to the community is not Medibank or the voluntary benefit funds. The cost to the community is the money that finally finishes in the pockets of the hospitals and the doctors and in whatever administrative costs have been incurred in transferring the money. That is where the benefit funds or Medibank come in. They receive just the administrative cost. If we are honest, and I beg honourable members on the Government side to at least be honest with themselves in that sense - 
I ask the honourable member not to pretend that he is not following me. 
The precise figures are irrelevant. They could be $ 1,000m, $2,000m, or$5,000m. It does not matter. The total cost is that sum which covers the hospital costs and doctors' fees. That is the cost of health services to the community. In terms of the proportion of gross national product it is a lie to say that if the taxation revenue expenditure is 3 per cent of gross national product, that is the cost, because that is not the only cost. The cost of health services, includes all the other costs. When one argues that the French or the British are spending more than we are because, via their taxation system, they spend 4.5 per cent or whatever the figure is, and via our taxation system we are spending only 2.5 per cent, one is being dishonest. The British system includes all the things that our taxation system does not include. 
If we included all the things for which the British system pays we would have to pick up all the private payments in the Australian context. If one adds those and if one is honest, one finds the equivalent to the British figure for the year. When I last looked at it it was about 4.5 per cent. At that time the equivalent figure in Australia was over 6 per cent. If one looks at comparable figures throughout the world and adds all the bits so that one gets the total cost of health services the reality is that Australia with its private enterprise system has spent, as a percentage of its gross national product, rather more than most. We are up near the American figure and it is one of the worst. I am not saying that all figures are the same. They do vary. Sweden which has a fairly socialised system as far as I am concerned is fairly expensive, but it has an exceptionally high standard of medical care available. 
I come back to my argument about these Bills. Given that whichever way we do this is represents a tax and given that the whole community ultimately has to bear the whole cost, I ask: What is, socially, the most equitable way to do this? This is where the argument about Medibank and the private funds comes in. If honourable members accept my argumentnever mind the political points one must makeand I ask those who are listening to the discussion to think about it inwardly, I point out that, because the doctor has treated the patient and the hospital has given him the service because he has gone into hospital, then the money has to pass out of the patient's pocket to the doctor and the hospital somehow or other. In our view it is socially more equitable to do this by means of the taxation system. 
It is not actually true to say that flat rate contributions to voluntary benefit funds mean that the poor pay the same as the rich. I ask honourable members to cast their minds back to the situation that existed under the voluntary health insurance system before the introduction of the present form of Medibank and to think of what it meant. The charge for a particular level of refund was the same for everybody, irrespective of his income, but the contributions that one made were tax deductible. So somebody on a low income who was paying, say, $100 got back the equivalent of $25 in the concession if he was lucky because he was able to claim his payment as a tax deduction. But someone on a high income who was making the same claim for the same sum of money- $100- got back the equivalent of $50 or more. In other words, the rich paid less than the poor. Is that social justice? 
For a long time our sorts of societies, that is, Western democratic societies, have accepted the principle that those services that are seen as a necessity- services that in short we recognise as social services, such as unemployment and sickness benefits, social welfare payments of all sorts and so on- are not paid for by imposing a fiat rate tax on everybody in the same way as the contributions to the voluntary funds. Everyone all over the Western world- in fact practically everywhere- recognises that one pays on a sliding scale according to ones income so that the richer one is the more proportionately one pays. 
If one accepts that argument and if one accepts the thesis that one does not deserve to be sick, that one does not choose to get ill, that one does not want to require the services of a doctor or hospital and that illness is something which is unexpected, which is thrust upon us and which one does not embrace in free choice, then I think one can take a step further than that and say therefore that the services required for one's treatment when one is sick ought to be provided as a social service. They ought to be available to everyone not as a privilege that they can purchase if they are able to pay; they should receive hospital and medical services in accordance with their medical needs as a right. If one accepts that then, in my view, one has to accept the thesis that that sort of service or that sort of welfare function, if you like, should be provided out of taxation revenue and based on a sliding scale, as we accept for all other forms of social service. 
The Australian Labor Party proposed the imposition of a levy but, fortunately for it, due to the ignorance of the Liberal and Country parties whilst they were in Opposition- they did not understand the point and so opposed the Labor Party's legislation to bring in the levy- it then chose to fund Medibank entirely out of taxation revenue. That was socially far more equitable as far as our basic philosophy is concerned. That is the way it ought to have been. We thank the Liberal and Country parties for being so kind to us philosophically and helping us to achieve our philosophical objectives. To prove my point, no sooner did the Liberal and National Country Parties come to power than they recognised that in their eyes that was not fair. Of course, in their view anything that is socially equitable is unfair to the rich. 
So the Liberal and Country Parties have immediately sought to revert from that system, which does represent social equity- it does, despite the honourable member for La Trobe 's interjection, and he recognises it for every other sphere of social welfare that he can think of- to the private enterprise system, which in essence is going to weigh far more heavily on the poor compared with the rich. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting I was discussing the true import of the levy which is proposed in these Bills. I pointed out that it is a tax by another name. It is an unfair tax because, as a 2 1/2 per cent levey applied uniformly and, in fact, tapering off for the higher income people, it is not equitable. It bears more heavily upon the lower income sections of the community. For this reason the Opposition opposes the levy concept. We feel that health expenses are a social service that everyone should be entitled to when he needs it and ought to be provided for according to medical need and paid for out of taxation revenue, which is the fairest way of raising the funds. 
The Government is indulging in sleight of hand, a trick, in talking about lowering the tax burden and reducing the deficit but imposing a levy. It is utter fraud. It is collecting an extra sum of money, however much it is, from the levy or from forcing people to belong to the various benefit funds. In the socially inequitable way I have suggested, the levy will derive these extra funds. At the same time the Government can pretend, because it is no longer going to find the money out of taxation revenue, that it has lowered the deficit. It has lowered the figure going through its books. 
Not even that, but it is pretending that it is going to lower the figure. However, in real terms the cost to the community will go up. As I mentioned earlier, the costs include the fees paid to doctors, the money paid to hospitals and the administrative costs. The facts are that Medibank 's administrative costs were about 4 per cent. The administrative costs of the private benefit funds are about IS per cent. So in no way can it be suggested that it will be cheaper for the community to fund the whole business via private benefit funds. 
We keep hearing the cry from those on the Government benches that Medibank is ruinous, that it will drive the country to bankruptcy, because of the increasing costs. As I have pointed out, the costs relate to medical services and hospital services. Medibank is irrelevant. So let me analyse what it is that is driving up the cost of these services. Honourable members on the Government side say that because things seem to be free the patient abuses the system. Yes, that is right. When all the ordinary citizens of the community know they can go to the doctor for nothing they flock there two or three times a week and they urge the doctor to operate on them three or four times a year. What sort of nonsense is that claim that patients are causing overutilisation? The most a patient can do is go to see the doctor. In my view, if a patient feels worried about his health or is concerned about something he is legitimately entitled to see a doctor. It is not the patient's job to make an assessment of whether he is dying or not from whatever disease it is he thinks he has. He is entitled to visit the doctor and be reassured that he is just neurotic, if you like. That level of over-usage can account for very little of the cost because it is simply a general practitioner consultation. It is what happens after that that increases the costs. Patients cannot write their own prescriptions. We are told that we consume too many drugs; we have too many prescriptions. But whose fault is that? Patients cannot write the prescriptions. Doctors write the prescriptions. 
All the patients do is consume the stuff. Half the time they do not even do that. They put it on the shelves in their bathroom cupboards and it falls out and breaks when they open the door some day to put another bottle of pills in. But that is the doctor's fault. The doctors have done all this prescribing which in my view is unnecessary. And so it could go on. 
When we come to analyse the utilisation of more expensive services such as hospitals and surgeons, operation rates and so on it is interesting to look at some figures that are coming from America these days. We do not know the figures in Australia. We have a hint of some and I have cited them before. Studies by  Dr Jim  Lawson show that operation rates in Australia on a feeforservice basis are much higher than in America where some doctors are paid on a salary basis. I should like to quote some more information from America although some people say we are different from the Americans and we cannot really be compared with the Americans. I do not believe that. But let us see what happens in America. What are the differences within America? I know that America is no more uniform in a sense than Australia is. They are just people anyway. I quote from a report that appeared in  Medical World News  of 3 May 1976 which is a fairly recent publication. It is a collection of findings from various studies. It states: 

 Dr Doyle, who published his findings in 19S3, concluded that 39 per cent of the 6248 procedures should not have been done. 
If they had not been done there would have been a fairly significant saving I would have thought. The article continued: ... the track record for hysterectomies was dismal. Of the 148 procedures reviewed, 64 or 43 per cent, were deemed unjustified . . . Perhaps the most famous comparison of surgical rates was  Dr Bunker's  1970 bombshell study. Not only did he find the rate of surgery in the United States twice that prevailing in England and Wales but he also showed that Americans were three times as likely as their British counterparts to have a cholecystectomy and more than four times as likely to have a haemorrhoidectomy.  His  diplomatic conclusion: 'It seems likely that some unnecessary surgery is being performed in the United States' ... In 19S2 the late  Dr Paul  A. Lembcke . . . documented the incidence of appendectomies in 23 'hospital service areas' ... He found a range of from 69 appendectomies per 10 000 persons in one area to 25 per 10 000 persons in another. 
I know the argument: 'Oh, that just shows that the doctors who are not doing the operations are not treating their patients properly. The patients are all dying from burst appendices. ' The article continued: 
Especially intriguing: He discovered no higher rate of death from appendicitis in the areas with low rates of appendectomy than in areas with high rates of the operation. He concluded that a 'reasonable inference' would be that accessibility to doctors and hospitals- not a diseased appendixwas a 'deciding factor' in determining appendectomy rates . . . in 1969 . . . From an analysis of Blue Cross records for 196S,  Dr Lewis  tabulated the number of six kinds of common operations . . . 
He found: 
The range for tonsillectomies, for example, was from 153 per 10 000 persons to 433 per 10 000. Appendectomies ranged from 16 per 10 000 to 62 per 10 000 . . . 
Seeking an explanation . . .  Dr Lewis  . . . discovered that those regions with the highest incidence of operations had also the highest proportion of physicians (both GPs and surgeons) who did surgery and the highest proportion of hospital beds.  Dr Lewis  speculated that he might have stumbled on to a medical variation of Parkinson's Law: Patient admissions for surgery expand to fill beds, operating suites and surgeons ' time '. 
Then we come to another study which I think is relevant to our experience in Australia. I think they all are, but even more so the study of what it is that really prompts excessive surgery. In my view and in the Labor Party's view the cause is the fee-for-service approach. The article had this to say on this matter: 
There's another type of incidence-variation study: Comparing the surgical rates in pre-paid plans with the rates among comparable fee-for-service groups. 
That means patients operated on by salaried doctors compared with fee-for-service doctors. The article continued: 
Most such investigations show that HMO- 
That means 'health maintenance organisation', whose doctors are on salaries- enrollees are operated on a lot less frequently than feeforservice patients. In 1966, for example, it was found that federal employees who opted for prepaid coverage had a surgical rate only 56 per cent of that among employees who chose Blue Cross coverage. 
Blue Cross is fee-for-service and the HMOs are salaried doctors. ... the rates of surgical admissions among a geographically isolated low-income group in Boston were measured before and after installation of a comprehensive health clinic in their community. Within 2 years of the clinic's opening, surgical admissions plummeted by some 300 percent. 
I should point out that the doctors at the clinic were salaried doctors. The truth is not that Medibank is causing the ruination of this country. The truth is not the medical costs are going up because of Medibank. The truth is that in this country we are suffering from excess medical care, unnecessary surgical intervention, unnecessary medication, because of the feeforservice system. 
For those reasons, the Opposition opposes the concept of the levy. We think it should all be done through taxation revenue. We think Medibank should encompass the whole community. Then, with an analysis of statistics such as those I have quoted, we could pick up where wrong treatment, which in my view could lead to unnecessary deaths, is taking place. The Opposition opposes the concept of the levy. 
-I have an amendment to clause 4, which reads in part: 
Section 25 1 v of the Principal Act is amended- 
by inserting in sub-sections ( 1 ), (2) and (3), after the word "Part" (wherever occurring), the words "and of any Act imposing le levy "; 
by omitting from paragraph (a) of sub-section (1) the words "or a Medibank contributor"; and "(2) The regulations may make provision for an in relation to- 
exempting each person included in a class of persons prescribed by the regulations for the purposes of this paragraph from payment of the amount of the levy that, but for the regulations, 
I move: 
After paragraph (a) insert the following paragraph: "(aa) by inserting after paragraph (b) of sub-section ( 1 ) the following paragraph: '(ba) during the whole of that period the person was entitled to pensioner health benefits; ' ". 
The amendment relates to that part of the Bill which describes prescribed persons- people who will be excluded from the need to pay the levy. The Bill indicates that, prescribed persons will be denned under regulations. Our view is that pensioners entitled to pensioner health benefits should be explicitly mentioned so that there is no doubt about their position. They constitute a very vulnerable section of the community. It is for these reasons that we propose the amendment. 

 -Mi Deputy Chairman, I beg your indulgence. I trust you will allow me to reply to some of the comments directed specifically at me in the context of this debate. Firstly, the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr William McMahon)  said that the Nimmo Committee, which was set up by a Liberal government, reported that the voluntary health system was first class and most efficient. I shall quote from page 9 of the report of the Nimmo Committee. I quote from the findings: 
The operation of the health insurance scheme is unnecessarily complex and beyond the comprehension of many. 
The benefits received by contributors are frequently much less than the cost of hospital and medical treatment. 
The contributions have increased to such an extent that they are beyond the capacity of some members of the community and involve considerable hardship for others. 
Other findings are: 
An unduly high proportion of the contributions received by some organisations is absorbed in operating expenses. 
The level of reserves held by some organisations is unnecessarily high. 
First class? Most efficient? Poppycock. That was the finding of the Nimmo Committee. It reported that the voluntary health system was most inefficient. One of its recommendations was that a national health insurance commission be set up to supervise the funds, to arrange for the insurance funds benefit tables, the basis of payment of medical and hospital fees, special assistance for low income families, surveillance of operations of insurance organisations and observance by them of the conditions imposed by and under the National Health Act. They are hardly the comments of a committee of inquiry which is saying: 'Very good organisation, very good show'. It is utter nonsense to suggest that that is what the Committee was saying. 
A number of speakers, not just the right honourable member for Lowe, referred to 
Medibank costs. I made the point in my initial speech on this Bill- I repeat it now because this Bill relates to the raising of funds to pay for medical and hospital services- that Medibank is simply the instrument of passing the funds across. One cannot say that Medibank costs money. It is the services that cost money. Whether it is in Great Britain, France- they are the 2 countries to which reference has been made where costs are rising- America, Sweden, Canada, Australia, West Germany or any other country, the costs are rising. The community pays. It pays out of its own pocket. The money does not come from up above. It comes from taxation revenue, contributions to benefit funds or the patient paying directly. It does not come from anywhere else. 
In addition, studies in America show that the cause of this rapid increase in costs is not the system by which the money is collected and handed over. The problem is the way in which the people providing the services are rewarded. The problem is the fee for service system. That is what the facts show, despite all the prejudiced views of honourable members opposite about the cost of Medibank. I said that the cost, whether it be $ 1,000m, $2,000m or $3,000m, was irrelevant. The honourable member picked me up on this point in the sense that I meant it did not matter. That was not what I meant. I meant it was irrelevant in the sense that whichever figure it is- I do not want to argue which one it is- all that money comes from people's pockets. It comes from people's pockets, not to pay Medibank, not to pay the voluntary funds but to pay the doctors and the hospitals. That is the cost. Honourable members on the other side of the chamber should stop deluding themselves. Even the changes they are about to bring in will only make matters worse not better. The cost will continue to escalate because the Government is retaining the fee for service basis. 
To get to the point of this amendment, we agree that pensioners should be covered. We agree that the Minister said they would be covered. But the point is, this is not in this Bill. It covers some pensioners but not all pensioners. It does not cover the pensioners that we have specified, namely those who are entitled to pensioner health benefits. The explanatory memorandum to the 2 Bills states on its first page: 
There is to be a regulation-making authority that will enable relief from the levy to be given to people such as pensioners entitled to Pensioner Health Benefits. 
The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  said that. We are simply saying that if that is the case, and it now depends on a regulation making authority, we want that put into the Act. That is what our amendment is about. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Health. As the family planning associations run out of funds for the operation of their clinics on 30 September - 
Honourable members- We cannot hear. 
-In this debate I am standing in for the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  who should be here, but who for reasons of which honourable members are all aware- a rather tragic incident- is unable to be here. It is unfortunate because this legislation deals with the commission established by him when he was a Minister in the last Labor Government. The Opposition of course is not opposing this legislation. In government we indicated that we were intending to abolish the Social Welfare Commission. The present Government is simply fulfilling our intentions in that field. I think it is proper at this stage to recall some of the points about the Commission, particularly the reasons why it was set up. It was set up in 1973 as an experiment, if you like, because we were not aware of a similar organisation having been set up anywhere else. One of the many reasons, and I shall not canvass them all, which prompted the Labor Government to establish the Commission was that we felt that for far too long the community's attitude to social welfare had been determined in large measure by politicians and bureaucrats, prompted perhaps by pressures arising for support or assistance for a particular group in the community which was perceived to be suffering some severe disadvantage. But rarely, if ever, do we seek the opinions or advice of the community itself. Advances in social welfare usually arise because during election campaigns politicians decide that it might be a good thing for the purpose of winning votes to make this, that or the other promise in terms of social welfare. I cannot complain too much about that because perhaps I, as much as many other members, am in this place due to the social welfare promises made over many years by the Labor Party. But I still do not have to accept it as the best or ideal way to ascertain what are the real social welfare requirements of the community. 
It was for that reason that Labor established the Commission. Its purpose was to look more closely at the whole network of social welfare in the country, a network which, if I might continue the image, had a hell of a lot of holes which allowed a lot of people who were in real need to fall through and not be supported in the way a modern community such as ours should support people like that. The Commission was allowed a lot of independence. We did not calculate it in this way when we set it up, but it was soon perceived that in the course of its investigations the Commission appeared to intrude on many other areas. It rubbed a lot of government departments at both Federal and State level the wrong way and it rubbed a lot of local government bodies the wrong way because it intruded into areas which until then had been considered the property of particular departments at whatever level of government one likes to look. That is terribly easy to do. When a government, and then a department on the direction of the government, establishes some form of social welfare support, no one in the bureaucracy or even the politicians in the Government likes to acknowledge that there may be deficiencies. One tends to turn a blind eye to inadequacies. One tends to talk as fulsomely as one can about the positive achievements. That is fair enough, but it often proves to be insensitive to the needs of many people who slip through, who are not in fact caught in the protective device that was the point of the exercise of setting up the particular welfare service in the first place. 
Another facet of the Commission's activity in the process of trying to better understand the social welfare needs of ordinary members of the community, apart from the pressures of politics, was to get more local community involvement, to seek the active co-operation of the various voluntary welfare agencies which are set up by concerned citizens because they recognise that governments are not looking after a particular area. Far too often, if something is being done in that area, it is too easy for politicians and the bureaucrats advising them to say: 'It is being dealt with by some nice social welfare group, religious organisation, or what you will. Keep out of it. It will only cost you money if you stick your nose into it. Leave it for charity and these well-intentioned members of the community.' But that is imposing a burden both on the charity workers, who have to get the money from somewhere and who usually bleed themselves financially, and others who are actively engaged in terms of their active participation and effort. They contribute more than their fair share in trying to provide for the deficiencies they perceive which ought to be the responsibility of the community as a whole. 
I suppose that the fundamental point the Labor Party perceived, and I like to think accepted, was that social welfare is not a privilege. Welfare services provided to the underprivileged members of a community are not a form of charity. In a modern society such as we like to pride ourselves to have, those things should be rights that people are entitled to have simply because they are members of the community. By and large, people do not choose to be failures. There may be lots of reasons why they fail to succeed in maintaining themselves physically or socially, lots of reasons why they are unable to get jobs or suffer because of personality problems and goodness knows what. I do not want to stand in judgment. Sadly, using those words often implies a judgment I am not trying to impose even that much of a judgment. The fact is that there are large numbers of people in the community who for a variety of reasons are unable to look after themselves. They have not always been like that and there is no law which says that they must stay like that. They may need some help and, given the appropriate help, they could subsequently make a valuable and positive contribution to society and be again the sort of people that they might have been in the past. 
For those reasons we adhered very firmly to the view that these services should be provided and that the Commission should look into these areas to see whether more positive and constructive help could be offered. The Labor Government was doing all this not because it wanted to be generous and look good and be kind to those who were unfortunate but because we perceived it as being the right of those people. When we do have unfortunate members of the community who are unable to sustain themselves- and the Social Welfare Commission investigated a whole range of things- we are all the poorer for their suffering and misery. They are not the only ones who suffer. Ultimately we have to pay also. So Labor established the Australian Assistance Plan, which I sometimes mix up with another of our endeavours to improve living conditions for various people- the Area Improvement Program. The Australian Assistance Plan was positively geared towards drawing in interested sections of the community to give the Government an indication of what those people perceived to be the needs in various areas and then providing the funds to enable them to do the job. It was, in a way, taking power away from the central government. Despite all the accusations levelled at Labor that it was an over-centralist government while it was in power, the truth is that we attempted to get away from that. We were seeking to decentralise power. 
We were seeking to involve more people at the local level even more intimately than the local government involved them because local government in many parts of Australia often is very remote from ordinary people. There is too much cynicism and disinterest. We were seeking to set up organisations in which everyone could participate. Ironically, although the Liberal Opposition often accused us of wasting money, it is significant that in those local groups Liberal Party supporters often were actively involved in presenting their point of view on the needs of the local community. Often they were people who, quite apart from moves made by the Government, were actively engaged in helping the voluntary social welfare groups in their local areas. So the actions of the Labor Government positively helped even its political enemies to better express their views on how we might better cater for the social needs of the community. 
Inevitably, because of the nature of its actions, the Social Welfare Commission was going to come into conflict with the bureaucracy at all levels and whatever political persuasion. That is sad, because we all get proprietary rights, irrespective of our political tag, and we resent criticism. I have mentioned before that, unfortunately, the Commission met with a lot of criticism from all sides. Yet with the abolition of the Commission and the dropping of the Australian Assistance Plan the community on all sides has risen up and shown its deep concern, its appreciation for what we were doing, perhaps in a very inadequate way. We made lots of mistakes, but you do not make mistakes if you do nothing. You make mistakes only when you are trying to do something, particularly if it is something new. That is what we were trying to do. So the mistakes were inevitable. There was no shame attached to our failures, because overall what we did was a success because of the mere fact that so many people were involved. Even the Liberal Government has conceded that the system ought to be maintained, albeit under the direct responsibility of the States, because of its federalism policy. It has not been prepared to say that it was a total waste of time. Sadly I fear that the practical outcome of the Government's step will be to destroy the whole system. 
We support the Bill because the legislation was doing what we had foreseen or indicated that we would do. But in no way do we want to imply that the effort was not worth while or that the scheme was a failure. It taught us a lot of lessons. Many of the initiatives which were started must be pursued even by this Government. The matter must not be left just to the States, because the time has come when we must acknowledge that everybody is responsible to everybody else. We are all responsible for the unfortunate members of society, and it is no good leaving their care to charity. We must, if needs be, legislate to cater for all citizens of this country. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. Is it a fact that the office of the Commissioner for Trade Practices advised the Hospital Benefits Association of Victoria that many parts of its advertisement 'Thank Goodness HBA is still HBA', published on 1 September, contravened the Trade Practices Act, and did HBA subsequently give an undertaking to correct all future advertisements? Has HBA continued to run this misleading advertisement in defiance of the Commissioner, most recently as a supplement to the Victorian editions of the  AMA Gazette  of 16 September and on 1 October in the  Age"!  In view of this flagrant abuse of the Trade Practices Act will the Minister now seek an injunction to restrain HBA from publishing this misleading advertising pending a determination by the Commissioner? 
-by leave-The Opposition welcomes an independent inquiry into the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation for, as the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has noted, it is some 30 years since there has been a review of its activities; but I must express some reservations about the appropriateness of the composition of the Committee of Inquiry. The CSIRO is essentially a scientific research unit. Its broad charter enables it to carry out wide-ranging programs of research, particularly in connection with Australian primary and secondary industries. In fact, the CSIRO was initially set up to provide research backing for Australian primary industry. Many of the CSIRO 's research programs are directly concerned with industry development, but its work has wider implications for the nation and the community as a whole. For example, it is concerned with the maintenance and enhancement of the environment, with the improvement of working conditions, and in contributing to basic scientific knowledge as a necessary background to applied research and development. 
In this regard I hope honourable members can recall that some two or three years ago the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development sent a group of examiners to Australia to review our scientific efforts. It was made quite clear in their report that the CSIRO was held in very high regard as a research organisation; that it compared very favourably with the best research organisations anywhere else in the world. Emphasis was placed on the fact that the research of the CSIRO was not related solely to industry, that it was research in the broader sense of the word. As the CSIRO is therefore primarily a scientific body concerned with research which affects the whole community, why are there to be 2 businessmen on the Committee of Inquiry and only one scientist? Do those businessmen have special attributes which qualify them to conduct an inquiry into scientific research priorities, or is the main thrust of the inquiry to turn the CSIRO into a business, or into a support service for business? 
I think we should be very careful to ensure that we do not concentrate our efforts on development rather than on the research side of research and development. I am not saying that development is not important; this is clearly a function which the CSIRO performs, and perhaps it should be helped to perform this function to a greater extent. But no development can be worth while unless there is basic research to back it. In seeking to provide developmental support for industry, primary or secondary, one can never know when it might be necessary to branch out into basic research. One can never tell what basic research may be relevant to subsequent developmental programs. For these reasons, whilst welcoming the holding of this inquiry, we have some anxieties about the composition of the Committee. 
Can the Attorney-General explain to the House why he has failed to agree with a trial judge who sentenced a person in Melbourne to 12 months gaol but recommended release after 3'months, namely, on or about 12 July last? Is it a fact that despite representations the Attorney-General has exercised a personal discretion and has refused to release this person from gaol, bearing in mind that this person has now served twice the period of time recommended by the trial judge? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
How many women's refuges were operating in each State with Australian Government assistance on (a) 30 June 1975, (b) 31 December 1975 and (c) 30 June 1976. 
How much had been spent by the Federal Government on women 's refuges at each of those dates. 
How much was allocated for expenditure on  women's  refuges in the 1976-77 Budget. 
How many women's refuges will be operating with Australian Government assistance by 3 1 December 1976. 
In speaking to this matter I think it relevant that I should read from the social welfare policy of the Liberal and National Country Parties. I think it is relevant to be aware of their aspirations before we consider this matter. I shall quote a few pertinent points. It states: 
Our social welfare policy seeks to enhance the security, dignity, self-reliance and well-being of Australians  We recognise different levels of need and base our priorities on them. The first priority is to meet basic physical needs, including nutrition, shelter, health and social security. 
I cannot disagree with any of those statements. The Australian Labor Party certainly would not disagree. It continues: 
Our desire to give power and responsibility back to individuals and groups in order to effectively meet the requirements of social welfare, distinguishes our policy from alternative approaches. 
This could be good; it could be sinister. Item 7 of the objectives is: 
Ensure that the real value of welfare programs is not eroded by inflation. 
That is a line ideal. I do not dispute that either. The Parties ' policy further states: 
Retaining the present over-70 pension and child endowment. (At die appropriate time, we will abolish the means test on the 65-69 aged group pensions). 
The next item is: 
Protecting benefits from erosion by inflation through automatically adjusting benefit levels every 6 months, according to movements in the consumer price index. 
There is a lot more, but I thought that they were most pertinent to the topic we are discussing this afternoon. They are very fine words, but unfortunately represent no overall policy. The results of inquiries so far ordered by the Government may never be released to the organisations caring for the aged or to spokesmen for the aged such as the Australian Pensioners Federation, or for that matter to the general Australian community, who after all supply the funds. As the Holmes-Sax recommendations for Medibank were that the Commonwealth should pass half its responsibilities to the private funds, we may expect that in line with the Fraser Government 's policy it will try to find somebody else, be it the States, local government or voluntary agencies, to take over policies for the aged. It may even believe that market choice in aged accommodation and nursing homes will determine what should be financed. 
Then we have the Bailey Committee 's terms of reference, which particularly emphasised that ways were to be found of eliminating and consolidating programs for more effective delivery by States, local government and voluntary organisations. That statement relates to the intentions expressed in the Government's policy. It could be good; it could be sinister. The terms of reference suggest that continuing machinery would co-ordinate social policy development at Commonwealth level, but there is no policy without financial backing and if the Commonwealth Government is not prepared to back its own policies and is concentrating on block grants rather than specific funding there will be no such thing as Commonwealth Government policy. The reality is that the opportunity being taken by the Government in its new federalism policy to hand back responsibilities to the States is just a way of opting out of responsibility for declining to develop a real policy for these problems. The National Consultative Committee on Social Welfare is a token body giving advice only and taking only single references. There is no suggestion that it will take the place of the Social Welfare Commission, which the Labor Government set up and which was in a position to take a continuing over-view of policy. 
I come now to some of the specific changes of policy, changes which have been brought about by the present Government as compared with the programs implemented by the Labor Government. In regard to building programs, on 20 May the Government halved the building subsidy for aged persons accommodation. Instead of announcing this in the Parliament as a further economy measure, detectives discovered it buried on page 9 of a statement circulated the next day by the Minister for Social Security,  (Senator Guilfoyle)  which made a casual reference to the fact that the Government would pay two-thirds of the building costs. There was no mention of the fact that the amount had been reduced from a subsidy of four to one to a subsidy of only two to one or of the significance that this would have for councils and religious and charitable agencies and thousands of aged persons waiting for housing. It was a deliberate piece of cost cutting which the Minister hoped would escape unnoticed. We now have to scrutinise carefully any statement the Minister puts out to detect further examples of attempts to mislead the Australian community. 
On 20 May, in the same circulated statement, the Minister announced that only $45m would be allocated for aged persons accommodation. That is a reduction of $26m from the amount allocated in the last Labor Budget in 1975-76. But the Minister did not announce it as a drop. Instead, she gave a 3-year figure of $225m, subject to Budget allocation. It is the same old precaution, the same thing as was contained in the policy statement: 'We are going to abolish the means test when we can'. I recall that  Mr Menzies-  he was only  Mr Menzies  at the time when he first proposed it- proposed the abolition of the means test. It was never done because the condition imposed was 'when appropriate'. It was never appropriate for the Liberals to do it; it never will be. In announcing on 29 July details of grants contained in the $4Sm, the Minister still did not admit to reducing the money but tried to make things look better by announcing that in the 22 years since the beginning of the aged persons program in 1954, 62 530 elderly people had been given accommodation, while in the next 3 years of Liberal Parry rule 1 5 000 beds would be provided. But she did not say that in the course of Labor's 3 short years in office we managed to provide 16 895 beds without resorting to selfadulation or self-deception. The Minister had tried earlier to practise the same deception trick by talking about the amount of money provided, but the shoddy arithmetic was pointed out and she has not tried to repeat it. Incidentally, this action was taken at a time when under the Aged or Disabled Persons Homes Act, 658 projects valued at approximately $270m were awaiting approval, and under the Aged Persons Hostels Act 249 projects valued at $ 160m were awaiting funding. 
I have mentioned the question of pensions and allowances, and pensions for persons aged over 69 years, free of means test. It was part of the 1975-76 Hayden Budget to abolish the means test for all persons over 69 years of age. No announcement was made by the Government that this benefit was going to be cut out, but early in 1976 its omission was noticed and then we started to ask questions. The matter of funeral benefits is a good example of deception by the Government. It was only because legislation was required to abolish this benefit and some Liberal senators would not go along with it that the Government was forced to back down. On the question of pension changes, in legislating for the awarding of consumer price index rises to pensioners the Government has watered down its election undertaking. The increases will be given in May and November each year, whereas during the election campaign both the caretaker Minister for Social Security, the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp),  and the caretaker Prime Minister were on record as promising increases immediately after the announcement of consumer price index figures. In his Press statement on 8 December 1975 the caretaker Minister for Social Security said: 
We propose to bring in legislation which will allow increases in pensions to be made instantly and automatically as soon as the new index is announced. 
In Rockhampton on 6 December the Prime Minister was reported in the following terms: 

 Mr Fraser said there would be no need to wait 3 months as with Labor's proposed adjustment for price index rises. 
That statement appeared in the  Sun News Pictorial  on 8 December. In spite of that specific promise, the November increase will reflect the increases for the first half of the calendar year and the May increase those of the second half of the previous year. Reasonably, pensioners see no reason why they should have to wait 4 months longer than wage earners. 
The personal care subsidy has not been raised or indexed by the Fraser Government. As a consequence, religious and charitable organisations are being forced to drop their standards of service to the elderly in hospitals. The domiciliary care benefit has remained unchanged at $14. Once again, the New South Wales Council on the Ageing has produced a valuable study entitled  Dedication  which shows the difficulties faced by the families of these people. Something must be done. When will the Government act? Do we have to await endless secret reports which no one will ever see and still get no action? One could go on. The Australian Assistance Plan has been scrubbed, and over 50 items scrapped dealt specifically with aids for aged persons. Since the abolition of the Assistance Plan, nothing has been proposed to take its place. Community information centres help mainly the aged.  Sir Henry  Bland has advocated that perhaps twenty of the regional offices set up under the Labor Government should be closed down. The main sufferers will be the elderly. One could go on and on. Let me continue to touch on areas of socalled enlightenment. I presume that that is what was meant by 'turning on the lights' in the Liberal Party's propaganda in the last election, what enlightened Liberal legislation means. Oddly, it seems to make the present and the future darker for the aged. 
Let us consider Medibank. The Labor Government introduced the facility for bulk billing for pensioners. A pensioner could consult any doctor in the community- specialist or general practitioner- and the doctor did not charge the pensioner but simply bulk billed Medibank, which meant that the doctor got 85 per cent of the scheduled fee and the pensioner paid nothing. The Liberals have changed that, to the detriment of the aged. They have retained the bulk billing facility, certainly, to guarantee that doctors will get their money- that is all - because now the doctors are free to bulk bill Medibank and at the same time to charge pensioners. Of course, the Government piously said that it hoped the doctors would not charge the pensioners, that they would waive their right to charge the 15 per cent which they are now able to charge for anybody, including pensioners. The truth is that far too many- not all- doctors in the community are both bulk billing and charging the pensioners not just the difference between the 85 per cent rebate on the scheduled fee and the scheduled fee, but also the difference between the 85 per cent rebate and their fee which is often higher than the scheduled fee. So now pensioners are being caught as is everyone else in the community, and the doctors are being guaranteed at least 85 per cent of the scheduled fee because they use the bulk billing facilities. That is a gross distortion of the whole concept of what was after all- let us face it- a Liberal Government introduced pensioner medical scheme which the Labor Government under Medibank simply extended enabling the pensioners to consult any doctors, not just those designated as dealing with or treating pensioners. 
Finally, I would like to refer briefly to the problem of nursing homes. Just to show that I am not bringing up something that is nagging at myself but is also nagging at back benchers on the Government side, I point out that on 19 October the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Jull)  asked the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  the following question: 
Is the Minister aware that there are a number of residents of private nursing homes and their families in my electorate who are facing severe hardship because of the present level of subsidies for nursing homes? 
The Minister, of course, played for time. He said, yes, he was aware of it and that the Government was terribly concerned. Indeed, we all are concerned about this matter. He went on to say that the Government had set up a special committee to look into the problem of care for the aged and the sick. He said that the Government hoped to have the report of that committee soon but, of course, the Government was not going to do anything when the report was received. He said that the Government was going to wait for a few more reports because it thought it should look at all the reports dealing with all of these various problems. This is just another example of further delay and no action. 
The honourable member for Barton  (Mr Bradfield),  another Liberal backbencher, followed that question by asking: 
Is the Minister aware that the delay in the presentation of the report until next month may mean that it will be too late to assist many hundreds of pensioner patients who will be forced from nursing homes due to the fact that they can no longer meet the fees for their accommodation? Is he also aware that some nursing homes will have to close, leaving many pensioners without any alternative accommodation? 
These are the problems facing the aged. These are the problems that the Government is doing nothing about. All of the Government's programs are effectively cutting down the little the Labor Government was able to achieve. We are not claiming that we solved all the problems. But we were trying to solve them. Every action the present Government has taken is simply reducing what we were doing, increasing the insecurity of the aged in the community and increasing the burden on families of the aged, so that in fact the lights are going out for the aged. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister. In the first report of the Ranger inquiry the commissioners stated that a few of the Government officials who appeared before the Commission showed reluctance in communicating matters of importance to it. The Commission has expressed a view that the objectives and working of the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act may not be clearly understood in some Government departments. Can the Prime Minister assure the House that further inquiries under this Act regardless of their subject matter will not be hampered in this way? If some of the information sought is of a confidential nature, is it not a fact that facilities are provided under the procedures laid down in the Act to ensure that this confidence is respected but that does not mean that the information should be withheld from the hearing commissioners? 
-by leave-Before commenting on the statement by the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  I must make the observation that I deplore the sneaky approach to this whole subject. Clearly the Green report is of considerable interest to the whole community. For some time the Minister has stalled on the question of when the report will be tabled. Even this morning, in replying to a very specific question by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam),  the Minister implied that the report was still being considered and hence could1 not be tabled until next week. I acknowledge that there are certain aspects of the report which are still under consideration. But, given that the basic and, I would take it, most important decisions have been taken and announced today, I think it is a slight mis-statement of the real situation to say that the Government is still considering the report. In essence the Minister is depriving the community of a chance to discuss the report while the Government itself is considering it. I see no harm in community discussion. 
I turn to the specific proposals. The idea of an Australian Broadcasting Tribunal that is responsible for the licensing of radio and television stations is in keeping with ideas evolved by me and my advisers while I was Minister for the Media. In fact, a paper containing basically the same proposals as have been now put forward by the Minister was circulated by me a couple of months ago. My disagreement is with the priorities and the order of importance attached to the various new bodies that are to be established. 
I had envisaged a tribunal, which I had termed the broadcast licensing tribunal, having quasijudicial powers over the same area proposed for the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal- in other words, essentially the same body. I thought this licensing body should be guided by a broadcasting advisory council. I felt that the broadcasting advisory council should consist of representatives from the national, commercial and public broadcasters and the listening and viewing communitythe consumers of the products of broadcasters. But the Minister's proposal excludes the consumers. It excludes the people for whom theoretically the whole enterprise exists. The Minister's proposal considerably downgrades the body that he terms the broadcasting council and sees it as being involved in planning proposals prepared by his Department. 
To me that is back to front in the sense that it gives a government department the primary responsibility for planning broadcasting. I should have thought that it would be better to have a public body continually investigating the needs, responses and disappointments of the community. This function, as a continuing royal commission, if you like, into broadcasting, I proposed for the broadcasting advisory council. On the basis of this continuing inquiry, the council would prepare plans for consideration by the Minister and his Department, both of whom clearly, of course, will always have the last say. I agree with the suggestion that the Department should not be involved in the setting of programming standards or in policing- censoring- the program outputs of the various sectors of the broadcasting system. 
I trust that the commitment by the Minister to preserve the integrity and independence of the Australian Broadcasting Commission will be honoured. However, I found it a bit discouraging then to note that the ABC will be subject to a periodic review by an independent public inquiry. I had envisaged the broadcasting advisory council conducting a continuing royal commission, if you like, into broadcasting encompassing the national, commercial and public broadcasters- the whole range of broadcasters and not just the ABC, which is what the Minister is proposing. I do not object to the ABC being under scrutiny to ensure that it fulfils its functions or alternatively to expose further requirements in the community as far as the national network is concerned, but I see no reason why the commercial and public sectors should be excluded from this continuing review. 
I was disappointed to note that the composition of the Australian Broadcasting Commission will require representation from each of the States and hence by implication I fear may exclude a Commissioner elected by the ABC staff. I can see that the statement is not explicit on this aspect. So if that issue is still in the balance I would urge the Government to continue to have one of the Commissioners elected by the ABC staff. Given the new arrangements, I can see the Australian Broadcasting Control Board becoming superfluous. For too long it has become identified in the community's eyes as a policeman for those sensitive souls who object to facing facts, and a censor to those who sought to express unconventional points of view. I object to either role being undertaken in this very sensitive area by any authority or government department. I think it is up to the community itself to determine the standards by its response to whatever the media provides in the same way as community response dictates the ultimate standards of newspapers in terms of the contents of the Press from a censorial or policing point of view. 
By and large I do not have serious objections to the basic outlines because, as I have pointed out, many of the proposals are in line with proposals I have been putting. Really the rub is now it is finally implemented. My basic objection is that I think the Government has put the cart before the horse. I think this is wrong in an area such as broadcasting where the continual fear and the continual complaint of the community is that there is too much government control. I think it would have been wiser to let the advisory council do the investigating, to let it formulate ideas in response to what it learns from the community. It ought to be susceptible to community pressure by virtues of the composition I propose, namely, representatives from all the networksnational, commercial and public- as well as representatives from groups in the community such as those interested in children's broadcasting and television, if you like, and other groups. Let that body formulate its ideas on what it thinks the community needs and then pass those ideas on to the government department which then has the last say. I am not trying to rob the Minister of the ultimate responsibility. I would not have wanted to be robbed of that either. But at least let there be an independent council reporting to the Minister and the Parliament so that the whole community can see its assessment of the community needs. That in my view would be a better guide to what the future of broadcasting in this country should be. For those reasons I have reservations about the Minister's proposals. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Productivity. Since at a productivity conference in Melbourne recently the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations urged companies to provide worker participation schemes, what measures does the Government plan to take to encourage the private and public sectors to involve their employees in the decision-making process? Is the Government's decision to remove the staff-elected Australian Broadcasting Commission commissioner an example of the Government's support for the concept of worker participation? 
-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes, inadvertently, and probably it was my own fault. On 4 November, during discussion of a ministerial statement by the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson),  I had observed that the Green report, which has been tabled today, had not been tabled at that time. I made the observation that I thought that the basic decisions had been taken by the Government and so it seemed unreasonable not to table the report on that day. I said: ... I think it is a slight mis-statement of the real situation to say that the Government is still considering the report. In essence the Minister is depriving the community of a chance to discuss the report while the Government itself is considering it 
That is what I felt and I therefore felt that it should have been made available. But I then said, in a throw-away line: 
I see no harm in that sort of approach. 
By that I meant no harm in allowing the community to see it even while the Government was still considering it. I am sure that is probably the way I said it, but the intonation in my voice cannot be reproduced in  Hansard  and therefore the wrong impression is given. That last comment goes quite contrary to the whole of that section of my speech where in fact I was being critical of the non-tabling of the report. Therefore I seek leave to somehow correct the impression I inadvertently gave in  Hansard. 
I understand the situation. As he said, sometimes the written word does not accurately reflect the spoken word. The Minister for Post and Telecommunications is not in the chamber at the moment but I shall make inquiries as to whether he would agree to some arrangements being made in regard to the printing of  Hansard  in order to make clear the distinction that the honourable member for Maribyrnong pointed out. If it is too late to do that the personal explanation just made will relate to that matter. 
I welcome the elaboration by the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  of some of the plans which up to date have been rather sketchy. That simply highlights our criticism that the Government at least might have done the Australian community the service of tabling the Green report before it came up with these proposals so that we could have enjoyed digesting and thinking about it while the Government was making up its mind. Maybe then there would have been much less confusion and hostile reaction to the announcements. Given all that, I still would like to analyse some of the points the Minister has made. He talked about one of the basic principles on which the Green report is based being maximum public participation. It seems strange to say something like that and yet not to allow the public to discuss the report. I do not believe that the way in which the Minister is approaching this matter is realistically increasing public participation. 
Let me deal with the 2 major bodies that are really concerned in this discussion, namely, the Australian Broadcasting Control Board and the Australian Broadcasting Commission. The Control Board has its functions listed on page 16 of the Green report. I will not detail them, but in essence they are fundamentally the same as the functions the Minister is suggesting for the licensing tribunal but minus some of the technical requirements such as the policing nonsense on which I completely agree with the Minister. I had been saying things like that when I was the Minister responsible for this area. I objected to the policeman-censor approach of any government agency. The Control Board is responsible for the granting, renewal, revocation and suspension of licences, and this is the sort of function to be performed by the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal. So, in that area it is not a question of more participation. There was no need to change the legislation in such a way as to completely restructure that Board in order to involve the public. 
We had been talking about public hearings for licence renewals, and the Government has taken up that suggestion. It is true that we did not get to it- for many obvious reasons, not the least of which was that we did not have the numbers in the Senate, and the Minister well knows it. However, the point remains that what he is proposing will not necessarily give the public much more say in the challenging of licences, because on page 76 of the Green report where it talks about the renewal of licences we find the following sentences: 
The presumption at hearings for renewal of licences should be that the licences will be renewed. Only if a  prima facie  case is established for denying renewal should the licensee be required to defend his performance during the preceding period. 
Harking back to what I said when I first commented on the Minister's statement, that may be all right but it depends on how the Government implements it. I said that much of what the Minister is proposing is basically similar to what I have been proposing. The Minister quoted that but forgot to mention a significant qualification which is, to quote from an earlier speech of mine: 'Really the rub is how it is finally implemented'. With those comments in the Green report about the need to have a case established before the hearing goes further, it may well be that the public hearings will be as difficult to organise as they have been under the present legislation. I knew quite well that I could challenge a licence, but only on the condition that there seemed to be enough evidence to suggest that that licence should not be renewed. However, how could we know of that evidence without a public hearing? Therefore we could not get to first base. We could not organise the public hearing unless we had enough evidence, and we could not get enough evidence of community dissatisfaction unless we had public hearings. Therefore we could not have public hearings. It was as miserable, as that. 
Whether we open this matter up depends on how we implement the proposals in the Green report. I hope that the Government does open it up, but it may not do so. There is room in the recommendation to leave it as tightly closed as it is right now. So, when we take away from the Broadcasting Control Board some of these functionssomething with which I certainly agreeand leave it with its main function of licensing, one is forced to ask: Why bother restructuring it at all? Why not just take some of those functions away rather than use the occasion as an excuse to get rid of certain people? The Government, oddly enough, still will have to appoint roughly the same numbers to the Tribunal- three to five people. The Control Board now has 3 full time and 2 part time members. It gives me the feeling that the Government is using the whole manoeuvre as an excuse to get rid of people it may not like. It may be that it will not get rid of them, but I can only say what my feeling is, because I do not see why the Government has taken this approach. It may be seeking this change in the legislation to suddenly get a completely new group of people on the licensing body to do the same sorts of things as the present Control Board is doing. After all, the Government already has appointed someone. Also, there are vacancies due and I understand that someone wants to retire anyway. In the course of a couple of months the Government could, without any legislation, have dominated the Board anyhow. Two of the present appointees are this Government's appointees and at least one member wants to retire. If that is what the Government has in mind, it does not have to go in for this subterfuge. If that is not what it has in mind, I do not see why it needs to change the legislation in this way. All it has to do is bring in amending legislation to take away some of the functions at 1&gt;resent performed by the Control Board and leave the Board basically as it is. 
In relation to the Australian Broadcasting Commission there is the same sort of approach. The Green report suggested some restructuring, in the sense of reducing the number of people on the Commission from nine to seven. Wisely the Government has decided to leave the number at nine, but there is nothing in the present legislation which precludes what the Government wants. In fact, the practice in past years has been to try to ensure a wide distribution and representation from all the States. When we were kicked out of office every State except Tasmania was represented but I had already found someone from Tasmania to fill a vacancy. It was a female. Hopefully I would have finished up with 2 females on the Commission, and that would have fulfilled the requirement that this Government proposes to put into the legislation. There is nothing in the legislation to preclude all the commissioners being female. If I might dare suggest it, to specify 2 females is rather sexist. There should not be any need to do it. It should be up to the Government to appoint more females because obviously they represent a larger section of the community than one would gather from the representation of only one female on a body of nine. 
If there was distortion in the State distribution, it is the Government's own fault. It has had a couple of vacancies available to it. It could have filled one of the vacancies with someone from Tasmania. It could have replaced  Dr Hackett  with somebody from Adelaide. Then all the States would have been represented. This again calls to mind the fear that the Government is using this as a pretext for doing something else. I accept the Minister's assurance that all the Labor Government's appointees are not to be sacked. I hope that they will not be sacked, because that certainly would be a very serious reflection on the Government. However, it does suggest to me that the Government is using the occasion to go back on an innovation we introduced, whereby we allowed the staff of the ABC to elect somebody and we undertook to appoint that person to the Commission. The Labor Government did not change the legislation to enable an ABC staff representative to be appointed. Such a provision is not contained in the legislation. The appointment was made simply because we agreed to that proposition. The Government could still follow that example. It is not necessary to change the Act to do so. The legislation does not need to be changed in order to prevent such an appointment. I fear that the Government is using this manoeuvre as an excuse, in fact, to provide some legitimacy to finding suddenly, when it appoints the 9 Commissioners, that it does not have room for somebody to represent the staff of the ABC. I think that is a shortsighted approach on the part of the Government. It will encounter a lot of opposition not only within the ABC but also within the community. The Government is concerned about productivity. It has appointed a Minister for Productivity to look into this area. This inevitably will entail more worker participation in the management of various undertakings. This was the motivation of the Labor Government in appointing to the ABC someone elected by the staff of the ABC. The staff did not elect a person to the Commission; it merely elected someone whom it then proposed to the then Government. The Labor Government took up the option and appointed that person as an ABC commissioner. This Government should continue to make such appointments. I fear the motives of the Government because if what it has in mind is not an intention to scrub this appointment, I see no reason why it should bother to change the legislation in the way in which it appears to be bent on doing. I accept from what has appeared so far that nothing else is to be done to the ABC. What is the reason for the change in the legislation? What is the reason for making these silly specifications in the legislation about the need for a commissioner from each State? It has the power to achieve this result now. It was the fault of the Government if in the past the ABC Commissioners were dominated by representatives from the State of New South Wales. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I find it a bit surprising that the honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Millar)  who has just spoken should have attacked his own Government in the way he has. 
-I will come to that. 
I happen to be concerned about that. 
-The honourable member for Berowra  (Dr Edwards)  commented earlier in his contribution that there is no such thing as a free meal. I agree. Of course there is not. He spent a lot of his time then trying somehow to prove in some devious way that there might be such a thing. He made the point, I thought that the whole thrust of the Government's plan was to decrease the cost on public funds and hence reduce the cost to taxpayers. Bully for the Government. That is perfectly correct except for one problem: Taxpayers unfortunately in this country happen to be people. People get sick. People still have to pay their medical bills. Theoretically it is the Government's claim that taxpayers may not pay so much now, but I will dispute that in a moment. What the people do not pay via their taxation they still must pay out of their pockets when they are sick. I agree that there is no such thing as a free meal. The honourable member has juggled the figures. 
Let us examine the total cost. It does not matter a damn to the average citizen really whether he pays via his taxation or out of his own pocket. If die sum total he pays for health services is more now than what he was paying when we organised the scheme he is losing. The Government has imposed a levy. It was claimed that the Government did not believe in increasing taxes, that it wanted to reduce the cost to the taxpayers and so on. So the Government imposed a levy. That is not a tax, but no one can escape it. Everyone has to pay it. Whether it is called a tax or not is irrevelant; it is a tax. The levy was the clever way adopted by the present Government to increase taxes. It did that without saying that it was its intention to increase taxes. The rub is that the levy is less socially equitable than the direct taxation system that was used by the Labor Government to raise a similar sum of money. This Government has imposed a levy on taxable income. I will not go into it here. Honourable members may work it out with a pencil and paper. The figures will not show - 
That is right. Thanks to the idiocy of the then Opposition Parties, we were able to adopt a socially more equitable approach which involved funding from taxation revenue. That was the mistake of the Opposition Parties, not of the Labor Party. The present Government has reverted - 
I agree that what the Government has reverted to is the same as our original proposal with the exception that the levy has been bumped up considerably. But the Government's scheme is less socially equitable than the system that the Labor Party was successful in introducing. 
There are further deficiencies. One is the ceiling. The ceiling is a burden on the poor, because it tends therefore to lower the contributions that the rich must make. The cover or the opt-out provisions again favour the rich as against the poor. If we take these aspects together, given that a set sum of money must be found- we are not arguing about that factor at the moment- whatever that sum is, this Government's system ensures that more of that money required for the scheme comes from the poorer section of the community than from the richer section of the community. That is not social equity; that is not helping this Government out of its present economic mess. It is making the situation worse. Let us come to the crucial question - 
-The Labor Government helped the needy. Those who were needy were covered by us. Everybody was covered by Medibank. Do not come up with that nonsense. The Government has simply made the situation worse for those who are a bit above the needy line but well below the rich line. The actions of this Government have made the burden much more difficult for those people. Let us look in real terms at the total cost to the community of this Government's health scheme. Let us look at taxation charges, benefits payments to the private funds and what a person must pay from his or her pocket. Let us sum all of these payments together. What then is the effect of the intervention by this Government? I suggest that it is disastrous. 
I make that claim, first, in terms of business efficiency. The Medibank computer was able to handle, at 4 per cent administrative cost, all of the claims for medical benefits and hospital benefits that came to it. Some hospitals benefits claims still went through the private funds. So, in that period when Medibank was doing much of the job of the private funds, the administrative costs of those private funds were still at approximately IS per cent while Medibank 's administrative costs were approximately 4 per cent. That does not smell like inefficient government service. Despite that fact, this Government is now forcing a large proportion of the community out of Medibank, away from the organisation with overhead administrative costs of 4 per cent into the arms of private organisations with overhead administrative costs of IS per cent. How, may I ask, does that save money, given that the doctor or the hospital concerned still has to receive the same amount of money in the end? In other words, the taxpayer or citizen must find 10 per cent more to pay the same bills under this Government's system. 
I turn next to the bulk billing arrangements. Under Medibank, our Government provided bulk billing arrangements so that, for the poorthat is, those who could not afford the payments -or for those doctors who were prepared to bulk bill and were not bothered to charge any moiety, which is the beautiful term used and which means a mark-up for the doctors, there was a facility by which charges could be levied directly on Medibank. A great deal of administrative nonsense was saved. A doctor who bulk billed did not need to send accounts to patients. There was no necessity for claims to be made for rebates. All of this was done simply by a doctor sending an account to Medibank from which he received a cheque in payment. This Government has changed that system. Medibank is still in existence. But this Government now permits those doctors who bulk bill also to charge their patients the balance, that is, the difference between the bulk billing payment and the doctor's fee. Under our scheme, a doctor who bulk billed was not able to charge that balance. This Government allows that practice. One does not need to be terribly clever to know what will happen. Most doctors will use the bulk billing facility when they think it suits them and it pays them. In addition, they will charge the patients the extra portion of the bill. So, most doctors in my view will charge the difference, which is 15 per cent, allowing for the fact that there is an 85 per cent rebate on the common fee - 
-They will charge the gap, or $5, whichever it may be- that was the figure under the Labor Government also- with the result that whatever was the saving that we achieved under our scheme, represented by the difference between what a doctor received by bulk billing and what was the common fee at that time, will be an additional charge imposed upon doctor's patients. I repeat that this will arise because in my view- and I am sure practice has shown this to be the case- most doctors will charge the gap. What is worse, some doctors are even charging pensioners in this way. Fortunately, not all of them are doing this. I do not believe that most doctors are in that category. But there are some unpleasant members of the medical professions who are using this loophole which this Government has provided them. They are now charging pensioners who must find whatever money is needed to meet the gap. 
I move from that aspect to consider what seems to be the whole point of this exercise, that is, to enshrine and to boost the whole concept of fee for service medical practice, and to guarantee its survival. In his second reading speech on the relevant legislation, the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  when dealing with this aspect said that the Government was taking this action to ensure that private medical practice would survive and in the ope that the Government's action would encourage the doctors therefore to provide the equivalent of what were once honorary services to hospitals. This is not happening. The doctors are not taking the bait. The doctors are demanding payment. In more and more cases, they are demanding fee for service payment in hospitals. They are greedily grabbing at all of the fee for service facilities that have been provided by this Government's distorted Medibank plan. I have claimed, and often claimed, that that is what bumps up medical costs. 
In this respect, let me quote a survey to demonstrate my claim. I know that we are not Americans but we are people. I do not believe that doctors in Australia are fundamentally different from doctors in America. I do not believe that people in Australia are fundamentally much different from people in America. A study was carried out recently on contrasts in health maintenance organisations and fee for service performance. A whole group of these organisations were analysed in this study which was reported in the  Social Security Bulletin  of May 1976. 
In essence, first of all a check was made on the claim that all healthy people belonged to health maintenance organisations. The study found that there was no significant difference between patients belonging to health maintenance organisations and the general community. The same number of chronically ill patients were found in both areas. The study checked on whether people who contributed to health maintenance organisations were more health conscious. The study found that this was not so. The levels in either group seemed the same. What were the differences? Hospital care is the area where all the operations are done and to which the large bills are attached. Hospital use was two-and-a-half times lower in group practice plans where doctors were on a salary compared with hospital use by doctors working on a fee for service basis. There is the answer to the problem. The surgical rate of group practices and salaried doctors was half the rate where doctors wanted fee for service. Anywhere one looks, at whatever time one tries to analyse the figures, the claim that if people have something seemingly for nothing and therefore the sky is the limit is found to be nonsense. A patient cannot operate on himself; he cannot write his own prescription. The patient depends on his doctor for these things. The only freedom that the patient has is to visit his doctor. If there is too much medical care, too many drugs prescribed, or too many operations undertaken, that is the direct responsibility of the doctor, encouraged by the fee for service technique. That is what this Government is encouraging. I assure the Minister that costs will soar enormously. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for National Resources, upon notice: 
1) On what date was the last contract for the export of mineral sand by Queensland Titanium Mines Pty Ltd approved by his Department, and what quantity was involved. 
In view of the findings of the First Report of the Fraser Island Environmental Inquiry, which reported on 1 December 1975, was the contract referred to him or to Cabinet. 
I preface my question, which is directed to the Minister for Health, by reminding him that legislation designed to implement the recommendations of the Whalan Committee of Inquiry into the Protection of Privacy and introduced by my colleague, the honourable member for Oxley, lapsed in November 1975. Is the Minister aware that the General Manager of the Hospital Benefits Association of Victoria stated on 25 November that contributors to private health insurance funds presently have to rely on the 'good faith' of the administrators of these funds not to divulge confidential medical and financial information about their members? As the Liberal and National Country Parties in the past have expressed deep concern about this matter- in particular the former AttorneyGeneral, the late  Senator Greenwood,  in February 1975 warned of the dangers of the misuse of private information- can the Minister ex- plain to the House why complementary legislation has not been introduced by the Government in order to protect the interests and privacy of private health insurance contributors? 
-The Opposition does not intend to oppose this Bill. However, I would like to recount a little history of this matter because we feel that a rather ironical situation has arisen. From about the early 1960s when the Liberal and Country Parties were in power chemists had agitated for a continual review of the remuneration they received for dispensing prescriptions under the pharmaceutical benefits scheme. In the course of that period, namely from about March 1961 to July 1970- a quite considerable period- there was a minimal increase of 2c a prescription. When Labor came into office in 1972 the chemists received a fee of 45c for dispensing national health prescriptions. Over the course of our time in government we had many discussions and were often confronted by the pharmacists. As a result of the negotiations that took place during that short period of 3 years we increased the fee they received by 50 per cent. In other words, it went from 45c to about 62c. 
As the time of our disposal, as it were, from the government benches we had started discussions with the pharmacists with the idea of setting up some form of arbitration because it was quite clear that this brawl would never end unless both sides agreed to independent arbitration in some form or other. We had not resolved the problem, I admit that. The pharmacists were still unhappy but at least they were interested in our proposals and we were proceeding with some constructive discussions to try to resolve the problem. I repeat that the pharmacists were still not happy. They still had a claim in for more money which in sum total ran into millions of dollars. 
One of the many promises made by the Liberal and National Country Parties was a promise to resolve this problem immediately they got into office and to satisfy all the needs and the anxieties of chemists for long term security in this area and so on. But of course, as has been the case with many of the promises of this Government, once having gained power it sought to buy its way out of this matter by the cheapest way possible. It made a gesture to resolve the problem. It tried to buy the chemists off by offering an increase of 5c a prescription. Part of the deal was to be that that would wipe the slate clean. Whatever the previous complaints of the chemists, from then on there would be no more. They would have to then wait a further lapse of time for changes in the cost structure and so on to occur before they put in a further claim. Needless to say the pharmacists have refused to accept this bribe. Instead they have proceeded to campaign and have even gone to the extent of instituting High Court proceedings to try to force the Government to adhere to what they consider was an agreement entered into by the previous Liberal Government, not even by the previous Labor Government. 
We welcome the fact that after so many months the Government has come to its senses and has introduced this legislation. Of course, it is very doubtful whether that was necessary, but still I will not quibble about it. It at least represents some action. The legislation proposes to establish a joint committee consisting of 4 representatives from the pharmacists and 4 representatives from the Public Servicepresumably they will come from the Department of Health although one of them may come from the Treasury, I do not know, because that is not specified- and to be presided over by a  chairman  who will be a  Deputy President  of the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. This is a very pompous structure, but the point of the exercise really is to get an arbitrator to arbitrate between the Government and the pharmacists. If that is the way in which the Government wants to handle this matter, that is OK. But if one reads the legislation carefully that is in essence all it is. It is basically what we were proposing to do when we were deposed. I shall not recapitulate the history of this matter. I think there is no doubt that the pharmacists saw that whilst they were still dissatisfied with what we had done they were more dissatisfied with the inadequacies of the Liberal Government, and they continue to be dissatisfied. Hopefully this move will resolve the problems. 
For these reasons the Opposition does not intend to oppose this legislation. I have simply sought to mention some of the facts behind this matter and to make the point that, as is common with many of the promises made by the Liberal and National Country Parties, now those parties have gained power their promises in this area are not worth anything. It has only been the efflux of time and the increasing pressures from various sections of the community that has forced the Government to - finally honour the promises which it very freely made. I suggest that those promises were very significant in persuading the community to trust the Liberals and to dispose of the last Labor Government. I fear that the community is learning a lesson the hard way. We support the legislation. 
I would just like to make an observation on something that I think has come up in the course of the debate since I spoke. I am not quarrelling or picking a fight with anyone. One of the problems that was discussed by all honourable members who spoke in the debate related to the fact that Ministers in the past could make decisions at whim and that despite negotiations and so on, they could ignore the advice that they received. It was possible, and it happened, that Ministers in the past- I am not picking out any particular Minister, I am just making a general comment- have ignored advice and made decisions that were often unfair to the pharmacists. I simply want to point out that clause 6 of the Bill, which seeks to introduce new sub-section 98C, gives the Minister power to determine: 
The manner in which the Commonwealth price of all or any pharmaceutical benefits is to be ascertained for the purpose of payments to approved medical practitioners in respect of the supply of pharmaceutical benefits. 
Proposed new paragraph (b) relates to approved pharmaceutical chemists. In other words the Act will still contain the potential for Ministers to behave in an irrational fashion. I am not suggesting that the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  will do so. I do not believe he will. I think his behaviour has shown that he believes that one should take notice of advice given. Merely setting up this Joint Committee confirms that point. I just wanted to highlight the fact that the potential power to abuse the advice still remains. For all that, we still support the legislation. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
Sitting suspended from 12.48 to 2.15 p.m. 
-The whole community can only be appalled at and condemn the Government for the secrecy and haste of this whole sordid exercise. It was the paranoia of members of the Government, coupled with their inability to face reality, as reported in Australian Broadcasting Commission news services, which resulted in hysterical attacks on that organisation and which led to the spate of rumours about the future of the ABC. The Government's blatant political intimidation led us in the Opposition to initiate on 23 March 1976 as a matter of public importance a discussion on these threats to the Australian Broadcasting Commission. In responding to that debate, and clearly under pressure from increasing public concern about political pressure by the Government on the national network, the Minister for 
Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  said: 
I propose to recommend to the Government that it institute an inquiry into the industry. 
A secret departmental inquiry was set up in April. The report was ready in October and was tabled on 9 November. Already the Government is ramming this inadequate and ill-considered legislation through the Parliament without even giving itself time to understand the nature of the problems of the electronic media. 
The Green report on the structure of the Australian Broadcasting system discusses the problems of broadcasting and proposes a philosophy and a possible structure which contains some radical departures from the present system. In my view this legislation will do nothing to change the fundamental nature of the present inadequate system. In any case, the Green proposals are worthy of far more public consideration and debate before legislation seeks to implement changes. The way the Government has acted demonstrates blatant disregard for public knowledge, the right to information and active participation. One can only question the real reasons for the Government's actions since clearly a better broadcasting system will not be established by this legislation. 
There is no doubt that the prime motive was to destroy the independence and compromise the integrity of the ABC. Perhaps I might quote from the  Age  editorial of Friday, 3 December, which states: 
The capacity of the Federal Government, and particularly of  Mr Fraser,  to mismanage their dealings with the Australian Broadcasting Commission apparently has no limits. Having brought the ABC staff to the point of open rebellion, and reduced its senior management to a state of demoralised confusion,  Mr Fraser  has now managed to annoy even  Sir Henry  Bland-the man he had appointed as a new-broom  chairman  to bring the national broadcasting service to order. 
A little further on the editorial stated: 

 Mr Fraser does not seem to have realised that his attack on the ABC management must also be read as an attack on the ABC commissioners, including  Sir Henry  himself. 
The editorial described the mechanics of it all and said that, in criticising changes to the programming and suggesting that the administrative staff were cushioning the blow to themselves, clearly there was a reflection on the Commissioners because after all it was the Commissioners who made the decision as to where cuts were to be made. The editorial continued and said: 

 Mr Fraser has now issued a statement agreeing that the ABC is master of its own programming. Indeed, he suggests that his whole purpose in raising the issue early this week was to make this very point. We suggest the public is entitled to take this with a largish grain of salt. The plain fact is that, while the commission must decide where the cuts are to be made, the necessity for making them was imposed upon it by the Government. 
We were accused when we were in government of politicising the ABC and the Australian Broadcasting Control Board whenever we appointed someone to fill a naturally occurring vacancy on either body. This legislation proposed now by the Government would permit the Government to replace every member of both bodies within the next month or so. We were amateurs when it comes to political stacking compared to the present Liberal-National Country Party government. Its back-down on the ABC is clear proof of its original intentions. Given patience, that same objective would have been achieved by the middle of next year at the latest. In fact, if the Government had not become impatient and lost its cool it would have had control of the ABC if we equate appointment of commissioners with control. 
In fact I would like to discuss the very concept of representation from each State which the Government is enshrining in legislation and its sexist approach in insisting that 2 women be appointed. In past practice it has been the habit to have someone from every State. I concede that when we were unceremoniously removed from office Tasmania was not represented. That arose because when the vacancy occurred I was not able to find someone from Tasmania at the time and as I wanted a female I appointed a lady from Victoria. I proposed to fill the next vacancy, if possible, with someone from Tasmania. But the next vacancy that occurred related to Western Australia and I filled that vacancy with someone from Western Australia. Then another vacancy came up in the normal fluxion of time. I did not manipulate any of this. The next vacancy occurred and we decided as a matter of policy that we would allow the ABC staff to elect someone to represent the staff and we would then put that person on the Commission. It was not up to me to direct the ABC staff to elect someone from Tasmania and it chose and elected someone from New South Wales, a male. To keep faith with our promise I appointed the person elected by the staff to the Australian Broadcasting Commission. So I concede that at that stage Tasmania was not represented. 
I think that since then 3 vacancies have occurred. One was caused by the death of Professor Downing, the second by the retirement of one of the commissioners from Sydney, Hal Lashwood, and finally there was  Dr Hackett  from South Australia. The Government had 3 opportunities to ensure that each State was represented. The Government, for purposes best known to itself-one would fear that it was because it wanted to pick stooges and it was not too sure that it could find a stooge somewhere, which is a sorry reflection, I must say, but one struggles to find another reasonable explanation- failed to fill the vacancy with someone from Tasmania. It also failed to appoint someone from South Australia. So now two States are not represented. Do not blame us. Do not blame past Liberal governments. Do not blame the inadequacy of the legislation. It was this Government's inadequacy. There was no need to bring in a legislative change to ensure its aims were achieved. The position could always have been achieved. 
Why is there a need for representation on a sex basis? True, there was only one female commissioner. I think that was first specified in 1942. It is a sorry reflection on all of us that such a measure should have been necessary. Why did we need to say that at least one commissioner should be a woman? Did we think that women did not listen to the radio and did not know anything about it? At present there is nothing in the legislation to preclude all the commissioners being women. There is no reason why one of the 3 vacancies could not have been filled by a woman appointed by the Government. There was no need to bring in the legislation to change the position. One suspects, when looking at it coldly, that the motivation was a devious device to allow the Government to get rid of the staff representative,  Mr Webb,  because in the reconstituted proposal that it put and in the amended version that it is now putting a staff representative is not specified. We did not specify it. We did not change the legislation. We simply agreed to appoint someone to that position. Now the Government is changing the legislation. If it wanted to keep faith with that proposition- the concept of worker participation or staff representation now is the time. We would have gladly accepted an amendment that one of the members be elected by the staff, but the Government has not chosen to do so. The pressure from the community has coaxed or has forced the Government, depending on one's point of view, not to sack anybody. Presumably that includes  Mr Webb.  It is no compliment to the Government. The Government's tactics fool no-one but itself. Fortunately for the ABC, hence the whole community, the Government could not fool its own back benchers. A significant number of them have some sense of justice and political propriety, even if the Cabinet does not. 
The basic danger remains that the Government did not need to control appointments to the Commission to control the ABC. The Liberal Cabinet has already imposed severe economic constraints on the Commission. This needed no legislation. Whenever economic constraints bear heavily on any organisation, the first activities of the organisation to suffer are anything of an innovative, experimental or controversial nature. Clearly this has happened to the ABC. Under the last Labor Government the ABC was given genuine freedom, without inhibitions. Criticisms of the Government at the time were frequent. Liberal-Country Party Opposition spokesmen at the time were seen and heard much more extensively than Labor Government spokesmen. We did not like it, but we did not put pressure on the ABC. We did not talk about administrative waste in the ABC, reactionary cells in the program departments or among the news staff. We did not slash the Commission's budget. Now, at the slightest suggestion of criticism of the Liberal-Country Party line, out come the illiberal backwoodsmen such as the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon).  Even the Minister for Post and Telecommunications last week criticised the ABC for some comments on  A.M.  which were confirmed in every daily paper that day or the day after, as far as I could ascertain. The ABC claimed that the business community was in disarray because of the Government's non policy. Every paper since then has carried comments to the same effect by unnamed and named businessmen. Even the editors made the same observations in their editorial columns. Still the Government had to whip the ABC. 
When will the Government lean on the Press owners to make them sack their editors and all their cartoonists? Everyone of the cartoonists, these acutely perceptive students of human weakness and foible, is becoming increasingly critical of the Government and its leaders. Any day I expect someone from the Government's ranks to declare Pickering and Petty pinkos and the rest of the cartoonists soft on comms just because they dare show the community how ridiculous the Government is, and that despite the Government's loud claim that its action, or lack of action, is clothed in economic respectability it has no clothes. The Government proclaims that there is a firm hand at the helm of the ship of state. It does not realise that when it wrenched control from the Labor Government it damaged the rudder, so now we are adrift, even the private sector is afraid to deliver power because it knows we are rudderless and in the worst economic seas this century. 
The Australian Broadcasting Control Board has traditionally, under past Liberal governments, consisted mainly of members drawn from the private media sector- a case of the industry sitting in judgment on itself, because those members drawn from the private sector and made members of the Control Board were meant to be sitting in judgment on the performance of the private sector. No wonder the Australian Broadcasting Control Board never did anything to ensure that the private media fulfilled community expectations, such as those specified by the Vincent Committee in 1963. No wonder plans were never submitted to extend broadcasting in any way, because to do so would have posed a competitive challenge to the existing commercial networks. Until the Labor Government licensed radio stations in Melbourne and Sydney in 1974-75 there had been no new licences in those cities since 1935. No wonder the Australian Broadcasting Control Board advised Liberal governments and us that it was impossible to introduce VHF FM to Australia until the Labor Government set up the independent McLean inquiry in 1974. 
I was accused of politicising the Australian Broadcasting Control Board when I appointed a public servant to fill a vacancy. He had been Secretary to the Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts which questioned the Control Board's advice on AM and FM broadcasting. In fact it was the Committee's questioning which gave rise to the establishment of the McLean inquiry which confirmed that we could have FM broadcasting in the same international band as it is in everywhere else in the world, instead of having to set it up in the UHF band which would have meant that we would have needed radio equipment, transmitters and receivers, specially constructed for Australia and for nowhere else in the world. What utter nonsense. The McLean inquiry confirmed that opinion which was first unearthed by the Senate inquiry. Also we had been told for years that there was no more room in the AM band, that too many stations were already cluttering up the spectrum and that we could not have any more stations in the AM band. The Senate inquiry questioned that, and the truth came out. With directional aerials and properly designed equipment we could double the number of AM stations generally. So one has to question the propriety of always appointing people from the commercial sector to the Control Board, a body which was supposed to be providing to the Government plans on how broadcasting could be improved and how extensions to the system could be planned. 
I also appointed  Dr Patricia  Edgar to the Control Board to fill another vacancy. My crime there was that  Dr Edgar  who had been chairperson of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board's Advisory Committee on Program Standards was a female academic.  Dr Edgar  was not from the electronic media industry, but she had studied and published work on the media. The danger in the eyes of the Liberal-Country Party and the media industry is that the lady knows more about the industry from the consumer point of view than perhaps all but a few in the country do. I broke tradition and so challenged the establishment by daring to appoint 2 experts from outside the media industry who could represent for the first time the interests of the vast majority of Australians- the consumers. This Government calls those appointments political simply because for the first time the previous Government had given the consumers of broadcasting a say. 
I was inclined to suggest that this legislation also indicated a total lack of understanding of public broadcasting. That was a foolish error on my part. One should never underestimate one's opponents. My fear now is that the Government does fully understand the potential of public broadcasting to provide an outlet for a wide range of interests and points of view which are now censored by the commercial networks. These diverse, controversial views are intermit.tently aired over the ABC during those short spells when it frees itself from self-censorship until another burst of criticism of the ABC from so-called champions of freedom of expressionchampions of freedom of expression as long as the expression is completely in accord with their views, of course. This causes the ABC to shrink back into its shell and censor anything adventurous so that dull conformity reigns supreme, as usual, under Liberal governments. 
The issuing of public broadcasting licences is to be at the whim of the Minister. In fact if one looks into the legislation carefully one can see that all the planning for the whole broadcasting system will now be under the direct control of the Minister. True it always has been because the Australian Broadcasting Control Board, the body supposed to plan, only ever reported to the Minister. The annual report tabled in the Parliament deals with the previous year's activities and not with planning proposals. So if the Board ever did propose any plans for the future those plans never saw the light of day. 
With Ministers uninterested in expansion of the system and no money provided for the purpose, except to ensure that a signal could be received anywhere in Australia- that was the only plan that I found when I took over this portfoliothe Control Board has never formulated any plans to achieve the aims mentioned by practically every inquiry and reiterated, once again, in the Green report. I concede that the Control Board was theoretically able to do so. Even that pretence of independence has gone now. Does anyone seriously suggest that the Postal and Telecommunications Department will come up with serious plans to achieve those worthy objectives of quality and diversity which would inevitably put pressure, both intellectual and financial, on the commercial sector? In my view the exact reverse will now happen. Under the guise of self-regulation the commercial stationsradio and television- will cater to the lowest common denominator in terms of intellectual content and taste. As for Australian content, that will be a thing of the past as far as quality production is concerned. Goodbye to the concept of and hope for an Australian national identity as far as the commercial stations are concerned. But never mind, profits will soar and the junk will invade the FM band as licences are issued quickly to the commercial operators. By the time the Government decides its attitude to the public broadcasters there will be few, if any, channels left for them. That in itself will resolve the embarrassing problem for the Government of troublesome, controversial public broadcasters. There will be very few of them because there will not be room for them. That is what I mean by saying that the Government does understand. It does not like the possibilities. It is afraid of the potential and so it is bent on killing public broadcasting, to ensure that it will not be embarrassed. 
The ABC will continue to have to try to cater for an enormous range of interests with an inadequate number of channels on both radio and television. This will inevitably lead to continuing dissatisfaction. Let me explain what I mean because I think there is a lot of vague talk about popular programs and about the special interest that the ABC has to satisfy and then criticism of the ABC because it does not get ratings near to those received by the commercial stations. But one should understand the nature of human activity and biological functions including such things as human taste. If one tried to graph this aspect of human behaviour in the form of a frequency distribution curve one would find that at each extreme end there would be very few people and that most people would be in the middle. This is common to every biological function of life. If this represents the spectrum of human taste then quite reasonably- I am not bitching about this but I am stating it as acceptable and understandable-the commercial stations concentrate on the middle of the spectrum where most people are because their purpose is to make money. I repeat that I do not quarrel with that at all. But the Government expects the ABC, and the commercial stations keep saying this, not to compete with the commercial stations. It is said that the ABC must provide complementary programming. I ask honourable members to understand what that means. That means that the ABC must cater for each end of the spectrumthe left and the right. 
The ABC cannot provide a special interest program for those interested in classical music at one end of the spectrum and expect to be satisfying necessarily anyone on the other end of the spectrum whose tastes may be diametrically opposed. When it is said how terrible and how disastrous it is when an ABC program gets only a 2 per cent rating the question one needs to ask is: 'What sort of program was it; what was its potential audience?' The commercial stations provide programs that theoretically cater for perhaps 70 per cent or 80 per cent of the community. So they are not doing too well if one of their programs receives a rating of, say, IS per cent. An ABC program is supposed to be catering at one end of the spectrum for a particular interest group which has a maximum audience of perhaps 3 per cent. If the ABC gets a rating of 2 per cent that in terms of its potential audience is a rating of 60 per cent. I ask honourable members to think about that. In such a case the ABC is in fact being very successful. 
But I am, because the Government is now going to expect the ABC to cater for all of those diverse interests with one television channel and 2 radio channels. This is an impossible task. Something like seven or eight commercial radio and three television stations are catering for the centre of the spectrum of interest. But the ABC is trying to cater for a much broader range of interest with only 2 radio stations and one television station in each capital city. Honourable members opposite would be dishonest if they said that the ABC can do that and still appear to be reasonable and not cause a great deal of dissatisfaction. 
I come back to the concept of freedom of choice. What choice do the commercial stations give to the people clustered in the middle of the spectrum? I am quite happy to concede that the bulk of the community occupies perhaps a fairly narrow spectrum and their tastes are satisfied by seven or eight radio stations and perhaps 3 television stations in each capital city. But how is that taste catered for and what sort of choice do people get? 
-I know they are not happy. I am suggesting that the people in this area get practically no choice at all. What is this blinking legislation doing about that? Honourable members opposite should think about that in respect of television. 
OK, the Government cannot make everyone happy but at least it can give them a choice. We learnt that Australian made television programs of cops and robbers were popular. We had the situation that Channel 0 put on a cops and robbers program made by Crawford Productions Pty Ltd; Channel 7 put on a cops and robbers program by Crawford Productions; and Channel 9 put on a cops and robbers program by Crawford Productions. At one time there were 3 of these types of programs because they were so popular. They had the top ratings because they were put on at different times. But what did the media chiefs then do to try to collar the market? As it is crudely put- and if I may be excused I will use the term- the ratings game depends on bums on seats. So all of these types of programs were seen to be popular. The commercial stations gave the poor people in the middle of the spectrum- the bulk of the population- an enormous choice. They put all of these programs on at the same time. Do honourable members opposite call that freedom of choice? That is in fact depriving people of choice. In fact this practice killed off Crawford Productions because, needless to say, when one program fell behind in ratings the station put off the program and brought in an American-made extravaganza produced at a cost of $250,000 a time to compete with something that we had made in Australia for perhaps $50,000 a program. Of course the Americans could sell their program to our commercial stations for $5,000 or $6,000 because they had made their money on the American market. That is the freedom of choice that this system offers. The Government has not considered this aspect at all in the legislation now before us. It has done absolutely nothing at all in this respect. It has simply increased the burden on the Australian Broadcasting Commission. 
This will inevitably lead to continuing dissatisfaction which will be used as further proof that publicly run services are inferior to private services. That is not true, of course, but that is the way in which the difficulty of trying to cater for an enormous range of interests simultaneously will be interpreted by private broadcasters. That is the case now as private broadcasters justify providing a common level of junk to an enormous number of people with little or no choice for those people who have a range of interests in the middle of the total spectrum of community interest. In other words, if the Government were really sincere in its endeavours to do something about the broadcasting system, if it really took the Green report seriously- frankly, I do not agree with all of the contents of the Green report although I think it is a worthy report- it would allow serious consideration and discussion of the subject in the community. If the Government had taken this matter seriously it would have allowed much more community discussion. Perhaps it would have invited people to come along from the television industry and from consumer groups to participate in discussions on what the broadcasting media should be about. The British can afford to have royal commissions held every few years. They try then to do something about changing the system to cater for community needs. But all the Government is doing with this legislation is excluding community participation and any real active control. 
The Tribunal is simply a licensing body. Honourable members should not fool themselves. They should look at the Tribunal carefully. It will simply issue licences. It is true that for the first time, hopefully, we will have public inquiries. But I point out that the legislation as it now stands does not specify that such inquiries should be held or that its reports should be published. We intend to do something about that by moving some amendments in the Committee stage. I hope the Minister will be sympathetic and accept the amendments because they are not revolutionary. They are not even communist inspired. They are simply good, old fashioned public participation inspired as recommended in the Green report. I hope the Minister will take the matter seriously and accept the amendments. In conclusion, I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: 'the House is of the opinion that the Bill should be withdrawn and redrafted because: 
there has been inadequate time for proper public consideration of the Government's proposals in relation to broadcasting; 
it fails to establish a proper basis for public broadcasting in Australia, and 
it is inconsistent with the principles enunciated for the structure of broadcasting in Australia by the report of the Postal and Telecommunications Department on Australian Broadcasting. 
-Depending upon what happens later, this clause may need to be amended. 
Clause postponed. 
Clause 4 agreed to. 
Clause S (Establishment of Tribunal). 
I move: 
After proposed section 10, sub-section (4), insert the following sub-section: 
*(4A) A person who immediately before the commencing day held office as a full-time or pan-time member of the Board for a term expiring after that day shall be appointed as a member of the Tribunal and shall hold office for a term equivalent to the remainder of the term to which he would have been entitled but for the provisions of this Act. '. 
This amendment would make this legislation consistent with an amendment that the Government has moved to legislation dealing with the appointment of commissioners to the Australian Broadcasting Commission. Our view is that, whatever the purpose behind the Government's legislation may be, if it is not to be seen to be simply aimed at getting at people who have been appointed to statutory bodies for a statutory period, the present occupants of these positionsnamely, the Commissioners or members of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board- should be permitted to see out their terms of appointment. We are not suggesting that they should be given an extension or that they should be reappointed after their present term expires. But, consistent with what we think is a fairly fundamental principle, that is, that no government should be seen to be sacking appointees to statutory authorities, we thought that this amendment should be moved. 
We are not arguing against the abolition of the present Australian Broadcasting Control Board; we are not begging a fight on that. We concede that the proposed Australian Broadcasting Tribunal would be a reasonable body. It is going to be quasi-judicial body, as the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  mentioned in his second reading speech. Nevertheless, it will perform the most fundamental duties that are now encompassed within the responsibilities of the present Australian Broadcasting Control Board. So, to avoid the suggestion that the whole purpose of the exercise in abolishing the Control Board is simply to get at those office holders, we propose that they should be appointed to the new Tribunal, not for the full term as specified in the Bill for office holders, but for the balance of the term they would have had as members of the Control Board. 
As I understand it, that would mean that only two of the present office holders appointed by the Labor Government would continue in office; that pretty well straight away- in fact, from 1 January- the present government would have a majority because, due to the normal efflux of time and the normal periods of appointment, 2 vacancies will occur irrespective of the legislation. There is already one person who was appointed by the present Government. That would mean that from 1 January three out of the present 5 office holders will have been appointed by the present Government. So honourable members could not say that the Tribunal would be suffering from having been stacked, as has been claimed in respect of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board- and I dispute that claim. 
We are not talking about the Australian Broadcasting Commission; we are talking about the Australian Broadcasting Control Board, a different body. It is quite clear that from 1 January, no matter what happens, it will not be possible to claim that the Tribunal is burdened by a majority of people appointed by the previous Labor Government. That will be mathematically impossible. I am trying to impress upon the Government the point that it should not be seen to be breaking a convention which provides that, by and large, statutory office holders see out their terms of office; that they are not cut off in mid-stream by incoming governments. True, the Government is changing its broadcasting and television legislation and hence is changing the name of the Act, but this could be seen as simply a device to achieve the purpose of sacking somebody who was appointed by the Labor Government. For those reasons we have moved the amendment to clause 5. 
I would like to comment on some of the remarks by the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  who talked about our amendment proposing powers of censorship. I do not think that is so. The terminology used is the same as the phrases already incorporated in the present Act covering the Australian Broadcasting Control Board and it was never seen to be censorial. I must concede that the Green report said this of those words:  . . broad expressions of purpose such as these are open to various interpretations in the course of implementation, and do little to ensure that the programming output of the system meets the needs of the various sectors or groups within our society. 
Amen. I happen to agree with that, sadly. The honourable member also said that the commercials assess what the public needs and there is no need for the Tribunal to do it. But then in commenting on what the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  said he said that, for goodness sake, putting it in and leaving it to the parliamentarians would mean that they would make subjective judgments. Well, for goodness sake, if the commercials make judgments are they not subjective also, backed by the advertising revenue pressure to make sure that whatever is put on gets the largest audience irrespective of taste and so on? But then someone interjects and says 'commercial' as if commercial is somehow sacrosanct; that commercials are really going to give what is wanted and needed. In fact that is the claim that is often made; that we should give the commercials complete freedom and then we shall get what we want because a lot of people look at these programs. Does the honourable member for Hotham look at them? My bet is that if we give the commercials complete freedom that will be the end of quality Australian production, in the sense of expensive production, because that, sadly, is usually what it means. We will get a lot of cheap Australian productions, I am sure, but it will be the end of quality production. We will not get the comprehensive programming that we think we deserve. Those are the sort of vague words that we are trying to put in to suggest what we imply. Who says so? Not Cass. Read what was said by the Pilkington Committee in its report in the United Kingdom in 1962. That is the sort of thing that has been going on. There have been these regular inquiries into broadcasting in England. They nearly always come up with the same sorts of observations. Let me quote what that Committee said about British commercial television: 
No-one can say he is giving the public what it wants, unless the public knows the whole range of possibilities which television can offer and, from this range chooses what it wants to see . . . what the public wants and what it has a right to get is the freedom to choose from the widest possible range of program matter. Anything less than this is deprivation. 
That is my view and that is the view of the Labor Party. That was our feeling when we saw this legislation. There was no indication given of what we think the community deserves. Again I quote from the Green report where it speaks about the commercial sector. It states:   . . in addition to directing their efforts to the presentation of the relatively stereotyped styles of programs which are known to attract high numbers of viewers and listeners, it is most desirable that the commercial sector should at the same time attempt to introduce a measure of innovation and experimentation in programs catering to more sizeable, if not mass, audiences. 
I agree with that statement. Does the honourable member for Hotham really seriously suggest that given this absolute freedom that is what the commercial sector would do? In fact the honourable member commented that he was surprised at me. I too am surprised at myself for this. I have supported this amendment only because there is nothing else in the legislation that gives any hint that anything will be done to ensure that the commercials do abide by what the community expects time after time. The honourable member should look at his own Government's reports. He . need not look at anything we have commissioned. Way back in the days of the Vincent Committee- and now we have the Green report -everyone said that the Australian community deserved quality programs which would help to establish an Australian identity. No one has stopped the commercial sector doing it but it still has not done it. My guess is that it still will not do it. 
If the honourable member thinks that it has done a fair job he should expunge his entire speech from the record because I thought he was having a shot at the commercials. Never mind, perhaps I misunderstood his speech. Let us get back to the argument. Something should be done and I do not think that this is the best way to do it. When I was Minister for the Media I was talking about lifting restrictions and restraints, about stopping trying to tell commercial stations what they ought to do. But this entailed providing alternatives so that if they did not do it someone else could, and what is more, would. 
I accept that it is still possible, theoretically, for the Tribunal to fulfil this requirement. I think at one stage the honourable member for Hotham mentioned that the Government ought to give directions to the Tribunal. I think that was an unnecessary comment. In fact, if the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  is sincere in what he says, he is going to invite the Tribunal to have a public hearing. If the Tribunal behaves in any reasonable fashion as a body conducting a public hearing the Minister does not have to give it any directions. The directions will be given by the public when the public makes representations. So in this one I am on the side of the Minister. In any case, if the Tribunal comes to decisions which people do not like, and if, with our proposed amendment, it came to decisions which people did not like, then, and this is something which is omitted from the legislation, the legislation should have included in it the powers for decisions of the Tribunal to be referred to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. If people do not like them I think that would be a reasonable precaution. The Government ought to look into that matter but perhaps not here. When this Bill gets to the Senate the Government might think about the possibility of this, or think about it when it is considering its amending legislation. I do not think that any sort of tribunal should be immune from challenge. The Administrative Appeals Tribunal could in my view deal with overcensorious dispensations by the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal. 
If the Government is honest and if the Tribunal behaves in the way in which it should, I concede that there is a possibility of it enforcing in a very honest way, and without being censorious, the Australian requirements. There is no question about that; no  speaker  has said: 'We do not want it'. The power which the Control Board never had is the power to have public hearings for renewals of licences. If the Government allows the Tribunal to have public hearings for renewals, if the Tribunal invites the community to express its views and if the community says: We do not think it has been good enough', if the Government then has the guts to back the Tribunal when it says that the licence should not be renewed I will commend the Government for its actions. But bear in mind that there is now nothing in the legislation which indicates that this is to happen. The licensees may well use that as an excuse for not complying, saying: 'There is nothing in the Act which says that we should '. If they do, then I think a mistake has been made. That is why we have moved the amendment. The Tribunal may well suggest that inadequate licensees should not have their licences reviewed. I think the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Jull)  mentioned that all existing licensees promised Australian content but not one of them has lived up to that promise, as far as I know. 
If the Tribunal does not renew the licence, what happens to all the equipment? Sadly, we have the wrong system in this country. The licensee not only produces programs but also owns all the hardware. It costs a lot of money. What is to be done with it? Will the Government buy it from him? Will it subsidise someone to buy the equipment? That is a difficulty which I do not think the Government has looked into. It would be better if all the hardware were owned by the community. All stations are broadcasting over public air waves. The air waves are socialised everywhere in the world and there is no reason why the actual transmitters should not be also. It is the control that is important. The control should be in the hands of the licensee. I am not denying that the licensee should have complete control of what goes over the air waves. If the Tribunal reaches the stage at which it feels that a particular licensee should no longer have the right to operate because he has not fulfilled the requirements, the Government is in a bind, in our present situation, where there is an enormous amount of capital involved. My answer would be to suggest that we should take over, maybe gradually, or buy out the licensees, and in some way provide the actual technical facilities. The licensee has complete freedom to put what he likes over the air waves. That is the system, more or less, in the United Kingdom, so it is not a communist plot. It is done there for commercial television. The facility is owned by the Government, but the private operators provide the programs. They are completely free to provide whatever they like. 
I move: at the end of proposed sub-section 22A. ( 1 ) add: which shall be published and tabled in the Parliament'. 
We are happy with this clause which indicates how the Tribunal will function, how it will vote and how there will be minority as well as majority opinions expressed. But as it stands it just says: but the opinion or opinions of the member of members disagreeing with the recommendation shall be set out in the report relating to the inquiry. 
But we could not find anywhere in this Bill any indication of what happens to the report, even the majority report. So we are simply suggesting that we add at the end of the clause: which shall be published and tabled in the Parliament. 
I presume that is what is going to happen- at least, I would be surprised if it does not happen. I do not see why the Government cannot say it in the legislation. I would not have thought, particularly if the Tribunal is to have the public hearing about which we just heard, that the Tribunal would just write its report and leave it at that. I presume that the Minister will table the report in the Parliament and that it will be published. The clause as it stands is terribly innocuous. There is nothing left-wing cryptocommunist about our amendment. I am making a simple request that the Minister do somehing that I am sure that he had in mind. I would think that it is something that the draftsman overlooked. I would have thought that someone has to know what the hell is tobe done with the report. 
I move: 
Omit proposed sub-section 1 11  a.  (1), substitute the following proposed sub-section: "( I ) Subject to this Act, the Minister may, on the recommendation of the Tribunal and upon payment of the prescribed free, grant a person a licence to operate a broadcasting station or television station. ". 
At the end of proposed sub-section 1 1 1a. (3) add: "in accordance with the recommendations of the Tribunal". 
Omit proposed sub-section 1 1 1  a.  (4). 
I shall briefly explain these proposals. Referring to the first amendment, as the clause now stands the Minister decides entirely on his own judgment, as the proposed section reads, to issue licences to public broadcasters. There is nothing in this clause to suggest that he takes advice from anybody. We accept the proposition that the Tribunal be set up and we are simply seeking to amend this clause to indicate that the Minister, in relation to public broadcasting stations, will act on the recommendation of the Tribunal, and then there shall be the payment of the fee and so on. That is the first point about our amendment. I think it is perfectly consistent, if I dare suggest this, with an amendment which the Minister is proposing to move to this clause. He proposes inserting an additional section to ensure that whatever happens under this legislation there will be public inquiries? Is that correct? 
Since the Minister is saying that, why not show that he will be acting on recommendations from those inquiries? That is the sole point of the exercise. We are not suggesting anything that the Government is not itself seeking. The way the legislation is drawn at the moment it looks as though the Minister could act without taking any notice of or even necessarily holding an inquiry. I quite concede, by the Minister's proposed amendment, that there will be an inquiry so why not say that licences will be issued on the recommendation of the Tribunal? After all, that is what the Government is going to do for the commercial operators. There is nothing sinful in the suggestion. In fact it is a damn good idea. The Government is trying to get away from politicising the whole business. That is why it is proposing the Tribunal and why it is proposing that it should give advice in that way for commercial broadcasters. Why not do the same for public broadcasters? The Government then would not expose itself to any possible criticism of acting politically. I suggest this for the Government's own protection. In a way I do not mind if the Government leaves it out because then it lays itself open to unnecessary criticism. Bad luck to it. 
I am putting this as a positive and constructive proposal. If the Minister does this, I do not think he needs the other part of that section which we are suggesting should be omitted. There is no point saying that licences will be issued for a whole string of specific purposes which are laid down in this legislation because that is what the Tribunal will be doing. The Tribunal will be inquiring into the need and it will be suggesting the sorts of conditions which should be imposed. Once again the Government is covered and it does not look as though it is applying political pressure. It will have a quasi-judicial independent Tribunal providing it with all the advice it needs and giving it the restrictions it might want to oppose. The Government does not have to do it so why expose itself to the suggestion that it is being political? If we were administering this Act we would not want that sort of odium either, so why put the potential for it in the Act? It is superfluous to the Government's needs and that is why we suggest this be omitted. 
My second amendment seeks to add words to proposed subsection (3) which reads: 
A public broadcasting licence or public television licence may be granted on such conditions, and in accordance with such form as the Minister determines. 
We suggest the addition of the words: in accordance with the recommendations of the Tribunal. 
I ask the Minister again: Why expose the Government to the charge that it is being political? Why not allow the Tribunal to make recommendations? The Minister does not have to take any notice of them. The final judgment is still left to the Government but at least it will be seen to be taking advice from an impartial quasi judicial body. That is the reason for our proposal. 
Finally, we suggest the omission of proposed sub-section (4) which reads: 
It is a condition of a licence granted under this Part that the broadcasting station or television station, as the case may be, is to be operated only for the purpose or purposes specified in the licence in accordance with sub-section ( 1 ). 
Well, that is obvious. Why say it? Why clutter up the legislation with unnecessary verbiage like that? The station will operate under the conditions of the licence as suggested by the Tribunal and as the Government agrees when the licence is issued. Why does the Government have to say this? The Minister has already declared- he said this earlier in an earlier part of the debate on this Bill when we were discussing amendments- that the Tribunal will be the final arbiter about taste and the performance of the stations. In a way I agree with the Minister as long as he allows it to do it. If the Government is going to allow the Tribunal to do it for the commercial stations why not allow the Tribunal to do the same thing for the public broadcasting stations? Why try to take power unto itself, without any indication of support or advice or anything from the Tribunal, to just arbitrarily set conditions and arbitrarily issue licences? In my view the Government is exposing itself to unnecessary criticism of political control of the public broadcasters. 
We proposed these amendments for those reasons. I hope the Minister recognises that they are not a Labor Party line. I am putting them forward as a commonsense approach to clarifying the legislation, to make it perfectly clear that decisions in all these areas are not going to be based on political considerations but on the advice of the Tribunal the Government is setting up and which is to be independent of Government interference and is to give clear unequivocal advice which the Government in any case is always able to accept or reject. We are not suggesting that the Government should be forced. We would not want to be forced either. We should be allowed to have the final say. If we disagree with recommendations of the Tribunal and if the Government disagrees with the recommendations of the Tribunal, which should be public, then we both defend ourselves. The Government has to give reasons and that is perfectly reasonable. That is what we mean by being accountable to the community. For those reasons we propose these amendments. 
-Supporters of the Government, including the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson),  have spoken a lot about the Broadcasting Council and all the wondrous things it will do. How it might be set up is mentioned only in this clause. One could hardly describe 5 lines of explanation as a clear indication of how it is going to be set up. In fact, the clause simply states that the Broadcasting and Television Act will enable regulations to be drawn up to establish the Broadcasting Council. I was nearly prompted to contribute to the discussion on the previous amendment moved by the Minister when one of the Government supporters asked about government interference- any government, Liberal or Labor- in the planning of the broadcasting system. The Minister gave assurances, but I shall not go over them. 
The point is that we are all being naive. The reality is that any government at any time can interfere with the planning procedures as specified in this Bill or in the Broadcasting and Television Act. It would be quite simple. As the question of political interference has come up, let us stop the humbug. It is possible to interfere with the Australian Broadcasting Commission even without touching the commissioners. It depends for its functioning upon finance. Ultimately the Government has the final say as to what finance it will receive. All the Government has to do is to cut the finance and that is the end of the freedom of any organisation dependent upon finance provided by the Parliament. So let us stop the humbug. I am not saying that the Liberal-National Country Party Government necessarily is going to do this. People can make up their own minds by judging the Government's performance. I admit that a Labor Government could do exactly the same thing. Whether the previous Labor Government did it or not I shall leave it to people to judge. 
We are prepared to take this proposal concerning the Broadcasting Council seriously. It is suggested that it will do all sorts of things; among others, really keep an eye on what sort of planning is done. So let us treat the proposal seriously; let us set up the Broadcasting Council as a proper body. That is the point of the exercise in moving the Opposition's amendment to this clause. The amendment specifies how the Council should be appointed. I do not want to go into the mechanical aspects of it but I want to deal with the composition of the Council that we are proposing. We have heard rumours- we still do not know for sure whether they are correctfirstly, that there was going to be this lovely Council which had no powers, as far as I could tell, other than to receive details of the Government's planning proposals. But there it stopped. The Minister's second reading speech gives no indication of what the Council would do with those plans. I shall leave it to the ordinary Australian to decide what the Council will be told to do with its comments on the plans. But no vehicle exists whereby the Council could indicate to the Government what it really thought. We are suggesting, firstly, that the Council should have reasonable functions, and secondly, we are defining how it ought to be set up. As I recall the Government's proposal, it was that there should be 2 members from the commercial broadcasters, 2 members from the Australian Broadcasting Commission, 2 members from the public broadcasters and 2 members from the Post and Telecommunications Department. 
Yes, my apologies, there was to be an independent  chairman  also, who presumably was to be the sole representative of the consumers. Rumours also have flown that the Government has been responding to pressures from the commercial sector of broadcasting and that now there will be 4 members selected from the commercial sector, two from the ABC, one from the public broadcasters, one from the Department, and an independent  chairman.  Our proposal is for a  chairman,  one representative of commercial radio; one representative of commercial television, 2 representatives of the Australian Broadcasting Commission- balancing the national sector of broadcasting with the commercial sector- two representatives of the public broadcasting sector. In our view, from what the Government said it expects that sector to hold a significant proportion of representation, so we suggest 2 representatives of that sector to balance the others- one representative of the Australia Council; one representative of the Australian Film and Television School; one representative of the Postal and Telecommunications Department; and one representative of the Schools Commission. In our view, all the members should be part-time except the  chairman,  who should be full-time. 
That at least establishes a council in which the industry does not have a majority. In our view the private sector of broadcasting should not have a majority. In any case, there ought to be substantial representation from people outside the industry- from the important section of the Australian community, the consumer, the people for whom the broadcasting service exists. Hospitals do not exist for the pleasure of doctors or nurses; they exist to treat patients. The banking system does not exist for the pleasure of the bank managers and the people who work in banks; it exists to provide a service to consumers. In like fashion, in our view the broadcasting system should exist for the purpose of providing a service to consumers. So, on a council which is supposed to advise and to communicate with the Government on what should be considered necessary for the service it seems not unreasonable to have a significant proportion of the representation from the consumers. That is our proposal. 
As to the functions of the Broadcasting Council, in the Minister's second reading speechnothing in this legislation indicates what the Council will do- he referred to the fact that plans prepared from time to time in the Department would be referred to the Council for comment. Bully for the Council! What will it do with its comments? Shove them up its jumper? No indication has been given as to it being able to do anything else with its comments. There is no indication that the Government will take any notice of the Council's comments or even that the comments will be taken and read by the Government. The Minister simply said: 
The Council will have the opportunity to debate and record their views on the planning issues involved. 
Beautiful! I do not object to the Council's comments being recorded, but what is going to be done with them? There is no indication that the Department will take the slightest notice of them, or even that the comments will be put to the Department. Our suggestion is that not only should they be put to the Department but also the comments should be tabled in this Parliament so the whole community can know what they are. Our proposals for the functions of the Council, as contained in the amendment which I shall move, are as follows: suggest and consider planning proposals for the introduction, extension or development of broadcasting services; 
Suggest' means that the Council would have a right to make suggestions; in other words, to make up its mind what it thinks should be done in terms of development of the broadcasting service. The proposal continues with the words consider planning proposals'. 
-The Minister said: 'Yes, that is right', but the Government is not giving the Council that power. It should be honest with the community. The Government is simply saying that the Council will have the power to record its views on planning issues involved which are put to it by the Department. What about allowing the Council to originate some ideas without these proposals being offered to it by the Department? Our next suggestion is: overview the administration of standards as defined in codes of broadcasting practice set out by the industry; 
We accept the proposal that the industry should be self-regulating, but let the consumers see whether the industry is living up to its own claimed ideals. We have heard so much from lots of special interest groups about the standards. I could reflect on a lot- the lawyers and doctors included. I suggest it is time that bodies with representation from the consumers had a say in assessing whether these groups are adhering to their self-proclaimed standards. Our next suggestion is as follows: receive and respond to complaints on the administration of standards; 
Again, let not these complaints be buried in departments where one never knows what happens. Let a semi-public body like this Broadcasting Council, with representatives from the community as members, consider the complaints. Let justice not only be done, but also let it be seen to be done. At the moment complaints go into the administrative machinery and we all feel that they get lost. The next suggestion is as follows: liaise with the broadcasting industry, the public and other interested parties, 
That is sensible and rational. Let us find out what the industry wants, what it feels would be worth while. Let it communicate via the Council with the community at large. Our final suggestion is as follows: assemble industry data relevant to its functions. 
That is a clear and sensible proposal.  Mr Deputy Chairman,  I move: 
Omit the clause, substitute the following clause: "15. After section 134 of the Principal Act the following sections are inserted:- 135. (1) For the purposes of this Act, there shall be a Council, to be known as the Broadcasting Council, which, subject to this Act, shall have and may exercise the rights, powers, authorities and functions conferred upon it by this Act and shall be charged with and perform the duties and obligations imposed upon it by this Act. 
The Council shall be a body corporate with perpetual succession and a common seal and may acquire, hold and dispose of real and personal property and shall be capable of suing and being sued in its corporate name. 
All courts, judges and persons acting judicially shall take judicial notice of the seal of the Council affixed to any document and shall presume that it was duly affixed. 
The exercise of the rights, powers, authorities or functions, or the performance of the duties or obligations, of the Council shall not be affected by reason only of there being a vacancy in the office of a member.  136. ( 1 ) The Broadcasting Council shall consist of eleven members, who shall be appointed by the Governor-General, comprising: 
a Chairman; 
one representative of commercial radio; 
c) one representative of commercial television; 
two representatives of the Australian Broadcasting Commission; 
two representatives of the public broadcasting sector; 
one representative of the Australia Council; 
one representative of the Australian Film and Television School; 
one representative of the Department of Postal and Telecommunications, and 
one representative from the Schools Commission. 
All members of the Council shall be appointed as part-time members, except the  Chairman,  who shall be appointed as a full-time member. 137. The Council shall be empowered to: 
suggest and consider planning proposals for the introduction, extension or development of broadcasting services; 
overview the administration of standards as defined in codes of broadcasting practice set out by the industry; 
receive and respond to complaints on the administration of standards; 
liaise with the broadcasting industry, the public and other interested parties, and 
assemble industry data relevant to its functions. 138. Terms and conditions of members of the Council shall be as prescribed.'.". 
I know that the Minister did not really invite me to make this contribution but I feel impelled to comment. The Opposition has a basically different philosophical approach from that of the Government. The Opposition insists on stating the proposition in its own way and making the point that, in view of the Opposition, the Government is ignoring the crisis in the whole communication industry in most parts of the world. The trouble is, quite reasonably, that the industry has grown up. It is now a multi-million dollar industry. Enormous sums of money pass through its fingers. I might add that it takes a very reasonable profit. But there has not been much concern anywhere in the world about the needs of the consumers. The Government's proposal for the Broadcasting Council simply will continue that deficiency. The Government has said that it is important to consult the industry. Surely, but what about the 99.99 per cent of the community who are not in the industry and for whom the industry exists? The industry does not exist just to make profits or to make money. It exists to communicate with the community. 
The community has a right to have some say about what sort of service it will obtain. For example, there have been recent technological developments in relation to cable television. This has been around for many years. I think people started talking about it in the 1 940s. For a variety of reasons, it has made very slow progress. Just today I read an article from Amenca discussing the problem there. This system could give a lot to the community in terms of communication facilities. In fact, it is almost frightening and therefore it needs to be very carefully considered and controlled. I am not saying that it should be implemented tomorrow, but it needs to be considered carefully. When one analyses this problem, one finds the reason why this new industry has got nowhere. In America people are now becoming discontented and have decided to do something about this matter. The Congress is stepping in, because the bodies which have been advising the American Government up to now have been industry orientated and the industry has not wanted this new intruder because it is seen as a challenge to its own supremacy and a threat to its own financial existence. Never mind the needs of the community. Never mind the advantages that may be obtained for the whole community. That is not what industry is all about. 
That is why the Opposition has proposed these additional members which the Government seems to ridicule when it looks at the composition of the Council as we suggest it. The Opposition retains the same number of people from the industry as suggested by the Governmenttwo from the private sector, two from the national sector, that is the ABC, and two from the public. But the Opposition suggests that in addition to those 6 people, it is not unreasonable to have one person from the Australia Council. Why from the Australia Council? The reason is that this communication industry is concerned with culture and with uplifting enterprises- with educating the community about its heritage and its past, about anything related to the areas which, I should have thought, are dealt with and considered by the Australia Council. So why not have someone from the Australia Council? The Opposition also suggests having someone representing the Film and Television School. In a way, of course, the School is part of the industry. I should have thought that television, radio and films are all concerned with each other. At least the School is not buried in the commercial sector. It has been set up by the Government. People from all walks of life seek to enter it. It has academics on its staff. It is a bit apart from the industry. It may be able to give another perspective. It is hardly a foreigner to the area. 
The Opposition suggests one representative from the Department. The Government proposes two. The Opposition has suggested one representative so that we can make room for some other people. It is also suggested that there should be one representative from the Schools Commission. Some honourable members on the other side of the chamber, in earlier discussions, were speaking about the Opposition's ignoring the need for children's television. It did not and it does not. That is the reason why the Opposition believes the Schools Commission could be represented. There ought to be room for one person specifically from the education area to have some say and to comment on planning in this beautiful Council proposed by the Government. After all, it is not just concerned with making money. It must consider all the other needs. So far, for a variety of reasons- I do not want to attach blame- the fact is that we have inadequate educational television and radio. I am even critical of the ABC as much as it has tried. Perhaps it has not been given enough money. I do not know. 
I have heard suggestions that something resembling the Television Workshop in America which produces  Sesame Street  and which is funded out of public money should be set up. I have heard all sorts of suggestions like this. A broadcasting council along the lines proposed by the Opposition may more realistically be expected to come up with these sorts of proposals. The Government should be honest with itself. A body, consisting mainly of representatives from the industry itself, including the ABC, with one poor individual, the  Chairman  on his own, is not likely to come up with anything critical of the industry including the ABC. If the Government wants to get a real feeling about what the community might feel about these matters, and what it might aspire to, I think that it has no choice but to institute some sort of body like this to help. It will not be lavish. It will not be very expensive. It will cost perhaps a few thousand dollars for an industry which handles millions of dollars in advertising revenue. The ABC itself receives approximately $ 140m now. I do not know what amount the public broadcasters will be handling. The money required to be spent on a council like this would be peanuts. 
Perhaps in making this proposal I am making a rod for my own back, come the day when the Opposition maybe in government and I am the Minister for the Media again. This is a body that could cost me a lot of pain too because it would be telling me what to do. However, I think it should be accepted. I am sick and tired of the humbug about community participation. I am sick and tired of the politicians being dragged screaming into the twentieth century. Let us give the public a chance to tell us what it thinks. Then we may be encouraged to be a bit more adventurous and give it what it needs. For these reasons I persist in moving this amendment. If the Minister feels he cannot accept it- from his performance I know that he is not likely to- I ask him at least not to dismiss it out of hand. Perhaps the Government will come up with more definitive legislation next year. We feel quite genuinely that this is not a Labor Party proposal; it is a community proposal. For that reason we certainly wish to persist with it. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What was the national health expenditure by (a) type of expenditure and (b) source of funds during (i) 1973-74, (ii) 1974-75 and (iii) 1975-76. 
What was the current account expenditure on health services during (a) 1973-74, (b) 1974-75 and (c) 1975-76. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) At what locations were the 1 9 women 's refuges, which were receiving Australian Government assistance as at 31 
December 1975 and 30 June 1976, operating (Question No. 1091,  Hansard,  21 October 1976,pages2173-4). 
Is the total Australian Government assistance available to the States for Community Health Centres and Women's Refuges $64.9m in 1976-77. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Health. He will recall that recent Press statements have alleged that pathologists' incomes have more than doubled in a year because of kick-back payments to general practitioners which encouraged these doctors to overutilise pathology services at public expense. I ask the Minister: As these allegations are of a very serious nature and seem to involve millions of dollars of public funds, will he assure the House that the final report of the working party examining pathology services, due I trunk in December last, will be tabled in this House? Can he also assure the House that the second annual report of Medibank due to be tabled shortly will contain relevant information about doctors' incomes so that the Parliament and the public can assess the truth of these allegations? 

 - Mr Speaker, I give notice of my intention to present on general business Thursday No. 14, a Bill for an Act relating to the prevention of pollution of the marine environment. 
Federalism 
-The atmosphere this evening seems nice and relaxed, with very few fans on the benches and even fewer in the galleries. So one can be excused for not making a violent speech but for musing on the problems facing us. I will be interested to read in  Hansard  tomorrow what the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  said. I feel it is a bit of a dream. I may be wrong; I may have missed part of the logic. Certainly the point about purchasing annuities is already good socialist philosophy. In our terms it is called a national superannuation fund. One pays for it while one earns, and gets it back when one retires. The only problem is that that does not necessarily give one a lot of funds to spare. It does not really allow one to drop all that much in taxes because, after the scheme has been in force for a time, the stage is reached at which people need to be paid back their money. If there is any inflation- there is likely to be- the annuity has to be at a higher rate than the rate at which they contributed. So I do not think it is quite as simple as the honourable member said. I may have missed some of the logic. I shall read  Hansard  carefully before I completely dismiss the suggestion. I thought there was something missing. The Queen, in her Speech, said: 
Australia has experienced economic difficulties in recent years; my Government has given first priority to restoring the economy and will use all the resources at its disposal to achieve this goal. 
That is very good. The Government acknowledges that we are in economic difficulties. I say that because the Government wrote the Speech. If one is in difficulties, I guess the first thing one has to do is to assess the problem. The Government's assessment of the problem is that 'the prosperity of the Australian people depends on the strength of its productive private sector, on its manufacturing, mining and rural industries'. I take it that that is a concession that there is something sick in the state of the private sector. If it were all right we would not have our problems. Hence that statement. The Speech continues: 
My Government is providing incentives and encouragement to the private sector, and is reducing its own relative demands on national resources so that private industry may have room to grow, provide employment and increase the well-being of all Australians. 
That is marvellous. This is a private enterprise economy. I am tempted to ask: If it is private and if it is enterprising why is it necessary for the Government, a sort of socialist arm of society, to provide incentives and encouragement to the private sector? Why is private enterprise unable to get itself going? The truth is that in this country private enterprise has been neither private not enterprising for the last 50 years. In fact, enormous props are provided by the Government for the private sector. 
Let us discuss the moves taken by the Government to encourage the private sector. One recent move was devaluation. It was based on the simple proposition that among other things devaluation decreases the cost of Australian manufactured goods to buyers in other countries. That is good. That means that other people elsewhere will be keener to buy our goods. So we earn more money; we export more. That is the theory. In an article in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of 1 December a gentleman by the name of Clive T. Edwards wrote: 
The 1 7.5 per cent devaluation of the dollar is a bird of ill omen for manufacturing industry in Australia. 
Most Australian manufacturing firms are highly protected from import competitions by tariffs, import restrictions and other barriers to imports. By making imports dearer - 
That is what devaluation does- the devaluation will allow these firms to raise the price of their goods by some 1 7 to 20 per cent. 
That is funny. That was not what was supposed to happen. That is what this Clive T. Edwards claims will happen. That means that the firms increase their prices. They can obviously make more profit. That is why they are there. I am not necessarily grizzling about it. I want to pursue the logic of the private enterprise system. Devaluation enables them to raise their prices because they are selling whatever they can hope to sell overseas anyway. They can just bump up the price a bit. The overseas companies still pay the same amount, in essence. The home company earns more in Australian dollars because of the trick of devaluation. That increases the cost on the Australian market. That is not all. The article also states: 
But most manufacturing firms depend heavily on imported inputs . . . The price of these inputs will rise some 17 to20 per cent . . . 
The increase in the price of imports will add significantly to inflationary pressure. 
I thought the point of all this exercise was to encourage private enterprise. One of the reasons for doing it was to control inflation. There is an inherent illogicality in it if this gentleman, who is a senior lecturer in economics at the Australian National University, knows what he is talking about. Presumably he does. 
The Minister mumbled: 'Maybe he does not know'. That is all very well. He is one of those people who advise us in Treasury and everywhere else. So the increase in the price of imports will add significantly to inflationary pressures. I notice that the Minister is mumbling away that that is all nonsense. Maybe, but let us see if that is what is happening. The article continues: 
But this is not all. The devaluation adds to the profits earned in the industries which play a crucial role in the determination of award wage rates . . . 
This in turn is going to encourage increases in wages. We have a funny theory in this country that as profitability of private enterprise goes up everybody should share in it, including the workers. So if the profitability of an industry goes up the wages in that industry go up. That is what the whole arbitration system is about. No one up till now has grizzled about that proposition. So the very move we have taken to try to control inflation, namely devaluation, is going to increase the cost for the manufacturing sector; it is going to increase the profits of those particular sections that are the pace setters in wage fixing. So therefore wages are going to go up which of course will flow across the board and increase the cost for everybody else. 
I am not arguing against wage increases. I am just pursuing the logic as put by a gentlemen who ought to know and who writes in defence of this private enterprise system. He concludes: 
On balance, devaluation itself provides little net gain to manufacturing firms. 
But there is more. First, devaluation will be accompanied by supplementary policies. In particular, credit will have to be kept tight if there is to be any semblance of an antiinflationary policy. Interest rates will therefore be high and will rise over time. 
The incentive to invest - 
And here comes the rub- in the expansion of manufacturing activities will be small because the cost of borrowing will rise . . . 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcom Fraser)  said he was trying to encourage the private sector to expand, but the effect of what he has done is going to inhibit that expansion. The article continued: 
A decision further to restrain Government spending will exacerbate the depressed state of consumer demand. 
This is because the private sector will not be able to borrow as a result of interest rates being too high. Therefore it will not be able to invest and as a consequence it will not be able to build new factories. The only area in which we will get things built will be in the public sector. 
Honourable members will recall that the Prime Minister in the speech he gave to the Queen suggested that we need to cut down on the resources allocated to the public sector so that we can encourage the private sector. The author of the article says that that decision will further exacerbate the depressed state of consumer demand. That is not a mystery. If we spend public money on public works the money is used by the private sector. The private sector builds schools; it builds hospitals, and supplies the equipment and everything. In other words, this so called inhibiting of public spending, the terrible extravagances that the last Labor Government indulged in, the sort of waste of public money that this present Liberal Government is going to contain, control and restrict means that in fact action controlling public spending is harming the private sector. It was nonsense to suggest that the public sector had too much of the resources because the resources inevitably flowed from the private sector itself when it did work required for the public sector. The article in commenting on the question about the other effects of devaluation stated: 
Second, the devaluation will provide a substantial boost to the rnining industry. 
That is lovely. We have been told that that is what we need. The author of the article then puts forward a note of caution when he states: 
Added to the concessions extended to the mining industry in the Budget, the devaluation provides a substantial stimulus. 
That seems good. The article continues: 
For the manufacturing sector, this spells disaster. Capital inflow associated with mineral projects will improve the balance of payments, which was in deficit for speculative, capital account reasons only. 
In other words, money dealers were trying to make money out of us. The article continues: 
In the longer term, the stimulus to mineral sector output most of which is exported, will add to the balance of payments surplus. Australia 's international reserves will rise dramatically, and the Government of the day will be forced to appreciate the dollar or reduce barriers to imports. 
There is the rub. The article continues: 
Manufacturers would naturally expect the Government to revalue rather than reduce tariffs and import restrictions 
. Mining firms and rural interests are now more fully aware of the impact of high import barriers on their earnings. They will press for tariff cuts rather than revaluation. 
In other words, these crucial parts ofthe private sector are at war with one another. What helps the mining sector defeats the manufacturing sector and  vice versa.  Of course, the rural sector is squeezed in the middle anyway. The article continues: 
In the future there will be growing pressure for tariff cuts in preference to revaluation as Australia's balance of payments improves. As tariffs and import restrictions are lowered, manufacturers will feel the pressure of Asian competition far more acutely than they have in the past. 
On balance, the manufacturing sector will suffer severely as a result of this devaluation ... If the Government succeeds in restraining inflation in the longer term, manufacturers will suffer as a result of a substantial up-valuation of the Australian dollar - 
In other words they do not win whichever way it goes- as the mineral sector expands. 
This is because the mining sector will earn the money. The article continues: 
If the Government fails to restrain inflation, manufacturers will be brought to their knees through massive cost increases. Regardless of what happens, there is no joy in devaluation for manufacturers. 
As long as the manufacturing sector remains depressed, unemployment - 
Which is a bit of an aside- will remain high. 
The Government has not taken much notice of unemployment. In other words, in summary, the joyous news for the productive private sector is that revaluation will give a short term gain- very short- which will lead to increased costs of production due to higher costs of necessary imports. At the same time the short term profit increases will prompt increases in award wages. The point is that the gains from revaluation will be short term only and while profits go up in that short term it will prompt wage increases. In the longer term costs to the manufacturing sector will go up with wages and increased costs of imports and so they suffer the pinch. I will not repeat all of that argument. So long as this pressure remains on the manufacturing sector unemployment will persist or even increase. Prices will continue to go up and things will just go from bad to worse. That is not my theory. That is what is happening. That is what the erudite gentleman was talking about. He gave us observations of what is happening. 
We are faced with the position that the recession that the Government while in Opposition claimed we caused is still with us. The  Australian Financial Review  of 4 March in an article entitled The Recession That Will Not Go Away' stated: 
In 1 977 no economy is an island. 
Although this is a self-evident truth it is one which is often ignored in the public debate about economic strategies in Australia. 
Indeed, in the last election the coalition parties successfully ridiculed claims by the Labor Party that external factors had been a major contributing cause to the high level of inflation. 
Having adopted such an approach on the hustings it is a little difficult for the present Government to turn around and blame the rest of the world for its problems at the moment. 
But that is precisely, of course, what it is trying to do. So what of the future? On 29 December 1976 an article entitled 'Economic forecast: gloomier' written by Kenneth Davidson appeared in the Melbourne  Age.  The author of the article referred to the economic outlook of the Organisation for Economic Co-Operation and Development. The article stated that the 7 major members of the OECD were expected to have an annual growth rate of 4.75 per cent. These countries included Britain, France and so on. The OECDs December forecast of growth rate was not 4.75 per cent but 3.5 per cent. This was insufficient to take up the growth in the work force of member countries; in other words despite the increase, unemployment increased. Before devaluation the OECD team studied the Australian economy and said that while this Government's policies would lead to a reduction in inflation this alone would not result in the recovery of economic growth. The article went on: 
Implicit in this report was the suggestion that the Government would have to undertake expansionary policies early in the new year if growth of 4 per cent in 1976-77 was to be achieved. 
That is the exact opposite of what this Government was trying to do or was wanting to do. According to the article, because this sort of claim or argument was similar to the policy advocated by the Government's critics, the Government insisted that it be removed from the final draft of the report. The Government is allowed to doctor the report. That is beaut! It is not in the report; so maybe we will not hear about it. But we do hear about it. The idiocy of that move is that the Government is fooling itself. It does not want to face realities; so it rubs out the uncomfortable evidence. The article continues:  the OECD estimates that Australia will achieve a growth rate of only 3 per cent in 1976, and an estimated 3.2S per cent in 1977. 
According to Davidson, if this forecast is correct -it is happening before our eyes right nowunemployment will continue to rise during 1977. He said that in December 1976. That is what is happening now. The article continues: 
The view expressed privately by members of the OECD secretariat in Paris is that devaluation will provide only a temporary stimulus to domestic demand, and that this will be more than counterbalanced by loss of business confidence as a result of the acceleration in inflation which will set back the prospect of a stable recovery by at least a year. 
So the whole problem grinds on and gets worse and worse. According to the article, we are looking for all sorts of straws in the wind to help us get out of our mess. We hope that our primary products will sell more easily, but the report suggests that the recent fall in food grain prices is not likely to be reversed in the very near future. We are told that commodity prices, particularly for minerals and metals, are likely to be soft. That is a gentle way of saying that they will be depressed or low, or that we will not get as much as we would like for them. Internationally traded meat prices, particularly for beef, are expected to remain depressed. 
I am not quoting all this just to poke a finger at the Government. I said that I wanted to muse a little, and I do. The editorial in the  Australian Financial Review  of 4 March points out that the expected growth for last year has not been achieved anywhere. It looks as if it will be worse than expected. In fact it is worse than even the pessimists had forecast. That is the position in America and most other countries. The Mitsubishi Bank says that the economy of Japan seemingly headed up several times towards recovery but has run out of steam and even now is unable to set itself firmly on the road to recovery. I am simply quoting all this to suggest that there is something wrong in the basic logic behind the moves to control inflation. What we are really doing is simply maintaining a state of affairs in which we have massive unemployment, we still have inflation and we merrily pursue the same policies. I think it is time the Government had a very serious rethink. It is wrong in its present course. 
-Does the Minister for Health support the rigorous evaluation of the qualifications and experience of salaried specialists before they can be appointed to practise in Canberra hospitals? If so, how can he justify supporting the present practice at these hospitals which allows any doctor registered in the Australian Capital Territory to work in them with full and unsupervised privileges without rigorous evaluation of their qualifications and experience? Is this practice of allowing such unsupervised medical practice in Canberra hospitals in keeping with a proper concern for high quality health care in these hospitals or for that matter in any public hospitals in Australia? 
-The community's need for health insurance stems from the nature of illness and its unpredictability, coupled with the very high costs of medical care. In that situation insurance is a method of pooling the risks and the costs, to protect the individual at a time of great need. Insurance in this field is not new. Under the previous Liberal Government's voluntary health insurance system we had experienced government moves in this field which had sprung from previous moves in the community dating back many years- moves to get a comprehensive insurance system to cover illness. The Liberal Government's comprehensive health system was unsatisfactory at best, and inequitable, inefficient and the cause of great hardship to many people at worst. In case honourable members think that is just my imagination, I will quote from the findings of the Liberal Government's inquiry into health insurance as published in what has come to be known as the Nimmo report of 1969. The committee found that the operation of the health insurance scheme was unnecessarily complex and beyond the comprehension of many, that the benefits received frequently were much less than the real costs of treatment, whether hospital or medical treatment. It found that contributions were often beyond the capacity of some members of the community and involved considerable hardships for others. Further, it found that the rules of the organisations allowed disallowance of some claims for conditions that had not been perceived by the would-be patients beforehand and the result was that this disallowance caused serious and widespread hardship. It was also found that the level of reserves of these organisations was unnecessarily high and, incidentally, their administrative costs were also found to be unnecessarily high. I claim that all of these things that were found by the Nimmo Committee to be wrong with the Liberal Government's voluntary health insurance system up to 1969 would be found to be wrong with the present Liberal Government's Medibank scheme. 
Because of the failings set out in the Nimmo Committee report the Labor Government campaigned on, and finally succeeded in introducing, Medibank in July 1975 to provide universal health insurance in an efficient, equitable and comprehensive manner. This was achieved despite Liberal Party opposition at every step of the way. The Liberals claimed the scheme would be too expensive and open to abuse. What has been the result? Let me quote from an article by Philip Conford which appeared in the  Australian  of 2 February 1976. He stated: 
None of the calamities which doctors and private medical funds predicted for Medibank have happened. After six months of infancy, Medibank has proven that it works. 
While Medibank has given health protection to an extra one million people who didn't have it before, the stampede of patients which was to have ground doctors under foot- so excruciatingly and repeatedly predicted by the Australian Medical Association and the funds- has not eventuated. 
Nor has the public and private hospitals system broken down. If it has failed to function in some areas- out-patients in New South Wales and elective surgery in Victoria- it is because the doctors have withdrawn their services while they haggle over money. 
Doctor-patient relationships appear not to have run into any of the trumpeted foul-ups. 
The article went on to state: 
If Medibank has had failures, it has been in not winning over a large percentage of doctors who still retain an obstinate dislike for the system despite the fact that it has raised doctor incomes. 
The article continues: 
In extreme cases, this has led to deliberate abuse and cheating. In fact, while pre-Medibank it was the doctors predicting that patients would abuse and over-use the system, actual practice has shown that almost all the abuses have come from doctors, albeit a very small number of them. 
The public, which was rather shamefully expected to bludge on the system, has remained honest. 
In other words, the intention to provide the automatic cover for everyone was achieved with a minimum of confusion and with no dramatic increase in services and hence in costs due to abuse by patients. 
The Liberals' criticisms and claims of excessive expense and abuse were further refuted by evidence in the second annual report of the Health Insurance Commission which was tabled in Parliament on 22 February 1977. Medibank under-spent by $156m in 1975-76. Total payments were $l,288m, and administrative costs amounted to $53m. This means that the administration expenses of Medibank accounted for only 4 per cent of the total pay-out. This was a very marked improvement on the private funds which had had administration expenses ranging from 12 per cent to 20 per cent. According to the report, there was no dramatic increase in services and hence in costs due to abuse by patients. The report did not draw attention to this sort of abuse at all, but it pointed out that doctor abuse had occurred under the previous system and under the Medibank system. On this question of abuse the report pointed out that a number of cases had been referred to the Commonwealth Police. The Commission said that it decided to refer all cases of reported abuse to the police. Eight of those cases involved doctors and sixteen involved members of the public. 
When we consider the number of practising doctors treating patients on a private fee for service basis- not all the doctors in the community would be in this category because obviously many of them are salaried doctors- and bear in mind that the ratio of patients to doctors is of the order of one doctor to about 1000 patients, we can appreciate that a disproportionate number of doctors is cheating the system. 
A topical example of this very issue is found among pathologists. Let me quote from a letter signed by the Vice-President of the Royal College of Pathologists of Australia, which was published in the  Age  on 15 February. The letter stated: 
For more than 10 years- 
Long before Medibank was introduced- the college has been very actively concerned about various abuses and possible financial 'kickbacks' occurring in the practice of pathology in Australia . . . 
This has nothing to do with patients- just doctors. The letter continues: 
The escalating costs of pathology are contributed to by many factors, not the least of which are over-use and abuse of this essential and often life-saving service. 
The patients cannot over-use the service. It depends on doctors referring patients for this treatment. So that is saying that it is the fault of the doctor, not of the patients. This letter was in response to an  Age  editorial entitled 'Pathological profiteering' published on 14 February 1977. The editorial mentioned some of the techniques. I will just mention some of them. One is false claims for tests of services that had not been performed. Another is the practice of some pathology laboratories offering inducements and rebates to general practitioners as an encouragement to them to order batteries of expensive but unnecessary tests. The editorial says that evidence of this double racket is formidable and disturbing. It also mentions the excessive fees which are charged by pathologists for services mostly performed by laboratory assistants using automative equipment. In fact, I have received a letter on this matter which I would like to read because I think it is very illuminating. The gentleman who wrote the letter states: 
Recently it became necessary for me to have pathology tests carried out, upon receiving my account I discovered another account - 
Copies of which he enclosed in his letter- had accidentally been enclosed in the same envelope and to my surprise my account was ... 1  Vh  per cent dearer for every item. 
This was for identical items. The letter continued: 
When I questioned the difference in the accounts with the Pathologist's staff I was asked what fund I was in, to which I replied it was none of their concern, however I realised that they were already aware that I belonged to Multicover as my GP asked the question when rilling in the Pathologist's form. The Pathologist's staff then informed me that I needn't worry as the fund would fully reimburse me which proved to be correct . . . 
This gentleman says that he noticed when he got his refund back that in one column under HCF there was an amount that had been charged to the other patient and in another column the extra charge made to him which was covered by his multicover. His letter continued: 

 Sir, when I joined multicover, it was to cover myself and family for additional out-of-pocket expenses that occur, at no time did I imagine or intend that I would be contributing to a doctor's over award payment scheme . . . 
That is in essence what the present scheme has now turned out to be. What has the Government done about these blatant abuses which were revealed by the working party on pathology back in April 1976? Not very much. I would like again to quote from the  Age  editorial. It pointed out: 
But efforts to curb more serious racketeering have been inadequate, in effective or tardy. Admittedly, policing the proliferation of pathology tests will not be easy . . . 
The editorial went on to state: lt is also true that any health insurance scheme- 
Private or otherwise; this has nothing to do with Medibank- where the patient does not pay directly, or fully, is open to abuses. But the Government's Medibank changes have obviously not eliminated such malpractices. Indeed, the diffusion makes it harder for health authorities to keep a computer check on doctors who appear to be responsible for excessive claims. 
This is really the heart of the problem. The Government's changes to Medibank- changes which were trumpeted so loudly as being necessary to prevent such abuse- have not eliminated this malpractice. In fact what they have done has been to make it almost impossible to detect such abuses. I contrast this with the original Labor Medibank scheme for which statistics would have been readily available and which would have helped to detect these deficiencies. It would have enabled the ready establishment of a peer review system. It would have provided a forecasting of needs or an assessment of changing needs for health resources in both the developing and older areas. It would have raised the standards of the planning process. It would have enabled better monitoring of health care costs. All of this has now gone by the board largely because of the meddling with Medibank which has now resulted in a diffusion of the statistics all over the place- in Medibank and the private funds. So now it will not be possible to get a quicker and accurate assessment of the situation. 
The reality for the Australian community is that the Government's Medibank monster is a costly monument to the obsession of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to prevent what he calls 'the socialisation of medicine'. By this he seems to mean reducing the Government's responsibility for the health care costs of the community.  His  concern with socialisation seems to imply that Labor's Medibank scheme suddenly brought in government subsidised health care. This is just nonsense. The reality is that the Government has been funding and will continue to fund the vast majority of the nation's health care bill. In 1974-75 the public sector funded 70 per cent of all the health care expenditure in the country. That was before the introduction of Medibank. This year the public sector's share is likely to continue to rise despite the Prime Minister's meddling with Medibank. In other words, the real motive behind the Medibank mutilation was to reduce the Commonwealth's share of health expenditure. The fact that the Government's meddling raised the total cost of health care to each and every Australian was of no concern to the Government. The  Age  in an editorial in August 1976 described the results of the Prime Minister's surgery as an emasculation of Medibank. It pointed out that the Medi-maze simply grows more complicated every day and that people have to sit down with a computer to work out what they might or might not get. It went on: 
All of which provokes the question: What will be left of Medibank by October 1? A dismembered corpse, in all likelihood. A shadow of the universal health insurance scheme which Labor introduced. The Minister for Health,  Mr Hunt,  insists that this is not the case. He maintains that far from dismantling Medibank, the Government has improved it by offering people a choice of health insurance. The evidence all seems to point the other way. 
An editorial in the  Sydney Morning Herald  on 29 September 1976 condemned the Government in the following terms: 
Medibank Mark II, which will come into operation on Friday, must be considered the most notable political and administrative ineptitude of the present Federal Government 's first year in office. 
It went on to give some of its reasons: 
Its complexity replaces the simplicity of Medibank Mark I, and that alone is a step backward, not forward. 
Medibank Mark I was the Labor scheme. The present scheme does not provide genuine choice because people still have to insure one way or another. That is forcing a lot of people out of Medibank into the arms of the private sector. It was claimed that 50 per cent of people would be forced out of Medibank. In fact between 50 and 70 per cent have been forced out back into the arms of the private funds. Nor is there any doubt that in future most Australians will pay through the nose for their health insurance. In fact that editorial concludes that when you consider all these propositions and the meddling of the Government that there is a strong case, because of the increase in the cost to the individual, to suggest that people should not insure themselves at all. It states: 
There is a great deal to be said for paying the levy, getting only basic Medibank cover in return, and paying for all extras ... out of their own pockets. For these extras will attract a measure of tax-deductibility, whereas the premiums will not. 
That is a monstrous situation. The whole point of the exercise was to provide a comprehensive system of health insurance. Yet the newspapers- I think responsibly, because they could hardly claim to be supporters of the Labor Party- in assessing what has gone on have come to the conclusion that it may be better for people financially to opt out of the whole system if they can or to take the minimum, just pay the Medibank levy and pay their private fees. That is a exact negation of the whole concept of comprehensive health insurance. It is confirmation of the fact that the Government's meddling with the system has destroyed the basic concept. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Can the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs inform the House why the application for incorporation in the Australian Capital Territory made by the Preterm Clinic last year has still not been approved? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 16 March 1977: 
Are children with below-the-elbow or below-the-knee amputations eligible for the Handicapped Child Allowance. 
-Debates on questions of immigration always worry me because for many years we of course accepted the proposition that we had to populate or perish. I say that we all accepted that. I am not picking a fight with anyone on the Government side, because the Austraiian Labor Party played a significant part in promoting the approach that we needed to increase our migration after the war. We certainly have had a dramatic increase in population because of migration. A lot of claims have been made that the country has prospered because of the success of the program. If the point of the exercise was to increase the population I cannot argue. It certainly has been a success. But I wonder on what grounds the assumption is made that the standard of living of the community has been raised specifically by immigration. I know one respect in which as far as I am concerned the standard has been improved and which I enjoy, namely, the crossfertilisation of different cultures and the sorts of foods one could never get. But that is not quite the point I am trying to make. 
One can live on plain bread and butter and ordinary meat without the sorts of diets that one has learned to assimilate from our migrants. We could have subsisted on the usual Australian diet and still be very well off. The point is that during this period of rapid growth we have had lots of problems; for example, the migrants have been largely ignored, which is a rather sad thing, by all of us. The Minister frowns. I suggest that it took a long time for the Australian community really to accept them. I speak with some feeling because my parents were migrants. They came here a long time ago, but I was conscious that the attitudes they had to suffer persisted right up until I was an adult. So when one comes to weigh up the advantages to Australia one should not be too glib about assuming that all the advances, or an enormous proportion of the advances in our standard of well-being, have been due to immigration. 
The inadequacy of our schools and the inadequacy of education for migrants have only recently been taken up by the Australian Labor Party, and the present Government is now pursuing them. I am not picking a fight with anybody on the Government side about this but I wish to make the point that to overcome what I claim to have been a decrease in the standards has required a massive effort on our part at a time when we were in fact slowing migration. The Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  during his remarks on 30 March last year and again recently made some other observations on which I would like to comment. For example, in his speech in March last year, 1 2 months ago, he pointed out: 
One of the inevitable consequences of that approach - 
He is referring to doing nothing about maintaining population growth. This is another point we have to face. Our population growth is tending to zero. He went on:   . . that is, if present fertility and mortality trends continue, is that our population will age. 
By implication, according to the Minister, this will increase the burden on those of working age and far from improving our standards of living and improving the quality of life will lead to the opposite result. This assumes a static approach to the whole question of retirement and embraces without analysis a number of contradictions. Why should we have such a rigid view of retirement? Why should 75-year olds not work if they want to do so? Why should we assume that they all have to become dependent on the rest of the community once they turn 65 years and retire? At the same time, and this is what I mean by contradiction, there is a growing pressure in many countries for lower retiring ages, not necessarily for the benefit of the aged but so that they can move off the stage to make way for the young who cannot find jobs. Again I am discussing ideas. I am not trying to make political points. I think that we on this side of the House may well be as unaware of these points as are honourable members opposite and the whole community. I think that this is a significant question which we should ask ourselves. 
Is it better for the 50 to 60 year olds to continue to hang on to their jobs for fear that if they do not they will be considered a burden on society because they have retired, whilst at the same time a number of under 50 year olds are unable to find jobs although genuinely wanting to work and have to suffer the indignity of being under suspicion as 'dole bludgers'- the very problem that we have in growing proportions today? In fact a distressingly large proportion of the unemployed are the young people who have never had jobs. They are becoming increasingly dispirited because they are finding it increasingly difficult to find jobs. We had the prospect of one Premier suggesting that a way out might be to lower the retiring age for public servants because he wanted to do something for the young who have their lives before them. In essence he was condemning the old to the scrapheap. I am not saying that it was a malicious intention but it is something that we need to worry about. 
Whichever way one looks at it, on the assumptions that are made, whether by the Minister or by anyone else, along the lines I have just suggested, there is pain for someone. 
I am assuming no growth in jobs because that is what the situation has been over the last 12 months or so in this country, or it h&amp; been a negligible increase compared with the population increase. Sadly, this looks as though it is the plight of many advanced Western countries, not just Australia. I am not blaming anyone. It is a fact of life. Someone is not pulling his weight. Someone is not showing the drive, the initiative and the energy which we are led to believe from the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  we should expect- from others. The Minister goes on to mention how this aging population will 'require the transfer of resources away from education and training and investment in productive processes to the needs of a proportionately increasing population of aged persons'. That is a limited, narrow, ungenerous assumption, in my view, both of the supposed needs of the aged and of the meaning of education, training and productive processes. Surely we will still need investment in education, training and productive processes in order to help the aged- I am getting close to that category- to retire gracefully because society requires them to do so, as I suggested earlier, for the benefit of the young who are being stifled. This will require continuing education and training to help increasing numbers to cope with the discontent and frustrations they might otherwise feel. I could go on in this way. The point I want to make is that it is tied in with the population problem. One of the arguments put forward in this whole immigration argument is that we need the migrants because that is the only way to get young people to help to support the old people. It implies that all old Australians are going to be literally old and on the scrapheap and are going to be kept by young migrants from overseas. I think that that is nonsense. We need to look at the argument more carefully. 
I will leave that for a moment. That is a question which I cannot answer and I am not going to pretend to answer it. I think that we need to inquire into it a lot more. 
It youngs up the population but, whether or not it youngs it up, we still have the increasing problem of more people living longer and having to retire because younger people want jobs. A large number of young people are unemployed. Even assuming that 50 per cent of them are dole bludgers, that still leaves 1 50 000 people who cannot find jobs. That is a lot of people, and yet the Government is still talking about immigration. It mystifies me. If we want people to do jobs why not train our own people who are here right now? Surely that would be cheaper. We should train them to do the jobs that need doing because for a variety of reasons they can no longer do the jobs they were doing. I accept that an enormous proportion may be dole bludgers. I do not want to argue about that. I am talking about the few who want jobs and cannot get them. 
Now let me turn to another aspect. I suggest that the Minister answers the wrong question when he says that nobody can reasonably argue that there is any prospect that Australia itself will become over populated in the long term. I could even dispute that assumption but for the sake of argument I want to observe simply that it is the short term that worries me. The world may already be perilously over populated and if nothing is done about world population now there may be no long term for anyone anyway. Thus the question we must ask ourselves is what we can do to help resolve the world population problem. I agree that we cannot solve the population pressures of any other country by taking migrants in large numbers- it would have to be very large numbers- from any one country that is suffering these problems. But we cannot absolve ourselves from all responsibility simply by saying that these problems must be solved by the countries and peoples themselves. 
It is true that we are travelling in first class cabins on space ship earth and that the over populated countries are travelling steerage, but we are all on board the one ship and we cannot get off. If over population problems lead to excessive pollution, excessive use of resources, mass starvation, social unrest and disorder, plagues and panic, then we cannot escape the consequences. The pollution will not recognise national borders or even ocean barriers as the winds and tides envelop the whole earth. Excessive use of resources in one area with persistence of demand prompts attempts to plunder other areas. Ironically we must admit that in terms of resource use it is the over developed countries such as the United States of America, Canada, Australia or a number of the advanced countries of Europe which have reached the stage of over use of resources in their own area and are now busy trying to plunder other areas, usually underdeveloped countries. Of course, we do not see it as plunder but as trade and development. 
We never ask the real question: Whose development? Clearly the resources use is continuing to go up in the over fat, rich countries and with the benefit of 'trade' some few people in the underdeveloped, poor countries are getting very rich but the vast majority of the population of the poor countries is getting poorer. Even if we could overcome this fraud and successfully promote the development of the poor countries with their massive populations and the inevitable massive increase in population which would inevitably take place with the beginning of social improvement and with no other help from us, it would simply mean that they too would quickly run out of resources and need to look elsewhere. But where would they look? So we might find ourselves directly involved in a fight for resources. By then we would have perceived the idiocy of feeling pleased that other countries want our resources in ever increasing quantities, as the Government now appears to react, in an utterly immature, blind and short term selfish fashion. Of course, such plunder of resources might be very good right now for the few who own them- increasingly overseas corporations anyway, as far as the average Australian is concerned, whether he perceives that fact or not. But it will not be good even for my children for the expected term of their lifetime. I could go on. How can we escape the effects of mass starvation, social unrest, disorder and so on anywhere in the world? In our own selfishness we are being blind to the fact that the whole human race is one, that biologically, in ecological survival terms, we are artificially and ineffectually divided into sovereign states. Man invented states, not nature. Man cannot break a basic law of nature- the immutable interdependence of nature, of which man is but a part. The point is that we cannot just seek to push for our own development in this selfish fashion, recognising that we have a lot of unemployed that we cannot accommodate, that we have an increasing aged population, that somehow they will have to survive on social welfare and that we will have to maintain our own productive sections of the community by bringing in trained migrants. There is a terrible immorality in that. If we were moral in this question of trying to save the underprivileged and the poor we would open our gates to the limit of our productive capacity for the people in the underdeveloped countries who have no skills, who if they stay in those countries are likely to starve to death. But is that what we offer to do? Not on your life. We, one of the richest countries in the world, seek to plunder the human resources of underdeveloped countries. We seek to take their skilled workers with pleasure to help us out of our problems but we deprive them of the skilled workers which they need if they are ever going to get out of the plight they are in. Is that morality? Is that progress? Is that the sort of thing that a nation like ours should be doing when it claims that it is trying to promote the welfare not only of its own citizens but also of the whole world, because we are part of the world? If we deprive India of its doctors, its teachers and so on- I will not include lawyers - 
Debate interrupted. 
My question is to the Minister for Health. Is it a fact that the funds made available for women's refuges in this financial year have been barely adequate for the maintenance of those refuges approved and supported by the Labor Government and that this has inhibited their development? Is it a fact that in view of the success of these centres there has been a dramatic increase in demands for the establishment of more of them and that a number in fact have been started up without any Government financial support? Can the Minister give the House an assurance that there will be either an increase in funding for these services to ensure the survival of those already established without Government financial support to date, or at least that there will be an increase in funding to compensate for the effects of inflation on the already inadequate funding provided this financial year for those refuges established before December 1975? 
-Will the Minister for Health confirm reports that the Federal Government has decided to approve health insurance benefits ranging from $128 to $245 per diagnosis for tomography, a new X-ray technique? If so, does this not open the door for massive over use of the new computerised X-ray equipment unless strict conditions on the use of tomography are laid down? Without strict conditions is there not a lucrative temptation to unscrupulous doctors to over-utilisation as proved to be the case in pathology testing with the advent of computerised technology? Does the Minister agree that this will mean skyrocketing health costs to the community in the long run as private entrepreneurs attempt to cash in on the massive profits from this area of radiology? 
I make a few comments on some of the points contained in the second reading speech of the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt).  I shall not cover all the aspects in the Bill. The first significant point is that the legislation is essentially an attempt to try to stop- so it is claimed- abuses under Medibank, particularly in the area of pathology services. So, the Minister recognises that the initiative for the rendering of unnecessary pathology services lies with the requesting practitioner. I repeat: The initiative for the rendering of unnecessary pathology services lies with the requesting doctor. Amen. I agree. I am glad the Minister and the Government have acknowledged that it is not the patients who initiate unnecessary services, but doctors. 
It is not the patients who are abusing Medibank because I have yet to see the patient who can go along to a doctor and say: 'I think I will have my appendix out next week.' It is the doctor who makes that sort of decision. The patient comes along complaining of a pain in the belly. The same principle applies to any form of treatment, by and large, of which we can think. The patient attends because he feels worried. That is the only indication a patient need have for attending a doctor. What happens after thatwhether the patient is sent home with a reassurance or a bottle of medicine, or admitted to hospital for a whole lot of expensive tests such as these pathology tests or finally an operationdepends solely on the clinical judgment of the doctor as to whether it is necesary. 
At last the Government is acknowledging something which I have been trying to say for a long time. The excessive services rendered under Medibank, everyone claims, are due in the main solely, I think, to doctors and not to patients. I think any patient has a legitimate right to attend a doctor if he feels worried. So, in order to try to police this excessive servicing or excessive pathology services which are rendered on patients, the doctors will have to give an account or a justification for ordering tests. The benefit will not be payable unless the doctor has determined it, the test has been done by an approved pathologist or pathology service, and the request by the doctor is in writing. To enable someone to check up on it later on that paper work has to be kept for 18 months, but I shall come to that later. It covers the possibility of verbal requests in emergencies. Those aspects have to confirmed in writing. All this information has to be kept for 18 months. It must be available for inspection by a group which I shall now dub the 'health police'. That is a new body which will be introduced. If they demand access to records, those records will have to be turned up. Failure to hold these records will be punishable. That is a typical Lib- . era Party approach to these matters. The way to stop anything is not to look into the reasons for it but to try to treat the symptoms by imposing penalties on whatever the symptoms might be. In this case if one can prove overuse by calling for the records one can do something to the person who initiated the overuse. But, by the time the health police get around to it, it will be a long time after the event. 
In my view it will be very easy for the referring doctor and the pathologist to confuse the issue. There is no doubt that records will be inadequate. It will be a very diffiicult job for the health police to prove that the services were in fact unnecessary. To try to get over the problem of bodgie pathology services we will have a new section which allows for the drawing up of common forms of undertaking to be given by persons who wish to become approved pathology practitioners. In other words, we will approve pathologists. I agree. We ought to approve of all members of the medical profession on the basis of peer review. Perhaps the Government will eventually come to that. At least this is a start and we welcome it. Those who are approved will have to adhere to an accepted code of conduct. Hopefully this will preclude the offering of all sorts of incentives to other doctors freely, for example, to recommend pathology services unnecessarily. That is all very well. I do not object to that. I quibble with the suggestion that bulk billing for pathology services will be stopped because that is one way of stopping this abuse. 
The Minister claimed that one of the problems in this situation of bulk billing was that no contact existed between the patient and the pathologist. I would like to suggest that when it comes to the rendering of fees there is not much contact between the patient and any doctor anyway. I think it is very rare for the patient to sign the appropriate voucher, even with his general practitioner, after the general practitioner has put in the details of the service for which Medibank will be bulk billed. I bet the common practice in the vast majority of cases is that the patient automatically signs a bit of paper. If honourable members say that the patient should not do that I agree with them. The fact is that we are all human and we are all rather timid before someone who to us appears to have a lot more authority. Very few patients, in my view, will ever ask a doctor to fill in the form beforehand. It is an unreasonable expectation of people as patients. So quite frankly, if the patient does not have the chance to vet the whole bill before signing it with the pathologist, I point out that the same difficulty prevails with every other medical service. I do not believe that this will really save very much. 
I have no comment to make about rip-offs. My colleague the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  went into that in relation to these large patient profiles offered by health clubs of all sorts. That is a rip-off which I suggest will occur not only with Medibank but also with private funds if they offer this same service. To confirm what I am saying, I point out that the Minister stated in his second reading speech: 
At present the Health Insurance Act provides for the establishment of medical service committees of inquiry . . . 
They will inquire into the:  possible rendering of excessive professional services which attract medical benefits payable by Medibank. 
Bully! We have had that for a long time. In fact, we had it before Medibank was introduced in respect of the pensioner medical scheme. Years ago, the government of the day- it was a LiberalNational Country Party Government- set up a committee to look into excessive rendering of services for pensioners, and some doctors were caught. This legislation acknowledges what I have again claimed all along, that is, that the abuses have nothing to do with Medibank. I have just mentioned that they applied to the pensioner medical scheme. This legislation will now extend to benefits payable by private medical benefit organisations. This is because the abuse has been going on in the private medical benefits fund area for years. The point about Medibank is that it has more easily enabled everyone to recognise that the abuse has been going on. When we start getting the statistics from the private health funds, we will obtain better confirmation. But thank goodness, the Government is not intending to wait for them. It has taken the hint and has recognised that it is happening anyway. So the legislation will encompass private funds without waiting for the statistics. 
The legislation will cover not only the usual medical services; this Bill permits pathology services to be covered as well. Certain penalties are provided if people break undertakings. For example, they can lose recognition as approved pathologists and so on and they may well be held responsible for paying back medical benefits paid out incorrectly. I think that may well prove to be difficult because this may be many months after the event. Once again, this new function of checking on whether referrals for pathology services have been abused will apply as with all other medical services. It will apply, as I said before, not only to Medibank patients but also to private medical benefit organisations. I am wary of the Government's recognising the Australian Medical Association as the only body to be consulted in choosing members who are to be appointed to appropriate committees. I do not know of an alternative group. I share the Minister's anxiety about dealing with the Society of General Practitioners. I must admit that I would not want to have much to do with that organisation. The Minister must also recognise that perhaps only 50 per cent of the medical profession belongs to the AMA. So I think it may be necessary for the Minister at times to consider people who are not recommended by the AMA but who may have come to the Minister's attention because they may be people doing worthwhile work in the field and who know something about the matter. In other words, the Minister should not be bound by what the AMA recommends. However, I am sure that the Minister will not be. 
In respect of abuses, the legislation states that failures will not become indictable offences, that penalties will be increased and so on. That is all very well if we take this sort of policeman approach. I do not think it will work but it may work marginally. There is a paragraph from the Minister's second reading speech which worries me. He states: 
By agreement between the prosecution and the defence and subject to the court being satisfied that it is proper to do so, less serious offences can be dealt with summarily by a lower court and a lower penalty imposed. 
I have noticed a trend in regard to the prosecution of people who are abusing the system. I do not know what penalties have been imposed on patients who, after all, have committed minimal offences. Usually, they have botted on the system for a very negligible amount of money. In some cases doctors have made hundreds of thousands of dollars in rip-offs. Yet none of those doctors has yet been penalised to an significant extent other that having to pay minor costs. The claim was made by one judge, as I recall it, that the doctor had suffered professionally. He got away with a couple of hundred thousand dollars in the process. He can afford to be a good boy in the future. I hope that the possibility of reducing penalties, if one wants to go for the penalty approach, will not be considered too frequently. I think that at least some of the abusing doctors need to be hit hard, if this is the approach one is to take. My view is that I think there is an alternative approach, and I will come to that later if I have time. 
As a more positive approach- I am now turning to what I want to talk about in this Bill- the Minister has indicated that clauses 13 and 18 will broaden the scope and purpose for which health program grants may be given. In the first place, the Bill will facilitate the establishment of health maintenance organisations and it indicates how 
Medibank patients can be covered. I want to consider the general proposition of health maintenance organisations. A lot of information has come from that well-known communist country, the United States of America. This is because it has these sorts of organisations. There are salaried doctors in that country. I should not say that too loudly; people will become worried. Salaried doctors are usually communist doctors. As I say, these organisations are fairly popular in the United States of America. They have been dubbed health maintenance organisations. I simply want to say to the Minister: Beware; analyse the literature carefully. Not all health maintenance organisations are successful. 
I will put it another way: Not all health maintenance organisations are communist. It is only the communist ones that are successful. Of course, I am exaggerating to make my point. I will put my remarks in less abrasive terminology so that members of the Liberal and National Country parties can better understand them. Honourable members opposite need not take my word for it. They can read the literature for themselves. The health maintenance organisations which provide a better service at a lower cost with a lower hospitalisation rate, a lower hospital utilisation rate, a lower operation rate and a lower mortality rate are the ones where the doctors are paid salaries. The health maintenance organisations where the doctors are paid on a fee for service basis are going bankrupt as quickly as the other benefit funds, unless they get up to all sorts of devious tricks to exclude people with chronic illness and so on so that finally the American Government picks up the tab with its medicare scheme for the underprivileged or the chronically ill. The same sort of thing could happen in this country also. Honourable members opposite should not be fooled. I applaud the encouragement of health maintenance organisations as long as we are aware of the fact that the key factor is this: An organisation with doctors, nurses, occupational therapists, social workers, home visitors, physiotherapists, pharmacists, dentists- the lot- is a comprehensive health care organisation where the staff, and that includes the doctors, are paid salaries to provide the service necessary. If we allow bastardised versions of the lay type- I say 'lay' because they are not professionals but non-medical professional members of these organisations- if we allow salaried doctors who are on a fee for service basis, it will not succeed. What incentive is there for the doctor to allow the other professional staff to treat a patient? If the doctor does not see the patient he does not get his fee. That is the incentive for over-utilisation. That is the reason why, if we have fee for service doctors in these units, the patients will have to go through the doctors. We will not save a damned thing. The strength of these organisations lies in the staff as a whole acknowledging that in certain circumstances patients do not have to see the doctor. The doctor is there to help the whole team look after the patient in the best possible way, which does not mean that the patient has to see a doctor on every occassion. That is just a little warning homily from me. 
The other provision authorises the payment of health program grants to enable the development and evaluation of new and improved health care delivery systems. I am very pleased that the Minister has read the draft health policy of the Labor Party, which was circulated a few weeks ago, because that is the very thing we are on to. It is time we got facts to back up my biased prejudiced claims about fee for service medical practice. We need to ask what is going on in the health care area, where the service is being provided, in what conditions and for what sort of demands, what is the basis of the staffing of whatever the system might be. The honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  made a lot of the abuses of Medibank and how Medibank encouraged over-use. But he had not read the Minister's speech, because that speech indicated that the legislation will cover the private health funds. The Labor Party did not invent the private health funds. It was a good Country Party member, I think,  Sir Earle  Page, who first introduced the concept of voluntary health insurance systems. I am not quarrelling with it. Medibank simply extended and tried to improve the efficiency of that system. We accepted it. Our motivation was based upon a very well known report which was not commissioned by us but by a Liberal government. The Nimmo report indicated the abuses and inefficiencies and inadequacies of the voluntary health insurance system. All that Medibank tried to do was to improve that system. 
The basic fault in all the health care systems in most of the Western countries is that no government thus far has approached the problem from the point of view of the provision of health services, health care. The approach has been from the point of view of how to pay for the services, irrespective of whether they have been necessary or not, irrespective of whether they have been good, bad or indifferent. We did not initiate this. If anyone is to blame it is this Government, but I am not blaming it. We have all fallen in. The approach has been: How do we pay for it? Let us set up a better insurance system. Comrades- if I may address honourable members opposite in that way, because their Government is guilty, as we were- you brought in the voluntary health insurance system. We tried to overcome its deficiencies by perhaps nationalising the health insurance system to make it more efficient. Honourable members opposite may quarrel with that, but the defect is that the health insurance system, subsidising the fee for service remuneration of doctors and others providing health services on a fee for service basis, inevitably encourages over-use, inevitably reduces and not improves health standards. There will be no measuring because with any measuring one finds a tendency to reduce the services. 
If I might conclude with a very eloquent illustration, some years ago in the 1950s the Royal Newcastle Hospital decided to look into the indications for operations. It decided that every bit of tissue removed had to be referred to a pathologist. The results were graphed and they found at the beginning that 10 per cent or 12 per cent of the tissue was normal. In other words, unnecessary operations were being performed. Simply by measuring and graphing, at the end of about 18 months the incidence of normal tissue removal had dropped to 3 per cent. That is my point. If we measure we will reduce unnecessary services. We will not get measuring techniques if we have fee for service because fee for service clearly cuts down on the services doctors can render. We reward doctors for treating patients, not for keeping them well, on a fee for service basis. 
I want to quote from the first Fox report where the commissioners mention that in considering the evidence they found:  that many wildly exaggerated statements are made about the risks and dangers of nuclear energy production by those opposed to it. 
I certainly agree with that. They continued:  what has surprised us more is a lack of objectivity in not a few of those in favour of it, including distinguished scientists . . . There is abundant evidence before us to show that scientists, engineers and administrators involved in the business of producing nuclear energy have at times painted excessively optimistic pictures of the safety and performance, projected or past, of various aspects of nuclear production. 
They go on: 
Ultimately, when the matters of fact are resolved, many of the questions which arise are social and ethical ones. We agree strongly with the view, repeatedly put to us by opponents of nuclear development, that, given a sufficient understanding of the science and technology involved, the final decision should rest with the ordinary man and not be regarded as the preserve of any group of scientists or experts, however distinguished. 
I agree entirely with that view. Let us go to the final recommendations by the Commissioners because I think that they have been grossly misinterpreted. The first 2 recommendations of the first report are identical in wording after each defines the area of recommendation; in other words, for mining and milling of uranium and for the ordinary operation of nuclear power reactors. The Commissioners say: 
The hazards - 
That is, the hazards for any of these activities-  if properly regulated and controlled, are not such as to justify a decision not to mine and sell Australian uranium. 
If properly regulated and controlled' is the key point. From this, in my view it depends on one's interpretation of 'hazard' as to whether one takes the simplistic view that uranium mining is safe or whether the anxieties surrounding all that flows from such mining, and in essence discussed in the bulk of the report and the subject of the remaining 13 recommendations, mean that the total hazards preclude mining. In the very next recommendation, No. 3, the Commissioners said that 'The most serious hazard associated with the industry'- that must mean mining as well as nuclear power reactors for, if not, what else?- 'is that the nuclear power industry is unintentionally contributing to an increased risk of nuclear war'. Recommendation 4 states that the regulation and control of mining is advised, not for the purpose of ensuring that it is just physically safe for the miners at the time, but 'for the purposes mentioned in chapter 16'. This chapter deals with wider issues and reads: 
The wider issues . . . arise out of grounds of opposition to the Ranger mining proposal. It was submitted that there were dangers associated with ... the production of power in reactors, that there were serious and unresolved problems concerning the disposal of radio-active wastes, that there were risks of terrorist theft and use of plutonium, and that there were increased risks of nuclear war flowing from nuclear proliferation. It was contended that the continuing development of the nuclear power industry would produce greater inequality - 
Not equality, but inequality-  between the developed and underdeveloped countries, and that this is, as well as being undesirable in itself, was likely to lead to increased international tension, lt was submitted that, taken alone, some of those matters constituted sufficient ground for not mining, and that taken together they certainly did so. 
The Commissioners are not necessarily agreeing with all that. They are simply stating that they were the issues raised. Then the Commissioners proceed to try to deal with them. In their assessment of the dangers inherent in the fuel cycle operations, whilst admitting that at present 'those risks provide no proper basis for a refusal on our part to supply the advanced industrial countries which are likely to be our customers', the Commissioners add a rider with an ominous ring: 
It is possible that, in the future, the operations of a nuclear power industry in a particular country, or the operation of those industries generally, will be found to be more hazardous than now appears. This could simply be the consequence of growth, but is more likely to be the result of information coming to hand as the result of further research and experience. 
We have had some examples of that recently and President Carter's reaction, but I shall come to that point again later. While disposal of low level wastes appears satisfactory at present, they could constitute a problem if supervision were relaxed or if the operation became too widespread, or the bulk too great. But surely this is inherent in the development of nuclear power. As it spreads, these dangers will increase. Then there is the problem of high level waste. Experiments have been going on but no one is yet satisfied about the techniques for the disposal of this high level waste. Even if the spent fuel rods, which now must be stored carefully, are eventually reprocessedthere is some doubt that this will be economically feasible- the problem will arise of what to do with the long lived radio-active constituents in the waste. In either case, storage is reasonably safe, not absolutely safe, provided care is taken and the ponds or tanks are kept in a secure location under regular observation. So the whole lot if ifs and buts go on. 
The Commissioners cannot dismiss the question of terrorism. They point out that while the risk is very small, if this practice were ever indulged in, it would constitute an appalling situation. They say that this risk of terrorism alone does not constitute a sufficient reason for Australia declining to supply uranium but it is an added reason for stringent controls. They go on to say: 
The most serious danger in our view is that of proliferation of nuclear weapons. 
The Commission feels this threat, despite the extensive precautions taken under the Treaty on the Non-proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and the International Atomic Energy Agency safeguards system, to an appropriate commentary on those 2 systems, one can only note  President  Carter's recent actions which tends to suggest that those 2 agreements probably are nowhere near as safe as we believed. In fact, Carter's action proved that they were not safe enough by a long chalk. So he is seeking to prove the precautions. Whether he will succeed remains to be seen. The Commissioners said: 
We mentioned earlier an argument that Australia should permanently refuse to supply uranium . . . 
They go on to suggest that in their view this threat to never supply uranium may not succeed in achieving the objective of cautioning the world and encouraging it to be more careful. They say: 
We are of the view that total renunciation of intention to supply is undesirable. 
The Commissioners state that without qualification. However, they are clearly in favour of temporary postponement of supply. Even if such action does not succeed in deterring other nations from embarking on a program of nuclear power development, at least some of the 'existing problems may be more satisfactorily resolved'. The Commissioners state: 
There is a possibility that during this period technological advances will reduce hazards to man and the environment, especially with regard to the treatment and disposal of highlevel radio active wastes. 
The Commissioners, whilst concluding that Australia 'should take the course which is determined to be the most effective and most practical in order to bring a favourable response from other states in relation to the proliferation problem', insist that 'if the mining and selling of uranium proceeds, it should be on a strictly controlled and regulated basis'. The Commissioners go on to point out many of the controls. Their second report does not relieve any of the anxieties that the first report raised for the would be miners. In fact some commentators suggest that it would enormously increase the cost and reduce the sales and profits. Yet the Commissioners comment: 
We see no escape from those disadvantages, serious though some of them may be, if Australia is to participate in the nuclear power industry with a due sense of responsibility to the people of the world and its own people. 
An argument was put to the Commissioners that once mining commences no government would have 'the strength to resist the pressures for its continuance and even expansion. ' I think this is a very serious difficulty. The Commissioners said: 
We believe that this is a serious consideration. If the argument is a sound one, then our proper course is to recommend against commencement. What seems to us to be vital is that a clear and firm statement of policy be made at the outset, supported, from the outset, by a strong system of control. If this is done, it is our hope and expectation that governments will be able to maintain effective control for the purposes we have mentioned. 
So in my view it is facile but dishonest to interpret the first and second recommendations as approval for mining to go ahead, which is what the Press did initially. The hazards involved, beyond the immediate technical hazards of mining and ordinary operation of nuclear power reactors, have not been resolved. These hazards associated with the nuclear industry may, singly, not be sufficient to suggest uranium should not be mined or exported, but taken together, as they must, they present an overwhelming case at least for postponement of these operations. True, each one is just a straw, but how many straws does one need to break the camel 's back? In no way can recommendation 3 or any of the following recommendations be seen as either unrelated to the first 2 recommendations, or supporting the contention that the first 2 recommendations mean mining and export of uranium by Australia should proceed without a full community debate on all the implications of nuclear power. As the Commissioners pointed out in their introduction, the questions which arise 'are social and ethical ones' and so the answers must evolve from discussion in which all sections of the community are involved, not just a small group of self-appointed experts. 
I conclude with some comments on the social and ethical considerations. We have heard a lot about the needs of the world for energy and so on and how, by depriving the world of nuclear power, we will be depriving the underdeveloped countries of great advantages. The sad fact, of course, is that the fruits of nuclear power development as it has been going on thus fargiven the escalating costs and so on, it is difficult to see how the picture will change- go to the developed countries and not to the underdeveloped countries. 
Let me tell a story to try to illustrate the basic anxieties I have. I remember talking to a nuclear physicist about this subject and raising with him my anxieties about nuclear power stations and so on. He said: 'I would live next door to a nuclear power station'. I was quite shocked. He could tell by the look on my face that I was shocked. I said: What do you mean?' He said: 'I think that it is technically possible to construct safe power stations and it is obviously technically safe to mine uranium if you engage in all the appropriate precautions'. He meant the sorts of things that the Fox report has recommended. I still looked very downcast. He went on to say: 'But that does not mean that I would recommend the mining of uranium. That does not mean that I would recommend the building of nuclear power stations'. 
I said: 'What are you talking about?' He said: The question is not the safety of the stations; it is mankind's future and mankind's needs and there are 2 factors. One is the hazards associated with the end products, such as the waste materials and the plutonium cycle'. He obviously shared the view of the Fox commissioners that these matters still represent a significant hazard that we are not yet sure we can control. All the ifs'- if we can control this, if we can control that and if we do something else- depend not upon the scientists but upon ordinary people and upon governments. 
They depend upon the security of the societies which use this technique. Someone asked: 'How about gunpowder?' One could burn all the gunpowder in the world and not do terribly much harm. Nuclear power is a different order of danger. We are depending for the safety, care and protection of the whole of mankind, by means of proper regulations, upon fallible human societies. We need to protect nuclear waste for a mere 250 000 years. Who would put money on any government surviving for 200 years yet alone 250 000 years? Can we be sure that 200 years from now the government of the United States will be a safe government that is dedicated to using and caring for the nuclear power industry in the way in which the present Government is dedicated? How about some of the tinpot countries- I shall not name themaround the world which are now eager to buy this technology? We are talking nonsense. 
What is the other worry? The other worry is the energy requirements. The nuclear power industry may forestall the crisis, if we are lucky, for 40 or 50 years, but what then? This is the second point that this scientist made. He said that mankind is mad because it is proceeding to use energy at a faster rate than is safe or it can produce with its present technology. The only really safe source is solar energy. To continue on this path using nuclear power to aid and abet our greed and our waste of energy resources is simply to put off the day when we will have to face the crunch. I disagree with the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  who spoke before me. If we decline to develop nuclear power now we will more readily recognise the limitations of energy facing mankind and face the problem sooner. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Much has been made by speakers on the Government side of the fact that the Labor Government, when it was in power, agreed to and sought to promote the export of uranium. That is true. The facts of the early 1960s and the facts of the early 1970s about uranium and the nuclear power industry are no longer the facts in the late 1 970s. After we had made those decisions, following upon the decisions made by the previous Liberal Government to allow the mining and export of uranium, we were activated by the growing concern expressed in many parts of the world and not just by the Australian community. So we established the Ranger Uranium Inquiry to look into the matter. Unlike members of the Government parties, we are prepared to display the characteristic that makes man different from animals- our intelligence and our capacity to learn. We have taken note of the, findings of that inquiry and the British Government's Flowers inquiry, the doubts expressed by  President  Ford and the actions taken by  President  Carter, all suggesting that the facts of the early 1960s and 1970s-that is, that it was all nice and safe and easily controlledare no longer facts. There are doubts. So the Australian Labor Party has expressed its view by suggesting that we should wait until we are more certain that the hazards that have been exposed by these inquiries can be dealt with. I see nothing dishonest in that action of the Labor Party as was implied in many of the criticisms made by honourable members on the other side of the House. 
Another point that has been made by honourable members on the other side is that it is all terribly necessary because the world will starve if we do not export uranium. How cynical! Are they suggesting that we are going to export this uranium to the underdeveloped countries? The buyers on our doorstep and even the countries we have approached are the developed and rich countries. The cynicism sickens me. It reminds me of the story about how valuable our natural gas is and what a boon it will be for mankind. Where is it to go? Recently we have been informed that it is to go to the west coast of the United States of America. I would have thought that that was the last place to morally deserve to get it. Let us look at the claim that uranium is necessary for the starving world, that it will be a boon to the poor and developing countries. 
That is what honourable members opposite tend to say. Let me quote from a letter from Action for World Development which in part said: 
First the nuclear energy industry is capital intensive. 
This is discussing the value of this magnificent development to the poor countries of the world. The letter continued: . . . this means that a nuclear energy program will provide no solution for one of the major problems of developing countries- unemployment . . . 
Second, the phrase, 'energy-hungry world' is not necessarily the same as the 'hungry world '. 
I have already mentioned that. The energyhungry world comprises the developed and greedy countries which already are using far too much of the world's resources. The letter went on: 
For although developing countries do need cheap energy, their need is not as great as the developed countries and they have other, more pressing problems to cope with ... a nuclear energy program would be an expensive luxury. 
One of the signatories to the letter noted from his attendance at the 1975 Review Conference of the Nuclear Non-proliferation Treaty that it was only the affluent developing countries which evinced any real interest m nuclear power. He found remarkably little enthusiasm for nuclear energy programs among the poorest of the developing countries. The letter continued: 
Third, any country (developed or developing) which begins a nuclear energy program is inevitably enmeshed in the web of multinational corporations . . . ... it is undeniable that international opinion (as evidenced at such fora as the United Nations) has increasingly revealed doubts about the usefulness of such corporations as a vehicle for economic development. 
There was yet another reservation, in that the letter continued: 
Fourth, nuclear technology is among the most complicated of all forms of technology . . . 
To keep power stations operating both efficiently and safely requires considerable finance and technical ability. Both are beyond the reach of most developing countries. Additionally, a nuclear energy program would require an extensive electricity grid and this, too, would be expensive and complex to introduce. 
Let us get to the nub of it. The letter continued: 
It is notable that India, probably the poorest developing country with nuclear aspirations, has apparently developed no major programs for nuclear energy for peaceful purposes. 
But, India has made its bomb. The letter went on: 
India's example leads to the fifth reason: The threat of the proliferation of nuclear weapons. It is regrettable that some developing countries have failed to acquire the degree of political stability which was once hoped for them. 
So how can one be sure what will happen if such countries develop this potential? In its letter, Action for World Development further stated: 
Additionally, given the political instability of some developing countries, a nuclear energy program could be easily disrupted by guerrillas opposed to the government. 
Consider, for example, what could have happened in the recent events in Pakistan if Pakistan had its reactor. What might have happened to the reactor? The letter continued: ... a government could try to avert this threat by instituting a tough policy of security, for example, infiltration of politically active community opposition groups, inspection of mail, and mass media censorship. In short, such a program would either oblige a liberal government to be dictatorial or it would further entrench an already dictatorial government. 
Let us look at what the Government has proposed in this country for handling the Ranger deposit. It has suggested the application of the Atomic Energy Act. Some of the provisions in that Act could well make the Northern Territory something like a police state. They are the steps to which one may be forced to go in order to ensure security, but in the process of ensuring security what sort of society do we finish up with? The letter went on: 
Finally, developing countries need 'soft' intermediate technology- the very opposite of nuclear energy programs, which require, for example, a system of looking after nuclear waste for thousands of years. They need cheap, simple technology which will employ as many people as possible. 
Another harrowing possibility to consider is whether, if in Pakistan- I withdraw that reference to Pakistan because I do not want to pick on that country- or in the poor developing countries where there is social unrest, and we have seen so many examples of this that this is not a low possibility but a high probability, there was some guerrilla activity and insurgency, the rebels would respect the technicians running the power plant- they obviously would not respect the government- or would line them up against the wall and shoot them because they were seen as instruments of the government which the rebels were opposing. If that happens, what then? Will the rebels have brought along with them trained technicians who are able to look after the reactor and to shut it down? The other day I was talking to a scientist who has had some training in this field. He said: 'I would not be sure how to close a reactor down if I were asked to do so'. I put that question to some dozens of my colleagues who thought they knew something about the subject, but they were not sure what steps would have to be taken. So, in the situation of social instability I have described how could we expect the developing countries to find the experts who know how to control a reactor? 
The suggestion arises that with proper controls we can stop the ready diversion of this material given some sort of stability in these countries. It has been claimed that it takes a lot of skill and probably a lot of money to process the material from a nuclear reactor in order to produce a bomb. Let me quote from a talk by  Mr Kelleher,  one of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry commissioners, to the Environmental Engineers Conference in June this year. He said: 
Let me give an example of the dangers of adopting a rigidly technical approach to the consideration of problems . . . 
In assessing the benefits and hazards of nuclear power, one of the more important things we had to determine for ourselves was the risk of diversion of plutonium from power reactors for use in nuclear bombs. The essential question was whether the material so produced would be suitable for use in a bomb. 

 Mr Kelleher then said that distinguished and technically expert Australians who had volunteered to give evidence to the inquiry told the inquiry that the material would be quite unsuitable and that any explosive device using such material would be a fizzer. He continued: ... if the inquiry had been a closed one, that is, not open to the public, this advice may have been accepted. However, a member of the public submitted to us as an exhibit a book entitled  Nuclear Theft- Risks and Safeguards.  The book stated unequivocally that reactor grade plutonium could be used to make very destructive explosive devices. We had to obtain additional evidence on this subject and did so, finally concluding that 'the evidence points strongly to the conclusion that very destructive nuclear explosive devices can be made from reactor grade plutonium produced in power reactors operated normally. The physical data needed to make such devices, with uncertain explosive yield but probably in the range of hundreds to thousands of tonnes equivalent of TNT, are available in the open literature'. As honourable members probably now know, the validity of this conclusion has since been confirmed in public statements by representatives of the United States Energy Research and Development Administration and the United States Nuclear Regulation Commission. 
So much for security in the sense that it is really terribly complicated for one to make a bomb. 
I turn to security and the international safeguards. I shall read an article in the  New Scientist  of 24 February 1977. It is an article by  Dr Frank  Barnaby. It states: 
The May 1974 Indian nuclear explosion, the sale by West Germany of a uranium enrichment and a reprocessing plant to Brazil, and the sale by France of a reprocessing plant to Pakistan- 
That has, in fact, become the subject of an election campaign in that country- . . . were among the events which finally alerted a previously apathetic world to the coupling between peaceful nuclear technology and the capability to produce nuclear weapons. As pan of a diplomatic campaign for nonproliferation, the USA initiated the setting up of the ' London Club' . . . The Club's aim is to minimise the risk of diversion of nuclear technology . . . to the production of nuclear explosives. 
The London Club now has 14 members- the US, the USSR, the UK., France, Canada, the Federal Republic of Germany, Japan, Belgium, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Italy, the Netherlands, Poland and Sweden. 
That is a good unity ticket if ever there was one. Those countries have agreed to adopt guidelines for the control and export of certain nuclear materials. But the point is that the London Club guidelines are essentially a gentlemen's agreement. They do not amount to a treaty. A member can withdraw from the Club at any time. The Club was set up after the establishment of the International Atomic Energy Agency and its safeguards and after all the talk about how we will control the diversion of nuclear material for the purpose of making bombs. Clearly, the London Club members- that is most of the countries with nuclear technology capable of producing bombs- do not believe in the safeguards which the Government so proudly proclaims will ensure that nothing terrible happens. The very existence of the London Club is an admission of the failure of the Treaty on the NonProliferation of Nuclear Weapons to establish a viable non-proliferation regime. One advantage of the London Club is the membership of France, a major nuclear exporter conspicuously absent from the NPT. This hardly outweighs the disadvantage that the success of the London Club relies entirely on the continuing goodwill of its members. This is an insufficient basis to control the cut throat competition inherent in a multi-billion dollar export industry. I appeal to members of the Government to stop deluding themselves and to consider the human problems involved. The whole mechanism of control is not a technological matter. It depends upon man and his social instruments. The technology may be safe for 500 years but it all depends on control by men, by our social institutions and which one would be guaranteed for 50 years, let alone 500 years or 250,000 years? 
-The Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  in relation to this legislation claims: 'A new era of financial security for nursing home patients'. This claim is apparently based upon the following changes: A new increased benefit to operate from 1 October; a verbal undertaking- nothing more- that these benefits will be adjusted annually to cover 70 per cent of patients in private nursing homes; and, finally, that the introduction of health insurance for nursing home patients represents some dramatic new era. In the short term the new benefit will close the gap between fees and benefits. But as the year progresses the gap will again appear, just as it has done after every adjustment in benefits. In fact, the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  who has just concluded his remarks made a plaintive plea to the Minister that he should make the adjustments to the benefits after major wage adjustments. But this is like the chicken and the egg. Honourable members should not fool themselves. The Government will not manage to maintain for very long the sort of relationship which is implied, I would think. It is a hell of a juggle. The Government will try it. I congratulate the Government but I will be surprised if it succeeds. 
There is nothing in the legislation which changes the fact of life that as soon as an adjustment is made- true enough, there will be a small gap, if any-in a very short time, at the rate we are suffering inflation in this country, the gap will reappear, the patients will complain and nursing homes will scream that they are going bankrupt. Of course, in real terms nursing homes are usually making a very handsome profit. The introduction of health insurance for nursing home patients will do nothing to improve the lot of the patient. It may help the Government but surely it will not help the patient. In fact, on thinking about the matter a bit more I think there is some doubt about the advantage to the Government in the long run also. 
Why should patients take out private insurance when their nursing home benefits are paid by the Government anyway? If they pay nothing to private funds- in other words, if they do not belong to a private fund-they are covered automatically by Medibank. Why should they be so foolish as to take out private health insurance because the amount of their nursing home fee which will be covered by private insurance is not more than will be covered, presumably, by Medibank standard? However, perhaps, the Government has in mind to change that relationship and lower the Medibank payment in comparison to what will be expected of private funds. But that situation has not come out into the open, yet. I have made the point that I cannot see the immediate benefit to patients in paying private insurance contributions. Yet the Government is reportedly conducting a low key campaign to encourage the 78 per cent of nursing home patients who belong to Medibank standard to take out additional insurance. Is this the way in which the Government assists these patients- by increasing their expenses by $1.30 per week or more? Initially, I guess the Government will succeed as there will be lots of subtle and not so subtle pressures exerted on, in the main, these poor old people to make them panic and take out private insurance cover. Hopefully, they will not be fooled for long. 
Again, the honourable member for Murray made the point that with the increasing private benefit contributions people could well be prompted to leave the private funds and just be content with Medibank standard. 
The two main reasons for the Government's introduction of private insurance in this area seem to be ideological and budgetary. The Government prefers to see a greater share of the insurance market being handled by private health insurers. It is as the Minister stated in his second reading speech 'a logical extension for the private health insurance system'. That is not a medical argument. That is not an argument in terms of the needs of patients. That is simply an ideological argument. It would be good because the Government believes in it, that is all. 
The Holmes Report also gave as one of the advantages of an increased role for health insurance in meeting nursing home costs the fact that some would regard it as an attractive addition to the changes made to Medibank last October. That is brilliant! But, once again, what has that to do with the quality or availability of the care? The answer is absolutely nothing. It is simply an ideological argument. The Government put to the Holmes Committee the request that it reorganise things to relieve the burden on the Government. So certain changes were made to Medibank but not to relieve the burden on the people. In fact, the sum changes to Medibank have increased the burden for people because of the inefficiency of the modified system which was introduced by the Government. This is another example of the same sort of move. The total cost to the community will not go down; it will go up. It may go down on paper for the Government. I repeat my point that neither of these justifications has anything to do with the quality or availability of nursing home beds or with the treatment or care which patients need or get in them. 
The next reason for this legislation is the immediate savings to the Commonwealth budget and a promised reduction in the Commonwealth's share of future cost increases. The Holmes report estimates that the Commonwealth will save approximately $7Sm although the Minister more recently put the figure at around only $S0m. The difference in the estimates could come from the difference in insurance coverage provided. Holmes argues that benefits, plus the statutory patient contribution, should not cover the full fees of more than 70 per cent of nursing home patients in each State because of the undesirable effect on costs. The honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  pointed out that in some States costs are very much higher than in others. Holmes said that the fees should not cover more than 70 per cent of the costs in each State. 
The Government has, in fact, ensured coverage of more than 70 per cent of the total number of patients as it aims to cover 70 per cent of those in private nursing homes where fees are generally higher. In other words, the balance is tipped against the Government when compared with the recommendations made by Holmes. So the Government has reduced its options for restraining costs along the lines envisaged by Holmes. I add that I do not agree with this technique for reducing budget costs. It is not reducing the total cost to the community. If anything it will increase the total cost to the community. It is simply a trick which appears to reduce the cost to the Government. In essence, it increases the burden on the individual irrespective of his income because he has to pay directly his own private contributions. They are at the same rate, whatever one's income. That is what this move is forcing on members of the community. So the burden is increased on the poorer section of the community relative to the richer. 
If one accepts that there should be subsidies for nursing home fees I would prefer to see them financed by the taxation system under which people at least contribute according to their income. But the Government is reversing that situation so that, in fact, the poorer sections of the community will carry more of the burden. In sum total that is not relieving the community of anything. It is just getting the Government off the hook in relation to its budgetary estimates and so on. 
Holmes was also very conscious of the risk that insurance would do more than Commonwealth benefits to raise demand for nursing home care, that is, that people may feel that they had more of a right to care for which they had paid premiums than to care for which they had paid largely unearmarked taxes. He was saying that while the whole thing is done in a fairly impersonal fashion under the taxation system so that the people are not really conscious of the fact that they are paying for nursing homes, they are less likely to feel that they have paid for it and that they might as well get their money's worth. If the technique which the Government is introducing of encouraging people to take out private insurance makes them more conscious of the fact that they are paying for it, they may be more inclined to want to use it. I am not sure that I agree with that argument, but it is certainly an argument which has to be considered. I take it that the Government has not considered it. 
The Government may be making a short term saving but at the expense of long term cost control in this area of health expenditure. This is the experience all over the world. Health insurance on a fee for service basis of remuneration has increased the demand for these services. I should change that word. It is not 'demand' because that implies patients demanding it. The evidence which I discovered on my recent visit to Norway, Canada and America confirms the prejudices I had before I went, which were that insurance on a fee for service basis of remuneration increases utilisation rates. That is the word I picked up in both Norway and Canada. The Americans are beginning to say the same. They are going to 
Canada to find out what the Canadians are doing to curtail excessive utilisation rates. 
What does it mean? It means that they have recognised that if there is a dramatic increase in costs it is not in the main because you and I, the mug patients, are demanding more health care. It is because doctors are recommending more expensive institutional care and expensive medical and surgical procedures. 
We have not yet reached the stage at which the honourable member for La Trobe can say to his doctor: 'I feel like having my appendix out next week. Could you please arrange it?' While he is there he says: 'I know from family history that I might suffer from gall bladder complaints in a couple of years' time. For good measure, how about fixing that?' That does not happen. People do not order their own treatment. Doctors decide the treatment which patients need. All patients do is complain to a doctor about a symptom. It is up to the doctor to decide whether it can be alleviated by some modest preventive cure or whether something should be done about it which would net the doctor a few hundred dollars in the process. The fact that the operation is carried out and a significant sum is paid for it does not mean that it was necessary in the first place. That is the experience in the countries I have mentioned, where more and more they are beginning to impose restraints not on patients but on the services recommended by doctors. 
Ask some of your medical colleagues. They will soon tell you. They are screaming like hell about it in some places. For instance, in America they are terrified of the prospect. The American administration clearly intends to copy the Canadians who are beginning to clamp down. This Government has done a bit of it here. Restrictions have been placed on pathologists. That is the sort of thing to which I refer. 
The point I make is that health insurance does not necessarily solve the health problems of the community. All health insurance does is ensure that whatever is done is paid for. It does not question whatever is done. In an odd way the Government is ignoring the main recommendations of the Holmes report. I disagree with a lot of it, but some things that Holmes said I think are worthy of serious consideration. Some suggestions were aimed at constraining the growth in costs. These included the development of assessment teams. That partly answers the point made by the honourable member for La Trobe. It would reduce the many inappropriate admissions to nursing homes and hospitals. Another point was comprehensive domiciliary services which would reduce the demand for the more expensive type of institutional care. 
Let me elaborate a little further. I think in the Holmes report the suggestion was made that teams would in essence vet any patient who was recommended for admission to a nursing home. The advisers, the people who talked to Holmes, clearly were able to impress that committee with the suggestion that patients are often inappropriately incarcerated in bed in nursing homes, when, from a medical point of view, they would be better served if they were not admitted to a bed in a nursing home but were provided with active domiciliary care. The suggestion of the Holmes committee was that a specialist, together with other people such as social workers, occupational therapists and a whole comprehensive health care team- ironically, the sort of thing that the Labor Party is talking about in its policy- should be members of a sort of vetting committee which would check on recommendations for admission to nursing homes. 
The committee suggested the establishment of health police- a team which would check on the doctor and not on the patient. I think I called it by that name when I spoke on this matter during the last session. The patient has simply made a complaint to the doctor. On the basis of that complaint the doctor is making a recommendation. The health police are not prepared to accept it until they check on the indications which the doctor thinks he has elicited for recommending that the patient be admitted to the nursing home. This is the beginning of the peer review system about which the Minister has talked and has already threatened the rest of the medical profession in respect of other areas. I agree with him on that, not that I see it as a threat. They need it because if they do not accept it the whole community will be in revolt. Ultimately governments will have to take drastic steps to rectify a runaway cost problem in health services. 
It is happening all over the world. I learned in Norway that doctors there accepted without a murmur the compulsory health insurance system, unlike our medical profession, because years ago, when insurance was introduced during the Depression years, the doctors were as broke as everybody else. So these voluntary insurance systems were started. Sometimes doctors were involved in the systems because that was the only way of guaranteeing some sort of payment. That happened all over the world. I remember my father, a country general practitioner, having his list of lodge patients. In essence it was the same thing. The problem was that they paid doctors on a fee for service basis. The schemes soon found it very difficult to keep up with the demands for payment. Cleverly they invited doctors to form assessment teams to check. That is how they managed to cull the doctors who were ripping off the system. That started back in 1911 or a bit later. So in the 1950s, when the Norwegians got the comprehensive system, they still maintained that panel of doctors which still checks on claims made on the funds by patients. Their cure for excessive claims is not to make the patient pay. When they assess that a charge has been too high because of overutilisation, they charge the doctor and not the patient. It is very clever. The Minister might take note of that. 
Balancing this health policy type approach is the statement, I think in the Holmes report, that part of the approach should be to encourage active domiciliary health care. In other words, the Holmes committee has cottoned on to what the Labor Party has been talking about for some years now- the need to establish community health centres with comprehensive health care teams, general practitioners, the ready availability of specialists and all the other ancillary medical personnel. Ordinary people, irrespective of their problem, could get more meaningful and effective primary health care while still at home with their families, although their families may be working. In any case, by means of far more active comprehensive care initially maybe one can avoid referring them to the range of institutions which are so expensive and, as claimed by many, which are rapidly sending the country broke. 
Do not blame the Labor Government. If you like, blame the concept of health insurance, but do not blame the Labor Government for that. We did not introduce it in this country. The Liberal Government-  Sir Earle  Page- introduced it in the 1950s. All I am suggesting is that that defect is inherent in the system. The proposals which Holmes made and which I certainly endorse would have been more intelligent than the moves the Government has made m this legislation. Of course, we cannot oppose the legislation because something has to be done immediately to relieve the burden on the people in these nursing homes. But this is not going to cure the disease. 
Debate interrupted. 
I address my question to the Minister for Health. Is there not a conflict of interest for the Director-General of Health because of his responsibility for the National Health Act under which he controls and approves the registration and conduct of all private health insurance funds, including Medibank Private, and his responsibilities as  Chairman  of the Health Insurance Commission which operates Medibank Private? Can Medibank really operate independently of the Government, as the Minister frequently says it should and as TransAustralia Airlines and the Commonwealth Banking Corporation do, in competition with private enterprise, with this dual leadership exercised by the Director-General of Health and other health officials on the Commission? 
I want to make a few comments on the overall question of the cost of health to the community. I do not want to pick a bone about any particular aspect of the estimates but I want to comment on the general problem facing the whole community in terms of the cost of health care. I remind the House that the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  mentioned that for 1975-76 we were spending 7.5 per cent of our gross domestic product on health. I shall not give the exact figure. It is the proportion that interests me. This is a phenomenal amount of money and it is comparable with the sorts of figures we find in most advanced technological societies such as ours. The problem is what we can do about it. 
We hear a lot of talk about the need to contain costs, and how it is all the fault of Medibank. We are the only country that has Medibank, and the problem confronts other countries. So the fault is not with Medibank. The fault lies with the system of health insurance cover on a fee for service basis, whether it be compulsory, universal voluntary or partial. That system seems to promote and encourage medical care when it is unnecessary. That is my view anyway and I find some support for it amongst a lot of students of these sorts of problems. For example, Professor Andrew recently in a speech discussing medical problems of the day made the point that, in his view, even in the ideal situation, where there is a reward attached to providing a service there is an inclination or a tendency to over-utilisation of that service. Just in case people imagine that I am making this up I would like to quote some figures that have been produced by the Chief Health Statistician of the Western Australian Department of Public Health. In the past I have often been accused of quoting American or English figures and not Australian figures. We are led to believe that we are different from everywhere else in the world. Let me quote figures from Western Australia- unless we over here want to disown Western Australia as part of Australia. In order to get some sort of comparison I regret to say that we have to make comparisons with other places. 
The Chief Health Statistician has made a comparison of the rates for a series of operations with the figures in other places. Under the fee for service system in Western Australia hernia operation rates were 22 per cent higher than the salaried England and Wales rates. The appendectomy rate in Western Australia for males was 80 per cent higher and for females 135 per cent higher than in England and Wales where doctors are paid a salary. Cholecystectomy rates were 100 per cent higher for males and 144 per cent higher for females than in England and Wales. So it goes on. I will not quote all the figures because one tends to get lost and it becomes boring. The total operation rate for males in Western Australia was 105 per cent higher, where the patients were treated on a fee for service basis, than in England and Wales where the doctors are salaried, and for females the rate was 1 12 per cent higher. I just do not believe that we as a nation are so much less healthy that we require that much more surgery. 
Many other studies have come out with these sorts of figures but I will rest my case there. I have given figures before which show that in the United States of America, for example, in the same country, the same States, the same general community and with equivalent sorts of populations there is always a much higher utilisation rate of hospital services by patients treated by doctors paid by the alternative fee for service systemfor operations and so on-than by patients treated by doctors on a salaried basis. This brings me to another point- the over-emphasis on institutional care. Once upon a time, before we had the technological advances we have now, if a person was seriously ill he called in the friendly general practitioner. He could do not much more than sit by the bedside, hold the patient's hand and console him while he quietly expired. I admit that we have advanced beyond that. We now have specific treatments for lots of diseases and so we now expect a lot from the medical profession. But the result is that we have swung right over the other way. We now admit to hospital patients who should not be there. For example, there has been some comment on the royal commission into medical services in the United Kingdom. It has been suggested that there are several studies that show that one-third of patients in hospital at any one time, including the mentally disabled, could just as well be looked after as out-patients or at home. One-third of the patients in expensive institutions need not be there. This means, in terms of the estimates that we are debating, that we should be putting more effort into some research into these sorts of factors. 
There is much data all around the world that needs to be correlated. Without having the facts culled by the experts in the Department of Health, I will hazard a guess. I am incautious enough and non-politician enough to suggest what the answer will be. I have read enough to feel what we will find is confirmation of the fact that we would dramatically reduce the cost of our health services if we placed more emphasis on community health care and if, instead of worrying about constraining hospital costs, we provided an alternative system which treated people in the community out of hospital in their homes. In that way, we would reduce the call on hospital services. We would not need to impose restrictions on them because there would not be a call for these sorts of services. 
To try to substantiate that point, I have some more figures. I recently received a note from someone in America giving some figures published for the American Hospital Association in August 1977. Let me make the point again that the bulk of our health costs- at least a halfare centred on institutional care. Although institutions deal only with the smallest portion of the total health problems of the community, they constitute the bulk of the health cost. The American figures compare hospitalisation rates in different metropolitan areas of the country with hospitalisation rates where there are health maintenance organisations or, in our jargon, community health centres. These are the figures: For the metropolitan area of New York, the number of patient-days per thousand of the population per year is 1,495; for Los Angeles, 1,084; for Chicago, 1,390; and, for Minneapolis, 1,391. That is good average fee for service medical practice, referring patients to the institutions because that is where one gets the best. That costs a lot of money. In this country we are talking about $100 a day to keep a patient in an expensive intensive care type institution. 
What is the comparison when we look at patients cared for in hospital maintenance organisations? In Minneapolis-St Paul there were 561 patient-days per thousand of the population. Over the whole of America the figure was 450. In other words, the hospitalisation rate when patients were looked after in essence in community health centres was only about 38 per cent of the rate for patients cared for in the fee for service area, metropolitan and elsewhere. This is a fantastic reduction in a total cost to the community. 
We have complaints all the time in this community that we do not have enough hospital beds. We are told that people are waiting for years to get a bed in hospital to have their surgery done. If they can wait that long the very interesting question is raised: Did they really need surgery? But the real issue is that we have 6.1 beds per thousand. The Americans have 4.5 beds per thousand and they manage very well. The Kaiser Permanente, which is a health maintenance organisation, manages to treat its patients satisfactorily with only two beds per thousand. This represents a very significant saving. That is the type of matter that I think we should be paying much more attention to rather than talking about constraining costs by imposing limits and charges on patients. We should get an alternative better health care system instead of punishing sick patients. Their sickness is punishment enough. 
asked the Minister for National Resources, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
In the light of President Carter's decision that the United States of America will halt commercial reprocessing of nuclear fuels, can he advise which countries (a) currently operate reprocessing plants, (b) have announced plans to install these plants and (c) are negotiating to purchase plants. 
asked the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice, on 7 September 
What areas of the Gimbat and Goodparla Leases, parts of the South Alligator River catchment area, are within the boundaries of the Kakadu National Park. 
Who are the lessees of these two properties. 
What is the expiry date of the leases. 
What is the annual rental to the Australian Government for these leases, in total and in amount, say, per square mile. 
5 ) Are these leases economic for the lessees. 
-There is no doubt that in times of economic recession such as the present time the migrant community is amongst the hardest hit section of the Australian community. It is true enough that other sections of the Australian community are affected- young school leavers, including migrant children; women, including migrant women. As a group, one could probably suggest that migrants taken together, are the hardest hit group. I have indicated that school children or women probably are the first to be retrenched. After all, they are only women. I ask honourable members to forgive my apparent sexist remark, but sadly this is the view taken. I am not necessarily subscribing to it. But they are not the main breadwinners, so the women can afford to lose their jobs first. That is one reason. But of the men, the major breadwinners in the family, the migrants are the least secure employees in the community. No doubt, this is based on an old accepted principle that the last to come into the job are the first to go if there is a need to retrench. Clearly in this situation, the migrants are in the least secure situation. 
Another reason for this occurring is because migrants tend to be in certain industries which, certainly at this time, have been hardest hit- the textile industry, the clothing trade, the motor vehicle industry and even parts of heavy industry. There is no point going into the matter. We must accept the fact that migrants probably are hardest hit in employment opportunities in a situation like the present situation. Of course, at the same time with this difficulty with employment there is an increased need throughout the whole community for community services of all sorts. Again, because the migrants constitute the largest group in the sense that, in relation to the proportion of migrants in the general community, the number of people needing these sorts of support services comprises a high proportion of migrants, so they are more dependent on services which ironically at this time are cut back and are least able to cater for the increasing demand. So for all sorts of reasons, migrants in a sense are victimised by the difficulties of our economic downturn or recession- call it what you will. 
In the discussion earlier today of a matter of public importance, the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  gave some figures in respect of the various facets of services relating to and for migrants. The figures seemed to indicate that things were looking up. I suggest that he was indulging in a slight sleight of hand, if I might put it that way. The figures he gave appeared to be numerically higher than the figures for last year. I do not argue with that. But that is a simplistic view. First of all, last year's figures represented a dramatic cutback in many cases on the amounts made available for these sorts of services for migrants when the Australian 
Labor Party was in government. But even if one accepts that the figures given for this year are a little higher than the figures for last year, if we look at the position carefully and make adjustments for inflation, we find that in most cases, the real value is equal to, if we are lucky, and in many cases less than the figures even for last year. But there is still a further trap. The comparison is between the money spent last year and the money allocated this year. If we bother to look back at what was allocated last year-not what was spent, but what was allocated- we find that because of the winding down of programs, because of the need to cut back on public expansion and so forth, significant proportions of the funds allocation last year were not spent. So the real comparison should be not between what was spent last year and what we are allocating this year. The comparison should be with what was allocated last year and what has been allocated this year. Then the discrepancy is even greater. 
For all these reasons, in my view, there has in fact been a real cutback in the allocation of funds for the sorts of services on which migrants depend. That sort of factor is independent of the effects of inflation. To make the point, $2 1.3m was spent on migrant education in 1974-75 and $2 1.4m in 1975-76; but in 1976-77 the allocation was $ 10.6m. Even that $ 10.6m was not spent; only $ 10.3m was spent. That represented a dramatic cutback and then another cutback because the money was not spent. This year we are to spend more. The allocation is $ 10.4m which is not even as much as the allocation made last year. I hope that makes the point that I want to make. 
I now want to discuss for a few moments the boasts that some Government supporters are making that the Liberal Government has restored the migration program which was savagely cut under the Labor Government. Before I argue the case, or appear to be knocking immigration, let me assert the areas in which I am in favour of accepting migrants. I do not think there is any argument that political refugees should be permitted to come here. It is sometimes awkward because they come in unexpected numbers and at unexpected times. But this is a rich, comfortable, free country and we can afford to take such people who choose to come here in times of difficulty. 
Another group is made up of those who have family members in this country. I do not mean the restricted way we are looking at it now. 1 mean the whole range of family members. We can afford the old, the halt, the lame relations, the dependants in the truest sense of the word of people who live here. We can afford as well - 
We can afford as well - 
-I will come to that in a minute. We can afford as well the young, the vigorous, the potential competitors for jobs who have relatives here. I speak of the mothers, fathers, brothers and sisters. We tend to refuse admission to sons and daughters if they are over a certain age and are theoretically independent. I think that is wrong. Their parents here may be old and lonely or vice versa, their parents may be still able to look after themselves. But they can see the end of their working life coming up and they want to enjoy their families here, their sons and daughters. We are too restrictive. We were as guilty as the present Government is. 
I think we were not as liberal as we could have been. I think that this country is a rich, lush, free country which can afford those sorts of people. But now I come to my anxieties. Why should we allow the others to come in? Why should we allow skilled tradesmen to come in when so many people are out of work in Australia, people who could and should be trained for new occupations? What can we do with mainly unskilled people? Prospects are that it will be very difficult to increase the job demand in these sorts of unskilled areas. Why do we not offer them the opportunity to be trained in other occupations? 
The answer may be that we do not have the time to do it quickly and that we have to bring people from elsewhere. But shortages are not uniform throughout the country. Why can we not give more positive assistance to Australians already here before we bring in people from other countries? We should take that proposition more seriously. Why bring in skilled tradesmen from developing countries? Those countries can ill afford to lose these skilled people. I know it is a hard thing to say, because after all they want to come here and improve their lot, but it is a burden for the developing countries to lose these sorts of people. But we are happy to accept skilled tradesmen from practically anywhere. Even if we claim that we should not take people from developing countries, hard as that may seem, why do we take skilled people from the developed countries, the rich countries? I say that we should not take people from the developed countries because those countries are rich enough to look after them. If we look at this problem in a humanitarian way our priorities should be to give unskilled people from poor countries a chance to come here. But, of course, that would raise loud protests and objections because in real terms that is not what we are out to do either. We are not being humanitarian at all. 
The real point of it all is that we bring people to Australia to help to develop the country. It is a basic greed motive on our part. We want them with their skills to help us to develop more quickly. We do not really care about the countries from which they come. They come here, they need housing, education and other facilities that are in short supply and they do not improve those situations. What is the attraction? They are prepared to put up with the lack of these facilities because they feel insecure. They are prepared to work for lower wages because they feel insecure. They will put up with the sorts of conditions which old Australians would not put up with. So for these reasons we take them as, what has been called, cannon fodder. That is not a reflection on them; it is a reflection on our immorality in taking people like them from those countries instead of looking after our own. I think we very seriously need to consider what it is we are really doing when we encourage migration in those terms. 
Has the Prime Minister received the final report of the Royal Commission on Human Relationships? If so, when will it be tabled? If not, when does he expect to receive it? 
-After an annual real growth of 39 per cent under the Labor Government, there has been no growth in education expenditure under this Government. This policy of no growth means no growth towards equality of opportunity, no growth on the part of disadvantaged schools in catching up with advantaged schools and no growth in terms of innovative programs which could tackle the needs of pupils and teachers by creating better teaching methods and better learning situations. 
At present there is no growth in better education and no growth towards a fairer distribution of the benefits of education. Yet the education system is failing to meet the needs of hundreds of thousands of school children each year who graduate without basic literacy or numeracy skills. An Australian Council for Educational Research survey of 10-year old and 14-year old students found that there is a considerable problem in Australian schools with significant numbers of children failing to reach adequate levels of numeracy and literacy. The survey also revealed that about only half the students who were thought by their teachers to need remedial teaching were receiving it. These children are functionally illiterate or innumerate. They cannot manage the every day tasks such as filling in forms, reading street names and keeping a budgettasks required for normal living in our complex industrial nation. A minimum level of basic education is essential in the society in which we live. 
This is not the only area of failure of our education system. Further educational disadvantage is suffered by many other children, such as country students, Aborigines, migrants and girls. Country students suffer from high teacher turnover, lack of support services, inadequate boarding facilities and limited curricula, physical facilities and social contact. According to the report of the Senate Select Committee on Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders, the school system has failed Aborigines very badly by its inappropriateness and inadequacy. This failure to meet the needs of Aboriginal students is at least in part due to socio-economic factors, racial prejudice, cultural irrelevancy and inappropriate teaching and curriculum resulting in high absenteeism and dropout rates. 
The eduation system has failed the migrant communities in two major areas- the maintenance of home culture through schooling and the achievement by migrants of competence in the English language. The education system has failed many girls by reinforcing the expectation of different behaviour and goals for boys and girls and therefore greatly limiting the choices open to girls. Finally, educational institutions have failed in many cases to adequately equip students for the work situation or for making the best choice of a career. The working party on transition from secondary education to employment found many inadequacies in the present career preparation services for students during secondary schooling. Students do not have an opportunity to explore the whole spectrum of career choices open to them, their personal suitability for particular careers, the employment prospects in each and the educational implications involved. The poor performance of the education system in this area has particular relevance in our current situation of high youth unemployment. Whilst recognising that many factors have influenced unemployment amongst school leavers, part of the problem is the low productivity of early school leavers because of inadequate basic education and, of course, the majority of those unemployed lack sufficient education and training. 
It is against this background that the Government has provided insufficient funds for the growth and development of our education system. By failing to honour his promises to mamtain real growth in education and to maintain a rolling triennium funding system under which, during this next financial year, there would be a 2 per cent real growth in education, the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  has destroyed any semblance of forward planning. Education is not something that can be turned on and off like a tap. It is simply not possible to plan sound education on a yearly basis. All planning in education, if it is to be sound and productive, must be long range planning. Yet, in this time of budgetary restraint, the Government has forced cutbacks in expenditure for government schools in order to hand over an extra $2m to nongovernment level 1 and level 2 schools- the best off in the community. These were the schools that were acknowledged in the original report of the Karmel Commission to be way in advance of the remainder of the educational sector. 
It was hoped that with the increased expenditure on education under the program that we had initiated children in these deprived schools- I am referring to the bulk of the state schools and a large proportion of the Catholic parochial schools in the private school sector might attain by 1980 the level of children in the rich schools. They have not got that far as yet. Yet we find the Government moving $2m from this state school system to the richest part of the private school sector. In fact, a total of $ 13.8m was transferred to non-government schools, forcing cutbacks not only in allocations for government schools and emergency assistance for non-government schools but also in the services and development program and the special projects program. Let us look more closely at the cuts to the services and development and special projects programs, particularly the latter. In 1974-75, $6m was allocated for special projects. In 1975-76, this dropped to $3. 59m. It was raised slightly to $4.26m in 1976-77 and cut back to $3.6m in 1977-78. Referring to the importance of these programs the Schools Commission report for 1977 stated: 
. each of them represents a vital element in strategies to improve the quality of education; they are not optional frills only to be funded in good times. 
In referring to the special projects or innovation programs, the Schools Commission said: 
These grants are important  energisers,  helping to generate more effective use of large resources already deployed in schools. 
The Commission rejected the Government's guidelines which suggested a $4m cut across the two programs on the ground that it would seriously damage the programs' effectiveness. Here we have a government which claims to be committed to improving the quality of the Australian education system, yet it forces cuts in the already very inadequate funds devoted to finding solutions to the failures and inadequacies of our system. How can these problems be overcome without exploration and experimentation to develop more constructive approaches to education? After a cut of $3.5m in this area there will be few, if any, innovations. This means that there is no money being allocated for rethinking and re-examining the basis of education in order to make education both more relevant and more accessible to the children in our community. Solutions will not be found by simply maintaining the existing education system or even by increasing expenditure on its own. 
In fact, many people claim that the problem with our present education system is that we have to get away from these new-fangled approaches to education. We have to get back to the three Rs. The reality is, of course, that the majority of children going through our schools and the majority of schools know nothing of modern education techniques. They are still buried in the old traditional approach to education. The innovation grants and the special services grants about which I have been talking were an attempt to find out why the education system is failing- the traditional education system. It was an attempt to find out how we might improve it. There must be funds made available through such projects as the innovations program which allow experimentation with radical alternatives for raising the level of skills and knowledge among the community. The better educated a community, the better equipped it is to adapt to the constantly changing circumstances of our modern technological society. 
Progress reported. 
-By picking out individual items it is easy to suggest that there has been a dramatic increase in funding for this and that in the estimates for the Department of Science but the reality is that in overall terms there has been a reduction of probably over 5 per cent in real terms in the funds set aside for this Department. I am not going to go into details; I am much more interested in discussing some of the other features. I would just highlight the point, as an example, that the funds for the Bureau of Meteorology are to be exactly the same. Given inflation, that means it has had a real cut of something over 10 per cent. Research grants probably have been nearly halved. The Australian and New Zealand Association for the Advancement of Science has been wiped and this has happened at a time when more and more people think it is important to have better communication between scientists and the community. ANZAAS was a good forum for scientists to explain their views and feelings about things in an atmosphere where the Press and the media bothered to take notice. So it helped improve communication. The Government has dropped its subsidy for ANZAAS. Finally I mention the Commonwealth Scientific and Research Organisation. In real terms its funding also has been cut, despite the juggling of the figures. The apparent increase is due to a transfer of some research programs to CSIRO which were carried out in other departments. In real terms there has been a cut in funding. 
What is the CSIRO, all about? Well, the present Government commissioned a report on the CISRO and I would like to quote from or refer to that report. First of all this committee of inquiry discussed the place of scientific research in Australia. It pointed out that the argument has been put that since we are a small country we do not contribute all that much to world research and perhaps we could stop it altogether and deend on the rest of the world. The Committee beeves that in the long run it would be disastrous to do so. Apart from the argument that we are part of the world and draw from it and therefore, to the best of our capacity, we ought to contribute to it, the Committee thinks there are practical reasons why this is a bad suggestion. It makes the point that we have a unique continent and that we are the custodians and exploiters of it. We have to find out about it, if for no other reason than so that we can better utilise its resources. There are problems associated with our geography, weather and geology, and even our own particular social structures that are all unique. The Committee said:  . . world science and technology give guidelines but cannot solve our particular problems or delineate our particular opportunities. 
In other words, we have to do it ourselves. The Committee made the point that research is needed both for long-term use of our resources to best advantage and also to overcome short-term difficulties. The Committee conceded that while research is significant it is not the only component involved in the problem of promoting social and economic progress but 'if decreased below the present level, where we barely keep up with the advanced world, and indeed fall behind in many places, the long-term result could be economic and social stagnation'. The Committee mentioned some of our industries which are rather more fortunate, such as agriculture, forestry, fisheries and so on, but pointed out that many of our resources are exhaustable, and even in the renewable resource area we have problems and need to learn how to manage them. We need to develop an energy policy in relation to our particular needs and our particular resources situation as against the rest of the world, and so the Committee went on. 
The Committee made the point quite clearly that we should not depend unduly upon the rest of the world because undue dependence on overseas science and technology also implies general dependence, and dependence also implies taking what we are given, not necessarily what we want. Those who have nothing to sell or exchange in the world of technology frequently do not receive the latest developments and they pay a high price at the same time. 
When it comes to a discussion of the level of research the Committee made the point that examiners from the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development show that our effort is low compared with that of many other countries, countries with which we ought to com- pete- not the under-developed countries but theetter developed countries. In 1973-74 we expended 1.2 per cent of our gross domestic product and that is below the expenditure of countries such as America, Japan, Sweden and so on. They think we come somewhere in the middle to lower level of the effort put in by countries such as ours which seem to be dependent. We are in the area of countries which depend mainly on rural industries and so on whereas we would have thought that we are dependent more upon high technology industries. So we are in the wrong league, if you like to put it that way. Research basically is an investment in the future. That is one of the conclusions drawn by this Committee. 
The Committee then discussed the role of the CSIRO, but I do not want to go into it in detail as it is all perfectly obvious. It made something of the fact that activity should be expanded in interpreting and disseminating information from world science and technology for the benefit of technological innovation in Australia and for increased use by Australian industry. We cannot do that if we are going to cut back funding and impose additional burdens and the CSIRO at the same time. How are we to do it? The honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  gave a hint of it and I would like to discuss that point. I shall not go on with some of the other detail that I was going to mention because my time is running out. I do not want to have to speak when we continue after the sittings are suspended for dinner. 
I would like to make some comments about the Australian Science and Technology Council. The honourable member for Prospect mentioned that the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  has written to him and said that people were being invited to give their views on the establishment of a parliamentary science group. I think that is a good idea; we ought to be better involved. However, I think that a more important and more significant factor would be the establishment of ASTEC in the way that the Labor Government attempted. The Labor Government set up the organisation much along the lines that the present Government has followed except that we chose younger people who were more actively involved in the forefront of scientific endeavour rather than the venerable gentlemen who had proved their worth many years before. In this area we need people actively engaged in scientific research if we want to get the best advice. The more signficant factor was that we thought there should be a meeting of ASTEC and a council of Ministers, not just backbench members of Parliament, although I am not ruling that out. There ought to be a meeting of ASTEC and a council of Ministers to discuss specific issues, otherwise ASTEC will prepare a report and the Ministers will not have been involved. Honourable members know what will happen; the Ministers will not read it and that will be the end of it. If Ministers are involved with scientists in formulating a report they will then understand it and then we might get some action. It is the only way. Science councils have been set up all over the world and they have been proved disappointing. 
The only place where the OECD examiners thought there had been some measure of success was West Germany where they had this meeting of the scientists and the ministers. The report was not an ASTEC report; it was a joint report by both groups- the parliamentarians or politicians and the scientists. They both had to bend their minds to understand the problems on the other side and so they came up with a report which was likely to be implemented. I would recommend that course to the Government. 
Sitting suspended from 6.1 to 8 p.m. 

 -Mr Chairman - 
-No, I think for the moment I will barrack with the side supported by the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier).  The Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  really must do all those things suggested by the honourable member for Bendigo. I completely support the statement that has just been made. The only problem is that the Liberal and National Country parties have been the Government of this country for 25 of the last 28 years. They should not talk as if all of these problems are due solely to the three short interrupted years of Labor Government. If honourable members opposite have a grizzle it is against their own Government. What we did do while we were in power- I will now side with the Minister- was to stop the confusion which surrounded the Post Office and its various functions. The community generally thought that it was a most incompetent organisation losing a lot of money. The result of the Commission of Inquiry into the Australian Post Office and the moves to create separate authorities for postal and telecommunications services was to show what really is the cost of these services to the community. It has been shown that a lot of the apparent loss was due not to the inefficiency of the Post Office, as it was, but was in fact due to the hidden subsidies that the Government of the day insisted that the Post Office carry and provide to the community. When the Post Office was unable to show a profit the cry went up: 'How inefficient. Turn it over to private enterprise'. All the Labor Government did was establish a technique whereby one could see where the subsidies were going and how much they cost the community. If the Government of the day then decided that those subsidies should continue, let them continue. Let the Government give the Post Office or the Telecommunications Commission a specific grant to cover the needs of, say, country areas. We do not object to that. Now the ball is in your court,  Mr Minister,  and it is for you to decide what you want to do with it. 
I want to make a couple of comments. I make a slightly sad observation on the fact that when I was Minister I was accused, I think, of being like  Dr Goebbels.  The claim being made by the Liberals was based on the ground that I was behind a massive multi-million dollar enterprise to hoodwink the Australian community. I have added up the sums of money allocated to the various functions which used to come within the Department of the Media. The same tasks presumably are being carried out but they have been dispersed to at least two departments. The sum total of their expenses is exactly the same as when I was Minister. I am sorry that the Minister now, presumably, can be called the  Dr Goebbels  of the Liberal Party because he has continued the same outrageous behaviour. But of course, that is sheer nonsense. I was doing no more than continuing functions that had been going on for 23 years before we took over government. The present Minister is continuing those functions now that this Government has taken over. My only regret is that expenditure has not been increased enough in some areas to maintain the services that the community obviously requires. 
I should like to concentrate on expenditure for the Australian Broadcasting Commission. In real terms, despite all the juggling, there has probably been a reduction of a considerable sum. In monetary terms, it is a reduction of 3 per cent but if one takes into account the effects of inflation it is probably even more than that. The trouble is that we expect a lot from the ABC. The shortage of funds means that it is unable to make programs- programs which will employ Australian talent. The ABC does make some programs but nowhere near as many as it could if it had more funds. The ABC's reputation is very high in the field of Australian-made programs. When the ABC has to buy films as it does because Australia does not produce enough, the ABC is at a distinct disadvantage compared with the commercial stations, which are all making larger profits than they have ever made and can afford to pay much more for their films. So, of course, the poor old ABC has to buy what are generally considered to be inferior films to be used in competition with the commercial stations. The only way this can be overcome is by allocating more funds to the ABC. 
Another area of difficulty experienced by the ABC is that it is expected to provide services in areas where the commercial stations will not gomainly country areas- simply because the potential audience is too low to ensure any worthwhile commercial return in advertising revenue for the commercial operators. I am not blaming them. They are in the business to make money and to provide a service to the best of their ability. I am not quibbling about that. But one has to acknowledge in a country like this that there are areas where commercial operators cannot function and where the ABC is expected to function. Of course, that costs a lot of money. But then we hear people whinge and say: 'Look how much the ABC costs for such a small audience'. That is a false argument because if we allowed the ABC to compete with the commercial stations two things would happen, the first of which, I would like to suggest, is that the ABC would be very successful. This has been shown by the talk-back programs conducted by the radio station 2JJ. I will come to the axing of the Terry Lane talkback radio program in a moment. It was one of the most popular programs on the air at the time it was axed. In fact, it was the most popular show. 
Whenever the ABC is given the opportunity to compete it is able to compete very effectively with the commercial stations, but the trouble is that the commercial stations protest about the ABC's success. They say that it is their job to provide for the popular taste and it is the job of the ABC to cater for minority interests. I do not necessarily disagree with that. But let us at least be fair and not criticise the ABC when it puts on a program which clearly is for a minority tastesomething that the community expects it to do. Do not let us then say: 'The ABC has a rating of 2 per cent. How outrageous to have spent so much money on a program that has so little popular appeal'. The truth is that if we want a proper assessment and a proper comparison, we must look at the matter in perspective. The popular radio and television channels are appealing to a potential audience of perhaps 80 per cent or 90 per cent and they crow if they get a rating of 20 per cent. They are terribly successful. The ABC gets a rating of 2 per cent or 3 per cent. How about looking at the potential audience for that particular program? If one finds that the potential audience for that particular program in the community is only 4 per cent and the ABC is getting a rating of 2 per cent, in fact in its potential audience it is getting a rating of SO per cent. It is getting half its potential audience which is a damn sight more than most commercial stations ever achieve. 
Another problem is that the ABC has to cater for the minority interests. Our biological functions being what they are, our interests cannot be shown in straight lines but must be shown as a curve. Most people's interests are in the middle of the curve. There are interests at one end and at the other end. We expect the ABC to cater for those who like way out programs- for example, a lot of sport, very light entertainment and so on. I do not want to specify any particular program because I do not want to insult anyone. I simply am referring to a group in a minority area on one side of the spectrum. At the same time, we expect the ABC to cater for people on the other side of the spectrum, the people who like to listen to that sort of music that one hopes might break into tune at any moment but it never does- classical music. I hope I have made my point. The potential audience for that sort of program is totally different to the potential audience on the other side of the spectrum. The ABC cannot expect to cover the whole lot simultaneously. The answer is that if we genuinely want the ABC to provide for the whole range of interests we need more ABC channels than commercial channels because the interest range covered by the commercial interests is narrower. It is much more popular, I agree, but it is a much narrower field. The truth, of course, is that the minority interests suffer; the minority interests are deprived. I think the reaction to the axing of the Terry Lane program proves my point. After it happened, the  Age  published a story headed 'Access Age'. Not one single caller out of 50 people who telephoned the  Age  was in favour of the axing of the Terry Lane program. The others who rang protested against it. One of the remarks published by the  Age  stated: 
The ABC  chairman, Mr Norgard,  is cutting his own throat, I hope! 
I think he might be cutting his own throat. The irony of the situation is that the very people who are being insulted by this action by the ABC are the sort of people who are mainly interested, I would guess, in the Liberal Party. Sadly, the Government is insulting the very people who mainly support it. They are the people who want intellectual stimulation and not pulp. As one lady said in her letter to the  Age,  removal of that program means a return to the kitchen sink and soap operas for women. 
-Before I get on to some of the details of the Broadcasting Television Amendment Bill in supporting the Opposition amendment, I should like to deal with something that appeared early in the second reading speech of the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson).  He mentioned that the Government had sought to come to grips with the role of the public broadcasting sector and claimed that this was in contrast with the casual, incompetent manner in which the Labor Government had approached it. With all due respect, that is humbug, and the Minister knows it. The fact is that approximately 100 applications have now been received for public broadcasting licences and the Minister has done absolutely nothing about them. In the 23 years the Liberal and Country Parties were in government before the Australian Labor Party was in office they did absolutely nothing not only for public broadcasting but also for commercial broadcasting. No new licences have been issued in Melbourne or Sydney since about 1 935, as I recall. 
In the three short years the Australian Labor Party was in office it managed to license two fine music stations- one in Melbourne and one in Sydney- and 12 or 14 tertiary education institutions. Let me be technically correct. We approved the idea and indicated that we would give approval on the basis of the agreement with the Governor-General for the dissolution of the 
Parliament. The incoming government subsequently issued the licences. But the Labor Government took the initiative. Labor also licensed radio station 3CR, a limited commercial station, a community broadcasting station. We tried new programming approaches with stations 2JJ and 3ZZ and the two ethnic stations, 2EA and 3EA. The achievement of the coalition parties since coming back into power, on top of thenprevious 23 years of non-activity, has to been to go backwards, with the closure of 3ZZ, the gutting, if I may use that term, of 2EA and 3EA and no further action on the tertiary education institution licences. Licensees of such stations are all anxious about the possibility that they might well lose their licences. They have no sense of security at all. So much for the Minister's claim. It was sheer humbug. 
I come to the essence of this Bill. It has been claimed by the Minister that the responsibility for licensing and regulation functions in the broadcasting area should rest with an autonomous statutory authority. We agree completely. The Minister claimed that the point of that exercise, to use his terms, is to depoliticise the broadcasting system. Just how is this accomplished? The Minister mentioned that one action is to transfer the broadcasting planning responsibility from the Secretary of the Postal and Telecommunications Department to the Minister. What does that really mean? In his speech, he also said: 
The Minister will initiate the calling of licence applications as pan of the planning process and then refer the applications received to the Tribunal for determination. In inviting applications, the Minister will provide specifications for the particular licence. These will indicate the nature of the service to be provided, the area to be served, the purpose of the licence, and other technical matters. These specifications will become, upon granting of the licence, conditions of the licence, and m addition to the conditions set by the Tribunal . . . 
If that is not direct political control, I do not know what is. 
We are opposing this Bill. If I ever had that power, I would be perfectly happy to assume that I could do whatever I liked with the broadcasting system. The Minister knows that. That is exactly what that power grants to the Minister. Everyone knows that anyone can call for tenders for something but so specify the nature of the requirements that it is possible to determine who in fact will get the contract. By these sorts of powers that the Minister is taking unto himself, he can so specify the conditions of the licence that there would be no doubt that only one applicant would ever qualify. Knowing whom the Government would want to favour, the Minister could easily fashion the specifications as I have suggested. If the Minister does not think that he will do it, he should not be sure that some future Minister might not do it. I am not talking in party political terms. What I say applies whether it be a Minister from our side or the Liberal-Country Party side. I am making a plain, non-party political point I make the simple statement that those powers in the hands of the Minister are the antithesis of what he is claiming this legislation is supposed to achieve. It is the epitome of politicisation quite the opposite to what the Minister claims he is seeking to achieve. 
The Minister makes the point that granting of the actual licences should be in the hands of an independent statutory authority once all the hedges have been set by the Minister. We approve of that. We think that is a good idea too. The Minister mentions that the activities of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal will as far as possible be conducted in public and the public will have substantial access. We agree. We say too that we would have a Broadcasting Tribunal. The honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  has tabled our policy in this area. I point out that we state quite explicitly that proceedings will be conducted in public, with interested parties and members of the public being entitled to make submissions regarding conditions of licences and the functions of the stations. Reports will be tabled in the Parliament and be public documents. The Minister does not specify any of that. As far as he is concerned, his reports can be secret and remain secret. 
He refers to interested parties, which begs the question highlighted by the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Jull).  He said that there was a doubt about what that really means. It could, of course, refer to ordinary mortals in the community, who after all are interested. They will tune m, listen to or notice the stations. They could well be precluded from having any say at all in these hearings because it may be claimed that they have an interest. The usual definition of interest is direct financial interest. Of course these people certainly do not have that. So I would claim that the terminology of this Bill positively excludes ordinary members of the public who will not be able to claim any direct financial interest in the functioning of a particular station. It limits the interest solely to those who may be potential applicants for or participants in the licences. 
Let me go on to the question of appeals. The Minister makes the point that we have to be sure that justice not only is done but appears to be done. The Minister says that the Bill provides for appeal- again there is a very interesting limitationby licensees to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal against any decisions of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal. He says with his hand on his heart that there must be redress for broadcasters who feel that they have been unfairly treated by the Tribunal, no doubt because the Tribunal m a limited public hearing has decided that they have not complied with the requirements, are not providing the service they ought to provide and should have their licence taken away. These people will be allowed to whinge to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. But how about interested members of the public? I do not refer to those with a financial interest. The people to whom I refer do not have any financial interest but a different interest. I instance groups who are concerned about the inadequacy of children's television now. They have no financial interests but a very deep interest in what our rubbish television is doing to their children. Will they be able to appeal to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal against what they consider to be an unreasonable decision by the Tribunal to allow a nonsense-producing station licensee to continue to operate his station. No, not at all. The Minister is concerned only about the financial interest. He is not concerned about the community interest at all. 
Those points cover our objection that the Bill puts too much power in the hands of the Minister. I hope I have shown that in the design of the whole network the Minister has paramount control. There are to be no public hearings about where the need should be, as we have postulated in our program, which points out that we would establish a broadcasting advisory council composed of representatives from the national, commercial and public broadcasting sectors and community interest groups. It will have the function of planning, not the Minister and not even the Department. We objected to the amendment made to the law recently because it gave the power of planning to the Department. In our view that is not good enough either. As I have just mentioned, it should be the prerogative of national, commercial and public broadcasting sectors and community interest groups. That is the group that should assess the community needs and propose plans. The Government can always say no if it wants to. I admit that we cannot overcome that hurdle, because ultimately the Government has to provide the funding; but at least there should be an input from a diverse community group such as that representing the industry and interested sections of the community. The Minister is not allowing that at all. 
He is limiting the whole planning procedure to the Minister himself. 
The Government has acknowledged that there are other areas that can capture our concern. The Government has been driven to it because it objected to the moves we made to license the ethnic radio stations and the various community radio stations, namely, the music broadcasting stations. The Government objected most vehemently to licences being issued to tertiary education institutions. Interestingly, while in opposition, the present Government claimed that that action was illegal. When it came to power it found that this was not so; in fact, it proceeded to issue the licences. So much for the Government's nonsensical denigration of me when I was advocating and approving the issuing of those licences. The Government is caught. These licences have been accepted in the community and they are proving to be popular. The Government did not have the guts to deal with the matter in the way in which we did by continuing to make some assessments of community need and to issue the licences. The Government stalled and now it has come out with this new proposal for a Special Broadcasting Service. 
Let us analyse precisely what it means. The Minister for Post and Telecommunications, in his second reading speech, said: 
We inherited from the previous Administration a poorly organised, inadequate, multilingual broadcasting service and have sought to respond to the need by Australian's ethnic communities for a more comprehensive broadcasting service. 
You poor darlings! The Government suffered all those years before we came to power in 1972. 1 take it that the period before 1972 was the dark ages and we must not inquire who was running the country then. Let Government supporters not forget that it was the present Government which was in office then. The ethnic community started building up in the 1950s, not in the 1960s or the 1970s. The Government had a hell of a long time to consider the ethnic community's needs but it did nothing at all about it 
I repeat that during the two years for which this Government has been in office, all it has done has been to muzzle those two stations. It has not done anything positive about the matter. It is sheer hypocrisy! Now the Government is going to do something about it. It is going to set up this Special Broadcasting Service which will provide multilingual broadcasting and, if authorised by regulations, it will provide multilingual television services. I do not object to that in the sense that, of course, we would have sought to modify the legislation to allow for the implementation of a more comprehensive program like this. But the Government goes further, and this is where we become worried. This Special Broadcasting Service will also provide broadcasting and television services for such special purposes as are prescribed. I wonder what that could mean. Let us refer back to the Minister's second reading speech where he was discussing the functions of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. He said: 
The Bill also amends the charter of the Australian Broadcasting Commission to require it, in the performance of its functions, to have regard to the services provided by the Special Broadcasting Service. 
The Government has a beautiful rationalisation for this: 
This amendment is simply intended to avoid duplication of activities by the ABC and the SBS. 
Beautiful! But what does that really mean? I suggest it would facilitate the muzzling of the ABC by giving any potentially controversial ABC innovations to the SBS to implement. For example, in the case of 2ZZ the Government has already done so. That station was our attempt to set up a community access station under the unbrella of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. What is more, it was proving to be popular with the various interest groups in the community who felt that they never had access to the radio waves and also to the ethnic communities. This was a very unusual unity of interest because for the first time both particular interest groups had access to a station where they could put over their own programs. 
The station 2ZZ was even more accessible than the EA stations. The Government was terrified by the prospect It was afraid of what might happen. It could see the ABC running rampant with lots of innovations that allowed the expression of points of view which might be embarrassing to it. Never mind whether or not people had legitimate points of view. The Government was afraid of* open discussions and so it turned the station off; it muzzled it This has been done already. This particular Special Broadcasting Service the Government is proposing will legitimise what the Government is out to do. All the Government will have to do to muzzle any adventure by the ABC that may prove to be embarrassing because it is too open to the diverse points of view in the community- views that may be threatening the Government's establishment concepts- will be to direct the Special Broadcasting Service to institute, say, a talk-back program or a public affairs program. The Government, having got the Special Broadcasting Service strictly under its control- it has not even a semblance of the impartiality that the ABC has because of the way in which the SBS has been set up- and seeing that the Terry Lane show was getting too popular for its liking, could direct its Special Broadcasting Service to broadcast it, no doubt under the strict guidelines that the Government will provide. Because the SBS is providing it, by implication, the ABC has to shut down, has to shut up shop, has to withdraw. 
It might be said that I am drawing a long bow. I am not suggesting that the present Minister for Post and Telecommunications would do so, but he has to admit that this legislation is giving that sort of power to a Minister. It is a power that could be potentially disastrous. I do not like to denigrate myself but some of the Minister's hangers-on called me a little Goebbels. Let us carry that a little further. I do not want to embrace that description of myself, but if it were true, under the power given to the Minister in this legislation, if I were of that mind, I would be able to do the very things the Minster would not want done, the very things he criticised me for trying to do and which of course I was not doing at all. I am simply trying to point out to him, if it is possible in this mad place, in a non-party political way- theoretically this is meant to be a place where we can air issues in a non-partisan sense if we can and if we want to; and I am trying to do that- that this legislation does give an individual the powers I am sure the Minister would not want somebody, maybe such as myself, to have. I can certainly think of a lot of people whom I would not want to have these particular powers. So for those reasons we are putting our amendments to the legislation in the terms put by the honourable member for Newcastle. 
I conclude by making the point that we are not taking a negative approach. We have asked that the Bill be redrafted. Now we would like to give the Government some hints on how that might be done- by giving it our own policy. What we discerned when we were in power was that there was an awakening in the community to the importance of communications. We were aware of the fact that more people felt that they had something to say about what the system ought to be about. We were aware of the fact that the commercial sector and the national sector do not necessarily cater for all the divergent needs of the community. We cannot expect the commercial sector to provide for minority interests for the very real reasons that the honourable member for Bowman pointed out. Some of the smaller stations, if they are going to maintain themselves with the sort of advertising that was allowedwhat is called billboard advertising- might be financially ruined if they tried, because of their very small advertising potential. I agree with that. 
In other words, particular interest groups, small groups in the community, need something other than the commercial sector or the national sector which we now have. We were advocating the establishment of a community radio area to license small stations that would not be interesting from the advertiser's point of view. But of course the commercial sector has seen the danger that this might well cut down on the potential audience for the large commercial stations. Of course it would. Even if the ethnic stations are successful, they will withdraw a lot of the potential commercial licensee audiences. That is the rub; that is the problem. I do not think it can be overcome in the way in which the Government is trying to overcome it. In fact the Government is going to insist that these special interest stations keep themselves. They will not succeed in doing so. 
The other avenue for the expansion of free expression which we are proposing is the establishment of a new national television channel which we have called the electric gallery. We are aware of the fact that there are lots of television programs made by small interest groups in the community that would be of interest to the whole community but which never get to air. The commercial channels cannot and will not put them to air for a whole variety of reasons, not the least of which is that they are afraid they would not get a big enough audience. Of course the national channels will not put them to air because they have their programs lined up for ages ahead. So we are suggesting this electric gallery where, financed by the Government, these interest groups could put on the programs. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 18 October 1977: 
1 ) What is the current breakdown in expenditure from the Tobacco Industry Trust Account for research and extension. 
What percentage of this expenditure went on (a) tobacco plant diseases, (b) tobacco marketing, (c) tobacco manufacturing processes and (d) research which could be described as aimed at reducing the harmful effects of smoking, during the last five years. 
What percentage of this Trust Account is provided by the Commonwealth Government. 
What are the other sources of revenue for the account. 
I wish to comment on a couple of points relating to migrants in the Governor-General's Speech. Before doing so, I clarify a misunderstanding that has arisen following comments made by me in the last few days concerning my attitude to migrants and immigration. The misunderstandings have arisen due to inherent limitations of the media, not through any malice or deliberate misrepresentation by the media. As the son of migrants escaping from religious persecution and settling in Australia, I am all too sensitive to many of the less commendable aspects of Australian society. This was the case particularly during my childhood. During the years after Hitler took power in Germany before the Second World War, I became acutely aware of the reluctance of too many so-called free nations to open their doors to refugees who, unable to escape, were thrown into concentration camps and were exterminated. Some did manage to escape to Australia, particularly after the War during the term of the Labor Government- that is, some of the few who survived. I again witnessed intolerance, prejudice and lack of active support at government level for the establishment of services to help migrants. 
Being born in Australia, I could speak English as a child. Yet, I can still recall episodes of pain, embarrassment and anger. How much worse it must have been for those who could not speak English when confronted with the hostility that other Australians displayed when they forgot that all white Australians are new Australians. Let me not dwell on this aspect any longer, other than to reaffirm that I believe any political, religious or racial refugee should be able to seek refuge, temporary at least if not permanent, in this rich, secure, free country. I say that despite the anxieties we have had in recent days. Compared with most countries, this is a rich, secure, free country. Whatever our problems with unemployment, we must always accept family reunion as an undeniable ground for migration to this country for those Australians, new or old, choosing to reunite their families here. 
It is on the subject of migration, excluding these two groups of migrants, that I have attempted to question assumptions and myths. The Governor-General said that the Government, in recognising the multi-cultural nature of Australian society is concerned 'that all groups have the opportunity to enrich their identity and develop their talents to the full'. After making some motherhood statements about Aboriginals, which if matched by the same inaction or actual withdrawal of support for Aboriginals as we have witnessed in the last two years can only confirm in the mind of the whole community the utter hypocrisy of the Liberal Government, the Governor-General returned to the migrant question. The Government clearly recognises some of the areas of major concern. But judging from the non-specific nature of the proposals for action and worse the indication that even more dependence will be placed on 'non-government migrant resource centres' any migrant with any insight can only conclude that little or nothing will be done for 20 per cent of the population suffering disadvantages through barriers of language, in areas or health, welfare, education and job opportunities, just to name a few. 
To confirm the cynicism of the Government 's approach, we were informed: 
Close attention will be given to the recommendations of the expert group currently reviewing Post-Arrival Programs and Services to Migrants. 
That is now known as the Galbally inquiry. If this is so, why has the Government changed the whole administrative arrangements for migrants by once again concentrating all power in all areas of migrant welfare in the most centralised department of all, the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs? The advantages of administrative arrangements instituted by the Labor Government- advantages in the dispersal of welfare services, support for the migrants, health services, education and so on provided for all Australians, many of whom are migrants, some of 50 years standing- now have been destroyed. 
Why should people be forced to seek help from the Department of Immigration and Ethnic 
Affairs and not from the Department of Social Security or the Department of Education, as other Australians may, simply because they are termed new Australians? That is a little box into which they fit. With this new efficient rearrangementwe were told that one of the main justifications for electing a Liberal Government was that it knows how to run things better and how to be far more efficient than the Labor Government was- will we see a duplication of staff in the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs to perform all these sundry services that were being provided very adequately and when not provided adequately were being expanded rapidly in all these other departments? Is this the Government's contribution to solving the unemployment problem? It appears that we must duplicate the Public Service facilities in those areas and that will take up a few of the unemployed. But how can this be so if the Government sticks to its view that what we need to do is to keep the Public Service trimmed and to adhere to the staff ceilings? Does that mean, in fact, that migrants will receive second rate inadequate service? 
One of the advantages of our moves to decentralise this power, to take it out of Canberra, to get it into the local areas where the migrants live, was that it allowed more direct community responsibility, particularly on the part of the migrants themselves. They could make decisions for themselves. But this Government says: 'No. We have to keep an eye on it. We have to control it properly. Control, control, control. ' I thought honourable members opposite argued that it was the Labor Government that wanted excessive controls, but in my view the truth is that the Liberal Government wants excessive controls. Now everything has to be referred back to Canberra. 
The Governor-General went on to discuss the introduction of ethnic television. I presume that that will be like ethnic radio. Labor likes to boast that when it was in government in the 1 940s it instituted a massive migration program. I am not complaining about that. I am not condemning it in any way at all. I think that it has done a lot for Australia and I hope that it has done something for the migrants. But we did not last very long. 
The Liberal Government took over. We have a habit of not lasting terribly long in government in this country. For most of the years when most of the migrants came to this country a Liberal government was in power. What did that government ever do for migrants in the area of communication through the airwaves? It did nothing at all. The ethnic communities had to wait until a Labor government came to power in 1972 before any thought was given to providing ethnic programs for those communities. The Labor Government established radio stations 2EA, 3EA and 3ZZ. The first action of the Liberal Government when Labor was removed and it came to office was none other than to shackle those stations and to dispose finally of 3ZZ. 
That station was far too controversial. It allowed migrants to say what they thought. The Government said: 'They must not do that. We have to look after those naughty children. They must not get involved in polities'. They must not talk about religion or sex either, presumably. The Government said: 'Let them just talk about nice music and lovely programs and, if they refer to their home country they should not get involved at all in the political situation in that country. Just let them talk about the old folk songs and so on'- nice pap, uncontroversial mush- 'Let the migrants lull themselves to sleep with lullabies reminding them of the past in their countries, as long as it does not involve the realities of the past'. 
The reality is that the migrants themselves have become totally disillusioned by the way in which the Liberal Government has shackled their freedom of expression on ethnic radio. 
The honourable member says 'Rightly so'. I only hope that some migrants are aware of the fact that a Liberal member has said that, and they can make their own judgment. Migrants do not want to be treated as children. If they have the sorts of brawls about which the honourable member was talking they must face up to those things. It is not for us to act as father or mother to them and to tell them how to behave themselves. 
In like fashion I wonder what sort of ethnic television we will get. What I fear is that a licence will be offered to some group which will purport to provide ethnic programs on television. It will have enormous commercial link-ups with goodness knows what. The reality is that there will not be any money in ethnic television providing programs for specific ethnic groups because the population is not large enough. One may want to put on a television program in Italian. Television does not have a very wide range. The total 
Italian community of any one of our major cities is not large enough to justify any advertiser spending much money on that station, and so it will not survive economically. That is the reality of the situation. If it happens- I doubt very much whether the Government will ever get around to it- we will be given a sop which will be utterly meaningless to the ethnic communities. I think that 'tokenism ' is the best word that one can use. 
Now let me turn to some of the doubts about our assumptions on immigration that have got me into hot water in recent days. Let me commence by turning to the Press statement by the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  and the article he wrote in the  Age  in response to an article by  Dr Birrell  entitled 'Immigration and Unemployment'. It was one of a series of articles which make up a book entitled  The Immigration Issue in Australia,  which has just been released. The Minister and I were both asked for our comments on one particular chapter which dealt with immigration and unemployment. In his Press release the Minister said: 

 Dr Cass has called for immigration to be cut to the bone as happened under the Whitlam Labor Government. This would deny Australia the economic stimulus and jobcreating effects of a further inflow of skilled workers to fill positions for which there are no available unemployed Australians. 
Before I launch into a discussion of the real issues let me say once again that, in calling for migration to be cut to the bone as happened under the Labor Government, we did not discourage family reunion and we did not stop political refugees seeking asylum in this country. So I want to exclude those two groups. I say that explicitly because I have been misinterpreted and people have felt that I was saying that there should be no family reunion. That is not true. 
Let us get to the question of the others, the people whom the Government says should be brought in to provide the economic stimulus and the job-creating effects that we all want to reduce our unemployment. The Government cannot have it both ways. If migration does do the thing it is claimed to do- be an economic stimulus and create jobs- the Government should rapidly and immediately increase the migration rate now and not wait until economic circumstances improve, for that implies that immigration inhibits or depresses economic recovery. Surely the cautionin other words, the fact that the Government does not rapidly and immediately increase immigration rates- reflects the true effect of immigration, and the stated policy, or what the Government goes on about publicly, about increasing immigration is simply humbug, an ideological hangup, a nefarious plot to weaken the trade union movement by increasing the pool of unemployment or, worst of all, a simplistic acceptance of up to now generaly held myths whose consequences have never been assessed. 
Just what are the effects of high immigration rates? The Priorities Review Staff in their 'Report on the Borrie Report' of August 1976 mentioned the usual claim that demand is stimulated and then noted: 
The available studies do not really settle the question of whether or not the increase in demand is greater than that due to any other entrant to the work force; nor do they agree on the time pattern of the induced changes in demand and supply. 
The Priorities Review Staff continued later:  . . . we do not really know whether migration stimulates demand or supply most and we do not know how long it generally takes before either occurs. Some of the lags involved are quite long. 
Thus acknowledging a very significant level of general ignorance, the Priorities Review Staff indicated: 
Traditionally policy has aimed at cutting back on migrant intake during recession and increasing it during expansion. This has presumed that migration increases supply faster than demand. 
In other words, migrants rapidly fill job vacancies, thus getting production to increase quickly, so increasing supply. But here is the rub: People are now not buying the goods that are already available. We are told the inventories are full. We are told that productive capacity is down. People are being put off work because employers- manufacturers- do no want to keep producing at the rate at which they have been producing. They cannot sell the goods that they are producing. So we are caught in a bind. There is no point in bringing in migrants to increase supply when we cannot get rid of the present supply; there is no demand; and the Government cannot bring in enough migrants quickly enough to increase demand, because that is not what they do: They have to earn a living first before thay can start buying the goods; they cannot earn a living if they cannot get jobs; and they cannot get jobs if no one wants to increase supply. In other words it is humbug. 
We can hark back to the glorious days when we had a massive increase in migration and the country blazed ahead economically. I suggest it was a sheer coincidence. The economic development was not dependent on the migrants. The migration and the economic development were coincidental. The country may well be richer for having had the migrants. I am not complaining about the migrants. I am simply saying that there is no truth in the assertion that their admission to this country was the stimulus to rapid development. For example, during the same period there were actual falls in population in the other countries. Yet most countries experienced the same rapid development and increase in wealth. I suggest our happy situation was tied up with the whole world economic progress in those years. Migration was incidental. It has done us well, for lots of other reasons which have nothing to do with economic growth. 
When discussing these issues in my article I cited the figures provided by  Dr Birrell.  The Minister, in his reply, claimed, of course, that  Dr Birrell  's figures were suspect and wrong. The area which we were discussing related to the real problems facing the Australian community, namely, the difficulty of creating sufficient jobs for Australians, new and old- those already in the country and those coming here in the foreseeable future. 
Let me in the closing part of my speech give an indication of the measure of the problem. I will not cite  Dr Birrell's  figures; I will cite the corrected figures given by the Minister. The Minister claimed that there would be an increase of only 505,000 in the labour force from 1976 to 1981. That means, after we have done a little simple arithmetic, that we must expect an increase of about 337,000 from now till 1981. We now have 445,000 unemployed. We have to provide only 780,000-odd new jobs in the next few years. This means that we have to find only 26 1 ,000 jobs per year. I said originally the figure was 278,000. 1 accept the corrected figure of 261,000. We have provided nowhere near so many jobs. In the period from 1973 to 1977 we provided only 300,000 new jobs- less than half the number we will have to find in the time left to us. That is the nature of the problem facing us. That is the reason why the Government is pausing. The Government should stop talking in this humbug fashion about immigration helping to stimulate all these things. It should face up to the real issue. How will we find jobs for the Australians who are here? 
-Before dealing with the inadequacies of services for migrants, it would be as well to dispose of the suggestion that the level of unemployment amongst migrants is not as high as that amongst Australians. The Bureau of Statistics, in its Labour Force, May 1977 study, provides a table showing that whilst there was an unemployment rate of 4.2 per cent amongst Australian born people at that time, the unemployment rate was only 3.7 per cent amongst those born in Italy, Greece and Yugoslavia. At the same time for those born in the United Kingdom and Ireland the rate was 3.6 per cent. All that begs the question: When is a migrant not a migrant, or for how long and in what circumstances should someone born outside Australia be counted as a migrant, and when should such an individual be counted as an Australian? Clearly, whilst in some areas such as health services, welfare services or education, the cultural background of an individual is relevant throughout life, in the case of employment that should not be so. Thus, with time a migrant should become an integral part of the work force and suffer no disability by virtue of his birth. 
On a superficial examination of the Bureau's table, to which I referred a moment ago, that would appear to be the case, when in fact the real fate of migrants is far less encouraging. The same table reveals more telling truths in terms of the fate of migrants. For migrants who arrived in Australia before 1961, that is, 16 or more years ago, the unemployment rate was 3.2 per cent at May 1977. For those who arrived between 1962 and 1975 the unemployment rate was 5.2 per cent. That was already significantly higher than the rate for those born in Australia, whose rate of unemployment was only 4.2 per cent. For the group arriving between 10 and 15 years ago the unemployment rate was 5.2 per cent. For those migrants who arrived since January 1976 the unemployment rate was 1 5.4 per cent. 
The figures I have given relate to males. The figures for females are worse. Compared with a 6.2 per cent unemployment rate for Australian born women, for the Italian, Greek and Yugoslav women the unemployment rate was 6.7 per cent, whilst for those from the United Kingdom and Ireland the unemployment rate was 6 per cent. For those who arrived fifteen or more years ago the unemployment rate was 5.1 per cent. For those women who had been here from 10 to 15 years the unemployment rate was 7.3 per cent. Of those who arrived between 1969 and 1975, 8.3 per cent were unemployed, and 22.4 per cent of the arrivals between 1 976 and May 1977 were unemployed. 
Given the dramatic increase in unemployment to a record level of 445,000 today, all of these figures must now be worse, with the anti-migrant bias making the relative position of migrants who have been here for up to 15 years still more heartbreaking. The same study showed that age for age unemployment rates for those born outside of Australia were worse than for those born in Australia. In the group 15 to 19 years of age the unemployment rate was 15 per cent for Australian born people, but the unemployment rate for non-Australian born people was 16.9 per cent. The rate for Australian born people in the group 20 to 24 years of age was 6.5 per cent, compared with a 9.2 percent unemployment rate for those of the same age born overseas. This unfavourable comparison persisted for every age group. 
The gross, undissected statistic gives a totally false impression. The truth is that recent arrivals in this country- that is, those who have been here for up to 15 years- are very much worse off in terms of employment possibilities than any group in Australia other than the only true Australians, the Aborigines, whose employment situation is an utter disgrace to all of the nonAboriginal invaders and colonisers of this continent. 
Despite the current horrific rates of unemployment for all Australians, particularly migrants, the Government goes on blindly insisting that the rate of immigration should be substantially increased. The major rationale is that Australia's work force lacks skilled personnel in particular areas and that these bottlenecks prevent employment of more skilled workers, but the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  produces no facts to prove his case. The fact is that the majority of settlers between 1960 and 1976 were not skilled workers- 52.2 per cent were dependants, 1 1 .2 per cent were unskilled, 16.9 per cent were semi-skilled and 19.5 per cent were skilled. Migration has enlarged the work force but, considered age for age, it has not raised the level of skills. This situation has allowed the development of what Pat O'Malley has called a 'sub-proletariat' of socially and economically disadvantaged migrant workers who perform dirty work, that is, work which is lowly paid, has poor job security and involves poor conditions. 
Any increase in immigration does nothing to change the current situation and may indeed exacerbate it. While the Government insists on a large scale immigration program to meet the needs of industry, it does little to alleviate the continuing problems of migrants after their arrival in Australia. For migrant workers to carry out the vast majority of jobs in Australia they arc required by their employers to be fluent in English, particularly those applying for skilled jobs. Yet the study 'A Decade of Migrant Settlement' indicates that only 35 per cent of migrants have fluent or good English, and only 15 per cent of migrants from Mediterranean countries, excluding the Middle East, have fluent or good English. This survey concentrated on heads of households, predominantly males, so the figures are likely to be worse for other family members. 
One can presume only that the Government, in its persistent drive to find skilled migrants, is seeking white Anglo-Saxons proficient in those jobs where a fluent command of the English language would be mandatory. If the Government is not limiting its recruitment to those migrants proficient in English, this would point to a desperate need for migrant education in full and part time English courses. In the last Budget $ 10.4m was provided for adult migrant education, an amount virtually unchanged in monetary terms from that provided in 1976-77, although it was much less in real terms when one takes inflation into account. This amount of $ 10.4m can be compared with $2 1.3m spent in 1975-76, the year of the last Labor Budget. There were some token increases in living allowances for migrants undertaking full time English courses. But the whole program remains scandalously inadequate. For example, in 1976, no more than 5,000 students a year received any assistance in English under government programs in Victoria, despite an expected intake of 20,000 migrants. In other words, the program was inadequate to cope with new arrivals, let alone the enormous backlog of migrants already here hoping for help with their English studies. 
The editorial of the  Age  of 18 January 1978 suggested just how hard a time migrants are having in this current recession, particularly persons of non-English speaking origin. Their situation is exacerbated by the current economic recession because traditionally migrants have worked in manufacturing industries. There has been a loss of 30,000 jobs between February 1973 and February 1977 in the manufacturing sector. Technological and capital investment will continue to displace labour which has become predominantly migrant labour. These and other trends have made migrants particularly vulnerable as they are the persons most readily affected by economic recession yet least able to defend their interests and rights at such times. 
The vulnerability of migrants at a time of high unemployment highlights the inadequacies of current migrant services. Yet it is at such a crucial time that the Government decides to transfer migrant services to the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. Such centralisation smacks of bureaucratic belt tightening at the expense of the migrant community. Is there a future for many of the innovative programs started during Labor's term of office- programs under the Department of Social Security such as welfare rights, the Outreach program, telephone interpreter services and so on? How will migrants who need such assistance to obtain benefits and allowances to which they are entitled fare now that the Department of Social Security is no longer responsible for providing these migrant services? For example, in the current blitz on the eligibility of those receiving unemployment benefits, the migrant who loses his benefit is less likely to understand his right to appeal, especially as all the information relating to it is written in English. 
Even before the centralisation of migrant services, many of these services suffered from a lack of funds which totally limited their operation. For example, the community interpreter service was given only $71,537 extra, or a total of $465,000, in 1977-78. Prior to the presentation of the Budget, the New South Wales service came to a halt because of lack of funds. These allocations meant that services had to be cut drastically both in New South Wales and Victoria. Training courses for interpreters and translators which have received only limited funding were dropped altogether. The ever increasing casework books of organisations dealing with migrant welfare amply illustrate the need for greater funding. Yet the Budget allocation of $655,000, if last year is anything to go on, may be underspent by more than $200,000. In other words, despite the increasing clamour from various migrant welfare organisations for more funds, for reasons best known to itself the Government has inhibited the Department of Social Security- now it is the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs- from distributing the funds theoretically available for grantsinaid. It is not that the demand is not there. The demand is there and even some funds are available. The Government will not let them out. 
Perhaps ethnic radio could assist migrants with information about their rights and entitlements and in finding jobs. Providing such assistance to migrants is at present discouraged by the tight bureaucratic and political controls which are being imposed on the ethnic radio stations. The hostile climate is effectively inhibiting the full use of ethnic radio as a community service to migrants at a time when it could be vital. The Government has shown little concern for the high rate of return home to their countries of origin among migrants, particularly the professional and skilled- those groups which supposedly justify further increases in the rate of immigration. Surely the huge number of migrants returning home indicates the blatant neglect by the Liberal Government of the continuing needs of our migrant families. Is it not time we stopped using people as factory fodder, as tools of economic management, and developed a policy for migrants, not just an immigration policy. This implies not just bringing in migrants but the development of positive policies and services to deal with the problems and difficulties facing people who are coming or who have come to live in our multi-cultural society. In times of unemployment, not only are the calls on social services increased- proper interpreter services should be provided in all the offices providing these services- but also with the stress and insecurity are increasing demands made on health services. Proper interpreter facilities should be provided in all public hospitals dealing with migrants, both for a physical and psychological illness. A proper understanding of the cultural origins of a patient is essential if psychological services are to be effective. In other words, one could suggest that a case could be made out for setting up psychiatric units in order to treat psychiatric problems in particular ethnic cultural groups. 
Policies for migrants could include an expanded pre-employment introduction course for migrants during which time they could be paid unemployment benefits without having to seek work while receiving English training and a general orientation for working and living in Australia. Instead, migrants land at the dock or arrive at the airport and by and large they have to look after themselves, particularly in terms of the jobs they seek. There are many records of migrants arriving in the country and seeking employment at the first factory which can give them work and putting up with conditions that they subsequently would refuse to put up with when they become more accustomed to the conditions in the country. But we take advantage of their ignorance by not providing them with any of these introductory services such as tuition or enlightenment on the conditions in this country and what they should expect when they work in factories in Australia. 
A more constructive approach is needed in the areas of re-training and recurrent education, in job creation schemes that are both socially and economically useful and in the provision of English courses. We should pay bread winners undertaking these courses and provide child care for participants where necessary. In other words, we should be more concerned about re-training Australians, new and old, but in this example particularly new Australians, who, by virtue of changes in technology and the shrinkage of employment opportunities in manufacturing industries, find themselves out of work and unable to get jobs because they do not have the required skills. We should not be bringing people into Australia; we should be retraining those who are already here. The whole range of migrant services must be modified to ensure a humanitarian approach is taken to migrants and their problems. It is time we took responsibility for the people we have encouraged to migrate to Australia. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. Is the Galbally Review of Post-arrival Programs and Services to Migrants still continuing its investigations? If not, has the committee concerned presented a report to the Government? If so, when was the report presented? Will the report be tabled and when? If the committee's report has not been presented to the Government, why has the Government gone ahead with major restructuring of migrant services, including the transfer of the telephone interpreter service, the Outreach program and migrant services sections from the Department of Social Security to the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, before receiving a report which presumably would be advising the Government on these very matters? 
-This discussion paper on paying for health care prepared by the Hospitals and Health Services Commission presents some of the relevant statistics and information necessary for establishing an effective and efficient policy for health care in Australia. As the Commission itself noted, there remain glaring gaps in our data. It would seem obvious that to make major changes to the present system before completing the data base would be foolhardy in the extreme. For example, where are the statistics on the rate of increase in general practitioner services over, say the last ten years? This is the area in which basically the patient initiates service. We are told often that the whole problem is caused by patients overutilising services. Where are the statistics to show that there has in fact been an increase compared with, say, the rate of increase in specialist services of various sorts and hospital services? 
John Deeble recently made an estimate of these figures. He thought that there had been an increase over about the last, I think, ten years of about 20 per cent in general practitioner services, which would hardly account for the dramatic increase in costs. He estimated that there had been an increase of about 80 per cent in specialist consultations. I do not recall seeing his estimate of the increase in surgical procedures. He estimated that the increase in X-ray services was over 100 per cent. I cannot recall the exact figure. He estimated that the increase in pathology services was over 300 per cent. Those servicesspecialist consultations, X-ray services and pathology services- are not patient initiated, and charging the patient before a service is utilised is of no help to the patient. It simply means that the patient may say: 'I cannot afford it. I will not have it', without any estimate of whether the patient needs it or not. It should be the doctor's judgment in those areas, not the patients' responsibility to decide that they do not need a specialist consultation. 
The Commission's paper singles out private health funds for criticism for their lack of cooperation in providing statistics on claims for health benefits, and rightly so. If the private funds are concerned to prove that the present system is more efficient than the original Medibank, with its comprehensive system of data collection, then they should be willing to provide the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  with all the information he requests. The continual delays suggest an inability on the part of some private funds and an unwillingness on the part of others to provide the required information. Many of the recommendations made by the Commission in this paper relate to containing costs in institutions- the most expensive part of the system- and on pilot projects into systems of health financing. The key role of the doctor in utilising health services and his absolute discretion in this regard are recognised by the Commission. There are recommendations on the monitoring of the medical profession's performance, for example, via peer review, accreditation and medical audit. The discussion paper recognises that the community cannot afford to let the health professionals name their own price. 
The Commission, to a large extent, shies off the fundamentally important issue of how to contain doctor initiated services or doctor initiated over-utilisation. The paper singles out the methods of paying the doctor as the significant factor in the demand for service and finds that 'it is the doctor who is, and must be, the gatekeeper' of the system. Incentives for cost control should be aimed at his behaviour'. It points out that there are advantages to the doctor in the fee-for-service system of payment. This is set out at page 34. It states: 
The major criticisms that have been raised - 
That is, against the fee-for-service system-  include references to the possibilities that this form of payment encourages inessential procedures, visits, tests, referrals, and hospitalisation; the use of better paid procedures rather than equally effective but cheaper alternatives; the discouragement of substitution of less expensive personnel, such as nurses and social workers, even when this may be appropriate; and the lack of influence on maldistribution of doctors. 
We should note that all of these are costly features in the present inadequate health care system. The Commission concludes that 'there is a need for Australia to pursue evaluation of alternatives to fee-for-service systems'. Where is this statement to be seen in the recommendations? It just disappeared. Was it considered, only to be put into the too-hard basket because of the opposition of the medical profession? This opposition of the medical profession was spelt out at page 13 of the discussion paper in the following words: 
The doctors fight for the retention of private medical practice on a fee-for-service basis not only because that is the best way to preserve their authority, independence, status and income. Many believe that it is in the best interests of their patients. 
That is a belief, I dare to suggest, which does not stand up to scientific analysis or statistical analysis. Has the superior quality of medical care on a fee-for-service basis, compared with salaried service, ever been demonstrated? I have never seen such a study. Some of the criticisms listed by the Commission in the discussion paper tend to confirm my view. The fee-for-service system is a method of payment which pays the doctor for treating an illness, not for keeping people well. The uncharitable could argue that under this system the doctor has a vested interest in people being ill or, as Ivan Illych implied, in causing illness. Many experts argue that higher quality care at a lower cost would be possible via preventive care rather than treatment of episodic illness. 
The Commission's discussion paper concluded that 'prevention of illness and disability accompanied by effective health education, has the greatest long-term potential for containing the general inflation of health expenditures'. What happens to preventive care in the present system? The doctor who wishes to practise medicine in this way with the emphasis on keeping people healthy is financially penalised under the feeforservice system. He cannot charge anyone for conducting health education sessions on nutrition or preventing accidents or on home care of minor illnesses. He cannot charge for not giving people repeat prescriptions for valium and sending them to a counsellor instead. He cannot charge for referring a patient to more appropriate allied health personnel such as social workers or physiotherapists. Under the fee-for-service system, the more patients seen and the more services performed in the time available the greater the doctor's income. Who in the community could resist the temptation to boost his income, particularly when over servicing can be so easily represented as commendable diligence on behalf of one's patients? 
The report notes that incentives to preventative care within a well insured fee-for-service practice, could lead to no more than an upsurge of so-called secondary prevention of doubtful efficacy. This involves the early detection of disease by screening large sympton-free populations at great cost, for little benefit. Such clinics are already operating in Sydney and probably in Melbourne and are of doubtful value in helping to maintain the health of the community. But they are very good businesses- highly profitable. The report argues that preventive care will obtain much better results through public sector intervention rather than by providing additional incentives in private practice. That is true. A public health education program must be developed and evaluated along with other prevention programs. But incentives could be offered to doctors if a different method of payment were being used. The Government should look hard at setting up pilot projects to test the efficacy of this proposition. In its chapter on alternative health care systems the report states: 
There is evidence that the dilemma faced by those who seek to pool consumer risks effectively without inflating health care costs cannot be solved in a system in which responsibilities for pooling and for supplying services are totally divorced. 
In other words, an insurance system which is divorced from the responsibility of supplying the services cannot solve the problem of increasing health care costs. This is the nub of the problem of health care costs in Australia. Put another way: The doctors who are responsible for supplying the service have no responsibility for collecting and pooling the costs. The report examines pre-paid group practice, particularly the health maintenance organisation. The report concludes: 
Best results are reported from Prepaid Group Practices without fee-for-service payments expected from the subscriber or the managing organisation. 
Or, I might add, without fee-for-service payment to the treating doctor because that is inherent in those studies. I will give a couple of examples. In an article in the  Social Security Bulletin  of May 1976 entitled 'Contrasts in HMO and FeeforService Performance', the finding is given that hospital use was significantly lower in group practice plans than in fee-for-service systems. In the group practice plans the doctors were on salaries. I will give some of the figures. In a group practice the annual rate of admissions per thousand people was 46. In the 'controls'- that is, in practices where the doctors worked on a feeforservice basis- the admission rate was 1 14. There was not much difference in the average length of stay, the figures being 7.4 days per patient for the group practice and 7.7 days for the 'controls'. So it is not that the patients admitted on the recommendation of doctors on a salary are in hospital for a shorter time. That is not true. The length of time is the same. The fact of the matter is that far fewer people are put in hospital. We have been told by a number of people that it is in the institutional areas that most of the costs are incurred. The article to which I have referred states: 
Surgical rates reveal similar patterns. The rates for grouppractice plans - 
That is, salaried doctors- were half those of their controls. 
That is a very significant figure. Another recent example is the figures that were published in August 1977 by the Foundation for Health Care Evaluation. It listed the patient days in hospital per thousand of population in various cities, such as New York, where the patients treated on a fee-for-service basis numbered 1,495 and St Paul-Minneapolis, where the figure was 1,391. In Chicago the figure was 1,390. A number of other major cities are listed and the figures are about the same. They range from 1,395 to 848. Only one city had a figure below 1,000. I ask honourable members to compare those admission rates with the admission rate for patients treated by health maintenance organisations where the doctors were on salary. In St PaulMinneapolis, the twin cities, the admission rate was only 561 compared with the figure of 1,391 for the twin cities for doctors operating on a feeforservice basis. Throughout the whole of America, taking the figure for all the health maintenance organisations, the hospital admission rate was only 450. There is an enormous reduction in the hospitalisation of patients when doctors are on salaries compared with when doctors are paid on a fee-for-service basis. 
The Commission recommends Government support for such organisations, but, as their application has been possibly only in limited areas of the United States, many suggest that to look to health maintenance organisations for a total solution would be a mistake. That avoids an analysis of why the health maintenance organisations have spread so slowly. The reason is simple: No one makes enormous profits out of health maintenance organisations. No one is willing to push them or to peddle them because there is no profit to be made by the entrepreneurs. If they are to be pushed they will have to be pushed by governments. Most of them are associated with large community hospitals. In a country where most of the medical practice is private and where the whole ethos is a fee-for-service medical practice, as is the case in Australia, these organisations will not spread unless a government consciously pushes them. 
It is a shame that the report did not seize the opportunity to stress more forcefully the need for testing the various methods of paying doctors. For example, there could have been a more definite suggestion to establish salaried health service units, properly controlled in terms of staffing in relation to the patient load and carefully assessed in terms of peer review and auditing. In this way, a comparison could be made between the performance of these salaried services and the private fee-for-service medical practice which is so popular in this country. I am convinced that if a proper controlled experiment were run we would discover the answer to the runaway costs of health services in this community. It is not due to the irresponsible behaviour of patients. Patients simply feel sick and consult a general practitioner. Whatever happens from then on- if excessive utilisation occurs- is the responsibility of the medical practitioner. If we are suffering excessive health costs in this country it is due, sadly, to the irresponsible behaviour of too many medical practitioners. 
 I want to discuss just a couple of points. The first relates to the Opposition's amendment to clause 9 (2). We agree that all the services that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  has suggested Aborigines should provide for themselves should be arranged by them. We agree with the substance of clause 9(2), but we have been prompted to move the amendment to clause 9 (2) because of the anxieties that the Minister himself has in this matter. Of course the State authorities should help to provide these services. But what will happen if they seek to provide these services in a way in which the Aborigines do not approve and the Minister does not approve? That is simply the reason why the Opposition proposes the inclusion in clause 9 (2 ) of the words 'with the consent of the Minister'. After all, the Government has been motivated to take the action it is now taking because it has objected to the actions that the Queensland Government has taken. Because of the way in which subclause (2) is framed at the moment the Queensland Government still would be able to take such action. What would the Federal Government do then? 
The Opposition is not trying to get at the Minister. We are not suggesting that we disapprove of the Queensland Government entering reserves and doing anything at all. Of course the Queensland Government should shoulder its responsibilities. But that is not the point of our amendment. It is simply that the Federal Government as well as, of course, the Aboriginal community should be happy that what is being done is what is required to be done in the fashion in which the Aborigines want it to be done. After all, the whole argument is about whether Aborigines should have the right to decide for themselves, not that they have to do it all themselves. I hope this is seen as a relatively minor amendment. It is not world shattering. It gives the Federal Government the final say if there is doubt about what the Queensland Government is doing. 
The Opposition's next amendment seeks to omit sub-clause (4) and sub-clause (5) of clause 10 and to substitute two other sub-clauses. As clause 10 stands the Minister can prevent any by-law ever getting anywhere simply by personally disapproving of it. I know that the present Minister is a reasonable and good Minister and that he is not likely to do that sort of thing. But, just to pick on the Government's prejudices towards the Labor Party, what would be the position if it was in office and it was proposing the giving of this sort of power? Honourable members opposite should be honest with themselves. They would object to it. It is unreasonable to let a Minister acting on his own disallow a by-law. Surely what the Government is trying to say in this legislation is that if the Minister does not like a by-law- and he may well not like some by-laws - 
Hang on. I am conceding to the Minister the right of approval. The Opposition's amendment to clause 9 (2) does not take anything away from Aborigines. It will allow the Federal Government to be sure that what the Queensland Government is doing is acceptable to the Federal Government and presumably to the Aborigines. We are now talking about bylaws written or produced by the councils themselves. We are simply saying that it is unreasonable that a Minister acting on his own should be able to block them. We are not saying that the 
Parliament should not be able to block them. We agree with that. Our amendment simply suggests that the by-laws will not be valid unless they are tabled in the Parliament. We have specified a time because, once again, delaying is in effect disallowing by not acting. That is unreasonable, too. Aborigines are entitled to know by virtue of a positive action taken by the Parliament. We are simply saying that once the Minister receives a by-law he should table it. If he disagrees with itthis is provided for already in clause 10 (4)- the Minister may move for its disallowance. As the Government has the numbers obviously that by-law will be disallowed and that would be the end of it. I am asking the Minister to consider the proposition that I put before, that if we were in office and we were putting forward this proposal I do not believe the honourable members opposite would agree to the proposition that the Minister should have the power on his own to refuse to accept a by-law. By all means if the Minister puts that by-law to the Parliament and the Parliament objects, it is bad luck for the councils, but they cannot have it. 
The Opposition's amendment to clause 10 proposes to omit sub-clause (9), which reads: 
A by-law does not apply in relation to a person who is not an Aboriginal or an Islander. 
Surely the Government is not serious about that. Aboriginal councils put forward all sorts of bylaws to control the behaviour of people on reserves but under this legislation a white man- a non-Aboriginal- can just walk onto a reserve and do what he likes. I cannot believe that is the intention of this provision. Surely what the Government is saying is that if Aborigines are to be allowed to control their reserves in their own way anyone who enters those reserves should be expected to abide by the by-laws. It does not matter what is the colour of his skin. 
I want to deal now with the Opposition's new amendment which has just been circulated. The Opposition proposes the deletion of clause 12 and the substitution of a new clause 12. Clause 12 as it is framed is a long, involved attempt to get around the capacity of the Queensland Government to prohibit people, Aborigines or Islanders, from going onto reserves. That is in essence what clause 12 says. It says that a council can override prohibitions by the Queensland Government by the issue of authorisations. We accept that. The Opposition's new proposed clause 12 (2) reads: 
No person being an Aboriginal or Islander will be prevented from residing on or visiting a reserve or community except by the decision of the Council and with the consent of the Minister. 
In essence our proposed new sub-clause says all that the Government is saying in the numerous lines at the bottom of page 7 and the top of page 8 of the Bill. The Opposition's amendment is a simpler statement, The reason for wording it in that way is that the clause as it is framed at the moment does not provide for Aborigines or the Islanders to control non-Aborigines and nonIslanders, hence the Opposition's proposed new clause 12(1), which reads: 
No person not being an Aboriginal or Islander shall reside on or visit a reserve or community without the permission of the Council or by the consent of the Minister. 
The Opposition is not saying that no one should ever be allowed to enter reserves. We are not saying that a council can refuse anyone permission to enter reserves and just leave it at that. Councils may refuse permission but the Minister may think it is a good idea for someoone to enter reserves; so he gives approval. Because of the way in which the clause is framed at the moment the only power the legislation gives to Aborigines is the power to allow onto reserves Aborigines who have been prohibited from entering reserves by the Queensland Government. That acknowledges the power of the Queensland Government legislation. 
Our amendment overcomes that situation and provides the Aboriginals with the same power the Commonwealth Government has provided in its legislation in fewer words. It seeks to add a power which the legislation has not given to the Aborigines. The Government has not allowed them any right to control non-Aborigines. We suggest that that is unreasonable and that they should be given that power. But, of course, they may have a particular prejudice- or goodness knows what- against a non-Aboriginal and they may want to exclude him or her unreasonably. Our amendment gives the Minister the power to override those unreasonable objections. For those reasons, I hope the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs will seriously examine these amendments that I have touched upon. I cannot see that they in any way seriously challenge the essence of what the Government has put up in this legislation. The amendments try to clarify the position. The amendment moved in relation to clause 9 (2) simply seeks to ensure that the Government does not suffer the fate it has already suffered at the hands of the Queensland Government which has prompted this amendment. 
I am suggesting that the power to make bylaws is reasonable and no Minister on his own should be able to declare them invalid. It should be a function of the Parliament itself. By-laws ought to apply to anyone. Finally, I suggest that the legislation should allow the Aborigines and Islanders the right to admit Aborigines and Islanders and the right to admit or exclude nonAborigines or Islanders. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. On 1 March 1978, in a debate on a matter of public importance, the Minister asserted that in the field of migrant education 'a significant increase in expenditure has been made by the Fraser Administration'. On the basis of the figures given by the Minister to justify this claim, the amount of $37,883,500 funded this year is $627,000 less than the amount necessary if expenditure had continued at the same rate as in the last Hayden Budget when the official inflation rate and the increase in the consumer price index in the years of the Fraser Government are taken into account. Is this new law of relativity wherein a mathematical decrease can be represented as a significant increase- the MacKellar law - 
My question is directed to the Minister for Industry and Commerce. I refer the Minister to a statement he made on 15 December 1977 in which he said that a loan of $79,000 which he obtained from QBE Insurance was - 
This was the sort of approach that some honourable members on the other side of the House took to members on this side of the House, and I resented that at the time too. The Minister said that he received the loan on normal commercial terms. Is it a fact that the loan to security ratio was about 83 per cent, whilst the law applying to loans from finance companies, solicitors and trustee company funds provides a maximum loan to security ratio of 66% per cent? Is it a fact that no penalty is involved for early repayment of his loan, whilst the vast majority of Australians who make an early repayment of home loans are subject to a penalty? Is it a fact that at the end of 15 years $43,750 of the principal, or 55.4 per cent of the total borrowed, will still be outstanding on his loan, whereas most Australian families repaying a home loan - 
I join in this discussion because I want to make a very personal point. I agree with the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  in his estimate of  Mr Brych. Mr Brych  is deceiving a lot of people and is tearing a lot of families apart in this country. He is probably bankrupting a number of people. So it is important that the information should get out somehow. I am now confused about the actual situation of privilege. I want to get my hands on the document and distribute it to the dozens of people who write to me asking for advice. I intend to do this even if it means that I end up in gaol. 
-The Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  mentioned in his statement that government involvement in Australian broadcasting must be directed to ensure freedom of expression and enterprise in all forms of communication available to Australian society, particularly radio and television, and that this freedom is best served by diversity of structures and outlets. We in the Opposition are pleased to hear that. In our view the commercial and national networks, as they have been to date, have not provided that freedom of expression and while every political party has probably said it, it has been left to the system as it was to provide it. The reality is that it has not been provided. So I am glad that the Minister went on from that simple statement, with which nobody could disagree, to say:   . . to obviate the risk of freedom of expression and enterprise for one sector, or group, being indulged at the expense of others . . . 
He meant that to achieve this freedom it is necessary to encourage a diversity of the use of the air waves by proper planning. 
The Opposition agrees completely. One cannot assume that giving licences to the commercial stations, as was the case until the Labor Party came to power, was enough to guarantee that there would be the diversity or freedom of expression which is inherent in the whole concept of broadcasting and the needs of the community and the fact that broadcasting has to be controlled in some way, because otherwise we get mayhem on the air waves and no one hears anything. In other words, in a very real sense one could say that the air waves must be socialised and properly planned if people are going to be able to hear things. If there is to be a proper diversity of programming, it must be planned. If it is going to be spontaneous let it be well planned, one could almost say. 
The Minister acknowledged that if one is to be mindful of the inherent relationship between freedom of expression and a free society' one has to acknowledge that the best way this can be nurtured is by encouraging wherever possible public consultation in the actual planning process. With that we completely agree. In fact, very soon after I was appointed Minister for the Media in June 1975 1 set up an inquiry into public broadcasting. 
I am pleased to hear the Minister admit that he read the report very carefully. I fear that very few people have read it carefully. The inquiry met from July to October and produced its report in that short time. It conducted public hearings or interviews in Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, Canberra and Perth- the major cities where it was likely that there would be a sudden burst of activity in this area. I may refer to that report later. I am pleased to note that the Minister admits he read it very carefully. I think it was an excellent report and, in fact, my reading of the Minister's statement suggests that he must have read it. If not it would have to be a case of great minds thinking alike. He has come upon many of the ideas that were mentioned in that report. 
When one comes to consider the needs for public broadcasting it is as well to consider the listening audience. Here, the Minister made the comment that the starting point must be a general assumption that the total viewing or listening audience is comprised of a series of majority and minority groups. He went on to elaborate by pointing out that all people at some time or another will form part of a mass audience. Most of those people at some time or another will, in following specialised interests, be potential members of minority audiences. That is very true. To put it another way, like any biological function, if we were to graph the interests of the community we would get what is called a frequency distribution curve. Most people would be represented in the middle of the graph and minority interest on either side. The ironic thing is that as individuals we do not stay in one spot. For example, in sport an individual may be right in the middle of the graph, but for music he may be right on the end. So we have almost got a spectrum, a particular distribution curve for any particular interest in the community. Different people will constitute the majority and the minority. It is a very complex matter. The Minister went on to say that the broadcasting system in Australia:   . . has tended to serve mass audiences well but to overlook those members of the various mass groupings with additional and quite specific interests outside those catered for in mass appeal programming. 
I certainly agree with the second part of that statement about varying interests but I question even the assumption that the commercial system has satisfied the mass audiences very well. Let us consider the way it has done it in the past, say, on television. I know that this debate is not dealing with television but it is easier for me to make my point if I refer to televison. What happened when a particular type of program became popular? I remember not so long ago that the Crawford cops and robbers programs were very popular. When one station had such a program the other commercial stations would provide diversity of interest for the mass audience which homed in on that program by providing exactly the same sort of program. So in fact the poor old mass audience had no choice. It had cops and robbers on three of the four available television stations. The three commercial stations ran cops and robbers programs at the same time. 
There is more, but I would like to elaborate on this in order to make a point which I want to make later. So the diversity, if there was any, was provided by the poor old national station. The Minister makes mention of that again later in his speech. He points out again that the commercial sector necessarily has to cater for largely undifferentiated audience blocs via mass appeal programming because the commercial stations are out to make money. They are out to make money by increasing their advertising revenue; they are increasing their advertising revenue by having bigger audiences. So they tend to appeal to the lowest common denominator in order to get the largest audience possible. Ironically the national service is left to cater for the rest. Of course, it could not do just that, and the Minister puts the paradox very clearly when he says: 
The national service . . . tended to program for mass audiences, albeit across a wide geographical service area, while at the same lime tending to concentrate on more specialised educational and cultural interests. 
Therein were the horns of the dilemma for the ABC. Whenever it tended successfully to provide a program which had mass audience appeal there was immediately uproar from the commercial stations. What happened in relation to the radio station 2JJ was a good example of that. It struck a responsive chord for those ne 'er-do-well young people in Sydney who apparently flocked to listen to it. It was all very well when people viewed it with scorn, until the day when the ABC brought things together. Suddenly the commercials realised that they were losing a potentially enormous audience and they complained: 'The ABC has no business competing in the mass appeal area '. 
No one pointed out to them successfully that nobody had stopped the commercial stations from providing the same sort of programs. They had just never done it because to do so was considered too revolutionary, I guess. But they protested. They always protest whenever the ABC becomes too successful in appealing to a mass audience. They say: 'That is not the job of the ABC. It is the job of the ABC to concentrate on the minority interests'. Of course, the ABC does concentrate on the minority interests and gets low ratings. 
A minority interest, say, on the left side of the spectrum- I do not mean political; I mean simply in terms of geography- may be interested in, say, pop music as an art form presented in the way in which not even the commercials want to go into it, or in jazz, or in whatever one likes to mention. It is not so likely to be interested in heavy classical music, the sort of music that you hope will break into a tune but never does, if you get what I mean. That is the sort of music I happen to like. That is why I can afford to rubbish it; I prefer it that way. The point I want to make is that it is an impossible task. 
So when the ABC provides a particular type of program which appeals to those on one side of the spectrum, and that includes a relatively few people in the total community, complaints are heard to the effect that really no one is very interested in the ABC. It is said: 'Look, it has such a low audience rating. Why do we spend so much money on it?' That is in direct conflict with the case of the ABC successfully providing a program for a mass audience. Then what we hear is this: 'Whoa, that is not where the ABC ought to be'. Of course, the way in which to look at the ABC's minority programming is to try to ascertain what is the potential audience. Say the ABC gets an audience rating of 5 per cent for a program. When a survey is carried out in the community it is found that only 6 per cent of the community were likely to be ever interested in it. So it has attained a very large audience. In providing that particular program the ABC has been very successful. I dare to suggest that in most cases that is the position with the ABC. Anyway, this complicated business of people's interests and our individual idiosyncracies is the very raison d'etre for the potential new public sector. The Minister said: 
The new public sector is seen as complementary to both pre-existing sectors . . . This is not to imply that public broadcasting should be confined to elitist interests. 
Again I read from the Minister's statement because I think it is important that people should understand this. He went on: 
After all, a special interest may range for example from football to Flemish weaving, from film to Florentine art, from hard rock to harpsichord recitals, from Bach cantatas to brass bands. 
Amen! I agree completely. So it is not a question of the posh or very select few wanting a lot of money spent on very select programs. It is a desire for the whole community to have available to it programs covering all interests that can appeal hopefully to absolutely anybody in the community. We agree with that philosophy. That is the way in which we were trying to approach the whole question of public broadcasting. It is the essence of what this working party's report was all about. So I am glad to note that the Minister has mentioned that phase one, the introductory phase, will be as short as possible. I completely agree with that proposal. I think a lot of the experimental work has been done. Hopefully the Minister will be able to slip into phase two and deal with a large number of stations as soon as possible. 
I would like now to discuss briefly the types of stations which will be licensed. There are the Category E licences. The Minister points out that the programming of these educational stations may include material designed to enrich the cultural perspectives of the audience served'. I am glad that he said that, because the Minister who preceded him in that portfolio took a very narrow view of education. When I issued those licences my view was that anything which increased the understanding and the tolerance of the community- anything at all- was education. Life experiences are educational. 
I am glad to hear the Minister murmur: 'I agree with you'. Sadly I think the previous occupant of his portfolio took a very narrow view. That is certainly the case judging by the panic response or the phone calls I got from a number of the student stations and so on which had been told that they had wandered outside the definition of 'education'. They told me what it was all about. I said: 'As far as I am concerned, that is education, but if you want to be sure to hang on to your licence you had better concentrate on the three Rs and nothing else '. I am glad that those days are over. 
In relation to this category the Minister says that licences will be issued 'to consortiums of educational institutions'. To some that may seem unnecessarily restricting, but I think I can appreciate the argument. In order to demonstrate his fairness in this regard I think the Minister has to issue fairly quickly a number of licences to student bodies, because inherent in that suggestion that the licences in the Category E group will be issued to educational institutions- student bodies have already reacted- is the implication that they will not be granted licences in this category. If I understand the Minister correctly and if there are medium powered stations which in fact are pretty powerful stations covering more than most of the metropolitan areas at this stage, as I understand it - 
I realise there are limited numbers. I do not wish to argue with the Minister about whether or not there are limited numbers. A medium powered station in fact would be capable of covering most of the metropolitan areas thus far expanded and beyond- a fair way into the country. After all, 3MBS in Melbourne is a fairly low powered station, but I have tuned into its programs when I have been travelling to the far reaches of my electorate, which is a fair way away from its transmitter. I can still hear its programs there. I can understand but I think the student bodies are entitled, as are other special interest groups- I will come to that matter in a moment- to be granted broadcasting licences. I hope the Minister will show that he is not prejudiced against them by quickly providing them with licences in one of the alternative categories which I will come to in a moment. 
The next interesting group, of course, is the Category S licence; in other words, the special interest groups. They have a wide range of particular interests about which I was talking before. I hope that many people take up those options. I suggest that even the commercial stations may need to consider approaching their programming in this way. They will have to do that if they are really to give the so-called mass audience genuine diversity. That is another argument which I can take up some other day. 
Finally, in relation to the Category C licences, the Minister lists, together with the shire councils and schools, student organisations. I hope that he will quickly license the stations which have already had licences so that they do not feel victimised, because I feel fairly confident that most of them ought to qualify. So, all in all, the three public broadcasting licence categories, the Minister says, are 'not intended to restrict licences to immutable programming compartments'. Of course, if we are realistic the programs will overlap. It would be shortsighted in the extreme to say, 'Thus far and no farther', or 'If you, as an educationist, touch on anything else you are out', or vice versa. I hope the Minister does succeed in persuading the Department to be tolerant and to be not as restrictive as it has been in the immediate past. 
One could say much more, but I see that my time is running out. I simply say that when we licensed education stations we intended that public broadcasters should be included. I used it as a device by which to issue the licences, because I knew I could not change the Broadcasting and Television Act, with the obstruction in the Senate of the then Opposition parties. But under the Wireless Telegraphy Act it was possible to issue experimental licences. One of the conditions made by me was that they were not to be just educational licences but also were expected to include public broadcasters. Sadly when we were kicked out stations with such licences had to restrict themselves. So I welcome this move now to provide a wide range of programs for everybody in the community. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Home Affairs. Is it a fact that before making a decision on the funding of the film  The Unknown Industrial Prisoner,  the Minister received a unanimous recommendation from the Australian Film Commission in favour of the funding? Why did the Minister ask the Commission to review its advice? Did the Commission provide a second report, supported by advice from two well known, highly successful commercial film producers, again recommending funding of the film on the grounds of both artistic and commercial viability? In view of this consistent, broadly based advice, on what grounds has the Minister decided to censor Film Australia? 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 23 February 1978: 
1 ) Of those persons who migrated under the approved occupation category during 1977-78, how many were (a) skilled, (b) semi-skilled and (c) unskilled. 
What were the 5 major skills and how many migrants were in each of the skilled areas. 
How soon after arrival were they employed. 
Are any of them unemployed; if so for how long have they been unemployed. 
As many skilled migrants already in Australia for more than 6 months are unable to practise their skills because of language difficulties, how many of those migrants who have arrived during 1977-78 have had similar difficulties. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 15 March 1978: 
How many occupational categories were on the list of approved occupations for migration in (a) March 1975, (b) March 1976 and (c) March 1977. 
What major groups have been added to the list since December 1975. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 7 April 1 978: 
Has there been any increased use of the Migrant Emergency Fund in response to the current economic situation. 
Is the maximum amount of any single loan to a migrant in an emergency situation still pegged at $ 10. 
3 ) What are the criteria used in allocating these loans. 
What were the total amounts lent during each of the years 1975-76 and 1977-78. 
As the amounts involved seem to be so small, is the program effective. 
Are there any moves to increase the funds available for this purpose. 
-I support the amendment to this provision. I accept as bona fide the Government's point that the object of the exercise is to ensure that the Supervising Scientist, without having any pressure put on him to do things, really assesses matters to acquaint himself with what he considers are the anxieties about the procedures, their safety, or whatever it might be. But the Bill leaves it at that. There is nothing to say what the hell he is supposed to do with an assessment when he makes one. Of course, the presumption is that he will report to the Minister, but if the Minister is of a mind to take no notice of it, that is where the matter stops, and no one else will be any the wiser. All the effort of the Supervising Scientist will stop dead. 
Because what is at issue is the safety of the procedures- and judging from the debate going on around the world on the subject, this is not a matter of minor significance- in our view the report made by the Supervising Scientist should be available to everybody and not just to the Minister as is the case, for example, with the national parks legislation. When recommendations on park management are made in accordance with that legislation, it is useless for the Minister to sit on them and do nothing about them. The Labor Party when it was in government was pushed into that situation by members of the Liberal Party. When I was Minister, they made the valid point to me that the whole community should be able to know of and should be acquainted with the recommendations in these sorts of areas. The same argument applies to environmental impact statements. When inquiries are set up under the legislation concerning such statements the report of the committee of inquiry has to be made public. It is not just given to the Minister, who may shove it into a pigeonhole. It must be given back to the community at a public hearing. 
We suggest that the same principle should hold in this case. The report of the Supervising Scientist may include recommendations that cause the Minister to say, 'That is all very good; there will be nothing to worry about'. However, whichever way it goes, the recommendations should be made public. That is what we are proposing. Of course, the recommendations should go to the Minister but it should be mandatory for him to place them before both Houses of Parliament, as it is under other legislation relating to environment questions. If the Supervising Scientist makes recommendations, presumably he makes them for good reasons. If the Minister thinks, they are OK, he will not move dissent from them when they are put before Parliament, as he would be required to do under our amendment if he disagreed with them. If the orders, recommendations or the advice of the Supervising Scientist are not disagreed with they would be accepted automatically after 1 S days and would become a new requirement. On the other hand, if the Minister and the Government decide that the Supervising Scientist has gone overboard or that what he is recommending is impractical or unnecessary, the Government is always free to object to it by moving a motion in the House to disallow it. 
The procedure will be perfectly open. Everybody will know about it. The Parliament, presumably, will do what the Government requires for the Government has the numbers. So the Government will have the recommendations disallowed and the situation will stay as it was: Nothing will be changed. In those circumstances at least the community will know that nothing has been hidden. There will be no suspicions that the Government has been trying to avoid its responsibilities. If the Supervising Scientist is an idiot, he will be exposed as such, and that will save us all a lot of bother. If the Government conscientiously thinks that the Supervising Scientist has made unnecessary and ridiculous recommendations, it is as well that the whole community should know about it. For those reasons we recommend this procedure. 
The wording of the minor amendment we have suggested to the circulated amendment is designed to put the proposition in the way that the Supervising Scientist's recommendations will be accepted automatically after the required IS days, as should happen if the Supervising Scientist makes a recommendation based on his experience and on all the expert advice and all the assistance that obviously he will get or should get from the departments and everybody else. I trust that the Minister will make sure he gets that cooperation. If not, why bother to appoint him. The Opposition, while accepting that the Government is acting in good faith, argues that when the Supervising Scientist submits recommendations, they should automatically come into effect after the required 15 days unless Parliament believes they should not be followed. 
There is nothing highly controversial about that. It involves accepting the good sense of the Minister's suggestion about having a Supervising Scientist but provides a mechanism whereby his deliberations and his reports can be dealt with meaningfully rather than, as could be a danger, quietly pigeonholing them, with nobody ever knowing what they were. In those circumstances, presumably because the Supervising Scientist will, in essence, be an employee of the Government, a public servant, he will not be able to say anything about it. What if he thinks something terrible is happening? He has made his report. He just has to shut up. What does he do if he thinks the Government has taken ill-advised action? At least, through public debate the Government will be able to defend itself. If it does so successfully, that will be too bad for the Supervising Scientist. He will have had his chance to express his views publicly, but will know that the Government has disagreed with them and disallowed them. That is our reason for proposing this amendment. 
-I really do not understand the response of members of the other side. Of course all those people should be on the Committed, and I have assumed that the Government would not be so silly, when making a list of departments, to leave out any of the people mentioned, they are all departments of the Federal Government and when the Northern 
Territory gains its independence, obviously they will have to be involved. If the Government wants to include them it should introduce an amendment to do so on the day after the Northern Territory gains its independence. The Opposition would not object to that for one moment. The groups we have proposed in our amendment would not be seen to be as directly involved as some of the other groups. For instance, the Academy of Science is based here; it is not based in the Territory. By virtue of the fact that this is a scientific exercise, we are appointing to the position of supervising scientists someone who presumably will have some stature. As a member of the committee which the Government proposes to set up- it is not our revolutionary proposal to help him, but that of the Governmenthe might have access to advice from his peers from the Academy of Science. Despite the fact that some honourable members opposite think that the Australian Conservation Foundation is a pink organisation, it does have amongst its membership many people from the same political party, and many patrons who have supported the Australian Labor Party, including such reds as the Duke of Edinburgh. 
The Government also supports it financially, as the Minister says. Exactly; more power to your elbow. One ought to support it. We think it is the sort of Australia-wide, allembracing environment group which could reasonably be added to the list of groups which could be seen to have some sort of interest in this whole business. One could go on to mention other organisations. 
What is the objection to the Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies, for goodness sake? I mean, part of the purpose of the exercise, quite apart from just protecting Aborigines, is to know more about what goes on. A research institute is being set up specifically to look into the problems of Aborigines. Why should it be excluded when much of what goes on may have an effect on the Aborigines? What is wrong with having the members of that Institute on the co-ordinating committee? I mean, it is not a subversive organisation. As far as I know, the Government has control over who is appointed to the dashed organisation anyway. I could go on to refer to the Northern Land Council and other organisations. I do not understand the Government's resistance to a very innocuous amendment which, if it were to be accepted, might have the effect of making the Government look better in the eyes of the Australian community. I see nothing that the 
Government could lose by accepting it; it can only gain by supporting the suggestion. 
I am a bit mystified. I would have thought that under lots of other legislation many public servants would have this sort of access to private- that is 'private' with a capital P underlined and in inverted commas- information. They do not go blabbing about it, and they are covered by the ordinary rules and regulations governing public servants. Clause 3 1 reads in pan: 
. shall not . . . make a record of, or divulge or communicate to any person, any information concerning the affairs of any other person . . . 
I would not have thought that that would have to be specified in this legislation. If that son of provision is to be included in this legislation it might have to be included in a hell of a lot of other legislation. I would have thought that it is assumed that that sort of thing does not go on. No doubt any person who was guilty of such an act could be punished under the provisions of the Public Service Act, the ordinary laws of defamation, or goodness knows what. I am just mystified as to why that has to be specified in this legislation. We are not saying that people should be allowed to blab about these things; not at all. It just seems to be an unnecessary provision to put in the legislation. Surely that sort of provision applies to public servants everywhere all the time. I am thinking of the social welfare area, the health areas and goodness knows what other areas. Are these sorts of terms specified in legislation dealing with those areas? I did not think so; I did not realise that that was the case. 
I rise on this issue because the Government has proclaimed itself as the guardian of the rights of the States and it has said that the Opposition is not terribly concerned about the rights of the States. I do not want to enter into the argument about the specific concerns that the States may have about this legislation. I want to point out only that they are still concerned. We are all aware of the factthe Government's proposed amendment confirms the fact- that in response to protests from the States the Government has changed its mind about those aspects of the legislation which appear to bear on the States. We can argue about that later but the fact still remains that the States- at least two of them- are not yet satisfied. I shall quote from a communication from the Acting Premier of Tasmania to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  which was sent either yesterday or today. It is in response to the Prime Minister's telex of 3 May. The Acting Premier,  Mr Batt,  said: 
I am pleased that you have recognised the need for consultations, as urged by a number of the States. 
I might point out that the Prime Minister, I understand, first wrote to the States in August last year. There were very minor consultations apparently but the first time the States really knew of the substance of the legislation was when they saw copies of it. There was, I understand, very little real consultation with the Premiers. Maybe the Labor Premiers would be squealing because they do not agree with the Liberal Federal Government, but when  Mr Hamer  joins in I tend to accept the claim that there was not satisfactory consultation. Quite clearly something went amiss. The telex from  Mr Batt  continued: 
However, the amendment of the legislation so that certain sections will not apply to the States until appropriately proclaimed is unsatisfactory to us. We regard it as quite undesirable that legislation, which could potentially be used against States ' rights and civil liberties in unspecified circumstances, should be passed. Proclamation can take place without further parliamentary consideration. 
Of course that is the fact. The Acting Premier of Tasmania has objected to the proposed course of action. Now I shall quote from a telex from the Acting Premier of South Australia,  Mr Corcoran.  He stated: 
You have asked for specific points of concern with the legislation to be raised. In previous correspondence the South Australian Government has pointed out a number of areas particularly in the Environment Protection (Nuclear Codes) Bill and the amendments to the Atomic Energy Act. Our concerns are of such a nature that we feel they can only be dealt with adequately in serious discussions at the highest level. 
By that he does not mean officers; he means between the Premiers and the Prime Minister. He continued: 
I am prepared to convey to you our more detailed apprehensions about the Bills in the course of preparations for such consultations. 
Once again I call on you to reconsider your position and to withdraw your legislation so that the issues raised may receive the careful and detailed consideration which they demand. 
Having quoted from those telexes, I want to put it on record that I do not know what are the specific objections of the States. They have not communicated them to the Prime Minister. They feel that they have not been asked. In taking this stand I am not suggesting that I would necessarily support the States. I might agree more with what  Mr Hamer  has to say and less with what  Mr Dunstan  has to say. That is irrelevant. The point I am making is that the States feel that they have not been properly consulted. This legislation can override their powers and their rights. 
Many people in the community feel that there are threats to civil liberties. I am not debating that issue at this stage. I am simply saying that where those anxieties exist, in my view if a government proclaims to be concerned about the rights of the States and proclaims to be concerned about the rights of the individual against what it epitomised as an over-centralised Labor Government then proceeds in this fashion in the face of those objections, including objections from Liberal Premiers, it strikes me as quite incongruous. I think if the Government were honest in its proclaimed views it would postpone this legislation whilst it had the discussions that have been sought. It may then proceed to enact exactly the same legislation. That is possible. What can only be interpreted as arrogant action, despite protests from a range of Premiers, in proceeding to pass the legislation in the face of the States' fears and anxieties without consultation strikes me as quite unreasonable. 
-I feel I must argue as a liberal liberal, if I may, on this issue. I come back to it. I agree with the view expressed first by the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman),  and more or less reiterated in part by the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom),  that ideally there ought to be uniform codes. I agree with the view that we have international obligations and, clearly, ultimately in that sphere the Federal Government will be held responsible. I agree that the mining and processing of uranium in Australia must conform to those international obligations- never mind the fact that we happen to have however many sovereign States there are. I concede partly the point made by the Minister that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  foreshadowed all this in August 1977. The trouble is that the Premiers are afraid, not of the codes yet, because they have not been formulated, but of the legislation as it stands, for as they understand it they are afraid it will infringe their rights. I think they are probably wrong. I do not know. I have not talked to them. I certainly find rather surprising a lot of the arguments put by the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry 
Jones) quoting  Mr Hamer. Mr Hamer  is not a Labor Party stooge, so I do not understand why the Minister is ignoring him. 
When the Labor Party was in government we proceeded to implement legislation such as this, including some legislation that I brought in. I refer for example to that dealing with national parks. I was attacked specifically because it was said that the legislation would infringe State rights. At least I had the nous and the sense to listen to what Liberal-Country Party shadow spokesman said, and I changed some of the legislation. They represented the States' views. I saw the telegrams they had received from various States, mainly Liberal Party governed, and I was at least persuaded by the arguments to delay the legislation, to talk about it, and finally to reach a compromise that the States were prepared to accept, or at least one that the members of the Liberal Party in this House were prepared to accept on behalf of the States, so carrying the can. Of course, when the Bill went through there were no arguments. People were happy. 
Therefore, again arguing for the sake of this discussion as a liberal liberal, valiantly standing for the rights of the States, I say that surely given the sort of communication that has been received from a number of Premiers, including the Premier of Victoria, the Government would be far better advised to delay the legislation. Frankly, I hope the Government finally wins its point because I think at this stage from what I know of the Bill I am inclined more to the Government's view than to the view of the Premier. I am not sure. However, at least the Government ought to have the sense to iron out the differences between it and the States before it imposes the Bill on the States. If the Government proceeds as it is, it will be acting in an arbitrary and almost authoritarian fashion by shoving the legislation down the throats of the States. 
I concede that ultimately the Government might have the power to do that, and I disagree with that view in  Mr Hamer's  letter. But why do it? Why behave like that? Why not be a little more rational, and be what you claim you are, the new Federalists? 
-The Opposition does not oppose these Bills. They are machinery matters and obviously eminently sensible because they will rectify minor inadequacies in the initial drafting of the legislation. I wish to comment very briefly on only one of them, namely, the amendments that are being made to the Broadcasting and Television Act. The amendments will enable more rational programming, if you like, of the inquiries into the renewal of licences. I well recall when I was Minister for the Media and licence renewals came to me that I would be presented with a sheath of applications from perhaps 1 5 or 20 stations and I would be told that I had to go through them all as a decision was needed within about three days. 
Precisely. Apparently the Minister has been caught in the same way that I was caught. It was a mockery to suggest that the Minister was in a position in which he genuinely could review licence renewals. Under the legislation which the present Government introduced- we tried but we failed because of our inability to get our legislation through the Senate- it has changed the procedures by establishing the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal and laying down methods by which it shall conduct hearings. As I said, the legislation before the House simply amends some minor deficiencies which did not cope with the difficulty of licences being renewed for part of the period and not for the full period so that the renewals could be spread out over the full period. The Minister, together with the Tribunal, would have a reasonable time in which to look at applications and if it was decided that hearings should be held it would in fact conduct those hearings. 
The first comment I want to make relates to the process of public hearings into renewal applications. I do not question the intentions of the Government. I simply want the Minister carefully to examine the mechanics of the hearings. I do not know how many licences, if any, have been renewed since the new procedures have been operating. I do not know whether the new system has proved to be successful. Putting this another way, I have not noticed- maybe I do not read widely enough- public advertisements stating that a hearing was to be held into a particular licence renewal for a radio and television station and calling for interested people to put in submissions indicating whether or not they would be objecting. 
I realise that this is only transitional legislation, but what I am asking is whether the machinery is adequate to ensure that the ordinary citizens in the community are made aware of the intention to hold an inquiry and are given the opportunity to present their views. I am not getting at the commercial stations, which is the obvious retort that somebody on the other side of the House might make. That is not my intention at all. I genuinely believe, along with a considerable proportion of the Australian community, that the standards of all our radio and television stations- I include the Australian Broadcasting Commission in certain respects which I think tends to be better than the rest- are not as good as they ought to be and all will benefit from public scrutiny. Up till now there has been no such scrutiny. I point out that in the past scrutiny by the Minister was a mockery. That statement applies to Ministers from all parties because when this was my job I was no more successful than Liberal Ministers. 
It is important if this public scrutiny is to be genuine and is to achieve anything that there is adequate publicity so that people who are interested- and perhaps there may not be many- will be given the chance by virtue of being informed of the option to present their views. That is the first point I wanted to make. I am not suggesting that it will require any amendment to the legislation. It may simply be that advertising provisions laid down in the legislation are in fact wide enough and will not require further amendment to ensure that the new procedures are made known throughout the community. 
The next point I want to make is that in line with this feeling is that these public hearings should appear in the eyes of the community to be genuine inquiries into the adequacy or otherwise of the particular station managers or proprietors and that there is adequate justification for the renewal of licences. If the feeling is such that people think that the licensee has not fulfilled his obligations it should appear that that sort of view has had a genuine, adequate and open hearing and the Tribunal should respond in an appropriate fashion. I do not want to suggest that the Tribunal will not act appropriately but I point out that the composition of the Tribunal is loaded in such a way that if it decided against withdrawing a licence and there had been some public disagreement there could be criticism simply because of the composition of the Tribunal today. 

 Mr Gengell's experience other than as a copy boy for the ABC has been in commercial television. Likewise  Mr Oswin  's experience, apart from a short time as Secretary of the Department of the Media under the Labor Government, has been in commercial television. I am not now making a political point. One could argue that  Mr Oswin  must have been a lefty because we made him head of the Department of the Media, but that is not the point I am making. I am making a point about commercial interests and the commercial producers of programs and the interests of consumers. The experience of those two people has been on the side of the managers and the producers, not the consumers. Then there is Janet Strickland. I take it that she was a  deputy  Commonwealth film censor. I do not know her past. I am prepared to accept her as a representative of the consumers without any knowledge of her experience. She just does not have a record in commercial radio or television. Finally  Mr Keith  Moremon, director of GTV9, again has been involved in the commercial side of television and not the national network. I could disagree even with his representation. 
The point I wish to emphasise is that there ought to be somebody representing and obviously appearing to represent the consumers' interests. I will accept that maybe Janet Strickland does represent their interests. There is provision for a total of five members on the Tribunal. So there is one vacancy. I am not suggesting that the Minister should tip one of the present members off the Tribunal. I wish to urge the Minister to avail himself of the option open to him and appoint one more person very obviously from the non-commercial sector. At this stage I suggest that the person should be from the nonnational sector because I am more interested in having consumer representation than having on the Tribunal yet another facet of producer representation. That is not a criticism of this legislation. It is not a criticism of the present Minister. 
I feel- and I hope that the Minister will understand the view I am expressing- that his predecessor was, if I may dare to suggest it, too biased in favour of the production side of radio and television and did not to my way of thinking manifest enough interest in the purpose of the existence of this facility which really is to provide entertainment, information, education and satisfaction to consumers. If they are not satisfied even the advertisers suffer and they may claim that they have certain rights because they are trying to sell goods. I leave the Minister with those suggestions. If he can avail himself of this opportunity I think it would be a wise precaution to have one more person appointed representing the non-production side of the industry. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 15 March 1978: 
1 ) What outside contract labour has been used by the Australian Broadcasting Commission during the last 2 years. 
) What has been the cost to the Commission of hiring this labour in each of those years. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 5 May 1 978: 
What advisory bodies and authorities has he appointed? 
2 ) Who are the members of these bodies? 
How often do each of these bodies meet and on what date did each last meet? 
What is the budget for each of these bodies in 1977-78. 
-I wish to speak to the first amendment which is to clause 5 and which is related to the functions of the Australian Science and Technology Council. I suppose one can look at the functions of an organisation such as this in terms of the demands that might be made upon it Judging from the functions listed in the Bill as it stands, quite clearly the Government sees as by far the most significant functions those relating to research and development, I suggest, in the purely economic area. There are economic demands. I am not quibbling about that. That obviously is the first area that most people would note. In looking at those functions, one could categorise two of them as being in the area of research and five of them as being in the area of development, I repeat, essential in industry. 
But I think the functions, even in the economic sense, should go beyond that. There are, for example, requirements for government in technological areas which are not at the stage of, if you like, commercial development. I shall cite a couple of possible examples. Let us take transport systems. Quite clearly in metropolitan areas something will have to be done in the not too distant future about our transport systems. Given the conflict of interests of the various components of the transport industry, I suggest that no one will come up with a solution unless and until an organisation such as the Australian Science and Technology Council gets involved in it and gives the Government of the day some advice on the course of development that might be taken. Clearly if we leave it all to private transport- the motor car- cities will bog down and grind to a halt. Perhaps some sort of grid system is necessary, with a monorail car which is perhaps controlled by computer. There are lots  of far out proposals, but far out scientific proposals such as that tend to become reality in a very short time. The present system is useless and the construction of freeways solves nothing. All that freeways do is guarantee that the problem in the central business areas is increased, because freeways encourage more and more people to go into the city. In a like fashion, similar problems arise with communications systems. In order to illustrate my views I wish to read an article which appeared in the  New York Times  on Sunday, 9 April. The article is written by a gentleman called Lee Edson. It reads: 
It was early in the 2 1st century when the last trickle of oil ran out. But by this time America was ready. In Washington, D. C, the  President  pushed a button that turned on a thin sliver of intense light and directed it at a capsule containing a form of hydrogen extracted from sea water. Laser Generator No. 1- the first American laser power plant- was on stream, replacing the last great oil-fed electric power station. 
Laser beams racing along glass fibres thinner than the threads of a spider's web carried massive volumes of information from place to place at blinding speeds- a bundle of fibres as thick as a matchstick could transmit the contents of 200 books in a second- causing a revolution in communications. The magazine, the newspaper and the business letter, as well as the mountains of trash they generated each day, had become as obsolete as copper wire. Instead, people read messages and learned the news from electronic screens or computer printouts . . . The technology rapidly transformed television and the movies, and provided a new medium for the ever-flourishing pornography market. 
That may be fantasy, but we would be unwise to ignore the possibility of these things. The article continues: 
Like any scientific discovery, the laser has enormous potential for good and for ill. 
The bulk of the article describes the relative developments in Russia and America in relation to military hardware. It continues: 
Lasers may turn out to be the world 's salvation, a new and inexhaustible source of energy, or its destruction in the form of devastating weaponry. In either event, whoever comes out ahead in the race to develop them will be in a position to change the course of history. 
I confess to being a little melodramatic in that, but I did that simply to make the point that there is in existence a new technology. In fact, it is not new in the sense that it is already functioning in some ways. After all, there are doctors in this country using laser beams to operate on patients. It is not all a pipe dream. But we have not had any investigation by a body and I suggest an organisation like ASTEC would be ideal to investigate the potential of this sort of technology. We need to assess not only its applicability in terms of economic need but also the social impacts. We need to look at its potential effect, for example, on the whole communications industry. 
I refer now to another area. We have investigations into our energy needs and we talk about the need to develop an energy policy. I suggest that the Government's approach is essentially purely technological. How do we generate more energy? Where do we find it? How can we get more out of coal? But there are other aspects to the energy problem. What about the social impacts? Maybe an investigation will show that in some areas we will need to produce more and in other areas we will need to conserve. There may be areas where we need to consciously reduce our energy use. We will achieve nothing with the narrow economic approach that the present Government has taken in these areas, trying to get only technological advice without any relationship to the social impacts. 
I could go on and refer to the area of social demand such as medicine and science which relate to people care, if you like. I could refer to nutrition and public health. Let me give an example from my own experience. In my life as a research worker in medicine I consider that I wasted time, to a certain extent, on transplantation surgery. I doubt very much that, in the overall context of the community's need, the sort of research in which I was involved, namely, heart transplants, was worth anything at all. Some aspects of my research were worthwhile. I was also involved in kidney transplants, an area which proved to be of great benefit. But I do not believe for one moment that the time I spent on heart surgery was anything other than an utter waste of time. 
Should we pursue the area of genetic engineering? Should we be trying to play God in terms of creation? I do not know. I think someone ought to be investigating the area. This work is going on in some communities in America and the communities are up in arms and fearful of the possible consequences. They have imposed blocks and restrictions on the research workers who, of course, are striking back. We need some body to look into the matter. I do not believe that that sort of report will ever come from the Council as established by the Government at this stage. The Council needs to have broader terms of reference such as those we have suggested in our amendment to this clause. In other words, we should care not just about technology and science but about the effects on society as well. 
I would like to refer to the fourth amendment put forward by the Opposition, which relates to clause 10, the membership of the Council. By way of explanation, I would like to mention that when the interim Australian Science and Technology Council was appointed by the Labor Government its membership included a sociologist, and economist, a philosopher, a biologist, a chemist, two engineers- one an academic and the other from Telecom Australia- an immunologist, two industrialists and a trade unionist. We sought to encompass a complete spectrum of human endeavour relating to science and technology in the broader sense, including the social sciences. I think that philosophy is part of the spectrum that must be taken into account. In contrast, the membership of the initial Council appointed by this Government consisted of a grazier, five industrialists, eight academics, two chemists, two engineers, one geologist, two biologists, one political scientist and a trade unionist. There was no sociologist, no philosopher, no economist and no one representing the consumer organisations or consumer interests in the broader community sense. The Labor Government tried to appoint to that Council somebody from that sector but I am afraid that the then Premier of New South Wales refused to let the poor lady join the group. I think that members of the Opposition have encompassed in their remarks the reasons why we think the membership should include such a broad spectrum of people. 
I shall now discuss the sorts of people who should be selected. The tendency with groups like this is to pick august members of the learned institutions, usually people who are retired from active research or technological endeavours- the elder statesmen, if you like. I think that defeats the purpose of the exercise, because what we are really out to do is to get the very latest available information; to tap the brains of the people who are working at the growing edge of science, the younger people who are actively involved. The Opposition's amendment encompasses that not only when it refers to the types of people about whom I spoke but also when it seeks to strike out the lengths of service stated in the Bill- in fact allowing no one to serve for longer than three years. That is a realistic assessment of the fact that if a prospective member is actively involved in research at the height of his career he will not want to give up six, eight or ten years of his life, but he may be prepared to put aside three years in order to work on a council such as this and hence give the community the very latest and best advice in his area. Of course he will not be expected to answer all the questions, but because he is actively engaged in research he is more likely to be a member of what the Americans call the 'invisible' colleges. Groups of biologists throughout the world know more about one another and their latest work than they are likely to know about an engineer in their own academic institutions, say, in Sydney or Melbourne. 
That is what we want; we want the very latest information because in a sense this Council, if it really functions properly, will have to indulge in forecasting, or providing studies in futurology, if you like. I mentioned that in my previous comments about the application of developments in science to the future of this country. That sort of wisdom and understanding will not come from the elder statesmen in the scientific fields who have completed their research, whose interests are locked into the work they have done, and who will not be as up to date as the sorts of people I have mentioned. So much for the type of people who should be on the Council. For that reason the Opposition has put forward an amendment to cut back the length of time for which members of the Council can be appointed. We are not saying that the  chairman  cannot be an elder statesman. I can think of half a dozen characters who could well fit that bill. But if a  chairman  is to get the best from a Council such as this he needs young, active research workers. 
Now I come to another slightly controversial point, namely, the issue of the two representatives from the Parliament on this Council. This amendment was put forward because the Opposition hoped that the responsible Minister might have been flexible enough to accept it but of course that is not likely to happen. I would like to recount some observations I have made because I was involved in this subject for some time while I was a member of the Victorian Labor Party's science committee looking into science policy. I read a lot of literature about it and formulated the idea that a science council was needed. I remember that when the examiners from the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development came to Australia and we discussed these sorts of councils with them, sadly to say the examiners said that we ought to set up a science council- we call it the Science and Technology Council, but it is the same basic thing- but the Englishman and the Belgian, I think it was, said that in real terms, in most of the countries where these bodies have been set up, the experience has been fairly disappointing. They gave many reasons, not the least of which was that beautiful reports may be written but no one takes any notice of them; they are just buried. The West German examiner said: 'We do not have that trouble. We think it is a good idea. But our scientists meet with a council of Ministers and in fact the reports which are published are not written just by the scientists; they are written by a combined group consisting of Ministers and scientists'. 
The Labor Government accepted that proposal, and in fact at the same time as we appointed the interim ASTEC in May 1975 we appointed a ministerial committee, which was chaired by the Minister for Science, and I think five or six Ministers- members of the Cabinetwere on that committee. I was invited along as one of the Ministers who could be interested. I think I was Minister for the Media at the time, but I suppose it was seen that the media might have some relationship to technology and vice versa. I was one of the Ministers involved. We had two or three meetings- I forget exactly how many- at which all the scientists and this group of Ministers sat together to discuss how we might approach the problems and the sorts of problems that should be looked into, and that is how we intended it to continue. It is interesting to note that the Royal Commission into Australian Government administration, the so-called Coombs Royal Commission, in its discussions on this topic advised that ASTEC should be responsible to and should advise the Prime Minister and a ministerial committee on science policy. In case honourable members might have thought that the Labor Party was crackpot in this regard, this investigation, after considering all the evidence, came up with the same proposition. 
I will repeat the reasons why I think it is important. It is easy for scientists who are not responsible for political decisions to go off into the never-never' with their ideas about what ought to be- great idealism based on their fantasies of the possibilities of science in the foreseeable future. If they are forced to discuss their ideas with politicians they may well be dragged back to a more certain political reality. But at the same time- I think this is of major significance in the proposal- in the process of the argument or the discussion between scientists and with the politicians we will create an environment whereby the politicians may in fact be educated and may better understand the potential significance of what the scientists are talking about. It often is complicated. I read out some of what they are talking about earlier today and I heard a few snorts around the chamber. Obviously people thought it was a bit far fetched. It is not necessarily far fetched. But just to read about it and not know about it in the sense of being involved in the discussion or argument makes it difficult to accept. The concept of having a council ora committee of Ministers associated with ASTEC so that the reports that come out are in fact reports written by the combined group will mean that at least a significant section of the Cabinet will be very intimately acquainted with what the scientists are talking about. It is far more likely, therefore, that they will be fired with whatever recommendations the combined committee makes. It is far less likely that the report will be tabled and an occasional crackpot from either side of the Parliament pick it up and thumb through it, and then it be forgotten. It is far more likely that Cabinet will be forced to take the proposal seriously. For those reasons I very seriously propose that honourable members should at least accept our amendment and after what I hope will be a short time of experience, recognise the advisability of dragging some Cabinet members into the discussions. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 28 February 1978: 
How many of the intake of migrants during 1977-78 came to Australia (a) for family reunion, (b) as refugees, (c) as specially approved cases, showing the general nature of these cases (d) from New Zealand and (e) as skilled workers required to overcome specific skilled worker bottlenecks. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 5 May 1978: 
What were the five major source countries of permanent immigrants as at (a) 31 March 1978 (b) 31 March 1975 (c) 3 1 March 1970 and (d) 3 1 March 1 965. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. Has the Minister heard or seen reports of statements by his colleague, the Minister for Productivity, about the attitude of employers towards immigration to Australia? What was the essential point of those remarks and were they in conflict with the Minister's  own approach,  particularly in relation to solving Australia 's economic problems? 
It has been suggested by some honourable members on the Government side of the chamber that the Opposition is being inconsistent. I would like to recall something that I said in the previous debate on this matter. I was arguing for consultation with the States on the ground that they deserve to be listened to. I was not saying that the Government has to do what they say. Consultation simply suggested that their arguments ought to be listened to and the evidence put to us was that that had not been the case. I said that if the Government were honest in its proclaimed view- that is, of supporting States' rights- it would postpone this legislation while it had the discussions that have been sought. I then said that the Government may proceed to enact exactly the same legislation. On balance and looking at the amendments, I think that the original legislation is far superior to that which the Government is now proposing. On the amendments that it has accepted thus far, if the States do not agree with the Government on the nuclear codes, it is conceding their right to have what may be in the Government's eyes inadequate codes. That is what I think is implied in the previous amendments. 
In this last amendment we are dealing with the question of the health or safety of persons or the environment. If the Governor-General thinks that they may be harmed due to some nuclear activity and if he thinks that the laws of the Commonwealth, other than as provided in this clause, and the laws of the State or Territory do not make provision for protecting the health or safety of persons or the environment, under the original legislation he could require certain regulations, but under this amendment the States will be allowed to slip out from under. If a State does not ask for it, the Governor-General- even though he is afraid and even though he feels that the powers of the Commonwealth and of the States are inadequate- can whistle. If the States do not agree, he cannot do anything about it. I think that, from its own point of view, the Government is being less than sensible, because whatever the State governments might think, if the Governor-General- clearly on the advice of his advisers, namely, the Cabinet or the Ministersfeels that there is a dangerous situation, if a State Governor declines to request appropriate action and therefore the Government does nothing and if something harmful then occurs the Government will get the blame, not the States. The Government is creating a rod with which the community can beat its back. For that reason it strikes me that the amendment is quite illogical. 
In the original legislation it is made quite clear that if the Governor-General is satisfied- in other words, if he agrees with the codes laid down by the States as well as the Commonwealthno action will be taken. So he will act only if the Government feels uncertain. Yet, feeling uncertain, the Government is now taking away the power, or is it? Is it suggesting some hidden power that it has not exposed to us at this stage? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. What is the source of information and expressions of view included in the publication  For the Ethnic Media  issued by the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs? Has information or an expression of view attributed to honourable members on this side of the House ever been included in that publication? If not, why not? 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 8 March 1978: 
1 ) Did he say on 1 March 1978 that 41 per cent of migrants in the present intake are in the occupationally eligible group. 
If so, how many of the 41 per cent were (a) skilled workers and (b) dependants. 
How many of these migrants went to pre-arranged jobs requiring their special skills. 
Of those not going to pre-arranged jobs, (a) how many are employed and ( b) how many are still looking for a job. 
Of those employed, (a) how many have jobs that require their specific skills and (b) how many are employed in jobs in which their skills are not utilised or are under-utilised. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 5 May 1978: 
How many officers in his Department at (a) second division level, (b) class 1 1 level, and (c) class 6 level are first generation migrants. 
How many of these officers, at each of these levels, come from non-English speaking migrant backgrounds. 
How many women were there at the (a) second division level, (b) class 1 1 level, (c) class 6 level and (d) fourth division level in his Department as at 1 January 1978. 
What are the ethnic backgrounds and qualifications of the 3 most senior officers in the Ethnic Affairs Branch of his Department. 
-As is typical of this Government with its policy of stifling informed debate, the Opposition has not been given a copy of this major statement in sufficient time to allow for a detailed analysis of the proposed policy. In defence of the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  I agree that he has conformed with the convention in the sense that when a statement is to be made it is provided a couple of hours beforehand. But in this area, discussion has gone on for so long about its being a major restructuring and involving very deep questions that require a lot of community debate. It was preceded by the Green Paper and we were promised that there would be a White Paper. I therefore find it a bit disappointing that the Minister led us to believe- or at least I had hoped- that we would have the opportunity to be considering a White Paper and finally we would finish up with a classical or typical ministerial statement. I accept it, but I simply register that it is a bit disappointing that the Minister was not able to adhere to his original intention- as I understood it, anyway- to allow a more significant debate by virtue of producing a White Paper. 
Nevertheless, the Opposition commends the Government on finally producing an agreed immigration policy; that is, I take it, agreed amongst themselves, because even in the last couple of weeks there has been some discord between various Ministers over this question. I shall not elaborate on that at this stage. For what purports to be a major statement on the Government's immigration policies it says remarkably little and virtually none of it is new. As far as the intake is concerned it would appear that the populate or perish arguments of many of the Minister's advisers have been exposed for the nonsense they are and I am pleased to note that the Minister has not been taken in by them. Nevertheless, the Government is proposing a substantial increase in the immigration intake to 90,000 people a year. 
The Minister states that a gross intake of around 77,000 in 1977-78 is expected to yield a net migration gain of about 70,000. Is this indicative of the accuracy of the Department's previous estimates of a net intake of 40,000 to 50,000 for 1977-78-because that is what the Department had been saying up till now- or is it a sleight of hand increase in the intake well in excess of the publicly stated targets? If it is the latter, can we expect that the gross intake of 90,000 in 1978-79 will in fact produce a net gain of closer to 85,000 than 70,000. Is the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs practising a policy of increasing the numbers by stealth? I have cited the Minister's figures and the Department's figures. They are not my own calculations. They do not tie up and the only conclusion I can draw is that in fact we will get more people than we have been led to believe. 
According to the Minister 'this program underlines the Government's faith in immigration as an element in economic growth'. This is a far cry from his previous statements arguing that immigration provides an economic stimulus and increased employment opportunities. He has drawn back from the rather dogmatic statements that he has made previously. Despite the mauling the Department's economic brief took at the hands of Treasury, the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet- and I would guess others- the Minister is still able to propose a substantial increase in the intake; not as high as he would have liked perhaps, or as has been indicated before, but substantial all the same. To increase our immigration intake when Australia faces a high and, in seasonally adjusted terms, rising rate of unemployment and a growing indigenous work force is totally irresponsible, in our view. 
We are facing long term unemployment of unprecedented proportions as the supply of labour outstrips employment opportunities and prospects. The highest rate of unemployment is among the unskilled workers, although recent reports have also found higher than average unemployment among some skilled workers. The highest rates of unemployment are to be found amongst the young. The most vulnerable persons in a difficult labour market are the immigrants, especially the young and the women, because of their dependence on the manufacturing sector, their low levels of skill and their language difficulties. 
The Government claims that there is a shortage of skilled workers which can be met only by increased immigration. But in 1977-78, while 41 per cent of migrants were in the occupationally eligible category, less than one third of these were workers- 13 per cent of the total intake. That is a very small percentage on which to base an argument for an increase. How many skilled labour vacancies actually exist in Australia at the present time? The old approved list of occupations for the entry of migrants compiled by the Department' of Employment and Industrial Relations included occupations for which- let me quote the Minister- 'there is some degree of unsatisfied need which may vary from time to time in a particular State'. Is that the indication of a long term shortage in a particular occupation? This list indicates some shortages in one State whilst there are surpluses in others. So in many instances vacancies could be filled more efficiently and more cheaply simply by instituting a more practical and meaningful government assisted relocation program. 
On the basis of the list, skilled workers are recruited until the anticipated shortages are filled. We have no definite figures at any time, just a vague feeling. With the time lags involved, with immigrants on the way and therefore not counted- they do not arrive overnight, it might take six or nine months to organise for them to come- the result could well be an over-supply in some categories. I suggest that often that is the case. In other words, there is no direct relationship between the number of immigrants recruited and the number of known vacancies or vacancies likely to occur in the foreseeable future. There is no check to see whether the anticipated vacancies did occur or whether the skilled migrants filled the vacancies for which they were theoretically recruited. We do not have the statistics, but there is a suggestion that a very significant proportion of vacancies advertised for skilled workers are available for a very short time. They do not represent long-term vacancies, they represent short-term vacancies, because they indicate the movement of skilled workers from one job to another. For every movement in one direction there is a movement in another direction, so in fact the number of genuine longterm vacancies for skilled workers is probably much lower than the statistics suggest. 
The proposed points system, which allows the recruitment of people with so-called high settlement potential, will exacerbate these problems as it will also permit the more ready entry of those whose skills are not in short supply in Australia. Immigrant skilled labour is also supposed to add to labour force mobility, although the vast majority tend to gravitate towards the capital cities. In fact, skilled workers from overseas tend to be very mobile in the international sense, which is why we experience such high losses in these areas. They are mobile all right; but leave Australia nearly as fast as they arrive. For example, in 1976-77 immigrants from Britain and Ireland formed 62.4 per cent of total departures, and those are countries from which Australia traditionally has obtained most of its skilled migrants. In our view, if we retrained workers who did not have overseas ties they would be much more likely to remain in Australia and thus reduce the continual need we have for recruiting more skilled workers. More significantly, selective immigration has tended to have a negative effect on our training programs. Despite the Government's rhetoric to the contraryand I am not blaming the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs for this because it is not his responsibility- immigration has acted as an alternative to training or retraining our own work force. 
The exploration of long-term solutions to unemployment has been put off partly because the Government and the employers can avoid the difficult decisions by claiming to overcome shortterm skill shortages through immigration. Today's unemployment problem is not merely a reflection of the low level of economic activity but, even if it were, an increase in the immigration intake would not have any significant effect on the level of economic activity. Because there are idle resources and stockpiles of goods at present, any increase in demand for, say, consumer durables or housing by newly arrived immigrants is unlikely to require increases in production which would lead to a greater demand for labour. Of course, that assumes that the newly arrived immigrant worker can find employment. Once again, the statistics are not very definite, but there seems to be a very firm suggestion that new immigrants have a far higher incidence of unemployment than people who have been here for longer periods. In other words, it is more difficult for the new immigrants to find jobs and often they have to depend upon our social welfare system. Their reserves run down, and it is therefore difficult to make the assumption that their need for consumer durables, housing and so on will increase the demand for those things. They have wasted their resources in simply surviving while they try to find jobs. 
It is claimed that by enlarging the domestic market immigration will increase the efficiency of industry through economies of scale.' But any economies of scale that can be reaped by increasing our population from the present 14 million to, say, 18 million rather than 16 million by the end of the century are hardly relevant; and that is at the end of the century. So the argument for economies of scale here and now is irrelevant. Immigration is also supposed to increase business confidence and hence investment by providing a guarantee of continuous growth in the domestic market. As I have suggested, that is a terribly long-term thing. Economic recovery by new investment stimulus is more likely to result from recovery in demand for our exports rather than from the dubious stimulus to domestic investment attributable to marginal increases in the size of the market from immigration. After all, the proposed level of immigration would represent a growth rate in the market of less than half of one per cent over the present rate of increase; hardly of much relevance to manufacturers unable to sell their goods today. 
How can the Government justify increasing the number of people recruited for supposed skill shortages or those with high settlement potential when there is such an enormous backlog of need and unmet demands among our migrant communities, which have been most recently documented by the Galbally report? The programs offered by the Galbally committee are frequently imaginative and innovative and are welcomed by the Opposition, although the funding of migrant English is barely adequate. I might add that I am yet to understand fully all the financial implications. I fear that in fact the migrant communities have been sold a pup. The ideas are good but in actual financial terms, if my understanding of the promises of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is correct, the migrants are going to receive less, not more, than they received this financial year, unless the Government changes the promise stated by the Prime Minister and incorporates a factor to take into account inflation. The Minister shakes his head. I trust that he has managed to persuade the Treasury that that should be done. If that is so, I congratulate him. 
The fact remains that that is not what was said in the report. The figures given in the report did not take into account, as it was stated by the Prime Minister, the effects of inflation and so the figures did not represent an increase. I take it from the Minister's interjection that that has been resolved and that the migrants will get some modest increase. In other programs such as the initial settlement program, cost estimates by the Galbally committee were based on the current immigration intakes, and even then it would take three years to cover the estimated bare minimum of those needing such a service. Will the Government now undertake to increase funds for those programs in line with its increase in immigration as proposed by the Minister? How can an increased selective immigration program be justified to those people who have already migrated to Australia? In my view, the increased selective program, the points system, will make it more difficult for migrants already here to bring their own family members to join them. The Minister claims to be broadening the family reunion category, a move we would applaud - 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 5 May 1978: 
On what evidence does he base his estimate that 50,000 jobs will be created in the mining industries in Australia. 
Over what period will these jobs be created. 
What evidence is there for assuming a multiplier effect of seven jobs being created elsewhere in the economy for each new job in the mining sector. 
What evidence is there of the multiplier effect being in operation in Australia due to migrants breaking bottlenecks in employment opportunities. 

 Mr MacKellar The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I have not made an estimate that 50,000 jobs- or any other number- will be created in the mining industry in Australia. I used that figure as one part of an illustration of how the Australian mining industry employment multiplier might stimulate employment in other industries. The illustration, which appeared in a newspaper article, demonstrated the importance for the rest of the economy of developments in the mining industry. 
My statement about a mining industry multiplier was that'. . . studies of the Canadian mining industry indicate that the employment multiplier . . . could be as high as seven.' 
A study by the Mining Association of British Columbia has estimated that in 1973 a mining industry employment multiplier of 2.5 operated within that province and a multiplier of 7.7 within Canada as a whole. It estimated also that these multipliers rose to 2.8 and 7.9 respectively in 1974. 
Studies by F. T. Moore and J. W. Peterson, the late Alex. Hunter and others indicate that in Australia the regional multiplier could be as high as 5.4 for refining, processing and fabrication industries; conservative estimates for most sectors range from2.13to3.18. The iron ore industry in the Pilbara has estimated that for every job created in the mining industry itself, there have been approximately four jobs created in other industries in the area- e.g. in servicing, education, communication, transport, etc. 
On the basis of these figures, a mining industry multiplier for the total Australian economy may well exceed that calculated in the Canadian study. 
Evidence of a multiplier effect in other sectors of the economy is also provided by some of the Australian studies mentioned in (3) above. Alex. Hunter, for example, estimated that even in public utilities there is likely to be a multiplier of at least 1.75. 
More recent evidence of the multiplier is given by industry surveys carried out in late 1976- early 1977, as a result of which it has been estimated that for every extra tradesman employed, jobs are created for from one to four workers of lower skill. 
I think that the Government is being a little timid in respect of this matter. The Opposition wants to see the committee system work for the very reasons that the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde)  wants to see it work. I agree that the Parliament is a bit of a circus much of the time. Very few people, iri terms of the total Australian electorate, come to see how we behave or misbehave. Ultimately we are judged on what comes out of the place. I think that the Government is being timid because the Opposition's grizzle is only that if the Government sets aside the time it is suggesting for the committees, we will have much less time- it could be one day ' each week - 
-I agree that it is for a trial. But I think that the Government could have been a little more adventurous for a trial and still allowed the House to sit. 
I ask the Minister to wait for a minute. While the committees are meeting, nowhere near half the members of the House will be involved in them. As we all know, very few honourable members attend in the chamber most of the time that we meet in serial fashion. We could still afford to be considering many of the mechanical business that we still must go through. Often the Opposition  is  not disagreeing with it. But honourable members on this  .side  nf the House want to make speeches just  us  honourable members opposite want to make a pm.nl. There is no controversy in this. We do not have divisions on such matters. It would nol he difficult to ensure that quorums arc not called and that we do not have divisions in that time. No one would suffer because we have said already that we will provide pairs. So there  is  no advantage to the Opposition trying to catch out the Government. For these reasons. I thought that the Government would have found it more practicable to do this. 
What worries me is that in this trial period we might still fall behind with much of the urgent legislation. Then the Government will bc despairing and saying that the system will not work in the same way I feel that the trial period for the two-week on two-week off sitting program for the House did not succeed. In my humble opinion we did not continue wilh this system for long enough. In the few weeks that we were trying it, it was all disruption. I feel myself, as do a number of my colleagues on this side of the House and some honourable members opposite, that this system might have worked if wo had allowed it to settle down. I am afraid that during this trial period for the committee system, we will slip back with routine work which could have been dealt with in the way that an honourable member suggested. For example, the House could sit during meal times to cope with the business. 
I hear agreement from the Government side. In that same fashion. I think that what I am suggesting to the Government would ho worth the effort. Finally. I state with all duc respect that I think this chamber  is  the v. wrong place for a committee to meet. We will still feci too far away from one another. I can think of three or four other rooms which are smaller and more intimate where we could all sit around the table, not necessarily with all the Government members on one side and all the Opposition members on the other side. We could sit around the table in the way that we do in parliamentary committees in a higgledy-piggledy way. Honourable members tend to forget their party allegiances and for a change use their brains. 
Hopefully, that will be the result of this committee system. I am sure that is what the Government means to happen, despite the interjection. I am sure, with all due respect to the Government, that without any loss of face it could accept the amendment because I think it would make the experiment well worthwhile. I agree that it would still be an experiment. I am anxious about how the Government will react when it suddenly finds that it is miles behind in its legislative program at the end of the session. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 7 June 1978: 
1 ) How many new positions will be created in his Department to implement the programs put forward in the Galbally Report and recently accepted by the Government. 
How many of these positions will be located in (a) Canberra and (b) in the regional offices in each State. 
How many new positions are involved in the expanded Information Section suggested in the Galbally Report. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 28 February 1978: 
Was any record kept of the skilled vacancies for which overseas skilled workers were recruited. 
If so, is it known how many of these vacancies have been filled by migrants who came to Australia during 1977-78 and who entered under the approved occupation category. 
How many skilled vacancies exist for which there are no available skilled workers in Australia. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 5 May 1978: 
How many officers in his Department at (a) second division level, (b) class 1 1 level, and (c) class 6 level are first generation migrants. 
How many of these officers, at each of these levels, come from non-English speaking migrant backgrounds. 
How many women were there at the (a) second division level, (b) class 1 1 level, (c) class 6 level, and (d) fourth division level, in his Department as at 1 January 1978. 
What are the ethnic backgrounds and qualifications of the 3 most senior officers in the Ethnic Affairs Branch of his Department. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs in the House of Representatives, upon notice, on 7 June 1978: 
Which Departments have appointed ethnic liaison officers? 
At what level are each of these officers classified; 
What are the precise duties required of these officers and approximately how many hours per week are involved in fulfilling these functions; 
Are they paid any additional loading for undertaking these functions; if so, what are the details. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 7 June 1978: 
1 ) How much capital was brought into Australia by immigrants in (a) monetary terms and (b) per capita terms in 1976-77. 
How much capital was remitted overseas by former immigrants to Australia in 1976-77. 
I wish to comment on some of the remarks just made about this matter of compulsory unionism. I do not want to enter into the argument about whether or not Miss Biggs was adequately investigated because I do not know enough about the matter. However, from the comments that I have read, I do not accept the proposition that she genuinely does have conscientious objections to trade unionism as such. She objects to particular unions. However, I do not know what the registrar may have heard. 
I want to discuss the argument put by the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr N. A. Brown)  that a person who does not want to join a union and who says that he or she would be prepared to accept the lesser conditions would not be allowed to do so not because the boss would object but because the trade unionists would object. The honourable member feels that this is a dreadful situation; that really people ought to be allowed, in essence, to work under any conditions they like and under which they are prepared to work. The honourable member is really suggesting that we return to the law of the jungle under which those people who are less aware or less well educated and who are feeling an economic need will submit to any conditions- we have often seen that happen- in order simply to survive. If enough people can be found who are prepared to do that, that is one very good and easy way to break down conditions for everybody. 
Let us consider the situation when it is thought that some business enterprise unfairly undercuts its competitors. The business community itself will soon seek to draw into line any member who steps outside certain broad guidelines and whose actions, if pursued, may diminish the conditions under which business flourishes. We all seek to do things like that. While the honourable member may be right in the point he makes about a legally trained person being entitled to practise without signing whatever it was he referred to, the fact is that even if people do not sign what is required they abide by the conditions usually accepted by those who do sign it. In other words, people in all walks of life tend to agree to and to stick to certain conditions pertaining to the way in which they will behave. That is all trade unionists are seeking to do. The problem for them is that they are in a particularly vulnerable position since by and large they are offering only their personal toil. They do not have much in the way of other resources. Oftenparticularly these days- there are more of them than are needed to do the jobs that are available so that they are forced to compete with one another. 
If people do not have something like trade unionism and the uniform conditions that trade unionism wins for them, in the competition between each other to get the jobs that are available the whole work force would soon be reduced to intolerable conditions. Trade unionism has evolved not because it was forced on the community but because gradually ordinary working people recognised that it was necessary. If the honourable member is honest with himself he will admit surely that much of the progress in modern, Western industrial society, which has led ultimately to advances for all of us, including those who own the means of production, has resulted from the action of trade unionists working in concert to improve their conditions which have in turn flowed on to the rest of the community. 
That is a simple way of putting it, but the fact still remains that in conditions such as obtain today when there are too many people and too few jobs there would be many people on the other side of the fence amongst employers who would take advantage of the situation, and the honourable member knows that. 
I am talking about the general proposition that was put that people should be free to do what they like. I am not objecting to genuine conscientious objection being taken although I question whether Miss Biggs was such a person. I was dealing with the honourable member's general proposition about people being completely free to do anything without any serious objections. I suggest that that would lead to a rapid deterioration in many conditions and that it has been only because of trade unionism that we have developed the way we have in this society. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 29 May 1 978: 
With reference to his reply to Question No. 216  (Hansard,  25 May 1978, page 2563), how many persons (a) were in the work force and (b) were dependants in each of the five categories. 
Of those persons in the work force in each category, how many were (a) professional (b) skilled (c) semi-skilled and (d) unskilled workers. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
1 ) Does his Department have an ethnic liaison officer; if so, what is the officer's position and level. 
How much time does he or she devote to carrying out the duties as an ethnic liaison officer. 
How many hours do his or her junior staff devote to carrying out the tasks associated with the ethnic liaison officer program. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
With reference to his answer to question No. 1040  (Hansard,  25 May 1 978, page 2570) what percentage of settler arrivals did each of the major source countries supply in each of the nominated years. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on15 August 1978: 
In a Press release of 6 August 1977, did he quote figures estimating the sum of money that migrants (a) brought into Australia and ( b ) sent overseas during the years (i) 1974-75 and (ii) 1975-76. 
If so, was each of these estimates based on Australian Bureau of Statistics figures. 
If Australian Bureau of Statistics figures were not used, what was the source. 
How were the figures calculated and on what records were they based. 
How accurate were the estimates given in the Press release having regard to his answer to question No. 1496, particularly paragraphs (2 ) and ( 3) of that reply. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 16 August 1978: 
1 ) What role will the list of approved occupations play in migrant selection under the new points system. 
Which occupations listed in the approved list of 14 March 1978 are directly involved in mining. 
What percentage of the occupations listed were in the following categories: (a) professional; (b) administrative/clerical; (c) skilled; (d) semi-skilled and (e) unskilled. 
-Many other honourable members have already pointed out the callousness of Fraserism which is embodied in this Budget. They have pointed out its dishonesty, its inequity and its 18th century solutions for 20th century problems. I will limit my remarks to the disastrous effects the Budget will have on unemployment levels and the total lack of responsibility shown by the Liberal-National Country Party Government in failing to develop a manpower policy to minimise future labour market imbalances. It could well be that the Liberal Government is being supremely cynical and is fully conscious of what it is doing, taking a gamble on the community's tolerance and, hopefully, short memory. By adopting such repressive tactics now, there is no doubt that inflation will fall. Everything is falling, including levels of employment. 
There is no doubt that the Liberal Government tactic will be to increase funding in the next Budget. More funds will be provided for construction purposes. There will be, perhaps, increased subsidies for more areas of the private sector and, with the enormous backlog of unfilled demand building up under these present stifling conditions, a surge in demand will stimulate the beginnings of an apparent economic recovery towards the middle of 1980- hopefully. Then, with a slightly more relaxed Budget in 1980- relaxed in terms of welfare provisionsthe Liberal Government will go to the polls at the end of that year hoping that the false start in the economic recovery and a little more money in the pockets of the poor, before the added availability of funds induces a rise in inflation, may fool many people in the community to vote again for the Liberals. It will be a cynical exercise easily achieved on the backs of the vast majority of people in the community struggling to fulfil their lives, not just exist, on less than average weekly earnings or on very much less for the growing number of willing workers unable to find jobs. 
The Government has resorted to its usual deceptive practices in avoiding any direct acknowledgement of the worsening employment situation, even though the Budget Papers cannot hide the truth. Buried deep in the Budget Papers, where presumably the Government hoped no one would notice- the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  certainly did not comment on it in his Budget Speech- it is estimated that the labour force will grow by 1.5 per cent or 2 per cent during 1978-79. At the same time, it is anticipated in the 
Budget Papers that employment under the socalled stimulus of this aspiration crushing Budget will increase by- wait for it- a mere 0.5 per cent. That means that an additional 46,000 people to 97,000 people will be unable to find jobs. I am using the figures in the Budget Papers. On the figures given by the Treasurer, up to 533,000 Australian citizens wanting to work will be unable to do so. Of course, this is an underestimate of the real position. The honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  in his comments in this debate noted the inadequacy of the Australian Bureau of Statistics' definitions and methods of collecting data on the extent of unemployment in this country.  His  criticism of the fact that the full extent of the problem of unemployment is being kept hidden from the Australian people is well founded and much of the blame for this can be laid squarely on the shoulders of the Liberal Government of which he is a member. 
The Budget Papers note a sustained fall in the participation rate over the past two years of 'glorious stimulation' under the Liberal-National Country Party Government's economic management. A lot of verbiage then attempts to cloud this simple fact: Work opportunities have fallen disastrously; people become discouraged; they will eventually lose heart and stop trying to find a job and so cease to be counted. That is what a fall in the participation rate means. But they do not cease to be unemployed and they do not just lie down and die: They become, as far as the Government is concerned, 'non-persons'. As I mentioned earlier, inevitably there will be some lift in economic activity. Hopefully, as far as the Liberal-National Country Party Government is concerned, it will be just before the next general election. In my view, under the policies being pursued or likely to be pursued by this Government, this so called economic recovery will be short-lived. 
We are told that the answer to our problem is to increase productivity, to overcome the deficiencies of the Australian worker- that is, deficiencies in the eyes of the Liberal Government and of many captains of industry who are hoping to hide their own deficiencies by shouting loudly about the workers- and to increase our exports. Let me spend a little time pursuing these points, which are glibly thrown off as answers to our problems by so many Government members and by so many editorial writers and conventional economists. Firstly, there is the argument that we should increase our exports. This argument takes two forms. All we have to do, so one line goes, is to go out there and really try. The implication is that untapped markets abound, but where do they abound? 
Then there is the argument that we should increase our meat exports. Only the comparatively rich can afford to buy meat. So that rules out most of the world's population. But most of the rich countries have farmers who are desperately trying to survive, as in this country, and who, as in this country hold more political power than their simple numbers would suggest. No American President could afford to ignore his farming lobby. No Japanese government could afford to ignore its farmers and hope to survive politically. That goes for the whole of the members of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. The main potential markets are probably China and perhaps Russia. I doubt very much whether either will fulfil the promise of providing the markets we so desperately hope for, if for no other reason than that each will need to export goods in order to pay for our products. Like everyone else, they will have difficulty finding markets for their products and so are far more likely to buy capital goods in order to build up their own industrial capacity and independence rather than spend what valuable foreign exchange they are able to earn on meat or many other of our potential exports to either of those countries. 
But, we are told by the economic experts, all we need to do- this is the other line on the export bit- is imitate Sweden and concentrate on those things we are good at. I am anxiously waiting to hear what particular industries there are which we can develop in this way. Let us not forget that Sweden has been developing its expertise over many years and at a time when few, if any, other countries perceived this as a way to economic survival. Many more countries will be trying to do that now, in other words, develop this particular expertise. I say to honourable members opposite: Do not flourish some spectacular inventions, such as InterScan, as a possible solution. InterScan may have a potential market worth billions of dollars, but do not underestimate the ability of America and Japan to beat us in the development of the capacity to produce this equipment. In any case, how many of our possibly 500,000 or more unemployed will be provided with jobs by the development of this innovation? We are fooling ourselves if we pin our faith on such enterprises. 
Sitting suspended from  6  to  8  p.m. 
I will continue the discussion that I commenced before the suspension of the sitting. 
In order to deal with our economic problems we are told that all we need to do is to overcome the problem of the reluctant Australian worker, to cut back the wage overhang, and all will be well. To cut back the wage overhang' is a circumlocution for a crude and brutal assault on the conditions of most people in this country, because what it means in real terms is a cut in wages. Of course most people in this country are on wages. We are told that the Australian worker just will not work; he is always on strike; he is just not as industrious as, say, the Japanese worker. I recently visited Japan, with a couple of colleagues, at the invitation of the Japanese Government. I was shocked and pleased to have many illusions shattered. 
In discussion with the head of the Toyota company and a couple of his senior executives we were informed that in the view of these industrial leaders more responsibility for Australia's poor performance compared with that of Japan lies with Australian management than with Australian workers. In visits to several industries, such as the motor car industry, the electronics industry- that is, radio, television and computer manufacture- the steel industry and the shipping industry, we found that the conditions in those industries were often superior to the conditions for workers in our industries. As far as wages were concerned, in most cases equivalent workers in Japan were paid more than our workers are paid. 
They received a bonus which was significant; they had fringe benefits, such as often magnificent recreation facilities, and supports of all kinds. Very good housing was supplied at cheap rentals; health services were either paid for or actually provided; and perhaps the greatest benefit of the lot was job security through lifetime employment. In addition to that, the relationship between the worker and the employer was most impressive. Whenever any new process was to be introduced there was always consultation, so that nothing happened to surprise the workers. Actions were not taken without their knowledge; when something happened they knew that it would happen before it happened; they did not learn about it afterwards. 
Finally, we are told that all we have to do is to increase our productivity. What does this mean in terms of the effect on people? If Australian worker productivity is less than that of the Japanese workers, is it really because our workers are inadequate or is it because the Japanese are masters of better technology? Who installs technology, in the sense of deciding to introduce it- the workers or management? It is true that Australian workers are worried about automation. So we suffered the recent Telecom dispute. Are Japanese workers less independent, less intelligent or more suppressed and accepting? I doubt it. I wonder how resistant our workers would be if they too had lifetime employment and were expected, of right, to take part in discussions on the introduction of new technology. 
Having said all that, let me not seem to be presenting a rosy picture of the position in Japan. The sad reality is that the introduction of sophisticated technology has not solved Japan's problems. High productivity is no guarantee of economic survival. In Japan there is growing unemployment. It is not shown in the official figures as yet but there is hidden unemployment in large corporations with lifetime employment, where many workers are under-employed and the company in essence provides the social security supports that we expect from our Government. Thus the profit rates of many large Japanese companies are in fact at low levels which would be unacceptable to our hungry entrepreneurs. Despite its technological advantage, exports are falling, posing a further problem for the Japanese. It is true that in monetary terms the value is rising because of the appreciation of the yen, but in quantity of production it is falling, threatening further the employment situation. 
The simplistic view that increasing exports is the answer is also wrong, because it has been the very success of Japan's export effort, its enormous positive trade balance in relation to most of its trading partners, which has resulted in most economic pundits now putting the blame on Japan as one of the causes of the present world economic crisis. In short, none of the simplistic solutions offered by the economic experts seems to be the solution to the growing problems in the world's economy. It is for this reason, in this area, that I think the policies of the present Government are letting the whole Australian community down and the Government is deluding itself. It is time to ask some critical questions about what society is really about. Is it about profit making or providing for people's needs? Profit making is not necessarily equivalent to providing for human needs and permitting the fulfilment of human aspirations. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder! The honourable member's time has expired. 

I direct my question to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Does the period of appointment of the Australian Broadcasting Commission staff-elected commissioner end in October? If so, when does the Minister intend to arrange for an election to be conducted so that the ABC staff members can select a replacement on the Commission? 
-The allocation for the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs appears to be one of the very few areas which does not seem to have suffered from the severe cutbacks in the recent Budget. I can understand the smile on the face of the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar),  who is at the table, and why he is feeling very pleased with himself. In a sense I share with him that satisfaction but there are some minor- in some people's eyes they are major- doubts about some of the areas, and I would like to deal with them. The Government has made much of its acceptance of the Galbally Review of Post- Arrival Programs and Services to Migrants and the financial obligations that this entails. I well recall that when the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  presented the report to Parliament he made it quite clear that the Government had accepted the recommendations, particularly the financial recommendations, in toto. The Review recommended that an extra $7. 8 8m be spent on migrant post-arrival services and programs for the coming year 1978-79. The Government claims in its own papers that it has allocated $6. 55m for that purpose. Thus, it is spending $ 1.3m or about 17 per cent less than the Review recommended in the first year. 
I am glad the honourable member raised that point. When the Prime Minister presented the report and I was able to make some comments I made the observation that, if in fact the amounts recommended in the original review did not take inflation into account, it could well be that migrants would be worse off rather than better off. I fear that in some areas this may still be the case although at the time the Minister assured me that the effects of inflation would be taken into account. 
Let us examine more closely the funding of the Galbally initiatives. As I said earlier, the total amount is Sim less than was recommended in the Review, so obviously some programs have had lesser amounts allocated to them than was recommended by the Review. I refer, for example, to adult migrant education. I must confess that I find it exceedingly difficult to be sure that I have cornered all the nooks and crannies wherein funds may have been allocated for this purpose. I hope the Minister can correct me, but from my attempt to bring all the figures together, excluding expenditure for initial settlement programs for which there is a considerable sum available for adult migrant education- I should have thought that that was meant to be encompassed in that allocation because the review specifically mentioned allocations for these initial settlement programs- as far as I can estimate an amount of $0.54m has been allocated instead of $0.59m as was recommended. It is a minor point only, but there is a measure of doubt whether the Government is living up to its promise. Again, that does not take into account the effects of inflation. It is a minor point but these small points were seized upon by the migrants as a great boost and I think that in that area it is not quite as it seems. Funds recommended by the Galbally Review have in some cases replaced past allocations for particular programs and I would like to deal with a couple of examples. 
I refer to division 360.3.06 which appears at page 42 of the Explanatory Notes to the Estimates. In 1977-78 $100,000 was spent on once only grants. The amount spent on information in the ethnic Press was nearly $99,000 making a total of nearly $199,000. We now have in the new enlightened age, after the Galbally report, acceptance of the proposal that once only grants of up to $150,000 should be provided. That amount has been allocated, but nothing has been provided for information in the ethnic Press. That item has been wiped completely. In sum total, for that item in the Budget migrants are down about $30,000. No, I am sorry, it is more than that. It is a very significant drop. It is not an increase, which was recommended by the Galbally review. In that item there has actually been a reduction. 
To analyse this matter further, to get a better perspective on the sums of money involved, if the spirit of the Galbally report had been accepted- in other words to fulfil the Review's intention- expenditure on this item should have been $348,000. That is made up of last year's allocation plus a $150,000 increase, as recommended by the Galbally report. Incidentally, that figure does not take inflation into account. If inflation is taken into account, the figure should be nearly $360,000. In fact the allocation is $150,000. 
We then come to the funding of the multicultural resource centres. These are seen as being very important by the migrant communities because they hope that through these centres they will have an increased opportunity to participate in helping themselves, initiating programs of support for fellow members of the communities and so on. Again, in the spirit of the Galbally report, the emphasis was on encouraging participation by migrant communities. The Government was advised to allocate $40,000 extra for this first year. This the Government has done. It has allocated such an amount but only by taking away $40,000 from the Clearing House on Migrant Issues, an organisation which has provided invaluable resource and research material over the past few years. It has provided services for migrants and an enormous amount of material for the enlightenment of all of us. Yet that money has been taken away from it. 
The amount for next year, as listed in the Budget Papers, for the Clearing House on Migrant Issues, is nil, whereas that organisation received $40,000 last year. I rang a representative of the organisation to find out what was happening because I was shocked when I heard the news. Apparently there is some hope that funds will be available for special projects in order to keep them afloat, but the funds will be much less than the organisation received last year, or at least so it fears. In other words, this cut, taking inflation into account, is a cut of over 40 per cent for one of the very few organisations providing real services to migrants and research information about them. 
Under the same item the pilot resource centres in Melbourne and Sydney are also funded. Funding for the Melbourne resource centre which is run by the Australian-Greek Welfare Society has been provided only up to 3 1 January. Of course if the document is read carefully one would note from the explanation that in the first instance funds were provided for only two years. I accept that fact. I would have thought even at this stage without any formal review having taken place- I presume that the review has not yet taken place- that there is a pile of evidence to suggest that it is performing an enormously valuable function. I will not damn the Minister, but on the strength of it it looks as if this is the end of the centre; it looks as though it will fold up at the end of January. I hope that is not so. I am suggesting to the Minister that if he is waiting for a review of the functions of the centre and an assessment of whether it is any good, he should get that review under way immediately so that a decision can be taken, hopefully before the end of this year. If it is not taken soon a lot of people who are working in the centre will be worrying about the future and will be tempted to leave because jobs are difficult to get. One cannot live on hope, so they will be looking for other jobs. It may well be that a very valuable centre will fail simply because of the doubts engendered in the minds of those people who are involved in it. In like fashion, the same situation might happen with the centre in Sydney. 
The third point that worries me is what guarantee is there that migrant communities will receive the money that has been allocated. In a couple of areas, such as the telephone interpreter service, funds that were allocated were underspent by 15 per cent last year. Although more money has been allocated this year, how do we know that it will be spent? Finally, of course the Government has failed to fulfil many of its election promises in all directions. One of the glowing promises was that it would spend $2. 3m for ethnic health interpreters. To date, as far as I can ascertain, not a cent has been spent. For all these reasons I think the migrant communities need to assess very carefully the impact of the Government's promises. Many of those promises are as yet unfulfilled. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
1 ) Which departments have sent ethnic liaison officers to the monthly seminars conducted by his Department since their inception. 
When was the first seminar held. 
-I agree with some of the sentiments expressed by the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Burns).  For example, I join in congratulating the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  on at last having the common sense to stop moving away from the original Labor Government Medibank proposal and at last taking a lurch- it may appear to be a slightly intoxicated lurch in view of the previous path he trod in dealing with Medibank- in the right direction, back to the original Labor Government Medibank proposal. This proposal is rather less generous, of course, but fundamentally it is very similar to ours. 
I also agree with the remarks made by the honourable member for Isaacs when he discussed the major cost of health care, namely, the cost of hospital treatment. I was very pleased to 

<graphic href="111131197809284_64_9.jpg"></graphic>

agree to his having incorporated in  Hansard  a number of tables which showed the facts. I draw slightly different conclusions. If hospital beds are there they will be filled. Another sad corollary is that the more doctors we have the more work they will do to ensure that they all earn a living. The answer is not necessarily to close down hospitals, because we still have to worry about whether people who need treatment can get in. To simply not provide funds for hospitals so that they close their doors does not ensure that we guarantee that those who need hospital treatment can get it. Other people may be admitted for other sorts of reasons to do with the way in which doctors handle their patients. We have not yet reached the stage where a patient can go along and say: '1 think 1 will have myself admitted to hospital today'. By and large, patients can get into a hospital only if a doctor says that they need to be admitted. 
I must grant that the Government and the Minister have shown a glimmer of understanding in this area by suggesting to the medical profession- it must be about two years ago now- that the Minister requires them to institute a system of peer review. This is a technique which will better enable us to control this area of medical expenditure which is uncontrolled at the moment. Are there any concrete results from the money the Government continues to allocate to the Australian Medical Association for the study of peer review? An infinitesimal sum of money in total, I admit, of $100,000 has been allocated over three years. About $63,000 has been spent so far. In June this year the Australian Medical Association Federal Assembly finally adopted an eight-point plan on peer review. This plan involves a very slow-moving approach to the problem, with extensive study programs and trials. Two pilot projects will be undertaken by the AMA in the coming year. One will be at the Royal Prince Alfred Hospital in New South Wales - 
-The other project will be at St Vincent's Hospital in Victoria. I am glad that the Minister has said that they are slow learners. 
That is precisely the point. Such a step could perhaps take the pressure off the AMA- pressure which the Federal Government has been applying by its insistence that the Association do something in the direction of initiating peer review. I trust that the Government and the Minister will require more definitive action than this. The Government  will  be making a big mistake if it falls for this charade- that is all it is. For how many more years will the AMA be given taxpayers' money to placate its members? It has not even been effective in informing doctors about the proposals. A recent survey by the  Medical Letter  showed that a great deal of uncertainty still existed. After two years work by the AMA, at least one-quarter of the doctors surveyed were not aware of what the proposals are. Is this the best we can expect. 
Presumably, the Minister hoped that by establishing a system of peer review the Government would get some control over escalating hospital costs; but by giving the program for peer review to the AMA he has effectively forgone his chance for any real savings. This is for two reasons: The AMA will implement a system which does not offend doctors and, hence, will have little real control over costs. If one looks at the evidence, it is quite clear that many doctors will be affected by any peer review proposals, however innocuous, if they are to achieve anything at all. To minimise this political backlash- it will be a political backlash if the AMA has a hand in it- I am confident that the AMA will stall for as long as possible and then move with the smallest steps possible. 
Secondly, by awaiting the laborious implementation procedures of the AMA, the Government seems to have forgone its right and ability to move in the public hospitals. These days, in any self-respecting public hospital system, statistics should already be available which could serve as the basis for establishing criteria for admission to hospital, for execution- perhaps that is a slightly unfortunate word- for performance of medical or surgical procedures and for length of stay in hospital. There should also be available procedures which, with only slight modification and extension, could serve as the basis for medical and surgical audit- the assembly of data which will show the efficacy or otherwise of both the medical treatment and the hospital treatment. Many years ago these procedures were implemented in many hospitals, but no government has required that medical and surgical audits be used to help govern the administration of hospitals and the medical procedures undertaken. 
I emphasise again that an infinitesimal sum of money has been proposed for this study, but the study is of singular importance. The honourable member for Isaacs pointed out that in some areas adequate medical treatment is provided with a few as two hospital beds per thousand people. He also pointed out that we have more than six beds- I think the figure he gave was six and a half beds- per thousand people. I did not know the figure was that high. The fact is that we indulge in gross over-utilisation and gross overtreatment. Many people suffer unnecessary illness through excessive treatment. I fear that some people die unnecessarily because of excessive treatment. The only way we will control it is by measuring what happens. 
I have an acquaintance- I will not go too far into this, because I would hate the doctors concerned to be identified- who once went to work in a leading hospital in one of the major cities of this continent where there was an expert in a particular surgical procedure. This young doctor wanted to learn about the procedure. He was told that the procedure as performed by this specialist was superior to most of the techniques used elsewhere in the country. He wanted to learn about it. He accepted the statement that the technique achieved very good results. He was impressed by what he saw in his initial ward rounds and because he was that way inclined, being a research worker at heart, he said he would like to do a survey and publish these excellent results. The senior surgeon was very flattered and gave his approval for the study to be undertaken. After spending some time going through the records in the hospital, following up patients by using those records and then assembling the data, this young doctor found that in fact the results when compared with overseas studies were disastrous. Doctors remember their successes; they bury their mistakes. 
Leading on from that, the next point- the attempt to control the quality of medical carerelates to the expenditure on the community health program. Once again I fear that for the sake of balancing the Budget, or for the sake of goodness knows what, the Minister has been forced off the track. I only hope that some day soon he can get back on it and reassert himself because the community health program would set priorities for the establishment of alternative techniques of health care including, perhaps, a group of doctors and ancillary medical personnel and a range of people and expertise better to provide comprehensive care for patients outside hospitals. That would be far cheaper than putting people into hospitals. However, if we add up the items under this heading, the Government sadly has cut the funding by 20 per cent. Certainly the Minister has said that this is now the responsibility of the States but the reality, as we all know, is that the States will not be able to find the funds to keep the programs developing and, as the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  pointed out, the reality- again sadlywill be that it will grind to a halt and that will only prolong the agony of our excessive health expenditures. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Jarman)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
Sitting suspended from 5.57 to 8 p.m. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 16 August 1978: 
How many and what percentage of total net migrant arrivals were admitted to Australia in the following categories during 1977-78: (a) family reunion; (b) refugees; (c) occupationally eligible; (d) New Zealanders; (e) specially approved cases and  (0  other. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on1 5 August1 978: 
) Which departments and authorities have responded to the Public Service Board request for interim assessments of the impact of their programs on migrants and ethnic communities. 
Were these interim assessments due by 31 July1978. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 12 September 1978: 
Which of the positions in his Department have been identified as those where at least 10 per cent of the occupant's time is spent dealing with clients in a language other than English. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs: 
How many voluntary agencies assisting refugees currently receive funding from the Commonwealth Government. 
What are the names and addresses of these agencies. 
What sum did each agency receive in (a) 1975-76, (b) 1976-77 and (c) 1977-78. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 13 September 1978: 
On 30 May 1978, did the Prime Minister accept the recommendations of the Galbally review of post-arrival programs and services for migrants and the financial commitments they entailed. 
Did the review budget for an expenditure of $7. 88m in 1978-79; if so, why was only $6. 55m allocated specifically for that purpose in the 1978-79 Budget. 
How was this saving of $ 1.33m achieved. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. What was the basis for his statement on 7 June that 'in 1977-78 a gross intake of around 77,000 is expected to yield a net migration gain of about 70,000"? Were the calculations of a loss of about 7,000 migrants based on Australian Bureau of Statistics figures? Is it a fact that total permanent departures between July 1977 and February 1978 were 14,262 persons, or some 6,000 persons more than his estimate of settler loss for the financial year? 
-I would like to deal with two aspects of child migrant education. The area which has consumed the major portion of energy and funds is teaching English to non-English speaking children of school age. Since 1971, the Commonwealth Government's child migrant education program has concentrated on teaching English to immigrant children who were unable to participate adequately in mainstream classroom activities because of insufficient knowledge of English. More recently the scope of the program has been expanded to include multi-cultural education. What this actually involves is still not clear as the term remains undefined even in the recent Galbally review. 
There is no consensus as to the content, problems, inplications and likely strategies of multicultural education although there are broad principles which apparently meet with general acceptance. One of the areas of agreement appears to be the need for more emphasis on the teaching of community or ethnic languages in our schools. Community language programs should be available not just for ethnic minorities but as an option for every child, regardless of ethnic background, in order to develop communication skills in a language of the society. By encouraging appreciation of each child's language and culture, such programs create an improved climate of tolerance and understanding as well as performing a vital role in encouraging the development of high self regard in nonEnglish speaking children. 
Despite general agreement on the crucial role played by migrant education for increasing the well-being of all our citizens, the Federal Government's funding of child migrant education this year is nothing short of tragic. The Galbally review noted that in real terms- I emphasise, in real terms- funds have not been increased since 1975-76. That is the Galbally review finding. This makes a mockery of the repeated claims by the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  that his Government has provided strong and continuing support for child migrant education. The Minister's claims have been refuted by the Government's own committee of inquiry. This year the Schools Commission recommended that funds be increased from $26.2m in 1978 to $29. lm in 1979. But the Government cut this back to a paltry $2 7.7m, which represents a 1.2 per cent decrease in real terms. This abysmal performance stands in stark contrast to the Government's rhetoric and to the enormous backlog of need in the area of language training. Recognition of the educational needs of children with immigrant backgrounds has been painfully slow. There is still a wide gap between the demographic reality of our school population and the teaching methods and programs in our schools. The demographic reality, according to a study carried out for the Schools Commission in 1976, is that more than 575,000 persons between the ages of 5 and 19 years came from non-English speaking backgrounds. The Galbally review noted:  . . there were resident in Australia up to 400,000 children aged 4 to 14 years who came from a background where English was not spoken. 
That comment was made in the same year that the study was carried out. According to the recent report of the Ethnic Affairs Commission of New South Wales, in 1975 children with a native language other than English or an Aboriginal language constituted 18.3 per cent of all primary school children and 1 1.2 per cent of all secondary school children in New South Wales. Yet Federal Government expenditure has failed to recognise this reality. The result is that the majority of migrant children from non-English speaking backgrounds receive little or no assistance. This places them at a severe disadvantage in our society. In 1977 an Australian Council for Educational Research survey indicated that 10 per cent of all migrant students were unable to understand English well enough to cope with normal classroom lessons and that 35 per cent needed remedial assistance. The Australian Teachers Federation survey this year indicated that 49 per cent of those students needing migrant or intensive English assistance were receiving no extra assistance. In 1977 there was roughly one migrant English teacher for every 335 children of non-English speaking backgrounds. Just one teacher. In some States this ratio fell to tragic levels. For example, in Western Australia there was one migrant teacher for every 1,360 children of non-English speaking background. The Galbally review stated:  . . the few surveys of the situation, which have been confined to the larger States, confirm that there are significant needs unmet. 
It stated that the distribution among the States of funds under the program is not proportionate to the distribution of children of non-English speaking backgrounds. The review recommended that the Commonwealth Government provide an extra $ 10m over the next three years for the teaching of English as a second language. It noted that on the evidence presented the funds might need to be doubled if all existing needs were to be met. But the funding it recommended is too meagre to have much impact. The Government has leapt at the chance to appear to be concerned at very little cost. We will all recall when the Galbally report was presented. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  presented it to the Parliament and spoke of it and made much of the point that the Government, happily, was going to accept all its recommendations. Well, it could afford to do so. In real terms it represented very little advance for many of the migrants' needs. It was a cheap way out; it was an easy way to get a lot of kudos for very little effort. 
Having dealt with the specific issue of migrant education, I would now like to turn to the general question of education, to the needs in the school community and the way the Government has allocated its funds. First of all, in real terms there has been an increase of one per cent for education. On the basis of the estimates that have appeared over the years of the educational needs in the community, there is no doubt that we need increases far larger than that if we are going to catch up in the areas of greatest need which exist in far too many of the Government schools and far too many of the non-government schoolssadly, usually the parochial Catholic schools. There has been no increase whatsoever in the allocations in this Budget in recurrent grants to Government schools. The implication has been made strongly by the Government that the States have been increasing their contributions in line with the Commonwealth and that they will continue to do so. But the reality from the State Governments' point of view is that their funding has been cut back also. It is highly unlikely that they will be able to continue to increase their allocations to schools. So in real terms the schools will receive less money. They will not even keep pace with the increases in costs because the Federal Government has opted out. The State governments will not be able to keep up. 
Capital grants for government schools are down by $8m, from $ 139m to $131m-a 5.9 per cent decrease. Capital grants for nongovernment schools are down also- by a mere $lm, from $31m to $30m, representing a decrease of 3.3 per cent. In terms of the needs- it would be difficult just on a bland statement such as that one to prove this point- there is no doubt that given the needs of the majority of school children, who after all do attend the State school system- I think nearly 70 per cent of the school population goes to State schools- that sort of disproportionate allocation of funding is unreasonable. The one big advance that has been provided by this Government relates to recurrent grants to non-government schools. That allocation has gone up by $ 14m, representing an increase in real terms of 7.5 per cent. Where is that money going? It is going mainly to the most prosperous private schools in the community. The top three levels of schools will get $2.4m, and only $2.5m- almost the same amount- will go to the majority of non-government school pupils, those pupils attending level 6 schools. That is where most of the private sector children attend- the parochial Catholic schools. That is a stark discrimination against the underprivileged, even in the private sector. 
-When we look at the estimates for the Department of Science and bear in mind many of the platitudes that we have heard over the years about the need for scientific research, it is difficult to see a relationship between that concern and the funds that are being spent. In times of economic stress when we have to pare costs and stop wasting money, it is often found that money spent on research is cut before many other areas of expenditure. The same applies in respect of education and health services. They are the areas that are easy to cut back. Sometimes people doubt whether we ought to bother doing any research in Australia. After all, we are such a small country. We cannot put the resources into research that other countries put into it. It is suggested that perhaps we could just live off the efforts of other countries. 
I shall quote from the report of the Independent Inquiry into the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation which discussed the question of scientific research in Australia. The report makes the point that Australia provides only a small proportion of the world research effort. There is no doubt about that. The report asks whether research in Australia could be greatly reduced and whether Australia could depend on science and technology from abroad, to an even greater extent than we do now. The conclusion drawn by the report was that in the long run this would be disastrous. This is quite apart from the moralistic argument that Australia is a rich country. We belong to the world; we draw from the world. Therefore, we ought to make a contribution. There are practical reasons also why Australia should have its own research program. Not the least of them is the fact that this continent of ours is unique and for the time being, as the report says, we are its custodians and exploiters. We have to find out about the continent, even if the objective is only to make use of it to our advantage. We have problems which depend closely on our geology, our weather, our geography and even our social structure. These are unique. 
World science and technology give guidelines but cannot solve our particular problems or delineate our particular opportunities. The report makes the observation that research is needed to make best use in the long term of our assets and in the short term to overcome as many of our difficulties as possible. While research in science is a major, but not by any means the only, component in the process of trying to make social and economic progress, if it is decreased below its present level, the report asserts that Australia would barely keep up with the advanced world. In some areas of research Australia already falls behind. If this position becomes much worse than it is at the moment, it could well lead to economic and social stagnation. After all, apart from some of our industries such as agriculure, forestry and fisheries which draw on renewable resources, much of our industry is based upon resources which are exhaustible. Even in the renewable resource area, we have many problems that need to be resolved. We need to develop alternative resources. We need to learn how to husband rationally the resources we have. We must develop an energy policy which bears a relationship to our particular needs. Of course, undue dependence on overseas science and technology also implies general dependence. Dependence also implies taking what we are given and not necessarily what we want. Those countries that have nothing to sell or exchange in the world of technology frequently do not receive the latest developments. In addition, they have to pay a very high price for what they do receive. In examining the level of research effort in Australia the examiners of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development noted that on the 1969 figures: 
The intensity of R and D in Australian industry would appear to be low . . . amounted to only 1.3 percent of manufacturing industry's total gross domestic product, whereas in a number of OECD countries the percentage is two to three times as high. 
The Birch report comes to this conclusion on the figures: . . . on an international scale, Australia spends only a moderate fraction of its GDP on research and development, and is more comparable to those countries which do not, on the whole, possess prosperous high technology industries. 
Having persuaded myself, at least, that Australia needs to indulge in a concerted research effort in a number of areas, I will now quote from a report to the Prime Minister by the Australian Science and Technology Council on energy research and development in Australia. This is one of the factors that the Birch Committee highlighted. The Council 's report points out: 
The establishment of alternative energy sources must be considered in the light of the fact that the provision of energy in all its forms (electrical power, fuels for transport and industrial processes, etc.) is a very large scale enterprise. The rime required for the introduction of alternative large scale commercial processes may be many years and the investment required will be very large. 
In discussing the funding of energy research and development, the ASTEC report mentions that energy research and development in Australia must be given a high priority. It re-emphasises the point. The report goes on to state: 
Australia is fortunate in having access to large coal deposits . . . However, unless further substantial reserves are discovered, serious shortages in indigenous petroleum supplies will occur in the next decade. 
The report concludes with the Council's recommendation that: . . . the development and demonstration of processes for the national production for fuels for transport should be accorded very high priority. 
We look in vain for evidence of the Government's response to either of those reports. The actual level of funding for the coming year is below what would be expected if the allocation simply kept up with the effects of inflation. 
Although I shall not go into the matter in more detail, in real terms the value of the allocation to CSIRO is down, not up. This is despite the report into CSIRO and despite the recommendations to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  by ASTEC. In the area of research grants, last year the allocation was $279,000. This was grossly inadequate. This year the figure is to be increasedvery significantly, I agree- to $407,000. This is nowhere near the tens of millions of dollars that will probably have to be spent over a very few years if we are to get anywhere. The increase in expenditure is hardly as dramatic as one would expect in view of the importance attached to this sort of research. I have mentioned only a few areas. Great importance is attached to this research by ASTEC on the one hand and the Birch Committee on the other. 
Now that the world is shrinking in size and its population is increasing, there are still greater demands on our resources, particularly the renewable resources. With the results of the Law of the Sea Conferences and the decision to extend our area of economic control to 200 miles beyond our coastline, we now have responsibility for the resources in those areas. At this stage, the resources are mainly fish. Marine sciences will become far more significant to the long-term welfare of this country. We have established the Australian Institute of Marine Science. Its allocation last year was $2.1m. It is less this year. When one notes these practical manifestations of the Government's concern for science and technology, one begins to wonder whether this Government really appreciates the true significance of our scientific potential. As I said earlier, in this world of rapidly diminishing resources and increases in population, tensions, strains and economic pressures, if we are to survive it may well be through our scientific endeavour and our ability more adequately to care for the resources we have. Through scientific effort we should adapt ourselves to new ways of doing things and should develop new industries which will help us survive. This Government seems nowhere near recognising that fact. 
-In going through these estimates, one notes the allocation for the Task Force on a national satellite system for Australia. I do not want to discuss it in detail because I presume that at some later date there will be a debate on its report. I make, however, an observation on the composition of the Task 
Force. It consisted of 3 members drawn from the Overseas Telecommunications Commission, one member from Telecom, 2 members from the Department of Defence, 2 members from the Department of Transport, and one member from each of the Departments of Health and Finance. It is funny that the Australian Broadcasting Commission does not get a mention. I notice in the annual report of the Commissioners that they comment on the Australian domestic satellite system inquiry. They say that they maintained a continuing interest in the prospects and potential for the national broadcasting service of an Australian domestic satellite system. As the largest radio and television organisation in the country- in fact the only truly national service- I would have thought it would have had more interest in it than, for example, the Overseas Telecommunications Commission which has, frankly, nothing to do with internal communications. It was a very odd selection if I may say so. I am not blaming the Minister at the table. 
I am glad that the Minister is acknowledging the point I wish to make. I felt from the very tone of the comments in the Commissioners' report that they felt a little hurt that they were left out and that they managed to send representatives to the Task Force on 17 February, made a presentation and were able to attend a formal public hearing on 7 March to discuss their own submission. I think that was a bit of an insult to the ABC. The Minister concedes that point. 
Coming to the Special Broadcasting Service, I quote from a letter I have received- no doubt all other members in the Committee have received it- from the Federation of Australian Commercial Television Stations. I find it slightly ironic. The letter concerns the Federal Government's plan to introduce a pilot ethnic television service through the Special Broadcasting Service. FACTS, the commercial television stations' organisation, states that it believes this decision has been taken precipitously and without adequate consideration of alternative methods. That intrigued me a little and I wondered what it was really getting at. Further in the letter it states: 
The Government's decision also blurs the definition of the role of the Special Broadcasting Service relative to the other sectors of the broadcasting service, especially the Public Broadcasting Service. 
I must say, reading further and looking at its comments, that I hope the Minister does not take too much notice of them. Frankly, I think it is whingeing. I suspect that it is really worried that the experiment might prove successful. FACTS claimed that it did some survey of the potential for ethnic programming. My guess is that, from its point of view, as a potentially, highly profitable commercial venture it found that was highly unlikely. However, if such a service is conducted by the Government I may quibble whether it should be the Special Broadcasting Service or the Australian Broadcasting Commission that has responsibility. I shall come to that in a moment. Whichever way it goes it is highly likely that it will be successful in the sense that a lot of members of the ethnic communities will watch; which means that they will cease watching the commercial stations. 
There is nothing in the laws of the land to stop the commercial stations from providing ethnic programs. They are free to do it. They were free to do it while I was the Minister. They whinged like hell but they could have done it. No government has stopped them, but they have not done it. The Australian Labor Party Government established ethnic radio. They complained then but no one stopped them establishing it instead. This Government is now threatening to proceed with ethnic television and they are complaining again. I hope that their complaints are well founded. I hope they lose audiences and they deserve to lose audiences because they have failed the Australian community. There is no reason why we should pander to them and their continual complaining. However, they do make one comment which I think needs to be considered. They question the decision to use the Special Broadcasting Service for this innovation. The Federation of Australian Commercial Television Stations last year said: 
Last year the Broadcasting and Television Act was amended to require Commercial and Public Licensees to be accountable to their communities through regular public inquiries into licence renewal applications. The Government also stated that the ABC would be required to face regular public inquiries into its performance. 
We agree with those sentiments and obviously the Government does too. The quotation continues: 
However, no such provision applies to the SBS and therefore there will be no public inquiry into the adequacy of its programming, the standards it applies to its programming and whether it has adhered to those standards. 
I suspect that there may be something in that argument and the Minister for Post and Telecommunications may well give some attention to the idea of establishing some mechanism whereby at least the ethnic communities will have some say or some opportunity for offering criticism on the functioning of this pilot ethnic television station. 
I am glad the Minister said that because that suits me fine. The legislation does not require it; it depends upon the Minister and if he decides to establish such a review mechanism that is all to the good. 
I see. I turn now to the Australian Broadcasting Commission. It is a bit disconcerting to find that the funding of the ABC continues to be cut back in real terms. A comparison between the Budget allocation last year and the Budget allocation this year indicates that the Commission is being short-changed. In its last annual report the Commission said:  . . . while the ABC's appropriation for operational expenditure increased by $6.0 18m (4.8 per cent) compared with 1976-77, the consumer price index increased by approximately 8 per cent over the same period. 
So the ABC was severely pruned and this pruning is continuing. In the present Estimates there really is no adequate compensation for the loss of funds due to the effects of inflation, if nothing else, and this is at a time when one would have hoped that the ABC would be embarking upon more innovations, not fewer. However, with the monetary restraints placed upon it, the Commission is crawling back into its box to a certain extent. 
I now touch on the subject of radio station 2JJ. In its annual report the Commission noted:  2JJ, which operates from a standby transmitter near Liverpool, south-west of Sydney, continues to broadcast under the least favourable transmission arrangements of any of the main Sydney radio stations. 
The Labor Government set this station up as an experiment. Surely the experimental period is over now and the Government could do something about providing a permanent station. When I was Minister I accepted the popularity of 2JJ and suggested that it should transfer to FM broadcasting and be given a new broadcasting station so that it could reach its audience. The annual report commented: 
The 2  2JJ  signal is out of reach of a large part of the station 's target audience, particularly those living in the northern and eastern suburbs, and the Commission expresses its continuing concern at this situation. 
I share its concern. The Commission expressed its concern while I was Minister and I initiated action to move 2JJ to the FM band and to give it a new station. Incidentally, I also suggested that its program be transmitted to Melbourne on the landline and broadcast over the spare FM transmitter which I knew existed in Melbourne despite advice to the contrary. I note that that spare transmitter is being used now. It was there all the damned time. That is what irritates me. It is now being used to test interference and is being moved closer and closer to the ABC frequency to see how close it can get. I am not sorry this is happening now. I am sorry it is happening so late and that the opportunity was not taken to allow 2JJ to broadcast to prove that the same sort of program could have been acceptable in Melbourne and so prompt the establishment of a separate but similar type of station in Melbourne for Melbourne audiences. 
Finally, on the question of bias in the ABC news programs, I invite the Minister to get, as I did when I was Minister, a rundown of the time available on radio and television for representatives of various political parties, and the amount of time given in the news broadcast to each of these parties. It would be very instructive. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Martin)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
Progress reported. 
-The Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  has misled the Australian public and his own Cabinet colleagues over the Government's declared policy of a net target of 70,000 settlers this year. This target does not represent any increase over last year's net intake, according to the Minister. Let us look more closely at the claim. On 7 June the Minister stated that for 1977-78 'a gross intake of around 77,000 is expected to yield a net immigration of about 70,000'. He then went on to say that 'a gross intake of 90,000', which is the Government's target for next year, 'will produce a net gain of 70,000 in 1978-79.' Such a result met the requirements of a Cabinet decision that net migration should not increase over the next three years. The Minister has manipulated the figures for the last year to create the illusion that net immigration was 70,000 persons when in fact it fell well below this level. This is clearly illustrated by the Australian Bureau of Statistics figures for permanent departures. 
Between July 1977 and February 1978 total permanent departures were some 14,262 persons, more than 6,000 persons above the Minister's estimate of settler loss for the total year. It is clear that the net gain from a gross intake of 77,000 would be about 55,000 persons if departures for the remaining four months of 1977-78 continue at the rate for the first eight months. The Minister tried to explain away this discrepancy by saying in the House last week:  . . . the net migrant increase of approximately 70,000 was based not only on people applying overseas for migration and being granted entry to Australia but also those acquiring change of status in Australia. 
This is a clear departure from previous methods of calculating settler loss or net settler gain. By doing this the Minister has been able to manipulate the figures to create the illusion that he was not increasing the immigration intake. In fact the Government has increased its net immigration target by over 25 per cent at a time of still increasing unemployment. If the Cabinet decision and the Government's claims were to be implemented, the target gross settler intake for 1978-79 would have been set at around 70,000 and not 90,000 persons. By including in the net immigration figures people already in Australia who were granted a change of status, the Minister seems to be saying that last year some 10,000 to 15,000 visitors were permitted to become permanent residents. Such action would make a mockery of the Government's selected immigration program. Further, such changes in status by visitors have supposedly been actively discouraged by the Government. On 7 June the Minister condemned the use of visitor entry to circumvent the immigration program and claimed to be tightening up on such activity. 
If this new policy is as successful as the one that the Government followed last year we can expect our net immigration intake to be around 85,000 persons, which is a significant increase on the stated target of 70,000 new settlers as permanent Australian residents. The Minister, in answer to a question from one of his own colleagues with regard to my Press statement relating to the entry of Rhodesians into this country, claimed that I had distorted the situation. He claimed that people from Rhodesia are eligible to apply for migrant entry into Australia. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  It being 1 1 p.m., the debate is interrupted. The House stands adjourned until 2.15 p.m. tomorrow. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
Is an assessment of the effectiveness of the scheme itself part of the ethnic liaison officer program. 
If so, is pan of this assessment an assessment of the effect on Departments and authorities as employers of migrants. 
In such an assessment would his Department be required to obtain information of the type I requested in question No. 1041  (Hansard,  2 June 1978, page 3066). 
If so, would he make the information available to me as soon as it is collected. 
If the information I sought is not part of the assessment, how is the assessment of Departments and authorities as employers of migrants to be conducted. 

 Mr MacKellar: The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. As the Prime Minister stated when he announced the commencement of the scheme on 1 March 1978, the overall effectiveness of the scheme will be the subject of a report from the Public Service Board after the scheme has been in operation for 1 2 months. 
This is a matter for the Public Service Board to determine, but one of the matters being considered in the development of the scheme is the role of Departments and Authorities on employers of migrants. 
The Public Service Board will decide upon the information it requires for its review of the scheme. 
and (5) See (3). 
Migration under Occupationally Eligible Criteria (Question No. 1733) 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 16 August 1978: 
What was the percentage of migrants who arrived under the occupationally eligible category in the nett intake for 1977-78. 
How many were (a) workers and (b) dependants. 
How many of the workers (a) were skilled, (b) were unskilled, (c) were semi-skilled and (d) did not state their occupations. 
If no occupations were stated, what was the reason. 

 Mr MacKellar: The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Information about departures from Australia is not yet available for the full year 1977-78 and, therefore, the following answers relate to gross settler arrivals. 
A total of 29,686 settler arrivals in 1977-78 was selected under the occupationally eligible criteria. This represented 39.2 per cent of total settler arrivals. 
(a) 12.482(b) 17,204. 
(a),(b),(c) and (d)- 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 28 September 1978: 
Is his Department's publication  Immigration Categories and Procedures  printed only in English; if so. why. 
Has his Department had any requests for the publication in other languages. 
If so. how many requests have there been and for which languages. 
What has been his Department's response to these requests. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Is the Government's expressed intention to make broadcasters directly accountable to the public through open licence renewal hearings being properly fulfilled at the current Australian Broadcasting Tribunal television hearings in Adelaide? Does the Tribunal's refusal to make public the costs of certain children's television programs prejudice the public's ability to assess whether the channel concerned is doing all it could and should in the case of children's television? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. Are sufficient funds available for on-call interpreter services to enable interpreters to attend with clients for interviews with doctors, lawyers, social workers, counsellors, et cetera, in cases of emergency? Is it intended that this service should be available only for emergencies? How will the reduction in the daily pool of interpreters on call from 40 or 50 interpreters to only 10 interpreters facilitate the servicing of the 25 per cent increase in demand for telephone interpreter services over the demand for last year? Is it reasonable and is it the intention that social workers should continue to have to wait for two to three weeks before obtaining the services of an on-call interpreter in Sydney? Finally, what steps will be taken to ensure the availability of, to quote from the report of the Galbally Review of Post-Arrival Programs and Services to Migrants, 'adequate interpreting and translating services'? 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 13 September 1978: 
1 ) How many full-time English classes were held over the summer holiday period of 1977-78. 
How may students were enrolled. 
How long were these vacation courses in (a) hours per day and (b) total days of instruction. 
What groups organised and ran these classes. 
5 ) In what cities were they held. 
What sum was allocated by the Commonwealth to fund these vacation courses and what sum was actually spent. 
Are similar courses proposed for the 1978-79 summer holiday period; if so, what is the proposed budget allocation. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 13 September 1978: 
1 ) Was a working party on matters of special concern to migrant women established in his Department during 1 976. 
If so, how often did the working party meet during (a) 1976, (b) 1977 and (c) 1978. 
What was the composition of the working party in regard to (a) the level of officers appointed, (b) their sex and (c) their ethnic background. 
What was the brief of the working party. 
What tasks has it carried out in accordance with its brief. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 10 October 1978: 
Does the Government have fixed arrangements or guidelines for the funding of ethnic schools; if so, what are they. 
Does the Government support the establishment of a Federation of Ethnic Schools. 
If so, has any progress been made in establishing such a body. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 13 September 1978: 
1 ) How many overseas students are permitted to study in Australia. 
Is there an annual quota or is there a maximum limit on the number of overseas students at any one time; if so, what is the quota or limit. 
How many overseas students (a) were accepted during each of the last 5 years and (b) are currently in Australia. 
What are the guidelines regarding eligibility for entry of private overseas students. 
Are they the same for other overseas students such as exchange students and specialised trainees. 
Can private overseas students acquire resident status; if so, under what conditions. 
Has the policy in regard to overseas students been changed recently as a result of departmental review; if so, in what way. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 10 October 1978: 
1 ) What occupations listed in the Approved List of Occupations for Immigration dated 1 September 1978 are directly involved in mining. 
What percentage of the occupations listed are in (a) professional, (b) administrative, (c) skilled, (d) semi-skilled and (e) unskilled categories. 
What percentage of the occupations listed show shortages in all States. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 17 October 1978: 
1) On what grounds can a person with resident status be deponed. 
Is the family situation of the deportee taken into account. 
How stringently are these rules applied. 
How many persons with resident status have been deponed during the last5 years and on what grounds. 
How many persons were deported after being convicted and serving a sentence for (a) violent and (b) nonviolent crime. 
What right of appeal exists for these deportees. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on IS August 1978: 
Will he provide the name of the industry surveys to which he refers in his answer to question No. 1042, paragraph (4)  (Hansard,  7 June 1978, page 3228). 
Who commissioned these surveys. 
What were the dates on which they were conducted. 
Who carried out the surveys. 
asked the Minister for Immigration  and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 13 September 1978: 
1 ) What projects are currently being funded by the Commonwealth Government to meet the migrant need for English instruction at the work place. 
What was the total expenditure for these projects in 1977-78 and what sum has been allocated in 1978-79. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 25 October 1978: 
1 ) When does the Government expect the surveys of the information needs of migrants, the forms in which it is most acceptable to them, the use they make of the media and the attitudes to different methods of receiving information, will be completed. 
What organisations are to carry out these surveys. 
Will the results be made available to the public so that State Governments and voluntary organisations can also make use of the information to assist migrants. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 25 October 1978: 
How many (a) assisted and (b) unassisted migrants arrived from Asia during each year since 1972. 
How many of these (a) assisted and (b) unassisted migrants were refugees during the same years. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services. Were Commonwealth police involved in a reported clash with members of a youth club in Melbourne on Sunday last? In what activities were the members of the club involved which prompted law enforcement investigation? Under whose authority was the surveillance undertaken? Were the five people who were arrested Australian citizens and, if so, when were they first referred to as Croatians and why? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 10 October 1978: 
1 ) Since the loss of its Migrant Services Section, what steps has the Department of Social Security taken to ensure equal access of non-English speakers to the services and advice they require. 
How many bi-lingual and multi-lingual officers does the Department employ as counter staff. 
Will the Department establish migrant services units in areas of large migrant population to co-ordinate efforts to provide adequate services for non-English speaking clients. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 13 September 1978: 
1) Of the $ 19.9m allocated to migrant education in the 1978-79 Budget, what sum is to be spent on (a) extending courses for teaching English to migrants, (b) providing English instruction in industry and (c) extending the home tutor scheme. 
What proportion of the funds are to be allocated to teaching English in the initial settlement programs to (a) adults and ( b) children. 
How many (a) adults and (b) children is it proposed that this expenditure should cover. 
What proportion of the $19.9m will be used to provide English classes for refugees. 
-The Opposition is not opposing these Bills, but we disagree with the philosophy underlying them and we expressed those views of course during the Budget Session when these ideas were first proposed. I wish to make some comments on the approach that the Government is taking to education and its funding. The allocation of funds in the States Grants (Schools Assistance) Bill in no way represents the independent view of the Schools Commission on proper priorities based on real needs. These allocations represent a gross distortion reflecting the bias of the Liberal Government in favour of privilege. 
Before discussing that in more detail, I am intrigued to note in the States Grants (Tertiary Education Assistance) Bill a similar bias expressed in a very subtle way in the funding of universities, colleges of advanced education and technical and further education institutions. Funding for the universities is on a three-year basis. In other words, the universities are aware of where they are heading in the next three years; they have had funds allocated three years ahead. However, for the CAEs and technical and further education institutions funds have been appropriated for one year only. We are told that the explanation for this is that the Government is awaiting the report of the Williams inquiry. What worries me is what conclusions we may draw from this. I suppose from this we can assume that the universities are to be considered sacrosanct. They have been allocated funds for three years ahead whilst the changes- by the attitude of the Government to other public funding one can be only pessimistic- will involve the CAEs and the TAFE institutions. 
If this behaviour means anything, surely it means funds will be cut. Hence the funding at present levels is for one year only. If there were a chance that, as a result of the Williams inquiry, there was a proposal to increase funding for these institutions, then surely the Government could have afforded the luxury of allocating funds at the present level for three yeas ahead. If, as a result of the report, it is decided that additional funds can be granted then, at Budget time, additional funds could in fact be given. If, however, the intention is to cut spending then it is understandable that funding has been specified for one year only. It would be very difficult to allocate funds for three years and then, as a result of the recommendations, decide to cut the funds for the last two of the three years. That is what makes me fearful that, in essence, that is what is likely to arise from this inquiry. 
However, I return to the funding for schools. Despite the talk the Schools Commission tried to propose an overall increase of 5 per cent for education. Following the issuing of guidelines by the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick),  in real terms we find that there is a one per cent increase in the Budget allocation. Capital grants for schools are down by $8m which represents a decrease of 5.9 per cent or 6 per cent. On the other hand, capital grants for non-government schools- the private sector- have been reduced by $lm which represents a cut of only 3.3 per cent. There is a clear differentiation between the two main school systems in favour of the private sector. We have been told that there will be an increase in migrant and multicultural education. I will refer to that again later. 
I refer again to grants to non-government schools. Recurrent grants for non-government schools will go up by $14m. This is the real increase in expenditure for education. The amount of $9.1 m is to be distributed to allow for automatic linking of non-government school recurrent grants to average expenditure for each pupil in government schools. As the cost of education in government schools goes up, the funds allocated to private schools will increase automatically to maintain the same relationship. The amount of $2. 4m will be given to levels 1, 2 and 3 schools. They are the schools which are better off in the community than most of the other private schools which most private pupils attend. These schools, generally speaking, are at least as good but mostly far better off than the State school system. The amount of $2.5m has been given as a flat increase to the poorest private sector- $5 a head for the primary pupils and $6 a head for secondary school pupils at the level 6 schools. 
In the report on education of the Minister for Education, which has just been released, we find that it is claimed that the level 6 schools are those eligible for the highest level of government support. That sounds good until one examines the situation and dissects it a little more. The level 6 schools are the poorest schools and are mainly Catholic parochial schools. They represent approximately 90 per cent of the non-government primary school pupils. Sixty five per cent of secondary pupils go to those sorts of schools. In the Minister's report in the table labelled Table 2, we discover that average expenditure for the six States, in the government primary school sector, has reached 106 per cent of the Karmel target. In the secondary school sector- that is the government schools- the average is much the same, maybe a huie less. However, in the nongovernment combined, primary and secondary schools, level 1 schools are already at 124 per cent of the Karmel target. In other words, they are up by 24 per cent on where they hoped they would be. The level 2 schools are 6 per cent above the target. Levels 3, 4, 5 and 6 are much lower. Level 6 schools received significant mention in the report which states: 
Table 2 shows that Level 6 schools were on average operating at 34 per cent below the Karmel target in 1976-77 . . . 
The Government has recognised the deficiency in level 6 schools. But what has it done about it? Despite the brave statement to which I referred earlier that the level 6 schools are those eligible for the highest level of government supportthey are certainly eligible for it- the question is: Will they get it? If one looks at Table 3 contained in the Minister's report one will find some interesting figures. Let me quote some of them. These are general recurrent grants for each student in non-government schools for 1979. That is what they will get compared to 1978 grants. At the level 1 schools- that is, the best quality schools where the minority of private pupils go; in the primary sector it is only 10 per cent- the payments for each pupil for 1 979 in the primary sector will increase over the 1978 figure by $27 a pupil. Level 2 will increase by $30 a pupil; level 3 by $13 a pupil; level 4 by $16 a pupil; and level 5 by $18. But the poorest level, level 6- the level that needs the greatest amount of support- will get the same level of support that is, $27, as the richest schools in the community. We admit that level 6 schools need most, but in fact they will get only $27 a head more which is the same as the amount received by the most privileged schools in the community. 
At the secondary level, the situation is even worse. The first level schools- the richest, the poshest and the ones attended by the elite of the community- will get an increased government subsidy of $35 a head. Level 2 schools will get an increase of $37 a head. Levels 3, 4 and 5 do not do so well. They will receive an increase of $33, $10 and $1 1 a head respectively. When we get to level 6 schools where the government itself admits there is the greatest need- that is something that the Schools Commission has been saying all the time and something that the Karmel inquiry first stated very clearly- we find that they will receive less than the three top levels in the private sector. The level 6 schools will get $20 a head. Let me repeat the figures. Level 1 schools will receive $35 a head; level 2, $37 a head; and level 3, $23 a head. That is hardly reflecting the real needs of the children in those schools. It is hardly living up to the claim the Government makes that it recognises the need that the highest level of support should go to level 6 schools. That is complete hypocrisy. The figure of $ 14m has been bandied around as an increase in support for private schools. When it is lumped together conveniently and not analysed it looks as though the poorest schools are getting a lot because $9m or $ 1 lm is allocated to them. If one analyses that amount in terms of the numbers of pupils attending the schools, one finds that level 6 schools are decidedly worse off than the most privileged secdons of the community. I now deal with an area of specific interest to me at the moment because of my involvement in immigration and ethnic affairs. I refer to migrant education. In the second reading speech, the Government's decision was announced in relation to migrant education. It stated: 
Until now the child migrant education program has operated as part of the general recurrent grants program. From 1979 it will be a separate program and the main purpose of the program, namely the teaching of English as a second language . . . 
This is emphasised in the Bill. In other words, the Government is giving the impression that it really recognises the problem and that it really intends to do something about it. The Minister also stated: 
The Bill provides for the introduction of the new multicultural education program in 1979. Both Government and non-government schools will benefit from the program which, in 1979, will focus on the teaching of community languages. 
So, there will be more emphasis on the teaching of English, separate from the rest of the school curriculum and funded out of the general recurrent grants. We will have another program which will focus on teaching of community languages funded out of the general recurrent grants and separate from English to get us all more acquainted with the new multiculturalism which we all have now begun to realise we have to understand, accept and do something about. 
I wish to point out some of the doubts that I have about the separation, this concentration on a specific problem. I think that the best way to deal with the matter is to discuss it in terms of the approaches that we have made over the years to the problem of what we do with migrants. Of course, there has been a range of approaches over the years. They have varied. The first policy was a policy of assimilation. This was predicated by a myth. In a speech entitled: 'It's time for migrant education to go', the Commissioner for Community Relations,  Mr Al  Grassby, said this: 
The myth was that there is only one Australian type- 6' tall, lean, blond, blue-eyed and named Smith. 
I am not sure that there is one in this Parliament. I share the view of the honourable member that of course it was a racist approach. But of course, if we are honest we have to admit that it was the view held by many people in the community and it was the policy that we pursued. We felt that we ought to encourage people from wherever they came to become Australians. That was the popular view of what an Austraiian was. As a policy it has failed as it did in the United States of America and in Canada. For the same reasons as applied in those countries, we in this country are going to have to change our approach. The next approach was to tolerate cultural diversity, but to consider it in a sort of subsidiary role, to see it as something designed for people who are slightly peculiar or who are a bit different. We were going to learn to tolerate them. They were rather interesting and nice to have around. 
Precisely. That policy has not been accepted. The third approach has been to try to recognise the need to implement multicultural policy for all Australians, particularly in the educational sphere because we are now a multicultural nation whether we like it or not. In essence, the approach of assimilation tried to treat all children as alike, as if there were no difference among them. The second approach was one of recognising that some people were a little peculiar or a little odd and involved tolerating their cultural diversity. But it placed an emphasis on teaching English as a first language. So, therefore, we had to provide additional help to those children who needed it. 
There were some 400,000 children whose first language was not English. They must be given help so that they can better master the English language. The approach in trying to implement this policy has usually been to withdraw the nonEnglish speaking children into remedial classes so that their language difficulty is equated with physical or mental handicap. In fact, many of the children came to feel that they must be inferior because they had to be given special instruction. In other words, they felt that if one's first language was not English one was clearly a handicapped child. As a community relations exercise, this approach has been disastrous, almost as disastrous as the assimilation approach which pretended that there was no difference at all between individual people. It has been disastrous not just because of the effect it had on migrant children but also because of the effect it had on English speaking children. A monolingual, monocultural English speaking youngster would feel his ego growing every time his neighbour in school was hauled off to the special class where that child was to be taught English. The child needing special instruction in English, we also recognise- this is the latest development- ought to be given help to maintain his native tongue, his first language, as well. 
The end result of all this is that the migrant child, having been given additional help, will have a mastery of English. He will be helped also to maintain his own language. The English speaking child will be monolingual, in my view disadvantaged. What about the situation of a school- this is an example that Al Grassby gave- where there were 25 per cent of Australian children and 75 per cent migrant children? Some of the parents of the children attending that school claimed that the 25 per cent Australian, the English speaking, children, were being discriminated against. 
The 25 per cent were being discriminated against, they claimed, because the 75 per cent were receiving additional tuition, support in English and were getting support also in their own language. The Australian children were getting no support in their own language and they were not being taught an additional language. In my view they were suffering educational deprivation. It will only be when all the children in all of the schools in Australia receive the same teaching about our multicultural society and when all of them are given access to a second language that we will be able to say that discrimination has been abolished and everyone is being given the same opportunities. For these reasons, although the Opposition is not opposing the Bill, we are very sceptical about the philosophy behind the moves that have prompted the legislation. We register our disapproval. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 10 October 1978: 
How many ethnic schools are currently operating throughout Australia. 
How many of these (a) are regular day schools and (b) operate outside regular school hours. 
What is the approximate total enrolment in ethnic schools. 
Do any of these schools receive Commonwealth Government funding; if so, which are they. 
5 ) How many State Governments allocate funds to ethnic schools, what were the relevant allocations in each State during 1 977-78 and what will be the allocations during 1978-79. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 25 October 1978: 
1 ) Which ethnic community leaders were represented at discussions with Commonwealth officials regarding the implementation of the Galbally Review's recommendations in Melbourne on 10 October 1 978. 
Which ethnic community leaders were included at similar discussions held in Adelaide on 1 1 October and in Perth on 13 October 1978. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 1 7 November 1978: 
1 ) How many private overseas students acquired resident status during each of the last 5 years. 
Under which immigration category were they admitted and what was their nationality at the time of acceptance. 
Does the policy of allowing private overseas students to acquire resident status contradict the guidelines regarding their eligibility for admission as private overseas students, which require that they enter Australia on a temporary basis for study purposes only and will depart from Australia on the completion of their approved course of study or if they abandon their studies. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 26 October 1978: 
With reference to his answer to question No. 1733  (Hansard,  24 October 1 978, page 2242), how is it possible to admit 514 persons under the occupationally eligible category if their occupations are unkown. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 22 November 1978: 
1 ) With reference to his answer to my question No. 2627  (Hansard,  16 November 1978, page 3003) how many of the (a) assisted and (b) unassisted (i) migrants and (ii) refugees from Asia came from South East Asia in each of the specified years. 
What were the countries of origin of the unassisted refugees from Asia in (a) 1975-76, (b) 1976-77 and (c) 1977-78. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
How many staff were employed by the Good Neighbour Councils in each State as at 1 May 1978. 
How many staff are currently employed. 
When does the Government expect the Good Neighbour Councils to cease employing staff funded by the Commonwealth Government. 
For how many Good Neighbour Council staff does the Budget provide by June 1 979. 
How many Council staff have been found employment within the Commonwealth Public Service. 
Are these staff granted portability of their (a) recreation, (b) sick and (c) long-service leave. 
Are they treated as Government employees under the Public Service Act 
How many Council staff have been assisted by the Commonwealth to find employment. 
Are all Council staff entitled to this assistance and what does the assistance consist of. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 22 November 1978: 
How many full-time staff were employed by the Telephone Interpreter Service in (a) Sydney, (b) Melbourne and (c) elsewhere as at (i) 30 June 1975, (ii) 30 June 1976, (iii) 30 June 1977 and (iv) 30 June 1978. 
How many 'on-call' interpreters were employed under contract by the TIS in (a) Sydney and (b) Melbourne on the same dates. 
How many cases were these 'on-call' interpreters required to attend in (a) 1975-76, (b) 1976-77 and (c) 1977-78. 
By what percentage has demand increased for the TIS in (a) Sydney and (b) Melbourne in (i) 1975-76, (ii) 1976-77 and (iii) 1977-78 based on the increase in the number of calls and cases which the TIS handles. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 22 November 1978: 
1 ) Is the effectiveness of the ethnic liaison officer program assessed as part of the scheme itself. 
If so, is part of this assessment an evaluation of the effect on departments and authorities as employers of migrants. 
If the program is assessed, does the Public Service Board require similar information to that requested from the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs in my question No. 1041  (Hansard,  2 June 1978, page 3066). 
If so, will he ask the Board to direct each department and authority to provide the House with the information as soon as it is collected. 
If the information sought in question No. 1041 is not pan of the assessment, how is the assessment of departments and authorities as employers of migrants to be conducted. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 22 November 1978: 
1 ) With reference to his answer to my Question No. 1 735 (Hansard, 10 October 1978, page 1669), is information about departures yet available for the full year 1 977-78. 
If so, what was the net migrant intake for 1 977-78. 
If the figures for the full year are not available, will he provide the most recent figures for departures for the months of 1977-78 that are available. 
I ask the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs: Is it a fact that over the last eight weeks only one white person, and about 100 non-white persons, have been detained at the Villawood Detention Centre? Was the one white person released after about one week in order to marry? Why has a Fijian woman, Miss Rokocko, been detained for about two months when she has indicated that she wishes to many in Australia? Is there some other explanation for this apparent discrimination against a coloured person compared to a white one? Why have outward telephone facilities been denied over the last week to Villawood detainees wishing to contact their legal representatives and church officials? Is this limitation in contravention of section 41 of the Migration Act and, if so, will the Minister take action to ensure that the law is observed? 
I should like to make some comments on the pearls dropped by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  in his pompous 'Geo-political situation- a pattern of instability' speech. He started by making the comment: 
During the period in which I have been responsible for Australia's foreign policy, international affairs have been largely dominated by economic issues . . . 
I cannot dispute that. He went on: 
 I have consistently and emphatically sounded one warning: that it is utterly and dangerously wrong to assume that the prominence these economic questions have acquired means that the traditional issues of power politics are no longer of fundamental importance. 
How innocent can a Foreign Minister be? Surely power politics is all about economic power? Economic power is power politics. What a lot of mumbo jumbo, and of course the rest of the Minister's speech went on to prove the point that apparently he has not understood that. He mentioned that South East Asia is again the scene of armed conflict created by the hostility and rivalry existing amongst four states- the Soviet Union, China, Vietnam and Kampuchea. No one else contributed to them. No one else wanted them. Again, how innocent can we be? Is the Minister really suggesting that whatever the reasons for the conflicts between those states, we are not involved, we are not interested? I should have thought that the whole of the Western world was interested in China, if for no other reason than the resources it has that we hope to get and the goods we can sell to it in the process of China's development. I should have thought that everybody knew that one of the factors in the Vietnam war was the enormous resources hidden away in Vietnam. Part of the conflict between Vietnam and China revolves around who is going to control the oil that might be in the sea around that state. Will it be China or will it be Vietnam? Of course the Soviet Union is interested, and so are we. What pompous nonsense to suggest that this is just a conflict between four nominally communist states. The Minister went on to talk about various other areas of conflict such as the Middle East and Africa, and he said, in a great revelation:  . . the regions involved are not on the periphery of international politics, not of marginal significance. On the contrary, they are geo-politically critical. They possess vital resources and some of the world's strategic 'chokepoints' are located in them. 
That is exactly the point. We are interested. It is a worry to us because in those areas are resources we want. They are the source of economic power. They are areas for economic exploitation. Power politics is nothing but struggle for economic power. The Minister went on: 
My fourth general observation - 
Lovely tones! Of course, the Minister acts it beautifully as he says it- is that all the conflicts and instability to which I have referred are taking place in Third World countries. 
Of course they are because they are the only areas left which have resources available for the rest of us to plunder if we can. The Minister stated further: 
Over the last three decades, the strategic, ideological and economic interests of the great powers have consistently interacted with the affairs of the Third World. 
That is precisely the case because that is where our hope lies for the survival of the economic system in which we so passionately believe. If we cannot get those resources we have very little hope of achieving the economic survival and prosperity which we have grown accustomed to expect and which we think we are entitled to expect. The Minister went on to say: 
Over the last few years, and for a variety of reasons, one of the superpowers- the United States- has adopted a lower posture and a strategically less active policy towards the Third World. 
What he means by that is that the United States has sought to intrude less directly than it did, for example, in Vietnam and Cuba. The United States has had its nose rubbed in the dirt, particularly in Vietnam. As a result, the United 
States has adopted a strategically less active policy. But that has not meant that it has been any less interested in what is going on. It has tried to be a little more subtle but it has had the same end view in mind- to gain economic power. The Minister then said: 
Many, inside the United States and outside it, have welcomed this. I will simply observe, as a matter of fact, that this restraint has not resulted in a greater insulation of the Third World from international power politics. 
The United States was prompted to use armed intervention initially but it is now seeking the same hold over those countries in power terms because of the resources. It has shown no more concern for the real development of those countries. So it has met with the same lack of success as it met with its armed intervention. The Minister goes on in a sense to explain it all. I wonder whether he really has learnt a lesson from his own words. He said:  . . that exceedingly rapid economic growth can cause profound social, cultural and political dislocation . . . there are many Third World countries which are currently experiencing rapid growth and some of them are in our region. We should not make the easy assumption that as growth occurs these political problems will diminish and disappear. 
I hope that he understands what he has said because in the process of economic development, even if it is on our behalf, if we are seeking to promote it in order to exploit a region we are doing it for a variety of reasons. The resources are there, the manpower is there, the labour is cheap, the conditions are poor and the people are at this stage content with little. It is an easy area for exploitation. But the inevitable result of our exploitation, of the flaunting of the material advantages that come from economic development and of the flaunting of our wealth- we cannot help but show our wealth because we have to send some technicians and some managers to help the countries to development and we insist on giving our people the same conditions as they enjoy at home, so that it is very obvious in those countries that we are a wealthy nation- is that the people in those countries have an opportunity to perceive the sorts of things they have never aspired to in the past. 
We seek to develop those countries in economic terms. We then have to proceed to educate some of those people to acquire the technological skills necessary for that exploitation. That, inevitably, will raise the expectations of those people. That is how we sow the seed of our destruction. As we raise the expectations of only some of those people they will start to ask why it is that they work for the interests of Western countries in the economic development of their own country but their own country gets very little benefit. Inevitably, the word will spread when they are in contact with their own people, their relations and friends and they will say: 'We too could enjoy these benefits if we could control the situation'. It must lead to social and, therefore, political instability. The Minister also stated: 
If we wish to avoid further instability and conflict we should be concerned to be sensitive not only to the needs of the poor of the Third World but to those who are achieving a measure of economic success. 
That is precisely what I have just said. We cannot expect to seek to exploit those countries economically whilst ignoring the plight of the poor. We must do something to help the social development of that country, which means that we will have to be prepared to take less from those countries. We will have to be prepared to allow them to retain more of the wealth that has been exploited. The Minister then went on to discuss the Vietnamese situation. He talked about the Vietnamese attack on Kampuchea as an attack by a client of the Soviet Union on a client of China. The Minister said: 
Whatever its motivation the attack bore directly on the rivalry and competition between the Soviet Union and China . . . 
I do not want to enter into a debate on whether that is true. I want to accept the Minister's assumptions as being true. He stated further: 
China's motives in striking across the border do not relate only to a border dispute but are aimed at Vietnam 's political influence in Kampuchea, which is beyond China's immediate reach. 
In other words, China wants to control something slightly beyond its reach. The Minister continued: 
In turn, its concern about events in Kampuchea relate not only to the extension of Vietnamese influence but also to the role of the Soviet Union as Vietnam's principal backer. 
I think that is where we have let ourselves down. Accepting the Minister's assumptions, what he is saying is that Vietnam has behaved in the way it has because it is beholden to and dependent upon the Soviet Union. Why is Vietnam in that situation? Vietnam suffered a long war in which we played a small part. I do not want to argue the justice or otherwise of it; I simply point out that as a result of that conflict Vietnam, at the end of the war, was a devastated country. It was barely able to look after itself. Perhaps in many ways it was unable to do so. Part of the settlement, such as it was, was the feeling that Australia, the United States and other countries would help Vietnam economically. We did in a very modest way for a short time. It was almost meaningless support. Because of the growing conflict we have responded by offering less support, not more. We accepted the fact that Vietnam was in a difficult economic position but we withdrew our support. China was apparently offering considerable support but it withdrew its support. What was Vietnam supposed to do? Was it supposed to lie down and die? Vietnam did what any other country would do. It sought aid where it could and that aid came from the Soviet Union. 
The inevitable result- I am using the Minister's argument- is that Vietnam is now beholden to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. I do not care whether it is right or wrong; I do not want to argue the case. I am simply accepting the Government's own logic. If that is true why did we withdraw our aid to Vietnam? Why are we not encouraging America, Canada, France and other countries to offer aid to Vietnam so that Vietnam can afford to be more independent of its present sole supporter? Accepting the Government's approach to the world, not mine, and its fear of massive communist blocs, why has it forced Vietnam into the Soviet orbit? Why has it encouraged Vietnam, in its conflict with China, to seek refuge in the arms of the Soviet Union? 
Honourable members opposite are idiots. Using their own logic, they are unintelligent. If the Government believes what it says it should be offering aid to Vietnam to enable it to restore its country. After all, we had a significant hand in destroying much of the country. We destroyed the agriculture and the fertility of the country because we used defoliants and so on. Why not help Vietnam to resuscitate itself so that it can be independent? I do not believe that any of those countries really wish to be dependent on any other country. If they all are independent of one another, using the Government's value and argument, it would be better for Australia. For these reasons, I think honourable members opposite are quite unintelligent. The Minister, in the way that he argues about Vietnam and why it has attacked Kampuchea, has shown a total lack of understanding of his self-interests. I think really that the Minister deserves to be kicked out, but I guess that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is even less intelligent about the situation and thinks that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is doing a good job. 
Debate interrupted. 
I now leave Vietnam and turn, as did the Minister for Foreign Affairs, to Iran to emphasise again the idiocy of this Government's own logic. Until very recently Iran, although its regime was repressive, was an important force for order and stability in an extremely volatile area. When will we learn that we cannot depend upon repressive regimes for very long? When will we learn that it serves our interests better to promote the development of freedom and democracy? To put our faith in military dictators is sowing the seeds of our own destruction. Need one go on? I could mention the whole problem of resources. The Minister discussed the threat to the West because of lack of oil supplies. We have tried to protect our self-interest by propping up manifestly unjust regimes and so we have sown what we have deserved- disaster. People cannot be repressed forever. 
-This debate is an unfortunate debate because it will be seen by the community outside as a debate about abortion. The fact is that the motion that the House is really debating and on which honourable members will vote has nothing to do with the legality or otherwise of abortions. Under certain circumstances abortion- not abortion on demand- is now legal in all States and the Territories, even in the Australian Capital Territory, where the present Liberal Government has the power to determine the laws. The real question on which honourable members have to vote, to quote the honourable member for KingsfordSmith  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  is about thirty pieces of silver. If honourable members vote for the motion before the chair they will be saying that the termination of pregnancy that is legally performed anywhere in Australia will not entitle a patient to draw a medical benefit to help her to pay for the legal and legitimate treatment unless she is prepared to divulge the details of her personal history to non-medical bureaucrats completely unknown to her and, at the same time, her doctor is prepared to act as the tool to this destruction of confidentiality by providing very personal details of his patient to faceless bureaucrats. In the process the doctor has to surrender a traditional right- a right I value and I am sure all honourable members value when it comes to their personal treatment. In the words of a document circulated by the Australian Medical Association: 
It has long been an accepted principle in the provision of medical services that the doctor's judgment of what is in the best interests of the patient should be the determinant of the medical need. 
On the question of confidentiality, the AMA has pointed out its general position that the confidential relationship between the patient and the doctor should not be broken by disclosing details of this nature to a third party, and that  Mr Lusher's  proposal would mainly affect women not seeking a termination of pregnancy. It is their case histories which would have to be revealed to Government before benefits would be paid on items that could relate to termination. 
The AMA then points out that the benefits cannot be paid unless certification is provided in respect of 1 9 items, which it lists. It continues: 
The majority of these procedures are most frequently performed for reasons other than termination and some very rarely involve termination. Thus every year thousands of women who have no intention of seeking to end a pregnancy would be faced with the embarrassment of having to produce a certificate to that effect before being able to obtain benefits. 
The certificate would state the actual purpose of the procedure, for example, investigation for suspected cancer of the uterus which could well result in unnecessary distress. 
So the AMA puts it elegantly and with restraint. Let me put what this motion means in terms more easily understood by the layman. In particular, I address these remarks to those honourable members who are supporting the motion in the mistaken belief that it will simply stop some women from having legal abortions. I cite the example of a girl in her late teens- she could be the daughter of any one of us- who is having problems with her periods. A whole range of options is available to the doctor, including the prescribing of the pill and, of course, a procedure covered by this motion which is not a termination of pregnancy, but it could be. Imagine the knowing smiles and the snide comments such as: Some people, politicians certainly, could get a certificate for anything, but where there's smoke there's fire I always say'. The procedure is performed today and, of course, technically it still could be an abortion, but no one has specifically to question it and it is no-one's business because it does not matter as far as medical benefits are concerned. But if certification is required it will become an interest of many people. 
Now, take the example of the young woman who wants to have a baby but who cannot get pregnant, although she is trying to do so. A whole range of investigations is available to the doctor in his attempt to determine why pregnancy is not possible, including procedures covered by this motion. Imagine the embarrassment, pain and anguish and the knowing comments, such as: 'Of course she was pregnant. They have been married for years and she looks healthy to me. She was popular with the men. She got pregnant and just did not want to spoil her figure and fun', or, conversely: 'There you are, you cannot tell, she looked normal to me'. Imagine the embarrassment in either case for the women concerned. I will not elaborate more on the problems of this age group. I shall come to the age group of many of our wives. There can be no argument that, in the biological sense, life is often not easy for many people, particularly as they pass their mid-forties. For many women this is so, and the problems are often specifically related to their sexual physiology and anatomy; their sex organs and how they function. To indicate the relevance to honourable members, I would hazard a guess that problems of this nature beset the wives- or mothers in the case of the few younger honourable members- of at least 30 members of this House and probably more. The problems will range from difficulties arising from menopause or its onset. It is popularly called the 'change of life'. That very term surely can indicate to all honourable members its significance and in some cases the severity of its effects. Some anatomical problems, such as the aftermath of a difficult childbirth, take some time to manifest themselves. 
The problem of tumours arises more commonly in this age group. Some of them will be cancer and some of them will not, but the anxiety suffered by the patient before a diagnosis is made is enormous. Like the other difficulties I have mentioned, all can require investigation and treatment by procedures covered by the motion the House is debating. Although rare, in some of these cases the patient could be pregnant and the result of investigation or treatment could result in an abortion being performed by the doctorconsciously, usually, and maybe occasionally unconsciously. Imagine the psychological problems in addition to the physical pain and discomfort inevitably associated with the medical problem. Imagine the burden on a woman facing the prospect of losing her sexuality in her eyes and, she would then fear, in the eyes of her husband. Imagine the fears for her life, in the first instance, and then her fears for the survival of her relationship if she sees herself as a non-woman. 
In giving these examples I am not saying that I believe in the assumptions on which far too many women and men make judgments which give rise to these fears. Even if I think they are wrong, the fears, the anxiety, the destructive effects on the women and their family relationships are all too real all too often. To add to all these burdens, this motion is seeking to add loss of confidentiality and all that can flow from that. I ask those honourable members who support this motion please to think again, to think for themselves, about themselves. If their wives or mothers were affected in the ways I have suggested, and those would be the vast majority of cases where the procedures covered by this motion would arise, that is, where there is no pregnancy, how many of them could say honestly that they would not really mind if the confidentiality between them, their wives and their doctors was broken? How many of them have bothered to ask their wives what they would feel about it if they were affected? I could go on, but I hope that that is enough to cause them to pause and think again. 
Are the few miserable dollars this motion might save the Federal Government worth the problems associated with its implementation? In addition to all the patient and immediate family burdens I have mentioned, how would it be implemented? How would we check up on the doctors to be certain that they are bothering to make sure that a woman is pregnant before they perform one of these procedures that are indicated for the range of conditions I have mentioned, which are not related to pregnancy, and I emphasise that? Will we require a sample from every curette performed, whether on its own or in association with all the other procedures in which the technique for abortion is used, to be sent to a pathologist for a report? Given what has happened over recent years with some pathology services, will we issue a proscribed list of pathologists or will we insist that all samples be sent to health department pathology services? In the very many cases where it will be a question of judgment as to whether or not a curette should have been performed, how will we assess the doctor's judgment? Will we check up on it or will we be forced to rely on the doctor? If we check up on it, how will we do that? If we rely on the doctor's judgment, as we do now- in my view, inevitably we have to- then what is the point of this motion if checking is impossible and would be only an expensive farce? 
This motion is about money, not about abortion, but many are debating the issue of abortion. The motion will do nothing about the legality or otherwise of abortion, but most of the letters supporting the motion mention murder, the implication being that the payment of benefits would condone murder. The claim that abortion is the same as any other murder is based on the assumption that a foetus has the same independent existence and the same right to live as all other victims of murder. I question the assumption about the independence of the foetus. Once born, no matter how prematurely, I accept that the individual has all the rights most or all of us assume it has, even though a new born baby, and particularly a premature baby, in a practical sense is totally dependent on another person or other people, not necessarily its natural mother. Before birth the foetus is totally dependent in every way on one individual- its mother. That to me is a very basic difference from a child immediately after birth. Before birth we are confronted with a pregnant woman who also has rights, rights that might be in conflict with the rights of the foetus she carries within her. My assumption is that the carrying mother's rights are paramount. Of course, I agree with any steps that might be taken to support a pregnant woman and enable her successfully to give birth to a happy, healthy child. 
On the question of abortion, I take the view that any individual woman has the right of access to comprehensive medical care. If, in the particular circumstances relating to any woman, after full examination and the advice of legally qualified medical practitioners, the conscientiously advised course of treatment involves termination of pregnancy, then that treatment should be provided in a properly licensed and managed hospital and should entitle the patient to draw the medical benefit to help cover the cost of treatment. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 

 - Mr Speaker, before dinner I was discussing the indications for abortion and indicating that if, under particular circumstances, it was conscientiously suggested that any woman after full medical examination should require termination of her pregnancy, then in my view she should be entitled to have it in a properly licensed and managed clinic or hospital and she should be able to draw medical benefits for it. I do not advocate that every child should have its tonsils removed, that everyone should have his appendix removed, or that every woman should have an abortion. Indeed, I strongly advise against all these procedures unless very strict indications are fulfilled. These indications cannot be assessed for any particular individual by preachers- whether political or religious- or by self-appointed custodians of public morality. Society has a right to, and does, lay down general guidelines within which those trained and licensed to practise are entitled to exert their independent judgment in advising their individual patients. If one is opposed to termination of pregnancy then I assume that that individual, if female, would never avail herself of such treatment. 
If a male were opposed to termination of pregnancy, I assume he would advise his pregnant companion or dependant to refuse such treatment, even if it might be necessary to save her life. I trust he would not force her against her own judgment, whatever that might be. I would never be so arrogant as to deprive a pregnant woman of the right to avail herself of such treatment. Nor would I deprive a male of the right to advise his female companion or dependant not to have a termination of pregnancy, no matter what my personal assessment might be. In like fashion, I refuse to assume the right to deprive others of the right to avail themselves of legally recommended medical treatment. 
Views of morality are many and varied in both time and place. In view of this enormous diversity in the human family, I refuse to assume the right to dictate what morality is, although as a politician I am actively engaged in suggesting changes in morality in line with my own perceptions. Whilst I disagree with the views of prominent church men who have in recent days indicated their opposition to legally performed abortions, I do not disagree with their right to express their views. On an issue like this, I do not believe that any one view should be forced on everybody. In supporting the law as it stands at present it is not suggested that those who do not want abortions should be forced to have them. It is simply a question of the right of the individual to be free to avail herself, or not to avail herself, of legitimate medical treatment in the eyes of many people in this country. A clear majority- if one can judge from opinion polls between 1967 and 1974, and the latest poll which, as far as I know, was in 1974- of 80 per cent of the population supported legalised termination of pregnancy under the indications that are now accepted in all the States and Territories of the Commonwealth. 
For those reasons I think it would be disastrous to support the Lusher motion. It will not change that law. As I mentioned in my speech earlier it will simply make the whole situation unworkable and impose enormous strains on people and on their relationships and it will reduce the confidentiality that should exist between patient and doctor. 
-The Minister for Health will be aware that the Victorian Government has been promising since the 1960s to build a public hospital at Clayton near Monash University. As this hospital will be a teaching hospital for the medical school at Monash and is also to take the place of the Queen Victoria Hospital, what is the Government's attitude to the suggestion that this major teaching hospital be handed over to American Medical International, which is an investor-owned multinational corporation? What will be the impact of this on the cost of health in Australia in view of the fact that this firm also makes its profits out of providing expensive medical technology to the hospitals it runs? 
-The Opposition does not oppose this Bill but it does want some clarification or simply assurances on a couple of the aspects. I read into the words of the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  the intention that nothing will be changed. However, the actual wording of the Minister's speech was not as clear as it might have been. In making the requirement for obtaining visas and entry permits a statutory requirement rather than as it is now, an administrative arrangement, in that the Minister draws a distinction between the visa and the subsequent entry permit, people might draw the conclusion that one could have a visa, arrive on the shores in good faith and then be refused a permit on grounds of which they have not been totally unaware. I know that there may be some occasions when that may be necessary and I do not deny the Minister's right to have that discretion. I simply seek an assurance that this new arrangement changes in no material way the expectations of people who visit us have had till now that if they gain a visa, then they can, under reasonable circumstances be assured of entry. In like fashion, someone who has lived in Australia for years and who has gone overseas should be able to expect a re-entry permit. 
I do not deny that carriers should be held responsible if they bring people here without a proper visa, but given that they have ascertained that people do have a visa, it would be unfair to the carriers if people with apparently legal visas got here and then, for reasons that no one could know of beforehand, were refused an entry permit. That would seem to be an open-ended liability imposed upon the carriers. I concede that the Minister has defined some of the circumstances under which this requirement would be waived. I acknowledge that. I simply want an assurance that there will be no change from what has been the practice in the past- a practice that holds in most countries. With those comments, we support the Bill. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 9 May 1979: 
1 ) How many permanent officers in the (a) 2nd, (b) 3rd and (c) 4th division of the Australian Public Service were born outside Australia. 
What number and percentage of persons born outside the Commonwealth, are employed in the (a) 2nd, (b) 3rd and (c) 4th division of the Public Service on a (i) permanent basis and (ii) temporary basis. 
What number and percentage of persons born in Commonwealth countries (excluding Australia) are employed in the (a) 2nd, ( b) 3rd and (c) 4th division of the Public Service on a (i) permanent basis and (ii) temporary basis. 
When will the recommendation of the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration be implemented. 
Will he introduce legislation abolishing paragraph 34 (a) ofthe Public Service Act 1922. 
Are there any cases in which residents of this country were refused employment in the Public Service because the persons were not British subjects; if so, how many. 
What are the nations classified as British under paragraph 34 (a) of the Act. 
How many British subjects who are not Australian citizens are employed by the Public Service. 
Does paragraph 34(a) discriminate against Australian residents who are citizens of non-British Commonwealth countries. 
Did the Royal Commission make any recommendations on nationality and employment in the Public Service; if so, what were those recommendations and when will they be implemented. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs on 9 May the following questions: 
How do the recommendations of the 1976 Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration (chaired by  Dr H.  C. Coombs) affect Australian residents from (a) Rhodesia, (b) Italy, (c) Uganda, (d) Greece, (e) Sri Lanka, (f) Yugoslavia, (g) Republic of Ireland, (h) Turkey, (i) Lebanon, (k) United States of America, (1) Hong Kong and (m) New Zealand. 
When will the recommendations of the Commission be implemented. 
Do departmental officers working in overseas Recruiting Agencies, Consulates and Embassies in countries that are not members of the Commonwealth inform all migrants from those countries of section 34 of the  Public Service Act  1 922 and its implications for them. 
I refer the Minister for Veterans' Affairs to the Budget decision to extend war service pension eligibility to members of allied armed forces back to the beginning of World War 1. 1 ask the Minister: Does it include Italian born migrants who fought in World War I, but exclude all Italians who fought in World War II? Does it exclude all Greek, French and Yugoslav partisans who fought in World War II on our side? What is the status of Germans now living in Australia? Does it include Vietnamese refugees? Are Turkish, Lebanese and Syrian ex-soldiers excluded from the decision because they fought against Australia in World War I? 
by leave- In general, I do not think that we have very much to criticise in a large part of the substance of the statement by the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar).  It is quite clear that the overseas student program was initiated for very worthy purposes in order to help mainly the countries from which the students came to get the skilled people they required and to provide training which was often not available in those countries. We undertook, by virtue of our overseas student program, to help provide that training. It has undoubtedly made a contribution, as the Minister has mentioned, to increasing understanding, international cultural exchange and so on. But it is also clear, as the Minister has stated, that in recent years the program has not been working as effectively as it should have been. 
One needs only to note the point raised by the Minister, namely the number of students who finish up remaining in Australia. He gave the figures. Almost 75 per cent of students completing formal studies in recent years have applied successfully for resident status. That being the case, quite clearly the purpose of the exercise has been defeated. It has worked very well for the students. They have done two things. They have achieved a level of training, education and qualification which they may not have been able to get in their home countries. At the same time, they have had an easy run in becoming permanent residents of this country. They have, in fact, deprived their own homelands of the advantages of the contributions made by us and, presumably in part by their own countries in allowing them and perhaps in some cases helping them, to come here. The Opposition is pleased to note that the Minister is discussing this problem with the governments of the main source countries and that their views will be considered carefully before the proposals are finally implemented. I suggest that this House also be given the opportunity to discuss those proposals . before they are implemented. 
The Minister has made the point that these criteria will apply to private students as well as to those who come here under various assistance programs. The Opposition has no objection to that in principle but awaits the details with interest. I trust that even these details will be discussed by the House before a final decision is taken. I do not think this is an area in which partisan political party views ought to prevail. It ought to be a subject for bipartisan discussion. I am not seeking the opportunity for discussion in the hope that I will be able to tear the Minister to shreds. I am seeking it in the hope that together we will sensibly consider these proposals. The Opposition would be in the same fix as the Government in trying to unravel this problem. 
On the question of the cost, the figures given by the Minister illustrate dramatically how much the Australian taxpayer contributes to the education of these people. I do not say that in a derogatory sense. I am simply recognising that the parents of our own students pay in part, through the taxes they pay, for the education of their children, whereas the parents of overseas students are relieved of that burden. I do not necessarily disagree with that in the case of the students who do not have the resources themselves as their parents are not well off. In cases where the home countries of students feel that they should be given this opportunity for training, quite clearly Australia should continue to pay their costs. 
The Minister has made the point that overseas students sponsored under bilateral arrangements will have their charges paid under the aid programs. Quite clearly we as a country will be making a contribution to that. At the same time it seems unreasonable, as noted by the Minister, to allow the people who are well able to paywherever they might go- to be able to take advantage of the free tuition in our colleges of advanced education and universities. They receive the training at no cost to themselves. The burden is completely on the Australian taxpayer. The Opposition agrees with the Minister's proposals in that regard. 
Precisely. We agree with the Minister's proposal to change that. However, despite the charges that the Minister is proposing to impose, there will still be a significant contribution from the Australian taxpayer. So Australia is not being completely mean in this regard. There will still be a significant burden on the Australian taxpayer. The Minister pointed out the problems we have with the private students who complete their training and then seek to stay in Australia. Many of them succeed in doing so. This is not in the spirit of the scheme. It was established to try to help the home countries to get more qualified people. In essence, the scheme finishes up as an easy way for some people to obtain higher training and, by virtue of that training, gaining permanent resident status. However, it presents a problem. I am sure the Minister has noticed it as he has plenty of representations on behalf of the people who pose this problem. 
The difficulty often is that once these students are trained they find that their skill is not required in their home country. The Minister alluded to that early in the discussion. Students may choose courses that are not likely to be needed in their home countries. We are faced with a very difficult problem when we are faced with requests for residence status from students who have been here many years and who have done very well in their studies in a discipline for which there is no call in their home countries. Out of compassion one feels that there is no choice but to allow them to stay in Australia. At the same time that defeats the whole purpose of the exercise. I sympathise and agree with the moves that the Minister is contemplating. I hope that some way can be found to overcome the problem. 
The Minister stated that he expects source countries to continue to take advantage of these facilities and perhaps to indicate their training needs and priorities. 1 suggest that in order to overcome these embarrassing personal problems it may be necessary to reach agreement with the source countries to ensure that students who have finished their course of training, even when sponsored by their own governments, are guaranteed employment. I do not know how the Government can do this but I think it is worthy of discussion. Students may manage to gain approval or sponsorship to come here under some sort of generous move from their own country, but if there is no guarantee of a job at the end of their course Australia is still likely to be faced with the same dilemma. Students may return home and then say: 'I have come back home. I cannot use the skills I have. All your money has been wasted. As an individual I am being wasted. My government can do nothing about it. Please let me stay in Australia.' It will take a tough person to resist that sort of call. I suggest that in the negotiations with the home countries it may be possible for the Minister to reach some agreement with their governments on guaranteeing employment for these people once they have been trained. 
I wish to refer briefly now to the subject of adult migrant education programs. Some of these matters will come up in subsequent legislation and we can elaborate on them later on in the actual Budget discussion. I fear that, despite the increase in funding, it is a case of still too little funding. I do so in two respects firstly, the length of time provided by this funding for training in the English language is possibly too short for new arrivals to this country. I notice that the Minister is conducting a survey into the matter, so maybe we will know more about that later. But my hunch, based on discussion with members of the ethnic communities and so on, is that six weeks is not an adequate time for migrants to become skilled enough in the English language for the purposes for which the Government wants to give them training, namely, to ensure they can better fit into jobs and that they can find their way around and have better access to their rights as members of the Australian community. In other words - 
-I acknowledge that. I did say that I had noted that the Minister was conducting an inquiry. I am just giving my hunch about what that inquiry will find. My guess is that, despite the increase in funding, it will still prove to be not enough. I concede the point that what I am about to say is possibly covered in other facets of the Budget proposals but I want to make the point, because I think it is significant, that this funding will not be sufficient to ensure that the children of migrants, whether born overseas or here, who wish to retain some association with the culture of their parents and to retain facility in the language of their parents will be able to do so. The Government needs to spend much more money in the education system to ensure that there is bilingual or multi-cultural education or education to guarantee that all children have a facility in more than one language. This would apply also to English-speaking children. In a sense one could argue that in giving special training to migrants to ensure that they speak English adequately and maintain their own mother tongue and in ignoring the Anglo-Saxon student one is making the Anglo-Saxon student a deprived person because he is finishing up with a facility in only one language. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 16 August 1978: 
What was the (a) net intake and (b) gross intake of migrants during (i) 1976-77 and (ii) 1977-78. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs upon notice, on 3 May 1979: 
How many applications for migration to Australia have been received from (a) Italy, (b) Great Britain, (c) Greece, (d) Rhodesia, (e) Yugoslavia, (0 South Africa, (g) Lebanon, (h) Hong Kong, (j) Turkey, (k) Singapore, (I) Pakistan, (m) Taiwan, (n) the Philippines, (o) Malaysia and (p) Egypt during the period 1 January to 30 April 1979. 
How many persons from each of the same countries were approved for permanent residence in Australia in the same period. 
3 ) In each case, how many of the applicants were ( a ) professionally trained, (b) skilled, (c) semi-skilled or (d) unskilled and what were the qualifications in the same categories of those granted permanent residence visas. 
What was the increase/decrease of applications (expressed in percentage and numbers) for 1977 and 1978, and how many of those applicants were granted permanent resident visas. 
-Before discussing in detail those aspects of the Budget which relate to the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, I wish to refer to the Galbally report for the purpose of reminding honourable members of some of the points in it relating to the expenditure in which the Government is indulging in this area. First of all, the expenditure recommended by the Galbally report amounted to a total of $50m over three years. That figure was based on an intake of migrants to this country at the rate of 50,000 a year. The first observation one must make is that the Government has been making noises about increasing substantially the number of migrants to be taken in over the next 12 months. We are led to believe that increasing the number of migrants is still another path to economic recovery. The allocation of funds that the Government boasts it is making in this Budget in conformity with the recommendations of the Galbally report will be inadequate, given that that allocation is honest in terms of the original Galbally recommendationlet us accept that for the moment- if the Government proceeds to bring in many more people. There is talk of increasing the intake by perhaps 25 per cent or more. 
I remind honourable members that the Government promised an expenditure of $50m over three years. At the same time that that promise was made, the Government withdrew tax rebates for payments made by people in this country to dependent relations overseas. Until that time, if an immigrant to this country was sending money to Italy or Greece or wherever to support dependants, he was able to claim that as a tax deduction. At the time when the Government accepted in total without question the Galbally recommendation to spend $50m over three years it withdrew that tax concession. The effect of this action was that in the first year immigrants had to pay an extra $20m. The amount of money it will represent in succeeding years will be more because, of course, wages have gone up. People have gone into higher tax scales and therefore immigrants will be paying even more tax. Immigrants are paying more tax because they are unable to claim these rebates on the funds that presumably they are still trying to send overseas to their relations. The truth is that the additional expenditure allocated so magnanimously by this Government via the Galbally report, in fact, on balance, represents a robbery of the immigrants because they are paying more than the extra funds being allocated to them for services as recommended by the Galbally report. 
I want to make another general point because the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in answer to a question at Question Time this afternoon made the claim that the Galbally report for the first time represented an acknowledgment of all these needs, that previous governments had not noticed them and that Ministers had not been aware of them. I beg to differ. I suggest that the statement by the Prime Minister was largely correct until the Labor Party came to power in 1 972. Up to that time the claims and the rights of immigrants were largely ignored. When the Labor Party was in power from 1972 to 1975, there was a burst of activity in all areas relating to immigrants and the services that hey required. In fact, I cannot recall any of the Galbally recommendations which were completely new. They were based on matters which we had talked about or programs we had already started. They were based upon needs that had arisen by virtue of the fact that for the first time in over 20 years when the Labor Party came to power immigrants recognised or began to recognise that they had rights, and they began to ask for those rights. So much for overall funding; I shall refer now to some specific items. 
In the area of propaganda- that is how I put it- there has been a significant increase in the allocation under the votes of the Postal and Telecommunications Department for the Special Broadcasting Service. However, I fear the motives of the Government in providing these funds. That fear is based upon the reaction that I have obtained from members of various ethnic communities who are unhappy about- I was going to say the development of ethnic radio but the ethnic communities do not like the way in which ethnic radio is being developed under the Liberal Government. They are very disappointed that they are not being consulted before action is taken. I like to think that if it had not been for a Government direction concerning the Special Broadcasting Service- I do not wish to cast any reflections on the people who work in the Special Broadcasting Service- it would not have been so foolish as to set up, for example, a pilot television program before consulting members of the ethnic communities. Surely it should have done this. I like to think that if we had been in power we would have asked members of the ethnic community what they thought they wanted. We would have had discussions before rather than after setting up such a program. 
The main criticism I make of the expenditure is that in the eyes of many members of the ethnic community it is being wasted. They feel they have not been consulted. They have not really been getting what they want. Many members of the ethnic community claim that the programs being broadcast over the ethnic radio stations are completely bland and almost uninteresting. They are not completely uninteresting, of course, because one yearns to hear something from one's native land and from one's cultural heritage. So even the simple programs that are provided over 2EA and 3EA are valued to a certain extent. However, they are not really allowed to hear anything much about their homeland. They are not allowed to hear anything much of a significant nature about what is going on even in their own communities right here in this country. They are not allowed to hear in their own languages much about what is going on in the body politic in this country. The radio programming is completely apolitical which, of course, is really utterly conservative. If one is not allowed to discuss political issues this invariably means that there is an enormously strong bias in favour of conservatism, which, of course, is right up the alley of the Liberal Party and the Liberal Government. 
When we look at expenditure on education for migrant children, and presumably refugee children, we find first of all that compared with the overall allocation provided by the Labor Government in its last Budget there has been a very significant reduction. In the 1975-76 Budget, total recurrent expenditure amounted to $7.3m while capital expenditure was $ 1.7m- a total of just over $9m. But in the present Budget the total is a grand sum of $2.6m for both recurrent and capital expenditure. Of course it can be argued that the Government has provided in other places funds for these purposes. So we need to look in other places and, sure enough, funds are provided under the Department of Education, for example. 
I want to look at only a few of the items. In total, I will simply assert that the allocation has not kept pace with the demand. When the two 
Departments are combined it is clear that the present allocation is not keeping pace with the value we put on education for migrant children and refugees when we were in government. Let us look at a few small items. Under the Department of Education there is an allocation for emergency classroom accommodation for refugee children, which is an increase of $89,000. That will build very few classrooms. But at the same time under the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, there is a reduction of $600,000 for this purpose. So in sum total, despite the increase in the number of refugee children we are getting, and presumably can expect to get, given the Government's agreement to take more refugees- I am quarrelling about that; I am acknowledging it though- it seems a very odd decision to cut down on the number of classrooms available for this purpose. 
There is a modest increase for child migrant and refugee education in a category labelled Associated Services'. I have been unable to find out what that really means, but there is an increase of $369,000 in the allocation compared with the total Budget allocation this year of $2.4m. Once again, I cannot be sure what that means, but given the increase in the number of refugee children we are taking, I cannot see that amount doing all that much good, bearing in mind that by virtue of the Government's accepting the Galbally report, it is also presumably waking up to the needs of all the other immigrant children in the country who have not had adequate educational opportunities provided for them because there has been inadequate funding over the years. 
The allocation for language teaching materials compounds the insult. Once again one would have thought that because we are acknowledging the greater need for language training and because more and more people are learning of their rights in this area, there would be an increase in the allocation for language teaching materials, but no. From a Budget allocation last year of $900,000 the amount this year has dropped to $680,000- a very significant fall. So overall, one can conclude only that despite all the flowery language of the Liberal Government spokesmen, in real terms there has been a reduction in the allocation for education services when compared with the needs of the immigrant community. 
In sum total then, the outlays for the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs amounted to $65m last year and $73.4m this year- an increase of $8.4m, which is not much above the inflation rate. Receipts- charges usually made against immigrants or, in this case, also overseas students; the money we are taking from the people whom we are supposed to be helping- have risen from $1.4m last year to $9.4m this year. Weighing that amount against the increase in the departmental expenditure, surely the only honest conclusion one can come to is that in real terms the Government has reduced the funding allocated to immigrants, migrant services and so on. 
Looking at the allocation for the Department of Health, it is terribly difficult to be sure what is really being made available for members of the ethnic community. But if one looks carefully one finds things like this comment which comes from a Press release by the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt),  who said: 
The Commonwealth will provide $59.2 7m Tor the continued funding of the Community Health Program in 1979-80. The program will include four main componentsgeneral projects, (e.g. community nursing services), women's refuges, the training and provision of ethnic health workers, and a new initiative- the training and provision of interpreters and translators to work in health services provided for migrants and Aboriginals. 
We had to depend upon a Press release to get a bit more detail than that and it turns out that the health interpreters and translators for migrants and Aboriginals are going to be given $940,000. Well, there are a lot of migrants around the countryside who need interpreters and a lot of Aboriginals dispersed all over the countryside, particularly in the northern regions, who need health interpreters and translators. I cannot see less than a million dollars going very far. The categories 'General Projects' and 'Ethnic Health Workers' are lumped together and given the magnificent sum of $48.7m. Depending on one's prejudices, one might think that is a heck of a lot of money for ethnic health workers. But if one digs deeply one finds that in fact the allocation for ethnic health workers is the miserable sum of $107,000. The rest, of course, is for all the other things. I am not begrudging ethnic health workers the money. I am just pointing out the real allocation for them. Let me just refresh members' memories about what ethnic health workers are supposed to be doing. Their functions are set out in the Galbally report as follows: 
The ethnic health workers would be trained to provide direct health education, preventive, support and counselling services to members of ethnic groups, with particular attention to the needs of women, the aged, the handicapped, those at risk of mental breakdown and those under treatment in the community. 
That is a pretty broad area of responsibility. It continues- 
They would need skills in seeking out migrants most in need of help . . . 
We know that migrants often do not know their rights and they will not come forward, so these people have to seek them out-  to encourage them to use the health resources available to them. In this way they - 
That is, the ethnic health workers- would play a key role in preventing the development of serious health problems and the family breakdown and major settlement problems often associated with them. 
Need I go on? Just how many people with all those skills can be found for $107,000 a year? It is in fact tokenism in the worst possible form. In my view, it is an absolute insult to members of the ethnic communities. 
I now turn to more general matters, for example the Department of Employment and Youth Affairs. We find a cut in the allocation for the National Employment and Training scheme for the training and retraining of migrants and other groups. The cut is from $122m to $67.9m- a drop of $54m. I would not have thought that the program had solved all the problems of the training needs of those people in the community who needed to be trained last year. I would have thought that there was an enormous backlog of people still needing that sort of help. Yet this year we find that enormous cut- almost half the allocation. Bearing in mind that proportionate to immigrants' representations in the community, there are many more immigrants or children of immigrants who are unemployed and untrained than there are other members of the community, ordinary Australians, in a sense this cut will hit immigrants and their families more than the rest of the Australian community. 
I think it is a very cynical exercise because when immigrants come to Australia we hear a lot about the need to bring in skilled workers and we encourage them to come, but of course we forget that usually they have families also- wives and children. Often we ignore the fact that when they arrive with their skills, for a variety of reasons they do not succeed in getting jobs commensurate with their level of training- because they do not know the language well enough so they cannot make themselves understood or because when they finally get here it is found that their qualifications are not quite what we wanted or are not even recognised. Most immigrants with skills are underemployed in terms of their skills. That is a fact. On top of that, their children come in to the school system at various ages and because they do not understand English they inevitably fall back. They are often branded as uncooperative, unruly or slow. No one ever inquires what they were like in their native countries, where lessons were given in their native tongues. One would find that they were probably no better or worse than the rest of the Austraiian community. In other words, they are not slow, or difficult control or discipline problems. The reason they appear to be such in Australia is that we do not provide enough support for them to allow them to comprehend what is going on. 
I once visited an institution- a college of advanced education, I think- where people were being taught to try to cope with these sorts of problems and how to teach about different cultures, languages and so on. I was told that at the first lecture to the students, who were mainly Anglo-Saxon, the lecturer spoke in Greek. He did not utter one word of English during the whole lecture. Finally he even said good-bye in Greek and walked out. That left all the students rather dismayed. Still, they thought it was a very interesting exercise. When they came back for the next lecture the same thing happened. By then they were all pretty demoralised. 
The point I wish to make is that we expect the children of immigrants, who do not understand English, to sit in classrooms where lessons are conducted in English and to get on- not be demoralised, appear dumb or become discipline problems. How outrageously stupid can one be. For all these reasons, despite all the boasts by the Government, in my view far too little effort is being given to providing for the needs of these people, who are now Australian citizens, members of this community. We can no longer say that they are immigrants; they are Australians. They have permanent residency. They are part and parcel of this community. They have the same rights as every other Australian but this Government is still continuing to ignore their rights. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 22 August 1 979: 
1 ) For what programs and policies concerning immigrants has his Department been responsible in each year from 1 970 to date. 
What was the expenditure on each program and policy. 
What proportion of his Department's administrative expenses are estimated to cover the programs and policies. 
On what dates did the transfer of responsibility for programs and policies referred to in part ( 1 ) to or from his Department take effect. 
To which or from which Departments were those transfers of responsibility made. 
Why were these transfers made. 
With what other Federal or State Government Departments or authorities does his Department share responsibility for the programs and policies referred to in part (1). 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 26 October 1978: 
How many persons already in Australia were granted a change from visitor to resident status during each of the last three years. 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice, on 22 August 1979: 
1 ) For what programs and policies concerning immigrants has his Department been responsible in each year from 1970 to date. 
What was the expenditure on each program and policy. 
What proportion of his Department's administrative expenses are estimated to cover the programs and policies. 
On what dates did the transfer of responsibility for programs and policies referred to in part ( 1 ) to or from his Department take effect. 
To which or from which Departments were these transfers of responsibilities, made. 
Why were these transfers made. 
With what other Federal or State Government Departments or authorities does his Department share responsibility for the programs and policies referred to in part (1) 
-I second this motion. I do so because - 
Motion ( by  Mr Fife  ) put: 
That the honourable member be not further heard. 
-We have heard a lot in this debate about how marvellous this Budget is. But hidden amongst all the statistics we are told that it is expected that over the coming year average weekly earnings will go up by 9 per cent. However, inflation will go up by 10 percent. 
At least 10 per cent, probably more. The estimate is 10 per cent. My guess is that it will be much more than that. The tax we will pay will, in total, go up by 15 per cent. Quite clearly, if all those suggestions contained in the Government's assessment of the future are correct, there will be a severe fall in real income for wage and salary earners. What does that mean? By and large wage and salary earners earn so little that they are unable to save very much. They usually spend what they earn. If they earn less, quite clearly less is spent. One could suggest on the basis of these figures that overall there will be a reduction in the demand for goods because of the lower disposable income that the vast majority of the Australian community will have in the coming year. As to the Government's moves to cut the deficit, we are told that deficits are dangerous and lead to inflation. Let us examine what that means. Most of the Government's expenditure where the cuts are going to be applied is in the area of health services, social services generally, pensions, unemployment benefits and so on. These are the sorts of services where, when the Government pays the money out, once again it is spent. There are very few pensioners who finish up saving anything of their meagre pension. The reality is, of course, that if you increase the payment to pensioners they spend it practically as soon as they get it, not because they are spendthrift but because they are living close to the breadline. For their own satisfaction and ease of living the pensioners will spend any additional funds that they are granted. Once again the overall effect of cutting the deficit by cutting back on public spending is lower demand. 
The Government has cut back the funds available for education, whether it is in the state school system or the private sector. Mainly the poorer schools in both the state and private sector have been cut back quite viciously in terms of capital grants. If the money is provided the States will not store it or bank it, they will use the money to build schools. That will increase the demand for resources, skills, employment and so on in the building industry. We are told that the Government feels that that is dangerous and we have to cut back on the deficit and we cut back on those things. Again the result of the deliberate policy of the Government is to cut back on demand. We add to that the increases in the price of petrol. The Government has decided that local producers should be allowed to charge the prevailing rate for petrol in the world market. When the petrol producers pass on the increased costs to the consumer, although the public is not very happy because the Government is taking a rake-off, it allows the Government to make the Budget look a little less difficult than it might otherwise have been. The end result is that the community pays more for petrol. 
In changes to the health scheme, the cost of health care is going to rise dramatically if people continue to insure themselves in the way that the Government is exhorting them to do. I add that the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  gets almost apoplectic when we suggest that in view of the changes that have been made to the health scheme, the community is now back to where it was before Medibank was even thought of. We are back to the system that prevailed before the Labor Government was elected in 1972. In those days a lot of people took the risk and did not insure themselves. It was the Nimmo committee report, set up by a Liberal government, which highlighted the deficiency of the voluntary health insurance system. The report showed how a significant proportion of the population took the risk and did not insure themselves. I suggest that we are back in the same position, except that now many more people are wiser than they were then, in the sense that in those days the people who took the risk were by and large the poorer sections of the community. They just took the punt that they would stay healthy. If they were really sick, they accepted their fate and they would have to go to a public hospital. 
I do not blame the people for that. The standards of health care in public hospitals are better than anywhere else. That is my assertion and my view. Now we find that after all the changes to the health scheme and the comings and goings, the people in the better off section of the community, in the age group from 15 to 50, the healthy members of the community, are now contemplating quite seriously taking the same risk. They ask themselves: Why bother to insure? If one insures in order to get value for money in their terms- it is no good arguing the matter that people ought to insure- in my view it would be far better if those people paid the taxes necessary to provide the health scheme. That is far more equitable. Given that the community is offered the choice in this beautiful, free enterprise system, no one can blame it for making the calculation that in order to get value for money, if the people bother to insure themselves, they would need to consult a doctor once a week. Clearly the healthy section of the population is not going to do that. Equally clearly more and more of them will take the risk and they will not bother to insure. They take a calculated risk that if they are seriously ill, knocked down in the street in an accident or have a sudden severe illness beset them. They know that the best thing that can happen to them is for them not to see a private doctor but to be taken to a public hospital. 
If a person is involved in an accident on the street he is not even asked, he is just taken by ambulance to the nearest hospital where the best quality medical care is available on tap. If a person is seriously ill he will be treated and will not have to pay for it. That was simply an elaboration on the health cost argument. For those good people who feel that they must insure themselves, and do so, the increased health costs will represent a very serious drain on their income and they are going to have less to spend and they will, in turn, buy less. That will lead to a fall in demand. The total effect of the Budget is not as sweet as the Liberal Party members would suggest. It is a tough, severe and depressing Budget. The question still remains of what effect the Budget will have on what the Liberal members consider is the main probleminflation. 
We have already been told that in the last quarter in the manufacturing sector costs have gone up by something like 1 5 per cent. Wait until that rise hits the market in the next few months. We are told that inflation is the problem. We are told that we must fight inflation and declare war on inflation. Is inflation the cause of our problems or is it one of the effects? Is inflation the disease or is it simply one of the symptoms? What is the disease? There seems to me to be no ready answer. I would like to quote from what I believe is a very stimulating publication, the  World Paper.  From the copy I have it appears that it is published by the  Age.  It has an article entitled What's Wrong with the World Economy?', and sub-titled 'The poor nations meet in Manila, the rich in Tokyo, the oil-producers in Geneva  . . but tension only increases.' The writer states: 
We find ourselves in an economic dislocation unparalleled since the Great Depression . . . 
Whatever the diagnoses- and throughout the world there are many different expert opinions- it is now painfully evident that the world economy has entered a long period of instability and inflation. The symptoms include: sluggish economic growth verging on recession; stubbornly high rates of inflation; high and intractable unemployment; recurring disruptions in the monetary system; the emergence of a real energy crisis; rapidly escalating Third World debt; widespread poverty and malnutrition. 
Such global disorder cannot be caused by economics alone. Ultimately, it involves the world structure of power. 
Quite clearly, to my mind, inflation is only one of the symptoms of the malaise affecting us. We are told that that is the main problem as far as the Liberal Government is concerned. Let us look at what the Government suggest we have to do to solve the problem. We have to combat excessive wage demands and we have to have a period of wage restraint. Let us see what happened in the United Kingdom when, for a number of years, the trade unions in that country accepted the social contract offered by the Labor Government. The trade unions practised wage restraint, but the result was utter disaster. Inflation and unemployment continued. Hidden unemployment increased. We are told how terrible it all is and how a lot of people were employed unnecessarily and took on jobs that did not have to be done. At least those people were employed. We are now told that  Mrs Thatcher  is going to set it right and she is going to get rid of those people who are not doing real jobs.  Mrs Thatcher  will further increase the level of unemployment and the problem of lack of demand. When those people who, in the eyes of the entrepreneurs, may not be doing a full day's work are no longer employed, no longer paid, they will cease spending money. They will then buy fewer goods. Then we will find the business community will complain that demand has fallen even further. 
What has been the position in Australia? Since 1975 in effect we have had the same situation. The unions have continued to try to get wage increases but the wage increases have been less than would be necessary for full indexation. That means that the increases have not compensated for increases in the cost of living or the rate of inflation. So in sum total the wage and salary earners are now getting proportionately less than they were getting in 1975 compared with the rest of the community. In other words we have in fact cut the wage overshoot, or whatever the technical term is that is used to suggest that workers are getting too much. It has been cut. But we are now told that costs are shooting up again in the private sector, the manufacturing sector. So much for cutting wages as a means of cutting inflation. The real effect of wage restraint has been a fall in demand. The whole business community is complaining about it. 
Let us also observe another incongruity. In many key areas profits are going up, not down. This is mainly in areas where large corporations or transnational corporations are involved. How? Why is this so? Because they are best able to cash in on increased productivity. They have the resources to bring in new methods of production which lead to increased productivitymicroprocessors, automation and all that. But this is at the expense of employing people. Wage payments of these companies go down because they employ fewer people. They produce more goods. They do not reduce their prices. They are content to sell fewer goods at the same large mark-up. Because they have spent less on wages and materials to produce the goods their profits go up. To a certain extent they do not care whether they sell fewer goods as long as they can maintain profitability. So large corporations have increased profits. But it means that the rest of the community is winding down, particularly in the small business area. The small businesses are the ones going to the wall, going broke. In this debate about the causes of our problems and what we ought to do I think that we are all kidding ourselves. We catch on to jargon phrases such as 'we have to beat inflation' but the ill is far deeper than that. The problem is more than inflation; inflation is merely a symptom. 
What is wrong is that we have lost sight of the fact that the purpose of all our effort is to provide for people's needs. We have centered on providing for the making of profits, irrespective of what effect that might have on people. When satisfactory profits can no longer be made in a country such as this we export jobs. When manufacturing capacity is developed in underdeveloped countries it makes matters worse for us in this country because it results in the sacking of more people. It also makes matters worse in the underdeveloped countries because they then have to export their goods to the developed nations because the underdeveloped countries do not have the means to purchase the goods they produce. The effect of all that is simply to heighten the crisis in the world community. 
by leave- The statement of the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  was a long and beautifully worded statement which I am sure sounded marvellous to those listening to the broadcast. I will try to deal with the very few hard points in it which I hope will indicate that it is mainly a statement of intention rather than of achievement. We are told that the need is to get a closer liaison between members of the ethnic community and the rest of the Australian community. This closer liaison begins, of course, with Commonwealth Government departments. Therefore, ethnic liaison officers have been appointed at senior levels to try to raise an awareness in government departments of the special needs of migrants, refugees and ethnic groups generally. One can only say that, judging from the reactions of many migrants, these workers- I am not criticising their efforts- have a long way to go. That is not necessarily a criticism of the Minister or of those people but it does highlight the enormity of the problem that is confronting the whole of the community. 
If we make a more detailed examination of what really has been done, we find for a start that the Minister's statement indicates that the Galbally report proposals were costed at something like $50m over three years. This represents a very meagre increase in expenditure on migrants by the Government compared with the funds provided already under initiatives of the Labor Government. This sum of money sounds good if we just say it and then forget that it is to be provided over three years. Realising that, however, really it is not such a great increase in expenditure, particularly when one bears in mind that as a condition of the Government's accepting this proposal it withdrew the right of migrants to claim as tax deductions the funds that they send overseas to maintain their dependants. The reality is that as a result of that move migrants as a group will lose $20m in the first year. However, taking into account wage increases and the consequent increased taxation they will pay, that sum becomes even higher. If we look at the sum in terms of the actual yearbyyear expenditure, we find that in the first year the sum spent on the Galbally proposals was a magnificent $4.7m. That is a profit to the Government of $10m. In the coming year there will be expenditure of $ 15m but, given the fact that migrants are losing the sum that I have mentioned- $20m- that is a profit to the Government of $5m. Another point about this matter is that most of these programs were started by the Labor Government and considerable funds, although not enough, were made available by that Government. If we take into account the effects of inflation and the fact that most of the increases in funding in this area are attributed to the Galbally report proposals, we find that the increase in expenditure often lags behind the rate of inflation. It is barely enough to keep up with the losses incurred due to inflation. The Galbally report mentions the needs of migrants and the relevant part of the Minister's statement reads: 
The report itself stressed that as far as possible the needs of migrants- some 20 per cent of the population- should be met by general programs directed at the whole community. 
We agree with that. That is precisely the way in which we provided services. We tried to ensure that services for migrants would be available within the service departments and that there would be sections within the departments of Social Security, Health and Education to deal with the needs of migrants. Of course, the policy of this Government has been to centralise all these things back into the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, which is quite contrary to the spirit of the Galbally proposals. 
We are told that this year there has been an increase in expenditure of $ 11.7m on the total programs of the Department, bringing the expenditure up to a grand total of $73.4m. But just over half of this expenditure- about $37.7m- is a provision for various kinds of settlement services. Let us not forget that in the last couple of years there has been an enormous increase in the influx of refugees into this country. An enormous proportion of this funding is really for the emergency services necessary to cater for these refugees, who will prove to be far more expensive than the usual run of immigrants. Once again, and taking that factor into account, we find that the expenditure on services for the number of migrants that we expect to arrive is far less than it ought to be. 
We are told that the program is constructing a new vehicle to take new routes in the delivery of programs and services to migrants and that structural changes involve a network of community-based settlement councils, settlement committees, settlement centres and migrant resource centres. Those are marvellous and very clever ideas. We agree completely with the concept of self-help and community-based organisations. They are wonderful in principle and enable members of the community to help themselves. But if community-based organisations are inadequately funded they cause heartburn only to the many people working in them. They have no real support and people are struggling to deal with the problems facing them and fellow members in the community while the Government off-loads the burden onto those organisations. That, in my view, is really what the Government has done. By saying it is right to have community groups involved and then giving the responsibility to those community groups but without adequate funding, what it has really achieved is a reduction in the financial responsibilities of the Government. That, in my view, is the real outcome of the structural changes that have been involved. 
The Minister says that we have to give a great impetus to multi-cultural education in schools and in the community and we have to upgrade the teaching of English as a second language. Of course, we agree with all that. But, of course, again given that we have had this problem- that is how we have looked at it- of immigrants to this country for many more years than the last two or three and even longer than the three years that the Labor Government was in power, far too little has been done and far too little is being done at this stage. The Minister talks about the special needs of migrant women. He says then- needs are being taken into account. If the actions being taken in respect of migrant women matched the actions being taken by the Government in the whole area of women generally, then it is tokenism of the worst kind which is characteristic of this Government. There are very few women in this country who would say that the Government is doing anywhere enough for the special needs of women generally. My bet is that the migrant women feel exactly the same. We are told that at least one woman has been appointed to each settlement council and we are urging that women be included on the committees of management that run the migrant resource centres. Why, at least one woman? Why not talk about nearly half of the appointments to these bodies being women. After all, half the people who come to the country as migrants are women. 
Let us get onto the three main facets of the program. I will deal with the on-arrival program first. We are told that in the financial year just ended, nearly 8,000 adults attended courses of up to 12 weeks duration. Now, in my view, I would have thought that is totally inadequate in view of the numbers of migrants coming to the country. I suppose that there are 50,000 to 60,000 if refugees are included. There must be at least 20,000 adults who would like to have tuition in English, but we have provided for a magnificent total of 8,000 unless, of course, the effect of the Numerical Multifactor Assessment System is to ensure that mainly English speaking migrants are selected to come to the country. The other aspect of this, of course, is that 8,000 adults have been able to take up the course over the past 12 years. 
The Minister interjects that it will be 1 1,000-some thing this year. I know, but this is supposed to be a review of what happened last year. On the basis of what happened last year I am pointing out that it was totally inadequate. Even 1 1,000 this year is a long way from what I think the figure probably ought to be unless, as I say, we have managed with NUMAS to tip the balance so that most of the migrants coming here now speak English which is possible. Some have claimed that is one of the inherent biases in the NUMAS system. It is going to make it more difficult for non-English speaking migrants to get here. But then, even taking this suggestion that they are being offered a course of 12 weeks duration, there is evidence to suggest that this is totally inadequate. I will touch on that later when we come to English courses for professionals and so on. Coming to the back-up services, the Minister stated that, as the Galbally report noted, members of the ethnic communities are keen on helping themselves and helping their own members. The Minister stated: 
We have acted quickly to get money flowing to ethnic and voluntary organisations. 
He said that 39 new grants were given under the guidelines set by Galbally and in addition 34 grants held under an earlier program were included so that a grand total of 73 grants have resulted from the Galbally recommendations. Do not let us crib. The fact is that there were 39 grants from the Galbally proposals. The 34 were already there. We cannot count them together and say that is all due to Galbally. To have stopped at 34 would have been a cut back. The Government simply, in fact, with Galbally has provided an increase of 39 grants. It is interesting to note too, of course, in analysing it, if I remember correctly, that only six of the grants actually went to ethnic community groups. The rest went to the usual voluntary organisations, not ethnic based. 
Even if they are three-year terms, the fact is that not to have continued the 34 grants which were available would have represented a cutback. Surely the grants would not have just petered out after one year. The nature of the grants is such that they should be a continuing program. So, once again, I insist: Do not crib. The expansion has really only been 39. When we come to the 48 special project grants, which were offered to encourage self help among ethnic groups and to help trade unions in providing welfare services to migrants, with a total expenditure of $ 1 50,000, this sounds good. But it is an average of approximately $3,000 per grant or the magnificent sum of about $60 a week. We will achieve a lot with that miserable sum of money, I am sure! In other words, it is really totally inadequate. 
We are told that an extensive survey is being undertaken into the information needs of migrants and the channels through which they communicate. I can assure honourable members that we are looking forward to receiving this report. Without a doubt I am sure that it will puncture many of the preconceived notions about the information needs of migrants. But, then, we are all ignorant about these matters. I am not aiming that comment at the Minister. I acknowledge that we in the Opposition need to get the results of that survey too. 
I turn now to the telephone interpreter service. It is an excellent initiative. To pay credit where it is due, I note that it began just before the Labor Government came to power and was given a hefty push when it was in power. I suggest that, since then, it has suffered grievously from totally inadequate funding. The availability of the service and the awareness among members of the ethnic community that the service was available has led to an enormous increase in the demand, such that it is far beyond the capacity of the service. Of course that is a problem. But I think the Government should have responded far more generously than it has in relation to this service. I think we must bear in mind- and these are the comments that I hear from people who make complaints to me- the political manipulation that has sometimes gone on. I am not blaming the Minister, but I understand, I am sad to say, that there have been cases of patronage where jobs have been offered to people who have purported to be interpreters, but without any real qualifications, on the grounds that they had association with someone either in the service already, or the Liberal Party. It is not surprising that there are many complaints from migrants about the inadequacy of this service, both in terms of numbers and in terms of the quality of the people employed. I am not saying that they are all like that. There are many very highly qualified people. If an organisation is being set up to look into it, I am glad of that. It is certainly not before time to have an organisation to vet the qualifications of interpreters. I certainly welcome that. 
I come now to the pilot courses enabling groups of professionals with overseas qualifications to improve their knowledge of English. I was fortunate to attend a meeting at the La Trobe University not long ago where we were provided with a preliminary analysis of the results of this pilot study. It appears that a threemonth course for highly skilled and highly educated people is totally inadequate. Given that it was totally inadequate for professionals, I wonder what the real value of it is to all the other multitudes of immigrants not highly skilled people, not used to study - 
The Minister says it was a pilot scheme, and I agree. I am just drawing a conclusion from it; and, sadly, it looks as if three months is inadequate. 
I agree completely. I am just pointing out that the claims of achievement up to now are sadly inadequate compared to what appears to be the need. The Minister also says that participants in these courses had to be selected from hundreds of applicants, and that this indicates that the concept meets a widely felt need. I agree completely. The non-English speakers wish to learn English so that they can cope adequately; equally, the English speaking professionals are recognising more and more that they must be able to speak at least some community language. They must know something. Even if they do not speak the language, they need to be taught something of the diverse cultures of the various ethnic groups so that they can understand better in their own professional fields what is needed. Of course, I hope that these pilot courses lead to a greatly expanded effort by the Government. Referring to multi-cultural development the Minister said: 
Recognition that English is not the only language in daily use in Australia is a pre-requisite for supporting newcomers in their programs towards equality of opportunity. 
I quite agree. It would be nice to see multilingual signs at airports, railway stations, bus stops and government buildings. It would be nice to see multi-lingual documents and so on. We have a long way to go in these areas. When we arrive overseas even the simple landing documents require that we fill them in in English, I am informed. I was given this bit of choice information by the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones). 
There is a very humorous side to it. He points out that different languages seem to raise enormous problems in the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. If one looks at the landing card one sees that everything may be filled in with a tick. Of course, it is printed in English. In every other country it is not true that one has to struggle through the native language. When English speakers go to other countries they usually see English printed underneath the native language. Surely we could print one or two ethnic community languages on the card. I understand that there is only one place on the card other than where one puts one's name and address- which of course does not really matter all that much- where an English word is required; namely, one's occupation. It seems that it would throw the whole department into a fit if someone wrote in French that he was a wood turner or something like that. I really think that that is quite pathetic. After all, when we go to other countries we are not told that we have to fill in our occupation in the language of the country we are landing in- if it is at all required. We are allowed to fill it in in our native tongue. I am sure that with a little struggle the Minister could overcome that problem. 
In the spirit of multi-culturalism the Minister said that he is arranging for his statement to be translated into a number of languages. Maybe my comments could be attached in the same languages. I do not think that that is likely because the Government does not go that far in making sure that members of the ethnic community learn about the other points of view in the political spectrum- but never mind. The Minister said: 
Multi-culturalism is a concept we and others in the world know too little about. 
I agree with that completely. He further said: the Government has introduced legislation to set up an Australian Institute of Multi-Cultural Affairs . . . 
I will not comment in detail at this stage because there is legislation before the House, other than to say that because of the way in which it is drafted, with all due respect to the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, it is tokenism. The Opposition will come up with some good amendments which hopefully will make it good legislation. I only hope that the Minister will accept them. I agree that it is difficult to obtain quick results in the areas which require changes by legislation, particularly when one is dependent upon the States. The Minister went on to say that it is difficult also to get quick results in other areas; for example, social security, where it is necessary to settle principles on which discussions and negotiations for agreement can be reached with other countries. That is true. For 23 years before Labor came into office, when we had an enormous influx of immigrants, nothing was done about that. When the Labor Party came into office it managed very quickly to provide for portability of pensions. It was an insurmountable problem until the Labor Party came into office. It was resolved within three years. Since then nothing more has been done. The Minister said that negotiations are proceeding. For how many years? That is how the song goes. He went on to say: the historic innovation of ethnic television which, in its experimental phase in Sydney and Melbourne, was designed to test some programming options on which a permanent service can be broadly based. 
That was widely touted as an enormous success. The Government is terribly proud of it. I will quote from the no longer secret Ethnic Television Review Panel Report. The heading is 'Reaction to the Pilot Series'. 
-It apparently fell off a lot of trucks. We asked about it of the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  during the Estimates Committee hearing last night. He confirmed that it was widely distributed. I managed to find a copy. 
Yes. The report submitted to the Government states: 
The element of criticism has increased over the period of the experimental service. A substantial number have indicated that the service was not truly experimental. Overall it has not provided a real basis for meaningful discussions with members of ethnic groups or media experts. 
When it all started we said that we felt it would be disastrous because in fact from our soundings it had not been started by discussions with members of the ethnic communities. It was set up and started and then they were asked for their reactions. They have reacted in a completely predictable way. 
I come now to the problems confronting ethnic radio. We are told that technical difficulties delayed the extension of ethnic radio from Sydney and Melbourne to Geelong, Newcastle and so on. The Minister went into a whole rigmarole about how finally it would be extended to those centres. Again, for 23 years, when there was clearly a need, the Liberal Government failed to establish a single station. In the three years in which Labor was in office, we set up stations 2EA and 3EA. It has been four years since we were kicked out but not one additional station has been established. That is very fast progress. The Government is living up to its reputation and achievements in the 23 years before Labor came to office. Quite clearly, it is time that it was moved out again so that a Labor government could get things moving once more. I refer to funding for ethnic health workers in the four States and the Northern Territory. The magnificent sum of $ 107,000, which is not referred to in the Minister's speech but is to be found in the Budget documents, will be provided for that purpose. An ethnic health worker must be sensitive to many things- social work and attitudes and health- so that he can talk to patients, who will be wanting to discuss their problems. It might be possible to get a health worker with such broad skills for $12,000-if one is lucky. Therefore, the magnificent sum of $107,000 will allow the employment of nine people in the four States and the Northern Territory. That will go a long way, I am sure. Members of the ethnic community will realise what a magnificent effort that is. They will not even hear of those health workers. 
Again, we are told that the magnificent sum of $940,000 has been earmarked, under the community health program, for additional health interpreters and translators. What the Minister does not say is that that sum is to cover the requirements of Aboriginals as well as of members of the ethnic community. After all the report that we are considering is meant to deal with the first year of implementation, to 30 June, but the money referred to is for the coming year. Nothing was provided last year. The reference here is to things to come, not to what has been achieved. It is what hopefully is to be achieved. Again, if one were to offer a mere $ 12,000- such people are probably worth more than that, but let us choose a modest sum- the magnificant number of 78 people, in all, could be employed to serve the whole of Australia, including Aborigines and all members of the ethnic community. The Government may call that an achievement. I call it a very, very small beginning. 
I shall conclude my remarks, because there is not much more that one can say about a statement which, largely, talks of good intentions rather than real, solid achievements. The Minister, in speaking of consultation, said that direct consultation with ethnic communities was all the more important, that people who would be affected by decisions should have an influence on those decisions. He added that Commonwealth departments engaged in the implementation program are consulting directly with ethnic representatives. It did not happen with ethnic television. Not much is happening with ethnic radio. Things have not moved very far. Listen to the moaning in the ethnic community when the suggestions were put out. The ethnic community was told how the program co-ordinators would be chosen, how the programming would be controlled. They were not asked; they were told. They resented it and complained a lot. Consultation with the ethnic groups in my view, and in the view of the Australian Labor Party, has been totally inadequate at practically every level. In fact, when the Galbally report was tabled in the Parliament most members of the ethnic communities who were supposed to have been consulted had not even heard of  Mr Galbally,  had not seen him or any of the people who were associated with him. In fact, very few of those people had met members of the ethnic community and discussed their problems with them. The report was based more on the pre-conceived notions of the Government. I am glad to say that it was tempered by the very sound work of some members of the panel who were, in fact, members of the ethnic communities. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 22 August 1 979: 
1 ) For what programs and policies concerning immigrants has his Department been responsible in each year from 1970 to date. 
What was the expenditure on each program and policy. 
What proportion of his Department's administrative expenses are estimated to cover the programs and policies. 
On what dates did the transfer of responsibility for programs and policies referred to in part ( I ) to or from his Department take effect. 
To which or from which Departments were these transfers of responsibilities made. 
Why were these transfers made. 
With what other Federal or State Government Departments or authorities does his Department share responsibility for the programs and policies referred to in part (I). 
-The Opposition opposes this Bill, but its opposition relates not to the minor administrative changes that are made in the Bill but to the charges relating to a number of services which the Government intends to impose on would-be visitors to this country. It is not universally accepted practice that the departments of immigration of various countries charge clients- or applicants for visas to visit those countries- for the processing of the various forms and applications. For example, a stranger in Italy would not be required to pay for the cost involved in processing an application for the extension of his vistor's visa or work permit. In fact, none of the European Economic Community countries, to my knowledge, have these sorts of charging arrangements. It is a mutual agreement amongst them that there should be no charges. In other words the decision to introduce these charges depends on internal domestic conditions in this country, not on practices elsewhere. The Liberal Government has now decided to introduce certain charges for services which in the past were free. It is a simple administrative decision to recover costs in an unfavourable economic climate. 
The Government boasts of significant increases in expenditure in various areas of immigrant welfare, but the truth of the matter is that it is the immigrants themselves who will now be paying for the services the Government has appeared to offer so generously on the prompting of the Gal bally report. Not only are immigrants now asked to pay for the administrative costs they incur at a time when they are least able to pay for them, but they are the ones from whom money is to be taken to pay for the supporting programs designed as immigrant welfare- the props and supports designed to give immigrants greater equality with other Australian citizens. One assumes that these programs were originally designed on a principle analagous, say, to that of the Aboriginal aid programs. By giving extras now it is hoped that these gaps in inequality among minority groups- gaps often caused, I might say, by general community ignorance and discriminationwill be evened out or filled in. Insofar as there is now a significant component in the immigration welfare program which is really directed at and for refugees, one could claim that immigrants generally will be paying for their own postarrival welfare and for that of refugees. In other words, the proposed charges will involve robbing Peter to pay Peter and Paul. 
Clause 5 of the Bill itemises the departmental charges for specific services. Processing an application for change of status, that is, from a temporary entrant to a permanent resident, and processing an application for evidence of resident status could be related. In fact, the services are part of the one process. One is no good to the applicant without the other. Two charges are being imposed for what really ought to be one service. Similarly the charge in respect of obtaining information by way of cables- a variable cost obviously and a charge that in past was accepted by the Department as internal running costs- is now to be fixed at a constant fee. The information may be directly related to entry visas, residents permanence or a number of other items for which a charge is to be levied. In other words, this is a form of multiple charging. 
It is proposed to charge $50 for processing permanent resident applications. That seems to be an unnecessarily punitive charge because a passport costs only $25. The Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  has pointed out that the charges will apply, for the most part, to persons who are Australian residents but not Australian citizens. This proposed charge will place them in a similar position to those Australians who acquire a passport and are required to pay for it. The Minister omitted to say that once people are accepted as Australian citizens they will have to bear the burden of paying for a passport when they intend to travel, because, as Australian citizens, they will need a passport to travel. They will not be able to manage with the documents which they may have acquired previously at some cost. In other words, the charges can hardly be seen as an equaliser. I know of someone who had obtained permanent resident status and who for business reasons wanted to travel and of another person who for family reasons had to take more than one trip overseas. Such people will now have to pay the proposed charges. Of course, before the expiry of the period for which a passport is normally issued they would become Australian residents, because they had indicated that this was their intention. 
They would become Australian citizens. I thank the Minister for correcting me. It proves he is listening. Very few do. The Australian citizen would then be required, I presume, to pay for a passport. Leaving aside the discriminatory and humiliating practice of standardising or anglicising immigrant professionals, it can be argued that it is a welcome move on the part of the Government to remove the assessment of immigrant professional or technical qualifications from the self-interested Australian professional or technical bodies. But I wonder how conclusively this departmental move will stop the need for overseas professionals to have their qualifications vetted by the local professional organisations? Will this be another example of double billing? Perhaps the Minister could make the position clear. 
Another point may be made about the Government's cry of equality in the context of a multicultural policy. It is proposed to charge fees for conducting English language tests at overseas posts. The Australian Labor Party is opposed to the criterion of a knowledge of English as a means of gaining acceptance as a prospective migrant because this shows a bias against nonEnglish speaking people. In our view it shows a lack of confidence in multiculturalism. By charging for these English tests the Department is entrenching discrimination against non-English speaking people by administrative mechanisms. This may not be the time to dwell on this inherent contradication in the Government's rhetoric about multiculturalism which is designed to appease and pacify immigrant minorities and its continued practice of favouring Anglo-Saxon oriented assimilation. But insofar as this AngloSaxon bias is to be entrenched by a system of fees, it might be timely to ask ourselves why it is proposed to have the English language tests. Is the purpose of the tests to determine the preparedness of an immigrant to meet mainstream standards, as it were, or test their assimilation potential? Once again that is a contradiction of the Government's espoused policy of multiculturalism and helping people to maintain their cultural heritage, their language and so on. Is the purpose of the test to assess work adjustment or, social and economic potential, of the potential immigrants? Is the test to ascertain Anglo-Saxon determined intelligence? How will language skills be assessed? Who will do the testing? Experience has shown doubtful qualifications of many selection officers in the Department of Immigration posted overseas in terms of their limited education and their limited crosscultural experience. Yet they will be in the position of testing other people. This system is easily open to abuse. In fact, one is tempted to ask whether this is an echo- and if so, one hopes it is a very faint echo- of the restricted Immigration Act by which tests in any language were used to exclude applicants for visas to Australia. Will the English language tests be manipulated by levels of difficulty to exclude 'undesirables'? I will riot specify the sorts of persons who may be involved. 
As it stands, it is obvious to me that the English language tests clearly would favour applicants from the United Kingdom and would favour many northern Europeans whose languages are more closely related to English, whose education system sponsor the acquisition of English rather more readily than southern Europeans and whose cultural framework has a greater affinity with the United Kingdom and is reflected in concepts and usages of language. In other words, I am fearful that this English language testing may tend to make it rather more difficult for nonEnglish speaking people, particularly those with a southern European background, to qualify to come to Australia as migrants. 
This Bill is a very minor one and the proposals are very fiddling. To us, the Bill signifies a meanminded approach by the Government. On the one hand, the Government has done a lot of public relations promotion from which it hopes to gain support in the migrant community as a result of the proposals it has instituted at the behest of the Galbally committee. The Government makes a lot of noise about implementing all the proposals in the Galbally report to promote a multicultural society, but at the same time we should examine the financial aspects of the Bill. The Government continues to impose charges such as those being implemented by this Bill. Another measure will charge overseas students. Taken together, these charges imposed on visitors and would-be visitors to Australia and on temporary residents in the country will recoup more than the funds provided for the migrant communities via Galbally expenditure when one takes into account the disallowance as an income tax deduction of funds sent overseas to dependants of migrants in this country. For those reasons, the Opposition opposes this Bill. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 25 September 1979: 
What proportion and amount of the $67,900,000 for the National Employment and Training System will be allocated for (a) widow and repatriation pensioners, (b) migrants and (c) Aboriginals. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, on behalf of the Opposition I move the following amendment in relation to the Overseas Students Charge Bill: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: consideration of the Bill be deferred until the Government presents a comprehensive proposal for a program of educational aid for students from developing countries according to defined criteria including priority attention to academic ability, the needs of the developing nations and the needs of particular students '. 
The explanation for this Bill is not contained in the second reading speech of the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar),  but rather in the ministerial statement made by him on 22 August 1979- or should I say that in that statement we find the excuse for this Bill. It seems to me that the real justification for this Bill is to raise money to offset increased expenditure on immigration services. This is the practice of this Government. We have been belaboured long and often about the virtues of the Galbally report and the funding for the proposals contained in that report. If one carefully analyses what happened at the time that the Government accepted that report, it is quite clear that whilst the Government offered $50m over a period of three years- a few million dollars in the first year, a few million dollars more in the second year and the bulk of the money in the third year- at the same time that the Government gave with one hand it withdrew with the other hand the allowance which until then migrants had been able to claim for income tax purposes. 
The allowance was for funds which they sent overseas. In real terms, as far as the migrant community is concerned, the money which migrants lost in the denial of that allowance for income tax purposes more than paid for the funds to be allocated under the Galbally report. 
In the very first year of that disallowance, migrants lost $20m but the amount of money allocated by the Government for migrant services in that first year was about $7m. In the second year- this financial year- the sum allocated has been less than $ 1 6m, but again the migrants have lost over $20m. Of course the amount that they lose will go up because migrants' incomes will go up. Presumably they will either try to send more funds overseas or, because of the fact that their incomes have gone up with inflation, they will pay more tax. So the migrants have paid well and truly for the services' given to them. In this Bill we find once again a move to raise funds which will help to offset the apparent payments to the migrant community for the services that have been suggested in the Galbally report. If a new comprehensive program were put forward, as proposed in our amendment, maybe there would be some justification for charging those students who seek to study in Australia outside and independent of that planned offer of real help. At this stage I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later date. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from  6  to  8  p.m. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 13 September 1978: 
How many boat people from Indo-China: 
) have arrived in Australia and 
have been deported since 1975. 
To which countries were they deported. 
3 ) On what grounds were they deported. 
-When the motion for the second reading of these Bills was last debated I moved the following amendment to the Overseas Students Charge Bill: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: consideration of the Bill be deferred until the Government presents a comprehensive proposal for a program of educational aid for students from developing countries according to defined criteria including priority attention to academic ability, the needs of the developing nations and the needs of particular students '. 
When the debate was adjourned I was granted leave to continue my remarks later. In our view, if a new comprehensive program were put forward along the lines suggested in our amendment, there may be some justification for charging those seeking to study in Australia, outside and independent of that particular scheme- a real scheme- which I hope would help the developing nations in the region to our north. Unfortunately, the Government has taken the cheapest, nastiest and most superficial and irresponsible approach to the problem by imposing charges without honestly or fully assessing how the program is working- whether the objectives have been fulfilled, whether the objectives will be fulfilled by imposing charges or whether as a responsible, rich and advanced country we should do a lot more in different ways to help our neighbours educate their students. In response to the statement on immigration policy by the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  on 22 August I made the following comment: 
It is quite clear that the overseas student program was initiated for very worthy purposes in order to help mainly the countries from which the students came to get the skilled people they required and to provide training which was often not available in those countries. We undertook, by virtue of our overseas student program, to help provide that training. It has undoubtedly made a contribution, as the Minister has mentioned, to increasing understanding, international cultural exchange and so on. 
Now, the question is: Is that purpose being fulfilled? If it is being fulfilled, why impose fees, why meddle with the scheme? If those coming to Australia are considered to be already advantaged in comparison with others in their home countries, why not change the selection procedure to ensure- if that is what is felt to be necessary- a better selection? That is what we are proposing. In our amendment we suggest that certain criteria should be applied which could take more serious account of academic ability and the needs of developing nations. The Minister, in his comments, suggested that often students come to Australia and take courses which prove to be of no real value to their home countries. We suggest that that should be one of the criteria to be used before deciding to allow a student to come here. Finally, of course, we should pay some attention to the position of the student themselves. If all that were done, it may well be that the scheme as it now operates is quite reasonable and quite successful. However, that simple question does not really cover the problem as it was put by the Minister. Let me recall to the House what he said in his statement to the Parliament on 22 August. He is recorded on page 442 of  Hansard  as saying:  . . although students have been admitted on the clear understanding that they would return to their home countries on completion of their studies, substantial numbers have sought and obtained permanent residence. Almost 75 per cent of students completing formal studies in recent years have applied successfully for resident status. This development has negated the mam objectives of the program. 
What did the Minister really mean by that? One can surely interpret his remarks to mean only that most of the students, 75 per cent in fact, stay here. My response to that assertion by the Minister in my speech was: 
That being the case, quite clearly the purpose of the exercise has been defeated. 
Now let me once again elaborate on the purpose of the exercise and the way in which it has been defeated. The purpose of the exercise was not, in fact, mainly to help individual students. The purpose of the exercise was to help the developing nations around us to the north of Australia. If that purpose is to be achieved then quite clearly the students should return home. If they stay then clearly the purpose is defeated. If the Minister's statement is true, in other words that most of the students stay here, the effect is that these students are being educated at the Australian taxpayers' expense and by virtue of that education are then gaining easy permanent residence in this country and are, in fact, depriving their own countries of resources and skills. To quote again from my speech of 22 August, I said that if these students remain here: 
They have, in fact, deprived their own homelands of the advantages of the contributions made by us and, presumably in part by their own countries in allowing them and perhaps in some cases helping them, to come here. 
Is the Minister's statement giving the whole story or, by omission, is it giving a false impression? Is it casting a slur on the majority of students and did it lead me astray? Honourable members will recall what the Minister said. I will quote his words so that I cannot be accused of misinterpreting him. He said quite clearly: 
Almost 75 per cent of students completing formal studies in recent years have applied successfully for resident status. This development has negated the main objectives of the program. 
I have been criticised for my remarks based on the only conclusion one could draw from the Minister's statement. I have received lots of representations from lots of students. There is no doubt that the Minister did too. In fact, I saw some of these representations after he had seen them. On the basis of their representations I placed the following question on notice: 
How many overseas students have been attending Australian educational institutions during each of the last 5 years under (a) bilateral aid agreements and (b) as private students. 
) What was the country of origin of each student. 
3 ) How many from each country completed their studies. 
How many ex-students from each country (a) applied for permanent residence visas and (b) were granted permanent residence visas. 
How many ex-students from each country returned home (a) immediately after completing the courses and (b) after 2 or 3 years of work experience. 
What conditions, financial or otherwise (such as the relevance of courses chosen to meet the needs of country of origin) are imposed on private study students before permission is granted to study in Australia. 
The point is that the students claim that they are advised by the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs to apply for permanent residence visas when they seek to stay here in order to gain work experience. Most of us know it is the same for Australian students who graduate from tertiary institutions in that inevitably they need to gain some work experience before they can hope to get jobs of significance in their skills. Certainly this is the case for students who study for a time here and expect to go back to their home countries and gain jobs there. They will almost certainly be expected to give some evidence that after graduation they have had some practical experience in their skills. Of course having studied here surely it would not be unreasonable for them to expect that they would be allowed to gain that practical experience here. They claim that that is what they seek. If they could get an extension of their visitors' visas for two or three years, they would be quite happy. They have assured me that they were advised that they had to apply for permanent residence visas. These were granted. Then they claim they work for two or three years and after that they go home. 
Given the claims of the students, are they lying or is the Minister a fool or a knave? Is he a fool because- I am only asking the question, I am not saying that he is- the Department has given the information that 75 per cent apply for permanent residence status and they get it and he has interpreted that to mean that they stay here? Has he put a simplistic interpretation on it? Alternatively, did the Department supply the Minister with the information that 75 per cent obtained permanent residence status? Did it then give him the impression that the students stay? Did that then justify to the Minister the course of action he has taken? He felt, as he said, that the whole point of the exercise is defeated. Did that prompt him to suggest and, in fact, bring in this legislation to levy charges on the students? In other words, has the Department been dishonest and made a fool of the Minister or, is the Minister a knave? Did he know what it meant all along? Did he realise that permanent residence status was necessary in order to stay for work experience but consciously made his statement in order to mislead? It was not a dishonest statement. He simply omitted to give all the facts and it was possible for an innocent listener to draw the wrong conclusion. I am not saying which it is, because no answer has yet come from the Department and the Minister to the question I have placed on notice. 
I have another fear. My fear is that both the Department and the Minister may be ignorant and, in ignorance, have quite honestly drawn and given us the wrong conclusion. Why is it proving so difficult to answer the questions? Are the answers to the questions not known? If so, how was it possible to draw the conclusion which was drawn that students stay here permanently if it is impossible to answer my questions? Is it because the answers are not known? I leave the question open as to whether the Minister is a fool or a knave or misled by the Department or whether, in fact, the Department does not know either and has taken a punt. 
Let us turn to the effects of the proposed charges in the Government's new policy. Again let me quote from the Minister's statement on 22 August because I do not learn anything from his second reading speech. The Minister said: 
The Government has acted to remove arbitrary limitations on the number of overseas students who may be approved for study in Australia. 
This is a very liberal move. More people are to be allowed to come here. The Minister continues later in his speech: people wishing to come here for English language studies, specialised training and under student exchanges are particularly useful in achieving the objectives of the private overseas student program. In future, no numerical limitations will be applied to them. 
As I recall, I applauded that also at the time. That sounds very good. The Minister continued: 
In the main, people entering Australia for English language and specialised training courses pay commercial fees and, therefore, will be exempted from the proposed overseas student charge. 
In other words, they pay their way, so of course the Minister has no argument against allowing more of them in. So that is not what is bugging the Minister. The Minister continues: 
New private student criteria are being developed for selecting students from among the tens of thousands of persons applying annually for entry to Australia for studies. 
This is good. The Minister continues: 
Priority in selection will go to students sponsored by home governments and others such as those granted scholarships and those undertaking post-graduate research within Australian universities. These criteria should enable more students to be accepted from a wider group of countries. 
Preference will be given to those with high academic ability and those wishing to acquire qualifications that will be of particular use to them in their future careers. 
Presumably that means in their home countries, though that is not what the Minister says. One cannot argue with any of that. That sounds perfectly reasonable, but why bunch it all together? After all, we are talking about the imposing of charges. In his second reading speech, the Minister suggested that while all students will be charged these groups will be exempted. Let me quote from his speech. He said: 
In my earlier policy statement I outlined new provisions that will make this program more responsive to the needs of people seeking to study here and the needs of their home countries. 
That is good. He continues:  the Government has decided that private overseas students attending Australian universities and colleges of advanced education, which are fully funded by the Commonwealth, should be called upon to contribute towards the cost of their education. 
In other words, all the students are going to be charged. In the second Bill, the Overseas Students Charge Collection Bill, the Minister points out: 
An exception - 
We know that all the students are to be charged- to these arrangements will apply in respect of overseas students who come to Australia under Australia's development assistance programs ... In these circumstances the charge would be paid - 
In other words, they are all to be charged- by the Bureau, which will receive additional funds for this purpose within the appropriate aid vote, to ensure that the overall level of assistance to developing countries is not reduced. It will mean that there could be a more accurate reflection of the true level of assistance Australia makes available under these programs. 
Once again, one cannot object to that. There is also provision:  to permit development assistance funds to be applied to meet the charge in respect of students sponsored for entry by the governments of the developing countries, if the Minister for Foreign Affairs agrees to such an arrangement. 
The Minister then lists a number of other categories such as post-graduate students, students here under reciprocal exchange agreements and so on. All of that is highly laudable and is completely in keeping with what we have proposed in our amendment. The trouble is that the Bills do not do anything to delineate the difference between private students and our responsibilities as a rich nation to help the countries to the north. It is for these reasons that we have proposed our amendment. 
Let me go through it again. Consideration of the Overseas Students Charge Collection Bill should be deferred until the Government presents a comprehensive proposal for a program of educational aid for students from developing countries according to defined criteria. Those are the sorts of things that the Minister has talked about but we do not know how many students are involved. We do not know how well this selection program has functioned in the past. In the Minister's own words, it has not been working because the students stay here, often on compassionate grounds. In my view the Minister quite rightly grants the students permission to stay here. They are able to make perfectly legitimate cases that they will not be able to get employment if they go back home because the courses they have studied have been totally inappropriate. What has gone wrong with our technique and our selection procedure? Has care been taken in the program to make sure that Australia has been taking people who need the help we offer in order to help develop their home countries? The reaction to what the Government has done and the reaction to my response to what the Minister said, has been enormous discontent and anger amongst many of the students from overseas who claim they are trying their best to fulfil the criteria we have talked about. The students feel that they are being victimised. 
In my view we need to clarify the position before we go ahead and levy charges, otherwise I fear it will lead to enormous misunderstanding in the nations around us. They will resent the actions we have taken and they will interpret those actions as prejudice against them and their students. In short, one can conclude only that the course of action proposed by the Minister is quite disastrous. As I stated in my opening remarks, for these reasons we are not necessarily objecting to students outside the aid program coming here on their own resources and being charged. But before they are charged we need to be convinced that there will be a genuine, open, free, comprehensive program to ensure that we really do fulfil our obligations to many of those countries to the north. For far too many years they have been exploited by advanced countries in this way. We have profited from their misery and it is our moral duty to help them overcome their problems in seeking to develop rapidly their inadequate education facilities by providing these services in Australia. Maybe Australia should be sending teachers and resources to those countries in order to set up schools. This is one of the things that we could contemplate in the alternative program we are suggesting. The schools could be set up so that not only those who can afford to get to Australia can get here, but also so that those who cannot afford to leave their own countries because they do not have enough money could still attend our educational institutions in those countries. Those institutions would be financed by Australia and would enable a broader crosssection of the community in those countries to obtain the benefit of this educational opportunity. 
Most of the letters I have received- I am sure the same applies to the Minister- indicate that the students who are able to take advantage of this offer of ours come from middle and upper class families, because the rest are so poor that they cannot ever contemplate getting out of their countries. Even though the students come from the higher strata of their home societies because of the poverty of those countries compared to Australia it often means an enormous strain on the family resources to enable those students to come here. For all these reasons I think that it is unwise to proceed with this legislation until we have come up with a positive alternative to ensure that the need for education can be met without destroying the hopes of people who wish legitimately to be educated so that they can go back home and genuinely help their countries to develop. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. In what way has recruitment to the Australian Public Service been changed from conditions prevailing since the adoption of the Public Service Act, so justifying the claim by the Minister in his speech at the launching of the pilot multi-lingual information program for the Australian Public Service Board that the program 'will open up new opportunities for many gifted migrant children'? Have the examinations for admission to the Public Service been modified in any way, bearing in mind that these examinations have been an effective barrier against immigrants and their children from non-Commonwealth countries entering the Public Service, in addition to the legal discrimination against them? 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 25 September 1979: 
What proportion of the cost of maintaining migrant centres, providing food services, temporary accommodation assistance, building and equipment for migrant centres, can be attributed to (a) caring for refugees (b) caring for immigrants in the family reunion category and (c) caring for independent immigrants arriving under the occupational eligibility category. 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs been drawn to the finding of  Mr Justice  Woodward in his report to the New South Wales Government that the Bureau of Customs has intercepted 'probably less than 10 per cent' of the heroin illegally imported into Australia each year? Is he also aware that  Mr Justice  Woodward referred to what he calls the 'relative ease'- those are the Judge's words- of importing heroin into this country? Is he aware that  Mr Justice  Woodward said that new Federal Government checks were unlikely to affect significantly the flow of heroin into Australia? In the light of these findings, does the Minister still insist, as he told the House last night, that the Federal Narcotics Bureau 'is an organisation which has achieved considerable success over the years '? 
I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: the Bill be withdrawn and re-drafted to- 
establish the Institute as an independent statutory authority responsible to the Parliament; 
provide the Institute with a more positive responsibility for the maintenance of cultural identities and traditions and encouragement of multiculturalism; 
elaborate the functions of the Institute to include research into the history and phenomenon of immigration to Australia and issues related to the development of ethnic groups in Australia and their diverse cultures; 
ensure the possibility of entering into contractural relationships with other community-based organisations engaged in activities in accord with the objectives of the Institute; 
enable the Institute of Multicultural Affairs to conduct research into and foster community sensitivity for racial groups not the subject of study by the Institute of Aboriginal Studies while including the latter in the ambit of multicultural affairs, and 
define members of the Institute their method of election, and their duties and powers as members of the Institute.' 
As conceptualised by the Galbally report, the proposed Institute of Multicultural Affairs was welcomed by the Opposition in 1978 as a multipurpose resource centre serving the needs of a polyethnic society. As we saw it, the Institute would document the phenomenon of immigration to our country, trace and comment on the growth of ethnic communities, sponsor crosscultural awareness, help preserve the heritage of our ethno-cultural society, promote mutual tolerance and esteem between all groups and investigate cross-cultural experiences, lifestyles and needs. In other words, whilst its main activities were to sponsor research, disseminate information and educate the community, the Institute was not envisaged by us as an academic institution in an ivory tower far removed from everyday problems studying the arts and crafts of our various communities as a sort of public relations exercise. . We envisaged it rather as a communitybased resource centre sensitive to community needs and aspirations. 
One of its main concerns would have been the welfare of our communities in the broader sense of the word. This meant not only social welfare but also the welfare of groups of people as ethnic communities, the relationships with children growing away from the heritage of their parents, the children's relationships to their parents and the survival of those groups as entities. It is quite clear that the concept of assimilation does not work. Nowhere in the world does assimilation work in that sense. People wish to retain their ethnic identities. We envisaged this Institution as being concerned with the welfare of communities in that sense. We envisaged that it would receive its directions from the communities themselves. But these, it seems, were pipe dreams. The Institute will be entrapped by this legislation. It will be restricted. It will have little or no relationship to the problems that I have talked about. By this legislation it is being carefully removed from the communities it is being set up to serve. Most astonishing of all is perhaps the provision for the appointment of 100 members who have absolutely no role to play. The Council of- the Australian Institute of Multicultural Affairs is, in effect, to be the Institute. Honourable members will note that as the Bill stands the Council will be purely a government machine- a creature of the government. 
Let us look at how the Institute is to be composed. Firstly, clause 10 states: 
1 ) The Institute shall consist of- 
the members of the Council; and 
not more than 100 persons appointed by the Minister as members of the Institute 
The Minister shall consult with the Council in relation to the appointment of persons as members of the Institute. 
Quite clearly, they are all to be government appointees. There is no doubt about that. I will cover that point in more detail later when I discuss the composition of the Council. In passing, I note that when it comes to the functions of the members of the Institute clause 1 1 states: 
Meetings of members of the Institute may be convened by the Council at such intervals and places as it thinks fit. 
Members of the Institute will have no rights about when and where they will meet. It will be entirely up to the Council. Let us look at the proposed Council. In clause 16 we are told: 
1 ) The Council is responsible for the conduct and control of the affairs of the Institute. 
All acts and things done in the name of, or on behalf of, the Institute by the Council, or with the authority of trie Council, shall be deemed to have been done by the Institute. 
In other words, the Council is to be the Institute. When we look at the way the Council will function we see that clause 18, which has a marginal note 'Directions by Minister', states: 
1 ) The Council shall perform its functions and exercise its powers in accordance with such directions as may be given to it from time to time by the Minister in writing. 
That is not unusual. It continues: 
Sub-section ( 1 ) does not empower the Minister to give directions to the Council with respect to the content of any report to be furnished under section 1 7. 
The Minister will give directions but he will not be able to give directions to the Council in terms of the content of its reports. That looks as though we are getting a little freedom at last. But clause 18 continues: 

 In preparing any report to be furnished under section 1 7, the Council shall have regard to such policies of the Commonwealth Government as are communicated to the Council by the Minister in writing. 
In my view that sub-clause in essence completely hog ties the Institute and the Council. It is free to submit reports as it likes but it has to bear in mind the policies of the Government. That is like the advice given to a whole range of committees that have been set up by Liberal governments in the past. The Vernon Committee, way back in the past, had views about immigration but felt contrained to support the policy of the then Government. It was not allowed to make comments on immigration policy in relation to economic affairs, although I understand that in the substance of its report it stated that it was not able to conclude that immigration in fact gave rise to the economic benefits that were so loudly touted at the time. The Nimmo Committee was set up to look into the shortcomings of the voluntary health insurance system at the time but its guidelines were such that the Committee, for all its investigation, could not report in the terms that anyone who knew anything about it knew that it would have wanted to report. Undoubtedly, the Committee would have said that there should have been a national health insurance system. It could not say that. The closest it could go to saying that was to suggest that a government department should be set up to look after all the voluntary health insurance organisations. That was a clear indication of how it was intimated to the Nimmo Committee that it had to report within the policy of the Government, which was to support the concept of the voluntary health insurance system. The Committee could not say what it really wanted to say. 
The same restraint is being placed on this Council. Any report furnished by the Council, whether sought by the Minister or initiated by the Council itself, must bear in mind and, one assumes, comply with the policies of the Commonwealth Government. I think that it is almost a completely empty gesture when clause 17 states: 
The Council shall furnish to the Minister such reports as the Minister requests on matters relating to the functions of the Institute, and may furnish to the Minister such other reports on matters relating to the functions of the Institute as the Council thinks fit. 
We can see how the subsequent clause makes that clause almost meaningless. Let us now look at the proposed composition of the Council. Clause 20 states: 
1 ) The Council shall consist of- 
a Chairman - 
Appointed by the Governor-General on the recommendation of the Government- 
the Director of the Institute - 
Appointed by the Governor-General on the direction of the Government- 
The Secretary to the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs - 
Appointed by the Government- 
Not less than 3 or more than 6 other members. 
There is no other comment in that sub-clause so obviously those other members will be appointed by the Governor-General on the direction of the Government. There is no doubt that this body is to be a mere creature of the Government. It will have nothing to do with the ethnic communities. This is paternalistic tokenism of the worst possible kind. That is the reason for our amendment. 
Let me again read the first part of the Opposition's amendment. We think that the Bill should be withdrawn and redrafted to 'establish the Institute as an independent statutory authority responsible to the Parliament'. I might add in passing that not even the reports of the Council will go to the Parliament. They will go to the Minister who can sit on them, put them into a pigeonhole or bury them. If one examines that section of the Galbally report which set out the guidelines for the operation of this organisation and compare it with the Bill it will be found that there is a subtle shift in emphasis. The shift is from community based services to a nebulous government directed and government-tied set of functions. Does this shift reflect a run for shelter from the unknown consequences of immigrant participation? Is it a consequence of thoughtlessly following another piece of legislation created by this conservative, frightened Liberal Government, that piece of legislation which deals with the immigrant involvement in Australia in the area of communications- the media? I refer, of course, to the Special Broadcasting Service. Both pieces of legislation are very similar although the functions of the organisations ought to be quite different. 
The immigrant communities themselves are increasingly concerned that the SBS is simply another government department, or subdepartment if you like. True, broadcasters are appointed who are supposedly representing the communities but of course they are appointed by the Government. One could hazard a guess that the hundred members of this Institute to be appointed by the Government will be the equivalent of the broadcasters for the SBS- the show, the sort of outward appearance to suggest that somehow or other the communities themselves are involved, but in real terms they are not. 
The most obvious model to hand which should have been the model for this legislation is the Institute of Aboriginal Studies. The legislation for that Institute ensures that it maintains a responsible yet autonomous role. Such a body would have been an appropriate model for the Institute of Multicultural Affairs. Some have said that the Institute of Aboriginal Studies would be too academic but that is not how it turned out. It did begin as a seemingly academic institution but its democratic structure has encouraged Aboriginal participation and involvement in crucial community needs. For example, it funds publications such as the Palm Island reserve news sheet in north Queensland which the Queensland Government has repeatedly attempted to suppress because it voices community grievances. The Institute of Aboriginal Studies sponsors research into land claims before they go to court. So too the Institute of Multicultural Affairs ought to be investigating the community welfare needs of immigrants. It ought to be conducting research into the whole concept of group rights under the law- an important contemporary transcultural concern. 
Paragraphs (b) and (c) of the Opposition's amendment covers various aspects of the objects and functions of the Institute. Let me deal with these objects and functions. Clause 5 of the Bill provides that the objects of the Institute are 'to develop among the members of the Australian community an awareness of the diverse cultures within that community'- and that is a good thing- and 'an appreciation of the contributions of those cultures to the enrichment of the community'. I do not know why it should not include all' cultures. It should not be only 'those cultures'- that is, particular migrant groups. I do not know whether it includes Aborigines, but it certainly ought to. The word 'all' would have been better. It should read 'an appreciation of the contributions of all cultures to the enrichment of that community'. Another object of the Institute is to promote tolerance, understanding, harmonious relations and mutual esteem. One cannot argue with that objective. Another object is to ensure that we can share with one another the diverse cultures within the legal and political structures of the society, and that is a good thing. Another object is to assist in promoting an environment which affords the members of the different cultural groups and ethnic communities in Australia the opportunity to participate in Australian society and to achieve their own potential. The only trouble with all that is that it does not say anything in a positive sense about the ethnic communities themselves- their cultural identities. Hence paragraph (b) of the Opposition's amendment reads: provide the Institute with a more positive responsibility for the maintenance of cultural identities and traditions and encouragement of multiculturalism; 
If one looks carefully at those objects as they are listed in the Bill it will be seen that they are really, under another form of words, promoting assimilation. They are not in fact encouraging the maintenance of identity. They are trying to ensure that everybody is tolerant to people who are a bit funny and to make sure that we do not feel odd when those people are around. That is to say, we will put up with them. There will be tolerance, harmonious relations and understanding. But there is nothing about ensuring that the Australian community recognises those groups of people, appreciates their qualities and helps them to maintain their identity. Maybe this is overcome by the functions of the Institute. I have only dealt with the objects. 
The Bill provides that a primary function of the Institute is to have a major role in providing advice to the Commonwealth Government. That seems reasonable. Another primary function of the institute is to promote those objects by commissioning and conducting research and studies, which are unspecified. Another function is to furnish reports to the Minister. Why are the reports not to be furnished to the Parliament? Another function is to make information available to members of the Australian community and to particular bodies, organisations or groups within the community. That is a bit of a public relations job but as it could be educational it is therefore acceptable. Another function is to conduct promotional and educational activities. That is specified more carefully. Another function is the establishment of a repository of literature and other material relating to the diverse cultures of members of the Australian community. There is no mention of aspects essential to any selfrespecting institute supposedly involved in multiculturalism such as we mention in paragraph (c) of our amendment which reads: 
Elaborate the functions of the Institute to include research into the history and phenomenon of immigration to Australia and issues related to the development of ethnic groups in Australia and their diverse cultures; 
The Institute should be looking at how settlement first started, at what happened to the original communities- Anglo-Saxons, the Irish, the Chinese who came in and the South Sea islanders who are totally ignored. We should be having studies on what happened to those groups. Why after all these years do many of them still maintain their identity? They are still Irish-Australians; they are still Scots; they are still Chinese. There is no such animal as an Australian full stop. We cannot forget our ethnic origin. 
Sure, they are all human. That is one thing they do have in common, they are human. But by virtue of that and the way they have developed over time we ought to recognise the fact that in our community we are still different, as the honourable member for Swan and I look different. Bearing in mind the Government's oft stated concern for the involvement of community-based organisations, we find that this legislation is strangely silent. Nowhere can one find any direct involvement by communitybased organisations. One hopes it will happen. I think from comments the Minister has made before he probably has it in mind, but why could it not be stated? Paragraph (d) of the Opposition's amendment reads: 
Ensure the possibility of entering into contractual relationships with other community-based organisations engaged in activities in accord with the objectives of the Institute; 
We know that a number of these organisations exist. For example, in my own area of Melbourne there is the Clearing House on Migrant Issues, an organisation with enormous resources, a lot of expertise in the very areas that this Institute is going to look into. I see no reason why it could not be specifically mentioned in the legislation that contractual relationships should be entered into. It would give the Council and the Institute a hint on how they should go about performing their functions. 
The Minister in his speech referred to a continued separation between the Institute of Aboriginal Affairs and the Institute of Multicultural Affairs. This is a technical distinction between the orginal native born and the later overseas born settlers. A purist might argue that when the Aborigines came to Australia a long time ago they came across land and did not have to swim. Such a technical distinction fragments the policy and conception of a multicultural Australia. The exclusive separation of Aboriginal affairs will perpetuate the black-white syndrome. Furthermore, Torres Strait islanders have been separated from the Aboriginal Act in Queensland since 1971 in recognition of their different past history and their different contemporary circumstances and therefore to meet their different needs. I am not too sure whether the Queensland Act does much for the Torres Strait islanders but at least it is acknowledging that they are Australian Aboriginals. Although the Torres Strait islanders are recognised by the Institute of Aboriginal Studies and research has been commissioned on their behalf, in the mind of the community- including the Minister- that Institute is identified primarily with Aboriginal communities. I am not sure that many people recognise that Torres Strait islanders really are also covered. 
But leaving them aside for the present, South Sea islanders hardly ever rate a mention anywhere. Although they often came initially as forced immigrants to Australia they remain Australia's forgotten people. This is a typical example of south-east Australian perspective colouring the establishment and funding of centres that are supposedly to have a national purpose. We cannot see far enough to see all these facets of the problem. In our view the Minister ought to outline how the Institute of Aboriginal Studies and the Institute of Multicultural Affairs could and should be associated under the umbrella of one diversified society. To this end we propose part (e) of the Opposition amendment which states that we should redraft the legislation to: enable the Institute of Multicultural Affairs to conduct research into and foster community sensitivity for racial groups not the subject of study by the Institute of Aboriginal Studies - 
That refers to the South Sea islanders; they are excluded- while including the latter - 
That is, the Institute of Aboriginal Studies- in the ambit of multicultural affairs . . . 
They should have a very close relationship and I think the legislation ought to say so. The final section of our amendment concerns the composition of the Institute. This portion appears vague in the Bill. Clause 10 of the Bill deals with 'Membership of Institute'. It states that the Institute shall consist of members of the Council and 100 persons appointed by the Minister. As I have pointed out, the members of the Council have no functions at all unless they are called together by the Council, They have no rights to call a meeting themselves. There is no mention of the purpose of these 100 people, their function, what sort of people they shall be, or from where they will be selected to become members of the Institute. Given the function of the Council which I have mentioned before and which I will reiterate- it is in essence to conduct and control the affairs of the Institute- the members of the Institute, these 100 people, are quite irrelevant. They seem to have no function at all. 
I conclude on this note. To overcome these deficiencies we suggest in the final section of our amendment that the Bill should be redrafted to define the members of the Institute. These 100 people are not defined at the moment. From where will they come? What sort of people will they be? What will be the method of their election? We know that obviously they will be picked by the Government. Will they just be the pets and the stooges of the Government or will they, if there is meant to be some relationship with the ethnic communities, really in some way represent the communities? What will be their duties and powers as members of the Institute? As I have pointed out, they have no power whatsoever as the Bill is presently drafted. For these reasons the 
Opposition thinks the Bill should be withdrawn and redrafted in the terms we have suggested. 
-The Opposition wishes to move an amendment to the motion for the second reading of each of these Bills. I will begin by moving those amendments and they can be put separately as each question is put. To the States Grants (Schools Assistance) Bill 1979, 1 move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: whilst not declining to give the Bill a second reading, the House is of opinion that the Government should be condemned for (a) the continuing decline in funding of Australian schools by its failure to honour its firm undertaking to provide for a minimum growth rate of 2 per cent per annum in real terms for schools and (b) its failure to respond to glaring deficiencies and developing needs in the education system highlighted in reports to the Government by its advisory bodies '. 
To the second Bill, the States Grants (Tertiary Education Assistance) Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1979, 1 intend to move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: whilst not declining to give the Bill a second reading, the House is of the opinion that the Government should be condemned for the (a) continuing decline in funding in real terms for tertiary education in Australia and the consequent long-term detrimental effects on the quality and standard of tertiary institutions and (b) continuing pressure being placed on State Governments to share the cost of tertiary education '. 
In my remarks I wish to concentrate on  the  deficiencies in the education system and the sorts of advice the Government is getting, as well as, in the Opposition's view, the totally inadequate response by the Government to this advice. Of course, the Government has a number of competent professional advisory bodies at all levels in the field of education. There is the Schools Commission which is headed by  Dr Ken  McKinnon. He is an extremely experienced individual who has held that position for a number of years. He is associated with members who represent all the sectors of education- state schools, Catholic schools, other independent schools and State education departments. It is hardly a parlour-pink body; it is hardly a radical group of people. They succeed in arriving at a consensus view; in other words, their reports represent a diverse range of approaches to the problems of education. 
Then there is the Tertiary Education Commission which is headed by  Dr Peter  Karmel. Honourable members will recall that he headed the Karmel Committee set up by the Labor Government within days of its being elected in 1972. It was that committee of inquiry into education which evolved the needs policy- a policy which I like to think ended much of the divisiveness caused by the State aid argument that had been bedevilling the community for many years.  Dr Karmel  was surrounded and accompanied by experienced committee members drawn from education, business and the trade union movement. It is not as though these bodies are free to pursue their own line. They are subject to fairly prescriptive guidelines- too prescriptive if anything- issued by the Government. So the Government has ample scope to direct. The commissions cannot be accused of running the Government's economic policy. For instance, in his statement on the Schools Commission report of 1978, the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  had this to say: 
The Commission's proposals constitute a substantial change to existing policies. 
The Government acknowledges the considerable work done by the Commission in producing its report and the valuable basis which this has provided for subsequent discussion of issues of fundamental importance in school funding. 
But what was the response of the Government, despite that acknowledgment? I quote again from the Minister's statement: 
We have decided not to make any significant changes to present programs and procedures during 1979. 
In other words, the Government increasingly ignores the advice of these commissions for doctrinaire reasons. I can find no rational reason for ignoring that advice. In addition, the Government has set up inquiries, the main one being the Williams inquiry which was appointed in 1976 and which submitted its report to the Government in February 1979. It had wide-ranging terms of reference and, of course, most of its recommendations related to tertiary education. But a very important set of those recommendations dealt with youth unemployment and the place of schools and of technical and further education in helping the community and the young unemployed deal with this problem. Before going on with this matter in a little more detail, it is important to note that on page 125 of volume I of the report it is stated that the schools were exonerated from the charge of having caused the high rates of unemployment. The report went on to state: 
Changes in the philosophy and administration of the schools cannot have caused the sharp increase in teenage unemployment, but there is a long-standing youth unemployment problem and changes in the philosophy and administration of education could possibly contribute to a solution. 
Others have drawn attention to the problems in the schools area which highlight the need for a rethinking about our schools. I wish to quote from an article by Judith O'Neill, who is a social welfare research officer for the Australian Council of Trade Unions. In an issue of  Educational Innovations  she observes, or complains: 
Nor are curricula sensitive to the expressed needs of students for a sense of purpose, a desire for competence and a concern for a career. The inadequacy of curricula is particularly clear in the area of career education where early school leavers are concerned. 
Later in the article, she observes that careers guidance available is directed mainly towards children in their final years of schooling, particularly those going on to tertiary studies. She continued: 
The early school leaver is virtually ignored. Consequently, each year large numbers of young people move out of school and into the work force with little time to consider available opportunities for employment, with little or no guidance from others, and with little chance in any case. Once they leave school, young people from poorer families set about getting a job, any job without being able to consider such questions as career, opportunities for advancement or selffulfilment which influence the choice of more affluent students. 
This problem confronts probably 64 per cent of students who leave school, because the retention rate is the remainder- slightly more than 35 per cent. The problem is a very significant one for most children. Judith O'Neill observes: 
Schools must move from their tendency to remain outside and work in partnership to become a legitimate part of the community's network and resources. 
To return to the Williams report, it is not terribly specific about what needs to be done but it does make some suggestions, such a familiarising teachers more with the world of work. Perhaps it would be helpful to quote from the Williams report, which states on page 130: 
The Committee supports the proposals in the TEND Committee report that, in pre-service education, all teachers should be introduced to the ideas and techniques involved in school-community relations, and the ACTU proposals that, to learn about, or update their knowledge of, the world of work outside the teaching profession there should be a continuing series of seminars on the world of work, and the provision of opportunities for the short-period release or secondment of teachers to other fields of work. 
When it came to the question of the transition between school and work the Williams committee said on page 132: 
The Committee recommends 
Schools, employers and public agencies and parents give greater attention to adequate careers guidance programs, including: 
experimentation with transition centres where less formal arrangements- particularly in inner metropolitan areas- could bring together the advantages of employment agency, further basic studies in TAFE if necessary, personal support, counselling and job placement. 
I am not saying that these things are suitable substitutes for jobs, but they are initiatives to help unemployed youth cope with their predicament. They are things schools should be doing, and, if they are to be done, government support and government finance is required. The Williams report is backed by the 1979 Schools Commission report, which recommends: an amount of $2.0m, either additional to Guideline allocations for 1980 or for inclusion in the 1981 Guidelines, be provided to initiate the first stages of a support program in the States for developing school/work transition policy and action initiatives. 
Under the heading of 'Youth Policy', the Schools Commission makes the following point: 
School-based action cannot stand alone as a policy for inducting young people into the society, including paid work ... the issues are wider than transition programs from school to work . . . Schemes of public financial support to individuals in full-time education beyond the end of compulsory schooling, and to those desiring work but unable to find it, need to be reviewed, both for their internal consistency and in relation to each other. . . . The unemployed who have left school are eligible for unemployment benefits, the costs of which need to be considered against those of continued schooling. Many of these individuals might be better served by further education of an appropriate kind. A wider and more comprehensive review of the whole of government policies for youth is indicated. Such a review would include the rationale for  . . support policies for the transition from school to work and, most particularly, for the role of the school. The part schools can play in preparing young people for adult life can only be settled properly within such a framework. 
Sitting suspended  from 5.59 to 8 p.m. 
In discussing these reports, it is necessary to point out that the Government has had the Williams report, for example, since February last. Of course, the Australian Schools Commission's latest report is dated July, and yet nothing has emerged. What is the Government's response where it really counts, namely in the provision of money as allocated in the Budget? The legislation we are debating now provides the machinery for transferring funds to the States and where it is going to be needed. Since getting into office, the Fraser Government has issued increasingly prescriptive- in other words, restrictive- guidelines to the Commission. Each year except this one, the Government has required the Commission to advance another couple of percentage points towards the Government's declared policy of every school getting a minimum grant of 20 per cent of average costs. This, together with cuts in government school grants, has largely caused the annual outcry about transfers from government to nongovernment schools. Because of increased State funding, government schools, on average, have advanced most of the way towards the targetsfor 1980 and 1981 set by the Karmel inquiry in 1973. But of course that does not take into account the new needs that are arising in view of the changing circumstances in society. There have also been disputes about the maintenance of efforts in non-government schools. There is a lot of evidence that the non-government school sector has not maintained its effort and that it has become more and more dependent upon government finance. As the Commission said in its report in 1978: 
The division between the Commonwealth and the States of financial responsibility for government and nongovernment schools has emerged as a major issue which the Commission cannot itself resolve. 
In other words, the Commission was begging the Commonwealth to make up its mind on this issue. In 1 978, the Schools Commission proposed a scheme of agreement on who pays what. Apparently it did this because it wanted to show the need to end the annual squabble over the division of money and because it quite rightly believed that the Commonwealth should retain a role, and a significant one at that, in funding both sectors. The Government rejected the proposal out of hand without giving any reason, as I mentioned at the beginning of my remarks. But in doing so, the Government has endangered the social settlement of the once contentious state aid issue which is what the Karmel report and its adoption by the Labor Government represented. It does not take much effort to recall the difficulties facing the whole country, not just the Labor Party, over the question of state aid before Labor gained office. It was used by the Liberal Government as blatant political bribery. There was no equity at all. Most of the funds went not to the private sector as a whole, but to the rich part of the private sector. In fact the poorer section, the Catholic parochial schools, got nothing at all. By rejecting the Schools Commission advice, the Government goes against sensible opinion in all sectors of education in Australia which are basically satisfied with the present machinery and arrangements. But they  want  to see some sort of stability. The Commission has repeatedly drawn attention to the backlog of capital needs in both State and level 6 non-government schools in Australia. In essence, the Schools Commission, in its report of 1978, made the point that government school capital facility programs should be increased by 5 per cent each year for the triennium. It also suggested that there should be a similar or equivalent increase of funding for the private schools compared with the government schools. But what has happened? The figures show that in 1979, capital grants for government schools totalled $137.25 m while in 1980 they totalled $93.25 m. For non-government schools, capital grants for 1979 totalled $32.23 m and dropped to $26.13 m in 1980. So there has been a 32 per cent cut in capital expenditure for government schools and a cut of 19 per cent for non-government schools. The way the Government is behaving, one would think that all our education problems had been resolved. But of course that is far from the truth. 
The Government repeatedly states its acceptance of the idea of choice in government schools. It ought also to be concerned with promoting local decision-making in schools. They are some of the proposals that have been put by the Schools Commission. Let us look at what has happened. In chapter 9 of the 1978 report the Schools Commission proposed two initiatives which would encourage choice in the government system. These were: A program to experiment with pilot schemes allowing schools to offer educational alternatives and a further program in school level evaluation and decisionmaking. It might be instructive to quote from the report to give an idea of what the Schools Commission envisaged. For example, on page 120 of the Schools Commission report the following observation is made: 
With some non-government schools so heavily subsidised- 
One of the arguments in favour of the nongovernment sector is that it provides choice, so with the non-government sector getting so much subsidy from the Commonwealth, the Commission believes that:  the time has come when there should be more real choices within public systems and among programs following different approaches within individual government schools. 
If it is good enough for the private sector to be given subsidies and to be allowed to offer these sorts of choices why cannot this apply to the state system? The report continues: 
It therefore proposes that funds be made available to assist with any initial expenses in a limited number of pilot projects enabling informed choices to be made among groups of government schools. 
The schools concerned would need to agree to articulate their educational philosophies, curriculum choices, information about their staff, about school governance and about educational processes assessment policies and the means of evaluating school operations. 
That is the sort of thing that one should expect from any part of the educational sector, private or state. The report continues: 
As the Commission envisages the continuous involvement of teacher and parent organisations as well as educational authorities in developing the opportunities and in working through the problems, there will also be associated costs for these activities. 
Of course the Commission recommended some funds for these purposes. On the question of school level evaluation, once again we talk about the need to be sure that in any enterprise the objective is being achieved. The Schools Commission suggests:  . . there is a need to assist schools in exercising responsibility; to maximise the educational effectiveness of the broader freedom they now have to make significant educational decisions; and to evolve a new pattern of relationships between school and system consistent with that greater freedom and with the political responsibility of system authorities. 
It went on to state: 
The need to strengthen co-operative education evaluation and decision-making in schools in which all teachers participate and in which parents and students are also involved is seen by the Commission as educationally desirable and as a necessary condition of greater autonomy for schools. 
If it is good enough for the private sector why is it not good enough for the state sector? The report goes on: 
The term evaluation is being used to include all those means through which members of a school community can participate in a co-operative examination of what the school is doing, set particular targets for improvement, plan action to advance towards them and evaluate that action in terms of the objectives they have set for it, changing course in the light of experience. 
Surely none of those objectives could be denied as reasonable and what one should reasonably expect from the school system. To achieve those objectives the Schools Commission recommended modest sums of money. What was the Government's response? It was no. The Minister, in acknowledging all the work that had gone into the Schools Commission report, said that it was the basis for lots of good ideas and lots of discussion. But he then said: 'We have decided not to make any significant changes to present programs and procedures during 1979'. Guess what will happen? When as a result of the failure of this support, the schools do not advance the way they ought to and people start levelling criticism at the state system, what will the Liberal 
Government say? It just shows how useless the State school system is. But it is the Liberal Government's fault that these funds and the permission to try to indulge in these sorts of experiments have not been allowed. So what should we be doing? In Australia today we are faced with a bewildering degree of social, economic, technological and geo-political change. We have a limited time span in which to come to terms with the growing economic and political strength of our neighbours in this part of the world. Economically, after some 30 years of continuous expansion, we find Australia in an economic mess. This led the Crawford Committee in its report to warn: 
If present trends continue, Australia will be amongst the materially poorest of the now developed nations- and poorer than a number in Asia. 
Australia's survival as a nation with its present standard of living seems to depend upon increasing its technological base. With a comparatively high labour wage, but relatively cheap energy, we will require skilled labour, technology and technological innovation to compete in the international scene. But this will require us to adapt swiftly to utilise technological change and to cope effectively with the social dislocation that this is likely to produce. None of this can be achieved without educational innovations, such as the sorts of things that the Schools Commission, the Williams Committee and the Tertiary Education Commission have been talking about. Generally it is a fact of life that the more affluent and better educated classes receive most benefit from overall spending on the education system. 
At the moment it can be argued that education is a divisive force in our society which separates in terms of opportunities and then reinforces differences in attitudes between various groups and interests. In the interests of long term social cohesion of our society, and to enhance our ability to cope with overall national challenges, the Labor Party, if in government, would aim in its education policy to continue in a selective manner to give assistance to areas of identifiable educational disadvantage, which include ethnic groups, rural youth and our inner city areas. We would aim to harness education as part of an overall youth policy dealing constructively with the problems of unemployed youth. This is potentially the most divisive problem we have. An entire generation may be alienated from our society. 
Young people must be offered socially and personally constructive options in place of the dole. A youth scheme which offers the choice of education, employment, part time work, subsidised training or voluntary community activities for all youth aged between school-leaving age and 1 8 years is an essential development for the future. We must ensure means of funding recurrent education to allow persons to gain access to necessary educational provisions and retraining at all times of life. We must maintain the community based Schools Commission and the policy of assistance according to need. In practice the Commission has been a considerable influence towards social cohesion, and has done much to dissipate religious intolerance and bigotry in the educational field in Australia. 
We must attempt to define the roles of various institutions, particularly universities, the Commission on Advanced Education and technical and further education. It is important that the public has a clear perception and is confident of the structure and purposes of our education system. We must ensure that institutional barriers between various sectors of the post-secondary education system are lowered to ensure ease of access from one to. the other. A Labor government would encourage a balance between training and education in our schools and postsecondary institutions. A proper education at any level requires both aspects, particularly in rimes of marked social and technological change. 
Whilst the end result of courses should be a flexible range of vocational skills, more general personal competencies should be encouraged, as well as an appreciation of wide-ranging aspects of our society and culture. We must make our educational institutions more flexible to meet manpower projections and requirements, to ensure proper rewards are available to the trained. However, non-vocational education defined as 'humanities, hobbies, crafts and leisure activities' should be offered at appropriate levels by all institutions. Learning exchanges, self-help groups, adult education councils, schools, TAFE, CAEs and universities all have a role here. 
An important link between national goals and the education system is the need for Australia to become a technologically advanced society. If present trends continue we will soon no longer have the skills necessary to cope with technological change, or establish Australia as a viable, competitive, industrial nation in Asia. What we need to do to achieve those objectives, of course, is to encourage the teaching of mathematics, science and computer applications in our high schools. We need to increase selective funding for approved courses- clearly demonstrated to be in the national interest- in engineering, science and electronic data processing areas at professional, technical and trade levels in postsecondary institutions. We have to fund increased research into fields such as marine biology and fishing. Australia has not the national expertise to exploit the declaration of a 200-mile off-shore limit. We need to research energy and oil substitutes and solar energy, EDP computer applications and software, and other intermediate technology. 
Another vital national aim for Australia over the next decade is the establishment of effective relationships with Asia at all levels, including the cultural level. We have to encourage the teaching of Asian languages and so on. None of these objectives can be achieved by an education system in isolation and will need to be integrated with other government activities. However, action by the education system is essential to its fulfilment. The present Liberal Government, other than cutting costs in a manner which affects disproportionately the most needy in our society, exhibits no coherent intellectual vitality on the issues of educational philosophy which will be of most use to the nation in the 1 980s. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 22 August 1979: 
For what programs and policies concerning immigrants has the Department of Education been responsible in each year from 1 970 to date. 
What was the expenditure on each program and policy. 
What proportion of the Department's administrative expenses are estimated to cover the programs and policies. 
On what dates did the transfer of responsibility for programs and policies referred to in pan ( 1 ) to or from the Department of Education take effect. 
To which or from which Departments were these transfers of responsibilities made. 
Why were these transfers made. 
With what other Federal or State Government Departments or authorities does the Department of Education share responsibility for the programs and policies referred to in part ( 1 ). 
by leave- I am speaking because the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  has put out this statement simultaneously with the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner).  My colleague, the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  has already mentioned that the funding provided is chicken feed compared with the cutback in the various schemes offered by the 
Government previously for people who need further training. I will not dwell on that point. In the statement the Minister says his primary concern is for the 50,000 young people who now leave school each year with poor employment prospects. I think he is underestimating the problem. As my colleague pointed out, over a quarter of a million young people are going to leave school. About 64 per cent of them will have had less than three years' secondary school training; so they are hardly trained people. Let me be generous and say that perhaps half of them will get lost in some way or other. I would suggest that the figure the Government is worrying about is closer to 100,000 young people, not a mere 50,000. The inadequacies of the funding is highlighted even more when one looks at the figures in those terms. 
The Government is proposing expansion and development of transition courses in technical and further education and full time courses for up to one year in duration to prepare young people for vocations, particularly in trades and technical occupations where shortages of skilled workers still exist. My colleague pointed out that for years the Government has relied on bringing immigrants into the country to fill these vacancies. Now at last the Government is coming round to the view that maybe it should train some of the people here. I agree wholeheartedly. But there is still a further problem which the Government has to consider It is not that we have never trained these skilled people. They keep their jobs, but they soon find that, for a variety of reasons, the conditions of the job are not satisfactory and the rates of remuneration are inadequate. They leave the skilled jobs and go into more congenial, unskilled jobs where they can get more money. For years the Government has been using immigrants to fill these positions. But when the immigrants have been here long enough to learn the language and the ropes, they too learn that it pays them better to get out of these skills and to go somewhere else. 
So, sadly, this scheme will not succeed unless the Government does something about that very real problem in relation to the work force and gives a proper reward for people with skills. There are lots of other suggestions made, namely, improved services and techniques for identifying potential early school leavers, and more intensive advice for parents as well as students. These deficiencies in the education system have been known for years. In a speech I made in this House on the States Grants (Schools Assistance) Bill on 14 November I quoted Judith O'Neill. She pointed out that of the early school leavers-most of the children are early school leavers- 64 per cent do not get beyond third year high school. Most of these early leavers are totally ignored. She stated: 
. each year large numbers of young people move out of school and into the work force with little time to consider available opportunities for employment, with little or no guidance from others, and with little chance in any case. 
That position will be barely changed by this suggestion because the policy is totally inadequate. Advice on this course of action has been given over the years, not the least by the Williams committee which was set up in 1976 and took three years to pontificate. Finally it suggested that it was very important to consider schemes which deal with the problem of youth unemployment, the place of schools and of technical and further education in helping the community and the young unemployed to deal with this problem. In addition, the Schools Commission itself has been reporting along these lines for ages. Those reports were available in time for the Government to have considered the matter for inclusion in the Budget we have just passed for this year, but it was ignored and left. The scheme will not get off the ground next year. Even though the Government is providing funding, nothing will be done, practically nothing will be spent next year. No doubt we will find that although $25m has been allocated, when it comes to the Budget next year most of the funds will not have been spent. 
The Government mentions the aim of its policy is that ultimately all young people in the 1 5 to 19-year age group would be provided with options in education, training and employment, or any combination of these, either part time or full time, so that unemployment becomes the least acceptable alternative. I will conclude on this note: That strikes me as a most ominous aspect of this policy. Is the Government serious? Is it really conscientiously wishing to train young people or has it at last recognised that when they leave school and are unable to obtain jobs that they have to be paid unemployment benefit? Is this move now going to be seen as a very clever technique to force them to stay on at some sort of schooling with some financial support less than the unemployment benefit with the threat that, if they do not accept this extra schooling, with the lower support, they will not qualify for unemployment benefit. It implies that the financial support for these young people will really come not just from the Government but significantly from their own families who are already in financial difficulty. In most cases this is probably why the children leave school early as they feel that they have to get out and help their families. Is this proposal that the Government is offering really an alternative, or is it a veiled threat? 
Further on the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  says: 
Over a period the Commonwealth wishes to see the pattern of allowances and benefits for young people, and of related assistance, to industry, reorganised . . . 
He also says:  we do not intend to withdraw or reduce the unemployment benefits presently available to young people. 
I do not know why it was necessary for him to make that statement. Is this a hint? I repeat: Is it a hint? In fact, once the scheme is going, is it the Government's intention to use this as a device to force the children once again back onto their parents so that the parents will have to shoulder most of the financial responsibility for keeping the children at school and in training. 
I hope not. I see some honourable members on the opposite side whom I respect and I trust that it is not the intention of the Government. Let us keep our eyes and ears open to ensure that this does not happen. I am prepared to accept the assurances, but let us note the danger. If the Government does that, it will be consistent with what it is doing on the question of the national health scheme. The Government is quite surreptitiously and consciously on its part, forcing the cost of health care back onto the individuals in the community who are ill and can least afford to pay for it. I fear that this may be what the Government might do in relation to the young unemployed. I hope that I am wrong. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 22 August 1979: 
For what programs and policies concerning immigrants has the Department of Social Security been responsible in each year from 1970 to date. 
What was the expenditure on each program and policy. 
What proportion of the Department's administrative expenses are estimated to cover the programs and policies. 
On what dates did the transfer of responsibility for programs and policies referred to in part ( 1 ) to or from the Department of Social Security take effect. 
To which or from which Departments were these transfers of responsibilities made. 
Why were these transfers made. 
With what other Federal or State Government Departments or authorities does the Department of Social Security share responsibility for the programs and policies referred to in part (1). 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 25 September 1979: 
How many overseas students have been attending Australian educational institutions during each of the last 5 years under (a) bilateral aid agreements and (b) as private students. 
) What was the country of origin of each student. 
3 ) Ho w many from each country completed their studies. 
How many ex-students from each country (a) applied for permanent residence visas and (b) were granted permanent residence visas. 
How many ex-students from each country returned home ( a) immediately after completing courses and ( b) after 2 or 3 years of work experience. 
What conditions, financial or otherwise (such as the relevance of courses chosen to needs of country of origin ) are imposed on private study students before permission is granted to study in Australia. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 1 6 October 1979: 
1 ) How many persons, showing their country of binh, marital status and sex, applied for citizenship after residing in Australia for (a) up to 6 months, (b) 6 to 12 months, (c) I to 3 years, (d) 3 to 6 years, (e) 6 to 12 years and (f) over 12 years during each year from 1960 to 1978. 
How many persons in each group were granted citizenship, how many applications are still under consideration, and how many applications have been rejected. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 16 September 1979: 
1 ) How many persons, showing their country of birth, applied to immigrate to Australia during each year from 1960 to 1978. 
How many of these persons were granted immigration visas. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 16 October 1979: 
How many applications for Australian citizenship, showing the country of birth of the applicants, were received during each year from 1960 to 1978. 
How many persons were granted Australian citizenship during each of the same years. 
What was the average lapse of time between lodgement of the application and the granting of citizenship. 
What were the main grounds for rejection of applications and how many applications were rejected in each category. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 20 November 1979: 
1 ) How do the new entry arrangements which came into force on 1 September 1979 apply to persons who were issued with a permanent residence visa before I September 1979 and who are still residing overseas. 
If the current passport of such a person expires whilst that person is still overseas will the permanent residence visa for Australia be automatically transferred to the new passport issued by their country of origin. 
What steps must be taken by the prospective immigrant to ensure the permanent residence visa does not expire with the passport 
For how long does a permanent residence visa remain valid whilst the holder is in fact living overseas, when the visa was issued (a) before 1 September 1979 and (b) after 1 September 1979. 
If a person with a permanent residence visa has to spend a considerable amount of time overseas for business reasons and still has a non-Australian passport, what criteria must be satisfied to ensure the visa will not lapse. 
If one of the criteria is a specified term of residence in Australia, is that term expected to be an uninterrupted period or does a number of shorter periods in total exceeding or at least equal to that specified term, satisfy the residence in Australia requirements. 
What measures have been taken to inform persons overseas holding permanent residence visas for Australia of the conditions which ensure their visa remains valid, and have guidelines been issued to officers overseas representing his Department of these requirements and the steps to be taken to ensure visa holders overseas do not unknowingly lose their permanent residence visa for Australia. 
