-Has the Treasurer's attention been drawn to the Morgan gallup poll published in today's  Bulletin  which shows that the majority of the respondents favoured only a 3.2 per cent increase in the recent wage case? Does the result of this poll indicate that the Government's submission to the Commission was consistent with the broad public attitude of the need for restraint of wage and salary claims at the present time? 
My question to the Treasurer follows the answer given to the honourable member for Deakin about Pirelli International. Is the Treasurer aware that the curious decision by the Whitlam Government to which the honourable member referred poses a very real threat to an Australian owned manufacturer at Lilydale, which is in the electorate of La Trobe? In view of this threat to employment and as the Industries Assistance Commission has been required to report on the local cable manufacturing industry, will the Treasurer insist that the commencement of operations in Australia by Pirelli should not proceed pending the report from the IAC? 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. What is the attitude of the Victorian Government to the Commonwealth Government's program of restoring integrity and authority to the States under the new federalism policy? 
-Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  This is the resumption of the debate on the Address-in-Reply to the Governor-General's Speech at the opening of the Thirtieth Parliament. It has been a long debate, and I have heard some excellent speeches from members of the Government team about the matters raised in the Governor-General's Speech. 
I am grateful that the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  will be following me in this debate. He is one of the big guns of the Fraser team and one of the hardest workers in this Parliament. He is not like the big guns of the Opposition Party who remind me so much of what every soldier knows- the bigger the gun, the bigger the bore. 
Firstly, I wish to express the great pleasure it gives me to stand here today as the representative of some 90 000 voters of La Trobe and their dependants. I assure the residents of my electorate that I will fight for their interests at all times. I thank the many hundreds of people who worked so hard for my Party at the December election. 
I am pleased to see so many members of the Opposition listening so attentively to what I have to say on this occasion. They represent a very different scene from that which we noticed earlier this afternoon when the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  was speaking. I have rid hesitation in rejecting the rather specious amendment the Opposition has moved and in supporting the motion relating to the Governor-General's Speech. It is the blueprint outlining steps the Fraser Government will take to set Australians back on the road to the life of opportunity they deserve, and have a perfect right to expect. 
I recommend that everyone compare the opening speech to this Parliament with that made just 3 years ago to the Twenty-eighth Parliament. At that time the Governor-General said: 
My Government believes that its economic, trade development and industrial policies provide a basis for strong and continuing growth of Australian prosperity. 
Later reference was made to: the clear failure of existing social and economic structures to meet the needs of modern society, particularly in relation to education, social security, health, industrial relations and urban and regional development. 
Pious words indeed; yet this was the sort of irrational ambition shown at that time by the new Labor Government. It is easy to criticise the past, but here was an example of where the great socialist experiment of the last 3 years had its origins. 
Does anyone still doubt the socialist ambition of the Australian Labor Party? Does anyone still doubt that Australians now understand that socialism has no future here? Consider for a moment these revealing words: 
I have never anywhere, on any public platform, tried to walk away from the fact that I am a dedicated and convinced socialist. 
And again: 
I do not respect the integrity of anyone who tries to say that the Labor Party is not a socialist party, because that is what we are. 
Can honourable members guess who said those words? Was it Laurie Carmichael? No. Was it Bill Hartley? No. It was the Federal  President  of the Australian Labor Party, the man destined to lead that Party in the not too distant future. It was  Mr R.  J. Hawke. 

 Mr predecessor in the seat of La Trobe was  Mr Anthony  Lamb, a man who worked in the previous 3-year period to represent the electorate. In his first speech reference was made to Parliament as an anachronistic gas chamber where politicians made wordy speeches, threw around inane interjections and manipulated parish pumps. There appears no clear evidence that these characteristics have disappeared today. He was a member of this House preoccupied with 'a program designed to achieve basic changes in the administration and structure of Australian society'. Unlike him, I do not see a 'clear failure of existing social and economic orders' as the main problem facing this country, and this will become evident as debates on a range of subjects unfold in this House. At the poll declared in La Trobe last December he presented me with the member's gold medallion, though he qualified it as being on loan. Honourable members may regard this as particularly charitable. We all know what these ALP loans are like. Even the temporary ones are for 20 years. 
The Governor-General's Speech makes it clear - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! I remind the honourable member for Newcastle that it is the maiden speech of the honourable member for La Trobe. I ask that the honourable member for La Trobe be heard in silence. 
Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I notice that the interjection came from the high priest of convention. The GovernorGeneral's Speech makes it clear that the Government's immediate objective is to bring inflation under control so that there can be jobs for all who want to work. Until then there will be no adequate employment opportunities, no soundly based return to prosperity. 
The records of  Hansard  are full of speeches by new members preoccupied with these considerations, but it is a clear matter of fact that the predicament has never been more acute than when the Fraser Government was elected on 13 December last. Inflation rates of nearly 20 per cent and unemployment figures of 5 per cent were never dreamt of in 23 years of LiberalCountry Party Government; yet the Australian Labor Party achieved them in just 3 years. It took only 3 years to double national expenditure to some $2 1,000m, but are government services twice as generous as a result? There is no evidence of this in La Trobe. Anyway, how was the money for this expenditure raised by the Labor Government? It was raised by a form of secret tax- the insidious bite of the tax slug into earnings as they increased simply by inflation. Where this failed, it just printed more money, and still managed in 3 years to spend $8,000m more than was raised. 
One of the most appalling features of inflation is that it strikes hardest at those least able to withstand it- the poor, the elderly, the invalid, those buying homes, those trying to get ahead in the world. They are the people- the good, sound Australian people- who turned to the Liberal and National Country Parties in 1975, and in few places was this turn more evident than in the electorate of La Trobe. 
Of course today's Opposition has no end of colourful, even romantic reasons for its demise. One of the most novel is intervention by the Central Intelligence Agency. The only CIA in my electorate stood for concerned intelligent Australians 
Typical of Labor's failure to understand the course on which it embarked in 1972 was the conclusion drawn at that time by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis),  who said: 
Our program will clearly lead to the eventual abolition of poverty in our society and a more secure and just society for the vast majority of Australians. 
Those were the words of 1972. What an example of the language of fantasy. 
The objective may be fine and may even comply with the objectives sought by the Liberal and National Country Parties, but Australians now understand, in a lesson sound enough to last a generation, that the objective will not be achieved under the umbrella of the grand socialist design. 
Australia's history is characterised not by examples of people seeking more and more dependence on government but by people with the courage, the ambition and the common sense to improve their lot, and in so doing play their role in contributing to the national resource- the fund from which general standards in health, education, welfare and other avenues can be improved. 
The Federal Government's role is, in large part, to promote conditions under which individuals can again play their role. I am pleased that the Governor-General's Speech makes this clear and states in unequivocal terms how it will be done. 
Of particular interest to me are 2 special measures of reform that will have relevance to people of La Trobe. The first is tax indexation- a policy designed to protect the gains workers make in earnings from the pounding tax bites have made on those increases. 
The second is our historic step of offering the principle of tax sharing to the States within the Commonwealth. Through this move State and local government will be offered direct access to a portion of personal income tax revenue. It is a move violently opposed by our opponents, who make no secret whatever of their scheme to abolish State governments and make Canberra the great centralised source of all power. Unfortunately the Labor Party still entertains the view put forward by Alfred Deakin, who looked forward to the time when: 
The Commonwealth will have acquired a general control over the States, where every extension of political power will be made by its means and go to increase its relative superiority. 
I can assure the House that our reform is widely supported in my electorate and provides the first real chance local councils will have to arrest the dramatic rate increases required to. provide local services. My concern is the enthusiasm with which the various States will take up this historic offer. I certainly cannot detect much enthusiasm from the State governments in Tasmania or South Australia. An independent observer might question the rationality of a position of one Parliament and government raising .the money and another Parliament and government spending it. This can too often lead to a great deal of irresponsibility by both the taxers and the spenders. What is clear is that we should not continue to muddle along in the way that has developed in recent years. The Commonwealth *s income tax monopoly ceased to depend on law of any kind many years ago. States have been deprived of that entitlement by measures of guile, force and at times something not much short of fraud. 
Our policy, which is perfectly feasible, will restore adequate taxing powers to the States without rendering the Commonwealth impotent in the influence of overall economic considerations. This is not the first time a Liberal-Country Party government has made such an offer to the States. The Menzies Government tried it at a Premiers Conference in 1 95 1 , but the States failed to grasp the opportunity. A well known wit tried to summarise the position of State Premiers at that time when he wrote: 
We thank you for the offer of the cow But we can't milk and so we answer now We answer in a loud resounding chorus Please keep the cow and do the milking for us. 
Within the La Trobe electorate are a great many small manufacturers who give local employment to thousands of residents. In the last 5 years these manufacturers have faced many problems, and the most critical of these problems is uncertainty. There is an urgent need for a broader, 10-year view of where we are seeking to go with manufacturing industry. There is a need for more participation between government, management and employees in decisions affecting manufacturing industry. 

 Senator Cotton has announced that he will introduce a White Paper on the future of manufacturing industry. We must re-establish national goals and give an indication of the future role of manufacturing. We seem to have lost earlier, widely accepted aims and ambitions in a flurry of talk about change. If industry is to have the confidence necessary to expand, and thereby to provide more job opportunities, then industry must be able to see its future and know that it has community support in the role it plays. Without confidence there will be less new investment, lower productive gains and fewer employment opportunities. 
People employed in such industries as footwear and textiles are quite rightly demanding more say, more consultation, fewer rash changes in matters which so greatly affect their daily lives. It is not good enough to rely upon 'Canberra knows best' in such incredible schemes as the 25 per cent across the board tariff cuts. 
The report of the Jackson Committee is one of the most significant contributions in a very long time. Whether it has found the right answers is debatable, but we must not lose sight of the objective. We have an enormous task before us if we are to put this country back on the rails again. The Governor-General's Speech demonstrates to all how we will go about that task. I am pleased to be on the team. 
I conclude by extending my congratulations to you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  and through you, to  Mr Speaker  on your election to your respective offices. I thank honourable members for the courtesy extended to me. 
-I direct my question to the Attorney-General. Is the honourable gentleman aware of a recent book claimed to be of great literary merit entitled  Kerr's King Hit,  particularly as the book relates to comments attributed to the Chief Justice of New South Wales? Has the Chief Justice categorically denied the book's assertions and would this be yet more evidence that the book which so piously claims to be factual is, in fact, a work of second-rate fiction? 
I will be very brief because I know that the Government wants to deal with this Bill in the shortest possible time. I will restrict my remarks to just a few minutes. First of all, I want to accept on behalf of the Government the congratulations of the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  who has just resumed his seat. I think it would be only fair to acknowledge the contribution that the honourable member made to the development of education during the time that he was Minister for Education in the previous Government. I do not think that anybody ever doubted his concern for education. But I think that some would doubt the extent to which he was able to satisfy the demands that were made. I must confess that when I heard him say that during his term as Minister for Education, education was neither centralised nor bureaucratic I wondered whether I was hearing about some other education system that he had in mind, because it hardly seems to me to fit the picture of what we have been through. I should acknowledge that perhaps it was not the honourable member's concept of what the position should be. I think it is fair to say that that was rather his performance. Maybe his hands were tied by his Party in that respect. 
Both amendments which have been foreshadowed by the Opposition seem to place an emphasis on Canberra in the allocation of education expenditure. I do not see how we can possibly relate what is contained in the amendments to the remarks that were made today by the honourable member for Fremantle. The point is that the Labor Government introduced legislation that bound the States hand and foot in the allocation of money for education purposes. Perhaps no better example of this exists than the program for disadvantaged schools. There are some disadvantaged schools in the electorate of La Trobe. The money that has been spent on these schools in the last 3 years was determined in Canberra. Canberra determined what constituted a disadvantaged school. We in Victoria were obliged by the Federal Government at the time to take the names of 20 disadvantaged schools off the list. I would just pose the question: Who knows best whether a school is disadvantaged or not? If we on the ground in the electorates and in the States do not know I do not know who does. I just do not accept the proposition that we do not have the capacity to make determinations as to what is a disadvantaged school. This is one of those matters upon which special emphasis needs to be placed. I do not see why we need to be told by Canberra whether a school is disadvantaged or not. We know because we have lived with them. 
The extraordinary thing was the way in which moneys were allocated and the procedures which had to be followed in the expenditure of those moneys. It is not an exaggeration to say that there were 16 different accounts through which money was funded to the States. If the money was not spent according to the allocation it actually was required to be paid back to Canberra. It is inevitable that problems will be encountered during the course of construction of certain buildings. Very often these problems cannot be foreseen when the building is started. It is absolutely essential that there is the capacity to transfer money or to transfer emphasis from one account to another in order to get the best utilisation of the public funds which are being spent. Surely that is a criterion upon which all governments need to exercise their discretion. Yet there was no provision for doing this. As a result many projects were tied hand and foot and the flexibility for people with local expertise to make on the spot judgments as to the best way of getting on with the job was in many cases averted. 
It is interesting to see what has happened in regard to building costs in the last 3 years. I have had experience of some secondary schools that have been built in La Trobe. The average cost for the stage 1 development of a secondary high school of a standard design in Victoria has increased from about $286,000 to $700,000 in the last 3 years. I think it is probably one of the best indications of the situation which we face in catching up with school building programs. Just last week I was at St Joseph's Regional College at Ferntree Gully which is providing a tremendous service to the parishioners in this part of my electorate. The capital expenditure requirement of this school to enable it to cater for the intake of students expected in 1977 is some $490,000-very little short of half a million dollars. It can expect to receive from this Bill probably no more than $140,000. In fact there is no guarantee that it will receive even that amount. This school is faced with a problem of financing a shortfall of about $400,000 to enable it to take in the student numbers expected next year. It does not pretend, nor do I, that it is servicing the full needs of its parishioners in that area. I mentioned that just to give to the House an indication of the dramatic increase in school building costs in the last 3 years. I think it is also a way of illustrating the determination of this Government to arrest the enormous inflationary spiral which we seem to have inherited. 
Under this Bill we are allocating $476m compared with $465.2m announced by the previous Government during 1975. I am particularly pleased that the Bill reflects the Government's intention to depart from the trend towards centralism in the administration of school spending, by requiring that the Commission consult the States and other authorities in preparing its report for the 1977-79 triennium. The Commission will be required to take into full account the priorities and the needs of the States in this regard. I am very pleased that in Victoria the Education Department has taken the necessary steps to decentralise the planning and other functional performances that are needed in the administration of school programs. I think Victoria is leading the field in the Commonwealth in this regard, although I would not put any parochial importance on that. I would like to think other States are doing as much. In fact, I would like to think they are ahead of Victoria in this regard. The role that regional sections of the Department and the parent bodies will be playing in the administration of their schools is, I think, a very exciting prospect and one which I think is very well received by the school communities generally and by the teacher bodies in Victoria. 
I am required to be brief. I shall honour my commitment. I welcome this Bill. I presume the Opposition will not be proceeding with its proposed amendment because it has not moved that amendment. If it is moved we will give it the treatment it deserves because we are not in the business of government to centralise all power in Canberra. I think that is one of the distinctions which the Australian community will gather between this Government and the Government which preceded us. 
-Is the Prime Minister fully aware of the direct threat posed to a major cable manufacturing industry in the La Trobe electorate if the giant Pirelli company goes ahead with its proposal to establish here in the near future? Can the Prime Minister assure the House that the Government has required an early report from the Industries Assistance Commission on the matter of capacity within the present Australian industry and particularly that it has been made quite clear to Pirelli that the Government requires that firm to interpret the IAC findings on capacity as a clear guideline on any proposals Pirelli may be considering as to its future in this country? 

 -Mr Speaker, I rise on a point of order. I should like to make a personal explanation. 
-On behalf of the Government I thank the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  for his remarks. I think he has made it clear to the House that there is nothing particularly contentious in the Bill we have before us. The legislation puts into effect amendments which were foreshadowed by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  in his speech to the Parliament on 1 April 1976. The Bill does not materially alter the existing Foreign Takeovers Act which has been in operation since 1 January 1976. It does, however, remove certain shortcomings that exist in the Act and at the same time firms up aspects that have been part of Liberal-National Country Party policy for a very considerable time. 
The first matter to be dealt with refers to what the Treasurer called interlocking provisions between the foreign takeovers legislation and the Trade Practices Act. Honourable members should not be too disturbed by that terminology. I have heard it said that this is highly technical legislation, but I can assure the House that it cannot be all that complicated because alas I can understand it. However, the fact is that under the existing Foreign Takeovers Act an overseas investor as defined could be presented with a quite unreasonable advantage relative to a local investor when seeking to take over or to merge with an existing Australian enterprise. At present an overseas investor must satisfy the Treasurer that his request to take over an enterprise in Australia complies with the Foreign Takeovers Act. This, of course, is treated by the Treasurer in a thoroughly confidential manner. However, as the Act exists at the moment, if the Treasurer is satisfied with the application from the foreign company the approval is recognised by the Trade Practices Commission and consequentially the foreign company is at liberty to negotiate. 
Let us compare this with the position of a local investor, whether he be an individual or a company seeking to take over or to merge with an existing Australian enterprise. Such an applicant may be required to go before a public hearing of the Trade Practices Commission and satisfy that body the proposal meets with the criteria under which the Commission operates. The applicant's affairs and the proposal are exposed to the public view and equally the proposal is exposed to competitors whether they be local or foreign. Clearly this is an inequitable situation between local and foreign investors and it should not be tolerated any longer. I think it is correct to say that the previous Government had given notice that it was going to take the step that is encompassed in this Bill. 
It is also important that one or two other apparent anomalies are to be removed and guidelines are to be tightened up as a result of this Bill. For instance, previously it was unlawful for prospective parties to a takeover under the foreign takeovers legislation to conduct negotiations in respect of the proposal. This was never intended in the spirit of the original Bill which is now the Act. It was never intended that that should be the situation and quite clearly it is impractical to expect such a provision to remain. This is a matter which is causing the Government very considerable concern because it is quite possible that there would be in the country people who have unwittingly broken the Act in this respect and for that reason, particularly in view of the fact that there are very considerable penalties which would apply to people who contravene the Act in this way, clearly this has to be tidied up and removed. This is being made retrospective to 1 January 1976 which is the date on which the existing Act was given assent. That actually leads into quite a deep subject which there is no need to pursue at the moment but if in fact there was a situation uncovered where people or a company had been in contravention of the Act reinstatement could have been required and that obviously would lead to a very untidy situation and one which the participants could not reasonably have been expected to foresee. Particularly where share trading or other operations had been going on or may have been going on, it could have led to a very delicate position which I do not think anybody on either side of the House would want to see remain. 
We are grateful that the Opposition has given its indication that it is supporting the amendments that are before the House. This is one of those occasions when both sides of the Parliament can be seen to be working in the common interest, the common good and to meet the national need and I think as such it is something for which both sides of the House are grateful. On behalf of the Government I thank the honourable member for Adelaide for making his remarks so succinct. There was no need for him to be so modest about the entertainment that he was about to give us. We enjoyed his speech immensely as we always enjoy Opposition speeches when they are supporting what the Government is doing. 
Following the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  is really quite an extraordinary task. I was moved to hear him say that the Australian Labor Party was going to do something about helping to bridge the deposit gap. I think I ought to make it clear to the House that the reason this Bill is before us tonight is that the previous Labor Government put through legislation to abolish the home savings grants. How can the honourable member stand up and say to us on the one hand that he is concerned with bridging the gap in the deposits when on the other hand the record of the previous Government shows that it took steps actually to throw this legislation out? Notwithstanding this, the honourable member for Hughes said that he was speaking strictly to the facts. He really has a most curious interpretation of what facts are. He said at one stage towards the end of his speech that people who wish to benefit under the home savings grants would be required to save $40 a week, otherwise they would not qualify. Has anybody ever heard such utter rubbish in all of his life? He went on to say, when he was at the height of his emotion, that a recipient of this money could get out and buy- I am quoting him exactly-' a diamond ring for his wife, or a fur coat for his daughter, or indeed, perhaps could send his girl friend across to the Riviera'. It is interesting to contemplate that sort of performance, but if anybody thinks he can use public money through the home savings grants for those purposes, he has a big surprise coming to him. The honourable member for Hughes is really in the world of fantasy when he tries to tell the House that that is what is going on. 
I personally have been looking forward to the introduction of this piece of legislation ever since I was elected to Parliament. I welcome this Bill because it is a most significant step forward by the present Government to help people who are genuine home buyers. I recall that this was so much on my mind when I was elected to Parliament that the first letter I wrote to a Minister of the new Government was to  Senator Greenwood  to ask him to take steps to bring forward this legislation as soon as he possibly could. I know that he immediately set a task force to work within his Department to firm this legislation so that we could bring it before the House. This legislation puts thousands and thousands of Australians back on the road to home ownership once again. There is absolutely no question about thus. It does it in a way which improves the legislation which the previous Liberal-Country Party Government brought in, I think in 1 964. 
It is an interesting fact- perhaps not everybody realises this; I do not think everybody in the Opposition realises this- that over 400 000 Australians have benefited from the home savings grants which the previous Liberal-Country Party Government brought in. That is an extraordinarily high figure. But of course what needs to be said in a debate of this nature is that the Liberal-National Country Party Government believes in home ownership for Australians. In fact, when we were last in office, before 1972, nearly 75 per cent of Australians either owned or were buying their own homes. Look at the figures. What happened in the 3 years while the Labor Government was in office? The figure fell below 60 per cent. I think there is one deduction we can draw from that: that the Australian Labor Party is just not interested in home ownership for Australians. It is interesting that the Opposition is so much against the home savings grants that it brought in the really big guns of the Opposition to speak against the legislation. It brought in the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  and to supplement him, the former Minister for Housing and Construction in the previous Government. I do not know whether the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  will follow me in this debate, but I do not think he is interested in home ownership either. He is interested only in the technicalities of law. 
Let us look at what the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition said in trying to criticise this legislation. He said that it was encouraging the people to save and he criticised it because of that. Does the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, speaking for the Opposition, think there is something sinister if an Australian wants to save? Is there something sinister about that? Is that something that has never been done before? It is on the record that the Government is anxious that Australians should maintain their normal spending patterns but to think that the Opposition should say to Australians: 'You must not save. There is something wrong with that'. That is effectively what the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition said. Even if he is saying that, in the case of this legislation in terms of qualifying for the home savings grant he is simply wrong. He has not even read the Bill. He is living in another world. Apparently he does not realise that under this legislation, the improvement to the existing Act, it is possible for people who will qualify for the grant to put their savings in forms other than just cash in a bank account. In other words, what I am saying is that payments towards land or a home qualify as part of the saving which will make people eligible for the home savings grants. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition went on to say that the deposit gap is not the problem. I should like him to come to my electorate sometime and to have a little talk with me. I would take him around to some of the people in my area who are saving to buy a home. I should like him to have a little interview with them. 
-He is remote for the people. I should like him to come to my electorate. I think the honourable member for St George would like him to go to his electorate, too. 
He could go to Bowman. He could go everywhere. He would learn by talking to the people that bridging the deposit gap for home buying today is about the single biggest problem that home buyers face. 
He may go on an overseas trip. He would probably find that in most countries overseas people who want to build homes have better access to home building funds than people have in Australia at present. That is something on which we are going to act on and which we are going to rectify. 
I am under some pressure not to speak for too long on this matter, despite the fact that I think it is a most significant piece of legislation, despite the fact that it is a piece of legislation that I have been looking forward to ever since I was elected to this House, despite the fact that I am interested to get back into my electorate next week and tell the people there about what they have been looking for. I have a file of letters from people in my electorate- the biggest single file that I have- from people who have been inquiring to me when the home savings grants legislation is going to go through. I am looking forward to getting back into my electorate next week and telling the people that at last that legislation is through. I will tell them that it is on the record, and I will also tell them that the Opposition in the Federal Parliament, to a man, is against this legislation. 
-Yes, I know that the honourable member for Corio is against it. The Opposition is against the legislation to such an extent that it brought in the big guns of the Opposition to speak against it. It could have gone only one man higher in the Opposition; it could have brought in the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  but he is attending to other business. So it brought in the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  the single most articulate spokesman in the Opposition on homes savings, to speak on the legislation. 
-I am indebted to the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)  for shortening his remarks so I can make a couple of points. It is typical of the sincerity and the benevolence that the members of the National Country Party extend to their colleagues in the Liberal Party. 
The honourable member for Wimmera told the House of certain problems associated with the reception of television signals in outlying areas. I want to take just a couple of minutes to tell the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr E. L. Robinson)  and the House that it is not necessary to go into the outlying areasthe remote areas- of Australia to receive a poor television signal. The honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  mentioned poor television reception in the Adelaide Hills. In some areas of my electorate of La Trobe in Victoria within 20 miles of the Mount Dandenong television antenna- which is the main base from which the Greater Melbourne area receives its signal- it is impossible to get a first rate television signal on an ordinary receiver. In 1976, with all the technology we have at our disposal, when a decent, strong signal cannot be picked up within 20 or 30 miles of a television antenna, we should not sit idly by. The sort of reception received in this area is a part vision- it is very difficult to identify what is on the screen. In some instances double vision occurs. As one who has watched some of the personalities who appear on the television screen I can tell honourable members that when we are seeing those personalities double it just makes it twice as bad. I am thinking in particular of some of the political identities who appear on television. 
It seems a lot of these television personalities support those on the other side of this House. I would not be so ungracious as to say that they actually come from the other side of this House. Every now and again we do see on the television screen a well known political personality with big black bushy eyebrows. When we see four of these eyebrows rather than two it is a little too much to take. 
Some residents in the town of Warburton, which is at the top of the Yarra Valley and is a very scenic area in the electorate of La Trobe, are going to extraordinary lengths to improve the antennae on the roofs of their houses. They are constructing skyscraper-like antennae systems which are tremendously ugly and in a scenic area like this part of the Yarra Valley are a real intrusion. The antennae are also tremendously expensive. If the money that is going into building these elaborate antennae could be used as a kind of part payment towards a system of cable television in the localised area, it would obviously be to everybody's benefit. There would be a far better signal and money would be saved one way or the other- whether it be by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board, Telecom Australia or the individual home owner. The point is that, in the final analysis, everybody would be better off. There would be television reception which everybody in the town could receive. Sales of television sets would increase, but, of course, the latter is only a side effect. 
This situation has existed for 15 years, to my knowledge. It was not the previous honourable member for La Trobe who raised this matter; it was the honourable member for La Trobe before him, and he represented the electorate for some 12 years. The file on this matter must be  2Vi  inches to 3 inches thick. There has been review after review and all the bureaucratic tangle that one normally finds with these sorts of things. I ask the Minister to dig out the file, brush all the dust off it, open it and have a good look at it. I do this in the hope that before very long he will be able to come back to me and say: 'We can do something for the people at the top end of the electorate of La Trobe who are suffering from this hopelessly inadequate television reception  
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
-The Budget introduced a little over a week ago has set out in a logical and thorough way the course the Fraser Government has mapped out to put Australia back on the rails. In one sense the Budget is predictable. Anyone who cared to read the Governor-General's opening speech to this Thirtieth Parliament would see this statement: 
Control of inflation is the Government's first consideration. Unless inflation is brought under control there will be no adequate employment opportunities, no soundly based return to prosperity. 
Agreements on this stark but simple fact of economic life is almost universal. In the time of previous Labor Government, Treasurer Hayden made the same comment in the 1975 Budget Speech when he said: 
Inflation is this nation's most menacing enemy. Unless it is curbed, the nation's productive capacity will run down and job opportunities will diminish. If we fail to control inflation unemployment will get worse. 
Later  Mr Hayden  added: 
More inflation simply leads to more unemployment. 
These are more than just bald statements; they are plain facts undisputed by anyone; that is, by anyone with a desire to see Australia pull itself out of the present disastrous slump and restore its people to a life of opportunity and success. 
Debates in this Parliament have shown the wide disparity between Government and Opposition in relation to how the economic problems should be solved. But it should be remembered that debates about economic problems are not only debates about dollar signs, percentages or deficits but also are debates about the lives and interests of people. For that reason most of the idle rhetoric that Opposition members have used in these debates has fallen flat. Political opportunism has never sufficed for political realism. It is little wonder that so much of the metropolitan Press feels the need to play the role of Opposition, to question the Government, to go behind the large print and look for the details. This is the first Opposition since Federation to be paid such a back-handed compliment by the media. It is a compliment which the Opposition thoroughly deserves. 
In this Parliament we have seen the deep and bitter divisions within the Opposition not only about leadership but about policy, particularly economic policy. Ships without a rudder are never expected to get far, but the Opposition's ship lacks even the simple buoyancy to stay afloat. The recent Budget response by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  was a stark contrast to that provided by the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  when he spoke about the Labor Budget a year ago. Last night's attempt at bold rhetoric provided no substitute for reasoned argument. There was no suggestion of a viable economic plan that Labor would support. It was not a leader's speech; it was an adolescent attempt by the Leader of the Opposition to justify his own discredited economic outlook and performance- the 2 factors which ensured that his own Party met with such electoral ruin last December. 
The Opposition has fallen for the same old card trick, claiming that renewed level of government spending will, in isolation, restore employment and prosperity without increasing inflation. The Leader of the Opposition is back on his old course of extravagant promises coupled with knee-jerk bashing for enterprise- the same course which brought his Government unstuck when the electorate realised that beneath the veneer of benevolence, the Labor Party's real thrust was destined to bring Australia to its knees. 
There is no secret that the Opposition Leader feels uncomfortable talking on economic matters. By his own admission he regarded foreign affairs as his primary interest, even to the extent of branding himself as the greatest ever Foreign Minister.  His  entry into the fields of fiscal policy have hitherto been spectacular but infrequent. One memorable occasion was when he tried secretly and in collaboration with a handful of colleagues to avoid the accepted procedures and raise $4,000m in the bazaars of the Middle East. This was the money that he later claimed was for temporary purposes. More recently he admitted to using his precious time for a simple breakfast meeting with some shadowy figures from Iraq. Only when his job was on the line did he admit the purpose of that meeting- to solicit $500,000 for his Party's electoral funds. 
This is hardly a conspicuous record for a man who still aspires to lead the government of this country. But it is a record characterised by his present claim that the solution to unemployment is big government spending. Let us look at his own record during the last financial year. Labor increased government spending by 46 per cent yet unemployment still rose by 300 per cent. When, if ever, will the honourable member learn? We have seen in stark and bitter reality the fruits of the Australian Labor Party's attitude to economic policy. Did anyone ever see such a sequence of crackpot, jackpot schemes foisted on any nation in period of 3 years? The ALP may like to forget many things but it has learnt nothing at all. 
I ask honourable members to look at the dramatic increases in family allowances provided in this Budget. Is it any wonder this announcement was acclaimed as the most far reaching social reform since Federation? Had the Labor Government taken the trouble to read the Henderson Committee report on poverty it might have introduced such a reform. But no, the Labor Government, completely preoccupied with grandiose schemes designed only to transfer power to Canberra, ignored the plight of families. Under our new policy, some 300 000 low income families involving 800 000 children and with income levels that previously derived little or no benefit from rebate schemes will benefit the most. The Budget will put more real money back into people's pockets by the introduction of tax indexation. 
The honourable member for Prospect reveals his own ignorance and lack of understanding of what is happening in regard to this Budget which will put more real money back into people's pockets. The previous Government rejected the step of tax indexation. We said we would introduce tax indexation over 3 years. We introduced it within the first 8 months of government, yet the Opposition still likes to claim that we have broken promises. The previous Labor Treasurer said in his Budget Speech- this is something that might appeal to honourable gentlemen opposite- that to introduce tax indexation without cutting education and social welfare commitments would be 'to ask the impossible'. Well, we have done it. We have made real increases in education funds and even greater increases in social welfare funds; yet we still managed to increase full tax indexation. Honourable members opposite laugh because they know that tax indexation serves to benefit people rather than to benefit governments in Canberra. What finer compliment could the present Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  receive than to be effectively told by his predecessor that he had achieved the impossible? I compliment the Treasurer, the honourable member for Flinders, on his remarkable achievement. 
Another feature of the Budget is shown by the results of our federalism policy. Though  Mr Wran  managed to win an election by wrongly convincing the New South Wales electorate that federalism was centralism in another form, this Budget puts the lie to that claim. Untied revenue grants to the States have increased by a staggering 2 1 per cent. Even more significant are the increases in revenue to local government- no less than $ 140m or an increase of 75 per cent. This is federalism at it very best- the federalism that was voted for in December last. 
The Budget introduced by the Treasurer last week followed our consistent course to reform. We allocated $5,389m for our continuing commitment to maintain and improve social security benefits and welfare services. This figure represents- honourable members opposite might listen particularly to this- about onequarter of the total Budget outlay and a 23 per cent increase over the amount spent in this field last year. The Government has been concerned to make sure that people in greatest need receive the greatest assistance. This Budget allows us to fulfil that desire. 
Our concern for people is illustrated in many ways. Pensions will now be automatically adjusted in line with consumer price index increases. This move will protect pensioners against increased living costs. For the first time it will take pensioner payments out of the political arena. The separate property component in the means test for pensioners has been abolished. From early November pensioners will be means tested on income only, including income from property. It is not a test based on the combined value of income and property. Many pensioners will gain from this significant reform. It will prevent injustices whereby many people are now denied the pension simply because they own property, and we know the Australian Labor Party takes a very dim view of people owning property. 
For the thousands of Australian handicapped this has been a Budget of real reform. No other Australian Government has done more for the handicapped in one step. Allowances to handicapped children have been increased by 50 per cent. From the beginning of November the allowance will jump from $10 a week to $15 a week. Also the handicapped children's benefit paid in respect of handicapped children in institutions has been increased from $3.50 a day to $5 a day. These 2 increases will benefit about 2 1 000 handicapped children in this country. Funds for handicapped persons' assistance will total $ 1 2 1 m over the next 3 years. This will assist voluntary organisations to set up and operate sheltered workshops, therapy and training centres, and to provide accommodation for handicapped children and adults. For all of Australia's handicapped children and adultsand the friends, relatives and guardians of the handicapped- this Government's first Budget is a social document in the truest sense. The Government has shown to the handicapped that it is concerned first with people and not just with figures. 
The Government has allocated $225m over the next 3 years to subsidise the building of aged persons accommodation. This again is a significant degree of assistance to an area of real need. It will provide urgent accommodation for about 15 000 aged people. Still, it is not enough. There are 18 groups in my electorate which are on the list awaiting funding. There are many more in the formation stages. This program will also assist voluntary organisations by ensuring a continuity of planning and building for the next 3 years. They will be able to borrow in this first year against the allocation for the remaining 2 years, bringing forward the time which it will take to get people into these houses. We have also introduced a special deduction to apply where an interest in an estate passes to a surviving spouse. The previous Government persisted with an arrangement whereby the surviving spouse to a marriage very often had to sell the family home in order to pay government charges. The Government regards this as a necessary and important reform as it is in an area of the law in which personal tragedies have been far too commonplace. 
Following a view put by the Henderson inquiry into poverty, the Government has decided to implement a trial program designed to assist low income earners to choose their own rental accommodation on the open market. I hope it will be successful. I hope it will provide the Government with a new mechanism to make welfare housing sensitive to the needs of the users rather than those of the planners. We have come to the end of a stage of Australian history where politicians and public servants sitting in Canberra will make every decision for people who are disadvantaged or people in distress. The Government will be closely monitoring the progress of this important welfare reform. From those in need of special assistance to the ordinary working men and women, this is a Budget that puts people first. For the first time in 4 years, Australians were not hit with increases in indirect taxes to help pay for the expensive and wasteful Government programs that were introduced in the last 3 years. There was no extra tax on cigarettes, wine, beer or petrol. It was not needed and it was not wanted and it has not been introduced. One of the most specious suggestions that is continually put forward by Opposition members in this Parliament has been that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  broke alleged election undertakings with respect to Medibank. I think that this farce has gone on for too long. I think it is time to put into the  Hansard  record- where the people of Australia can read it- what the Prime Minister said in the election campaign prior to the election of this Parliament. 
He said time and time again that although Medibank would be retained there would be changes to it. I draw the attention of honourable members to statements made by the present Prime Minister at the National Press Club luncheon on 2 December. 
Let us have a talk about the policy speech. Let us refer to the policy speech of 1972 when the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  outlined the great medical fund of which he had been talking for so long. I recall the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  bleating the other day about the Medibank levy. In the first instance, who introduced the thought of a Medibank levy? Who brought in the legislation for a Medibank levy in the first instance? The honourable member for Port Adelaide should look at the Labor Party policy speech of 1972 to see whether he can find one single reference to a levy to fund the national health insurance program. There was not one mention of the word 'levy'. 
There is not one mention of the word 'levy'. 
There is not one mention of the word 'levy' in the national health insurance program referred to in the 1972 Whitlam policy speech made at Blacktown. I do not know where the honourable member for Port Adelaide was at that time. 
He was asleep. The honourable member for Wakefield picked him in one. The honourable member for Port Adelaide is just like the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  who is allegedly so interested in the shipbuilding industry that last night, when the Leader of the Opposition was speaking about shipbuilding, the honourable member for Newcastle had to be woken up so he could listen. That is how genuine and concerned he is about what is going on in the Australian shipbuilding industry. The honourable member for Port Adelaide is living in another world, as are the other Opposition participants in this debate. I refer honourable members to the transcript of questions and answers at the National Press Club luncheon on 2 December 1975 when the present Prime Minister was asked about changes that he would be making to Medibank. He stated: 
It's not possible to be precise about what changes might be required because the form in which it was originally introduced by the previous Government - 
That is, Medibank- hasn't yet been operating long enough for us to analyse, to be able to analyse the deficiencies - 
And there were plenty- and the virtues - 
There were some- that might flow out of that. 
The Prime Minister stated further 
It's not possible to indicate the areas where reform and change might be necessary until there's been discussion with the States, with hospitals, with the professions and obviously with our own departments. 
That statement was made by the Prime Minister at the Press Club luncheon in Melbourne on 2 December 1975. I feel it is important to put it into the  Hansard  record. I do so with the remote hope that members of the Opposition will read, mark, learn and inwardly digest the facts. The honourable member for Port Adelaide, who insists on talking about lies and broken promises, is entirely wrong and out of order. 
-Last Monday at Monash University one of the ugliest demonstrations in Australia's political history occurred. A mob of some 1000 people, thought to comprise students and certain left-wing unionists, took specific action to interrupt the function that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  as leader of the country had attended Monash to perform. It was for the very humanitarian purpose of opening a resource of national significance. It was significant that the violent demonstration took place at a university because that is the one place in the country which has hitherto been recognised as the bastion of free speech. Professor Ronald Taft described the incident as the most shocking demonstration he had ever seen. In addition, Professor Scott added that it was an untidy and unruly scene. In fact it was the worst incident since the unruly Northcote demonstration in the electorate of Batman prior to last December's election which won the Liberal Party tens of thousands of votes. 
It is significant that both the academics I mentioned condemned the violence of the mob in the strongest possible terms. One of the strangest features I have noted in the time that has elapsed since that event is that neither the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam),  the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren),  nor any member of the Opposition has seen fit to condemn the incident. Not even the sanctimonious and pious Bob Hawke has had anything to say about it. Not even the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition- a man who prides himself on his peaceful outlook- has had one word to say in respect of it. In fact, the silence from the Opposition has been deafening. 
I think it is more than strange. I think it is actually sinister especially in respect of the Leader of the Opposition because the newspapers have been asking for comments from these Labor Leaders, and in this respect I do not regard the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  as a leader. Maybe 'leaders' is too generous a term. The Melbourne  Herald  reported last Tuesday: 
Opposition Leader has nothing to say. 
The Leader of the Opposition specifically rejected the chance to put his view and his 
Party's view on mob violence. What can we conclude about this apparent failure to do an obvious public duty? Trie Leader of the Opposition and members of the Opposition either are prisoners of the left wing strong men who are intent on wrecking this country or they condone the incidents that took place. Possibly the more logical conclusion we could draw is that they are in both those categories. Members of the Labor Party are indicted by their silence, by their complete lack of respect and by their tolerance or in fact the condoning of this violence. The nation expects at least a semblance of public leadership from these men. This is their darkest hour. 
It thought it was most significant that the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  saw fit to refer to the Loan Council. Fortunately, this country remembers the respect that the previous Government had for the Loan Council, when it took off and decided to bypass the accepted practice- it avoided the Loan Counciland go to the bazaars of the Middle East to raise $4,000m for goodness knows what. Finally, honourable members opposite told us it was for 'temporary purposes'. Has anybody ever heard such a sanctimonious effort as that made by the honourable member for Shortland who tried to tell this House that he had respect for the Loan Council? 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. Has he advised the States that the Government considers Australian Assistance Plan type programs, being programs primarily of a local community nature, are best funded and administered by State governments? Do the very large increases to the States in untied revenue assistance grants provide those States wishing to continue AAP-type programs with the necessary funds? Finally, are the untied increases to both State governments and local governments a direct result of this Government's federalism policy? 
-Mr Acting  Speaker,  I thought it was fascinating to hear the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  spend that time deprecating the profession of lawyers. Not everybody in this country knows that although at present the honourable member for Oxley is being paid as a politician he is spending his time studying law. 
I shall speak for only a few minutes on the Telecommunications Amendment Bill. I will support the Bill rather than the amendment. In doing so, I am not going to say that all is well within Telecom. Nor will I be saying that the service which Telecom is presently providing is either adequate or meets the demands that are being made on its services. The Bill is basically a machinery measure so that Telecom has some autonomy in the raising of its loan finance. I think it is fairly clear that the flexibility that this approach gives is quite appropriate. 
However, in discussing the Bill and the ways of financing Telecom, I think it is appropriate that we should look at the service that Telecom is providing, particularly as a good deal of these loan funds will be required for capital and technical services and other works. Telecom has a responsibility to meet the demands of people for modern and efficient communication services. It also has a prime responsibility to see that advantage is taken of the latest technical developments that are available. The question that has to be posed from time to time is: Has Telecom succeeded in the task that this Parliament has set for it? Certainly Telecom has very good public relations services but what worries me is whether Telecom offers particularly good communications services. In the electorate of La Trobe there are what I believe to be far too many complaints regarding delays in the connection of telephone services. In addition, there are too many instances of complaints about delays in carrying out maintenance services. Every week I am asked to contact the district telephone manager about one or other of these matters. To be fair, that officer is very courteous and co-operative. I am sure he is doing his best to try to overcome the delays and inconveniences. However, I must say that a delay of 12 weeks in reconnecting a telephone to a solicitor's office in Belgrave, or a delay of IS weeks in connecting a second exchange line to a factory in Bayswater, is simply not good enough. These are not isolated cases. They are quite typical. The Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  is well aware of my concern at these delays. I know that he is sympathetic and has been trying to help me with it. I ask him to continue to give me support because I can assure him that it is the only way in which he will deter me from pursuing him from time to time to persuade him to make amends and improvements. 
No, the crow flies in a very conventional manner, and that is the way in which the miles are measured. While discussing the technical services provided by Telecom, I think that a passing reference should be made to the provision of cable television services. This is one of the direct and particular responsibilities of Telecom. I hope that in due course, in this current financial year, some of these funds under the capital works program will be used to develop some of the cable television services that are required. As I have said on a number of occasions in this Parliament, many areas of the La Trobe electorate are subject to very inferior television reception. This problem is particularly insidious for the local people because the main antennae for the greater Melbourne television reception area are actually in the electorate at the top of Mount Dandenong, which is close to the central areas where most of the people live. There are a number of antennae on top of Mount Dandenong and they are an intrusion on the magnificent local landscape of which the local people are very proud. However, it is a fact that in some areas it is still impossible to obtain accurate television reception. 
One of the alternatives facing Telecom is the provision of cable television services. This is the responsibility of Telecom. Also in the electorate of La Trobe, at the top of the Yarra Valley, is located the little township of Warburton. For 7 years the Warburton Advancement League has been pursuing a course of action, to obtain cable television services for their town- and a very delightful little township it is. I raised this matter in the House just a few weeks ago and the Minister for Post and Telecommunications was kind enough to tell me that he would be taking up the matter on my behalf and that of the people of Warburton. The television reception at Warburton is very inferior. In fact, people simply cannot receive on some of the television channels. The residents are installing enormous television antennae in order to obtain the reception that they require. These antennae are very costly and they are not very attractive to look at, and the whole situation is very inconvenient. The people can receive at best only 2 of the metropolitan channels. The alternative is the provision of cable television services. This has been the saga of events for the people of Warburton for the last 7 years. They have contacted and written to every Minister on many occasions during that period seeking support for the provision of these services. One of the most recent and interesting replies was received in March of last year from the former Minister in charge of the Post Office,  Senator Bishop,  who said that he expected a decision to be made in a short time on cable television for Warburton. I regret to say that nothing happened in the remainder of 1975 and, so far, nothing has happened in 1976. 
The honourable member for Hunter says that there has been a change of government. But there has been no change in the quality of television reception in Warburton. Until some far better provision for television reception is made for people wishing to watch television in Warburton or in the Dandenongs area or anywhere in the electorate of La Trobe, the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, Telecom and this Parliament will be hearing from me with regard to this matter time and time again. 
During the last couple of days I have received letters from the principals of 3 schools at Warburton. I refer to the Warburton Primary School, 
St Joseph's School and the Warburton Seventh Day Adventist School. They have all told me it is difficult to obtain television reception in order that they can give their students the benefit of the excellent educational programs that are televised for primary and secondary school students. I thank the House for giving me this opportunity to make these points because they are most important. As honourable members would know, television today is a basic necessity in nearly every home. I believe that there are television sets in 95 per cent of homes within the range of television reception. Consequently, with the pace of life today and the interesting programs on television, it is, I believe, a basic necessity that everybody should have access to reception so that if they wish to have a television set they can do so. I am grateful for having the opportunity to tell the Parliament about this matter. I was anxious to let the Parliament and the Minister for Post and Telecommunications know about these problems. I was also anxious to have Telecom itself get to know about these problems. 
It will not be lost on those people listening to the broadcast of these proceedings today that the Opposition - 
Motion ( by  Mr Young)  put: 
That the honourable member for La Trobe be not further heard. 
-Tonight the House is debating the motion moved by the Government to amend the National Health scheme through the Health Insurance Levy Bill. In this Bill the Government proposes certain amendments to provide for a levy and to clarify certain aspects of the way in which the levy will be applied. The Opposition has moved an amendment to the Bill, thereby seeking to eliminate any levy at all. I think Government members and people listening tonight to the debate could be excused for saying: 'What on earth will the Australian Labor Party do next in respect of national health care?' The whole saga of events that have taken place since the proposal was originally put forward have served to confuse, to abuse, to violate the interests of Australian people in respect of health care. I believe that the Bill introduced by the Government is quite logical and quite clear. But tonight the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass),  has come into the House and, speaking for the Opposition, suddenly moved an amendment to the BUI which in one swoop seeks to totally eliminate a Medibank levy. 
I think I could be excused for a moment for looking back and reviewing the history of the attitude of the Australian Labor Party in this Parliament to the levy, whether it be for a national health insurance fund or, more recently, for Medibank. If I could retrace some of the steps, I should point out that when the Labor Government suggested a levy to fund its proposed health insurance scheme it talked of 1.25 per cent of taxable income. Subsequently I believe they made an announcement that the levy would be 1.35 per cent of taxable income. In his 1972 election policy speech at Blacktown in New South Wales the then Leader of the Opposition,  Mr E.  G. Whitlam, failed to mention the word 'levy' when he was putting to the Australian electorate his view of the form national health insurance should take. Not once did he mention the word 'levy'. He went into that election and many Australians voted for his party. They voted for it in the electorate of La Trobe because they thought they were going to get something free. But in subsequent years when the Labor Party was in Government it changed its tack. It brought in a proposition to introduce a levy on taxable income. Since then the Labor Party has taken a left turn, a right turn, and tonight it has taken an about turn. The Opposition has sent the honourable member for Maribyrnong into this House- at least I think the Opposition has sent him but I am not entirely sure that as a party and an Opposition it has agreed on it- and he has moved an amendment to abolish the Medibank levy. This is even more curious. 
-To abolish it. That is the amendment before the House. 
I do not believe he asked the  President  of the Australian Labor Party because just a few months ago this Government, when it came to office, set up the Medibank Review Committee. That committee was given certain specific tasks to inquire into health problems generally in this country. Many submissions were made to that Review Committee and it conducted a very exhaustive study. We are grateful to the members of the committee for doing that work. Many submissions were made to the committee. A submission was even made by the Australian Council of Trade Unions. We were reliably told by none other than the  President  of the ACTU- who is also the  President  of the Australian Labor Party- in his capacity of wearing both hats as Stiffy and Mo that the proposition that the ACTU put to the Medibank Review Committee represented the view of the Opposition. One could reflect on why the  President  of the Australian Labor Party put it rather than the Leader of the Australian Labor Party. Well, of course, the Leader was out of the country and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  was out of the country, as were most of the other representatives of that party in this Parliament. 
The Opposition left it to the  President  of the ALP to put the case to the Medibank Review Committee and it was for a levy of 1.6 per cent. That was a few months ago when we set up a review committee specifically to look into the whole situation of Medibank; to review where it was going, to establish whether it was providing a good service and, more particularly, to identify where it was failing to provide an adequate medical service. Subsequently the Leader of the Opposition stood up on 5 August in the Collingwood Town Hall in Melbourne and criticised the Government's proposal for a 2.5 per cent levy for Medibank. He said that all that was required was a 1.8 per cent levy. 
No, there were 12 people present. 
Yes, there were 6 members from the parliamentary Australian Labor Party and 6 others. For a meeting attended by only 12 people it got a lot of publicity. What it said was that the only requirement was a 1.8 per cent levy in order to fund Medibank. 
That was across the board, and what is more, it did not include a ceiling. That means that, irrespective of income- it does not matter whether a person is on the minimum wage or on the salary of a member of Parliament - 
Whatever it included it was to be 1.8 per cent right across the board with no ceiling, because the Australian Labor Party took the view that Medibank, as a government service, provided yet another opportunity to redistribute income. That was the point. The Labor Party wanted to use not only the income tax formulas, the traditional way of redistributing income, but also a government service, Medibank, as another mechanism by which to redistribute income. If one takes that view to its logical extension one recognises - 
As the honourable member for Maribyrnong recognised, when I pointed it out to him, that the Australian Labor Party is in fact proposing that any government service which is provided should be used as an additional mechanism by which to redistribute income. Let us take the example of buying a rail ticket in the morning to take a trip, say, into the city. Those who earn $20,000 a year taxable income should under Labor's proposal pay more than those who earn $10,000 a year taxable income. That is a logical extension of the argument, is it not? That is the view of the Australian Labor Party, the Opposition in this Parliament. It would seek to use every government service that is provided- it will think up a few more if it can- as a means by which to redistribute income. It is quite incredible. That is the view that Opposition members put. That is the thin edge of the wedge which the Leader of the Australian Labor Party put. Notwithstanding the interjections of the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam),  the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  is still Leader of the Australian Labor Party in this Parliament. He specified just a month and a few days ago that his Party's policy was to impose a 1.8 per cent levy. But the honourable member for Maribyrnong has moved in the Parliament tonight an amendment to the effect that there should be no levy to fund Medibank. 
The ACTING SPEAKER-Order! The honourable member for Prospect and the honourable member for Grayndler, according to my list of speakers, are due to take part in the debate next. I suggest that they keep their remarks until such time as they do speak. 
That is right; they are listed to speak next. What is intriguing this Parliament tonight is how on earth they are going to explain to the House and to those people listening to the broadcast of the proceedings tonight that a little over a month ago their Leader, the top man in their Party in this Parliament - 
The present one. 
No, the present one. When speaking on behalf of his Party he committed his Party to a policy position; he specified that there would be a levy of 1.8 per cent. Tonight the honourable member for Maribyrnong has suggested in this House that the new position of the Australian Labor Party is that there should be no Medibank levy. 
-I just wonder what on earth they are going to suggest next. Of course, what the Opposition has in fact done in moving its amendment is to reinforce yet again the impression that it has no single understanding of what it is all about. The Opposition in this Parliament still thinks that there is no limit on what a government can spend. We saw that in the last 3 years in which the Labor Party was in government it spent $6000m more than it raised. This required it to go seeking loans in the bazaars of the Middle East to try to balance its accounts. The honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  who is singing like a canary tonight, he was there in amongst it too. The Labor Party was dodging the Loan Council, dodging every convention that ever existed in order to try to scrape up some money, but at that time it still spent $6000m more than it was able to raise. And it still raised income tax by 300 per cent. 
Tonight the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  comes into this Parliament and says: 'There is no need for a levy. We should pay for Medibank out of tax.' What is he saying? He is saying that notwithstanding the 300 per cent increase of taxation Labor brought about in 3 years he would put it up again. He will necessarily increase the income tax scales yet again. I put it to the House: Does anybody seriously think that Australians will be prepared to pay yet more income tax in order to fund Medibank? A constituent came into my office and told me that last year he got a $343 increase in pension but has another $106 to pay in tax. In fact, according to the Labor tax scale which the honourable member for Maribyrnong is effectively saying will need to be increased, 40 per cent of that pension rise goes in income tax. What an extraordinary proposition to put to the House. The honourable member for Maribyrnong, who himself is a doctor and understands this proposition, is prepared to come in here on behalf of the Opposition and suggest there should be a further increase. 
It is extraordinary. I have to say, following the comment of the honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Shipton)  that I do not believe Labor Party members know what they have done tonight In the Bill the Government has proposed there are some very important measures. I will take the few minutes left to me to explain to the House exactly what those measures are. They are quite logical, they are quite clear, they are based on fact and they are based on principle. That is the way the Fraser Government operates. First of all there will be a ceiling on what taxpayers will need to provide in order to meet their Medibank obligation. No longer will there be the suggestion that the Medibank levy will be used as a means to redistribute income. Taxpayers, particularly the higher taxpayers, are already funding the expenses of patients under Medibank by five to one. Altogether the levy will raise something like $87Sm. In fact, Federal expenditure on health will be considerably in excess of $3,000m. The levy raises something like 20 per cent of the expenditure. That is clear. I make another important point which I would like to stress because the Opposition has sought time and time again to confuse, to discredit and to mislead- particularly to mislead pensioners, people who are vulnerable and people who were vulnerable under the Labor Government's 17 per cent inflation rate which wrecked the expectations and the wellbeing of thousands and thousands of Australians. I can reassure 75 per cent of pensioners by saying that those who hold the pensioner medical service card will not pay the Medibank levy. How many times have I read and how many times have I heard representatives of the Australian Labor Party, including the  President  of the Australian Labor Party trying to put fear into pensioners by saying that they will all be vulnerable and that they will all have to pay a Medibank levy? This is particularly evident when I have pensioner constituents at La Trobe coming into my office and telling me that 40 per cent of their pension increase is going in income tax. What hypocrisy it is for the Opposition now to come before the Parliament and suggest that the Medibank levy be eliminated! What hypocrisy it is for them to put such a proposition to the Parliament at this stage in view of the fact that they were the architects of a Medibank levy, although they went to an election in 1972 with not one mention of the word 'levy'. I reject this amendment and I commend the Bill to the House. 
Does the Treasurer recall an earlier question from the honourable member for Sydney to the Minister for Construction regarding the state of activity in the building industry? Is it a fact that investment decisions which affect activity in the construction industry are made many months, even years ahead of construction actually commencing? Does it follow that the 1976 levels of building commencements have reflected the economic deprivation inflicted on this country by the previous Labor Government? Will the Treasurer again confirm that national recovery is now under way? 
-On behalf of the Government, I acknowledge the contribution of the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  made in such a thoughtful manner. My attention was also drawn to the plight of those Yugoslav women who were working in market gardens at Werribee. There are 2 points that I would like to make. Firstly, I think the $ 1 7 referred to was an after tax wage and I hope it complies with the Victorian vegetable growers award which should cover work of this nature. I suggest to the honourable member for Scullin that if it does not, any case of injustice should be brought before this Parliament. I assure the honourable member that I know first hand that the plight of migrant people in general, but women in particular, was the subject of review by a Government committee very recently. That matter is in front of the Government at the moment. 
I thought I would take this opportunity, which is roughly 9 months after the Liberal-National Country Party Government came to office, to review some of the things that have happened in those 9 months. I thought that in the course of my review I would reflect on what might have happened if the Australian Labor Party had regained office last December. We recall that on 13 December last year the Australian Labour Party got the most overwhelming vote of no confidence that any political party has received in Australia's history. It was clear from that vote that Australians demanded the end of ineptitude, the end to scandal and the end to incompetence in national government. Well might that be demanded. I believe they also demanded a government that was prepared to take the necessary steps to pull Australia out of the critical economic conditions that had developed as a result of the Labor Government 's schemes of the previous 3 years. It was evident that Labor's approach was something of a crackpot jackpot, take it or leave it, grab at public office and government. They had not really thought through their responsibilities, which landed them in the mess that we recognise. I do not believe any Australian government has come into office in such a difficult time as did the Fraser Government. Inflation was rampant, interest rates were high, unemployment was at levels unheard of for 40 years, and the opportunities of thousands of Australians had been compromised in that short time. 
I think it is important to compare the vast gulf between Government and Opposition policy on economic recovery. In this Parliament the Australian Labor Party is still advocating more government spending as the means of solving the problems that the country is presently facing. In the 3 years that it was in office it managed to spend $6,000m more than it raised. That is notwithstanding the unprecedented increases in income tax revenue that it received. In this Parliament the Opposition is still claiming that government spending is the key to reducing unemployment. Forgetting for the moment that in 1974 it increased government spending by 46 per cent, unemployment went up by 300 per cent in the same year. In the same fashion it argues today for further wage increases to boost consumer spending. This blindly ignores all the evidence that in times of high inflation wage increases have the opposite effect. They fuel inflation, they increase unemployment and they effectively reduce consumer spending. In high inflationary times those who call for higher government spending, for bigger deficits, for full wage indexation or for devaluation of the Australian dollar- in the name of reducing unemployment- are simply calling for higher not lower unemployment. Pump priming is not the answer to today's problems. There will be no lasting return to individual prosperity or national competitiveness while inflation is rampant. 
Yesterday in this House I heard one Opposition member- I think it was the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)complaining  bitterly that Australian manufacturing companies have set up manufacturing divisions in South East Asia. He overlooked the fact that those companies have virtually lost their entire competitive position in Australia and that they have been effectively driven to set up manufacturing divisions in South East Asia. I believe the honourable member for Burke went on his usual kick of accusing the Government of union bashing. The only bashing so far in this Parliament has been Opposition members bashing enterprise. 
Bashing our ears too, as the honourable member for Swan interjects. Since they have been in Opposition they have been verbally assaulting enterprise in the same manner that characterised their term of government. Honourable members may be aware that I have purposely not said 'free enterprise', because there is no free enterprise. There is nongovernment enterprise, and that is the enterprise which traditionally employs 75 per cent of the Australian work force. That is the sector of the economy which makes the real contribution to the national resource so that living standards and opportunities for Australians are increased. It is not only a question of bashing the multinationals; it is not only a question of bashing the large Australian companies. Non-government enterprise in this country includes every man or woman who makes an investment or takes a risk to set up a business operation, to do something for themselves and thereby do something for others, who employs other people and contributes through taxes to the national resource. It is a strange fact that there were no more people employed in the non-government sector of enterprise in 1975 than there were when the Government parties left office in 1972. Yet the work force increased in that time by over 370 000. 
Productivity did not go up either. If the honourable member for Wills reflects on the subject of productivity he must realise that it must be related to wages. In addition, profit margins come into it. What the honourable member for Wills needs to understand is that real' wage increases in the 2 years to December 1974 increased by 1 6 per cent. 
The honourable member for Wills thinks that that personifies the revolution to which he is looking forward. That may be his attitude but the fact is that over a long term, in the 23 years of stable government provided by the Liberal Party and the Country Party 'real' wage increases averaged 3 per cent each year. In those 2 years to 1974 the real wage increases of 5 years were compressed into 2 years. Unfortunately productivity increases were not commensurate with those wage increases. So what inevitably followed? The result was high inflation, uncertain business and consumer confidence and inevitable unemployment. The honourable member for Wills, by his interjection, draws attention to the malaise of that period in which he and his Party were in office. 
-What we have just heard from the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  is typical of the sort of contribution he makes in debates in this House. It was characterised by the fact that it was extremely light on for facts. Early in his speech the honourable member referred to the fact that the Premier of Victoria,  Mr Hamer,  and one of his Ministers,  Mr Dunstan,  had lied in the Victorian Parliament about ownership of a company known as Vapold Pty Ltd. What the honourable member for Hunter and this House need to know is that the Liberal Party conducts its financial affairs in a somewhat different manner from that of the Australian Labor Party. The simple fact is that the Premier of Victoria and his Minister do not know, and have no reason to know, of the existence of a company known as Vapold. Neither, I suggest, would Liberal Party members in this Parliament, including probably the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  know of its existence. The fact is that Vapold Pty Ltd is a registered company, an approved company, and a respectable company which has respectable directors and respectable shareholders- something which characterises them as being different from the honourable member for Hunter. 
The honourable member said that Vapold is a Liberal Party trustee company. He is wrong in that respect. I did not know of the existence of Vapold or who the directors of that company were, or what Vapold seeks to do. The honourable member referred to a link between an alleged Liberal Party trustee company, which I repeat does not exist as such in those terms, and 3XY Pty Ltd. He apparently sees something sinister in the fact that 3XY will not accept Labor Party advertisements. How can anybody be surprised at that? Even the honourable member for Hunter would recognise that any business operation has a right to look at the credit rating of its clients. When it is known that the Australian Labor Party, preceding the 1975 general election, had failed in its clandestine attempt to get Iraqi dollars over breakfast one morning in Sydney, is it any wonder that the executives of 3XY take the view that it was not necessary to put their shareholders' funds at risk by dealing with debtors who cannot meet their repayments? 
Would the honourable member for Hunter, if he were in a business position, regard himself as obligated to deal with clients whose credit rating was suspect and who raised money in clandestine operations at shadowy breakfast meetings that took place on the higher floors of some of Sydney's high-rise buildings? It is strange indeed, when it is brought to public attention- the Liberal Party does not seek to hide this- that a dividend of $100,000 is payable to certain organs of the Liberal Party through this operation, that the honourable member overlooks the fact that $400,000 comes out of 3KZ and goes to the organs of the Labor Party. 
House adjourned at 1 1 p.m. 
It is evident that the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  does not know too much about the event of Tuesday week. If the bells had been rung to call a quorum when the horses were 6 furlongs from home- in view of the fact that they ring for 3 minutes- he would have had plenty of time to hear the Melbourne Cup right through. 
I do not know who wrote the speech that we have just heard from the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  but one thing which was quite clear to the House is that - 
As my colleague said, it was not very good. That goes without saying. But what is more important is that whoever wrote that speech did know what he was talking about. The person who wrote it gave it to a good man to deliver because the Deputy Leader of the Opposition does not know what the problem is all about when it comes to housing, and particularly public housing. Clearly the Opposition still has its priorities wrong in respect of this matter, as of course it has in so many other matters that are presently before the Parliament. The Deputy Leader of the Opposition has moved an amendment to the motion for the second reading of the 
Bill claiming that the amount of money provided is quite inadequate for the purpose. 
It is not meaningless, although the honourable member for Swan regards it as a meaningless amendment. It is more than that because it really reveals once again in an indelible manner the Opposition's view of the country's position at present. It also reveals something about its priorities when it comes to restoring some sort of economic sense to the country. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition proposes that we should spend vast quantities of additional funds. There is nothing unique about an Opposition member saying that. Every Opposition member in this Parliament is saying it. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  is saying it. He said it in what was alleged to be his major economic statement the other day in Melbourne when he said that Australia should spend its way out of the economic problems that are confronting us. He said at that time that public expenditure should be increased by $500m at once. Honourable members might reflect on the fact that when the Australian Labor Party was in government during the course of 1974 it took the same view about the predicament that existed in the country and increased public expenditure by 46 per cent in that one year. We might look back for a moment and see what happened. The Labor Government increased expenditure by 46 per cent, but the effect of this was that the rate of unemployment went up by 300 per cent. Today the Labor Party still has not learned the lesson. Members of the Labor Party do not understand what might or will bring about recovery. They are completely sold on the view that the way to deal with immediate problems is to spend more money. I must say though, in passing, that I am not entirely sure that that view is held by some of the more responsible elements of the Australian Labor Party. 
-Well, that is very questionable. My colleague asks whether there are in fact any responsible persons within that Party. I understand that the Federal President of the Party takes an entirely different view. 
Despite the interjection by the honourable member for Hughes, we are talking about money- the commitment of public money. When the Federal  President  of the Australian Labor Party put on one of his hats the other day to deal with economic matters he effectively reprimanded the Leader of the Opposition for his puerile approach to the problems that are confronting us. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition talked about the leasehold and freehold sectors of housing. I thought for a moment that the leopard had changed its spots. I thought for a moment that the  Deputy  Leader was going to say that more attention should be given to the provision of moneys so that people could buy their homes. Of course, it would have been a major departure for the Australian Labor Party to adopt a policy view that Australians should own their homes because we know quite clearly what its position is- namely that we should be a nation of leaseholders. 
-Like the Soviet, as my colleague says. That is exactly what the Labor Party is like because it does not believe in individual ownership. It believes in corporate ownership by the state, and this belief extends right into the field of housing. In fact, housing is its first priority for national ownership. 
The fact is that the Australian Labor Party has taken the view- it has held this view for a very long time; for far longer than I have been around this place and in fact around at all- that home ownership should be a national responsibility, that houses should be provided by the Federal Government and that individual people should lease their houses back. 
I think it is important at a time like this that we should reflect on the patterns of home ownership during the course of 23 years of Liberal-National Country Party government. More than 72 per cent of Australians either owned or were buying their homes. That was a position of which we were very proud. It was a priority that we regarded as thoroughly appropriate. It was an end to which we were very committed. In fact we would have liked to have seen a greater percentage of home ownership. But then in 1972 there was a change of government and the Australian Labor Party came in, threw the rule book out of the window and assaulted the private sector of housing as it had never been assaulted before. The Labor Government generated the highest inflation levels that we ever had and this meant that land and building costs escalated at most dramatic rates of increase. Land and building costs increased at rates which had never been thought of and which had been thought to be impossible in a country like Australia. This had the immediate effect of putting home ownership beyond the reach of thousands of Australians, particularly young Australians. That brought about a most dramatic change of events, as one could imagine. I believe that the percentage of Australians who owned or who were buying their homes at the end of 1975 when the Labor Party lost government had fallen to little more than 62 per cent. This was a most dramatic change of events. What the Opposition overlooks, of course, is the fact that one of the very first priorities that Australians have is to own their home. 
It is a fundamental attitude that they have; this Government believes that it is a fundamental right that they have. That is why we have taken steps to see that the inflation rate is brought down, so that the escalation in land and building costs tapers off instead of going right through the roof, if I might express it m that way. 
-I know that the honourable member for Melbourne does not like any move or policy that might bring down the inflation rate. He sat in this House for 3 years when his Party was in government and during that time there was not one murmur from him about the way the inflation rate was rising. He sat there as passively as a little mouse on the back benches, and not once did he object. Today he comes in as someone who has changed his colours. Now he takes the view, for some extraordinary reason, that a high inflation rate is wrong. He has had his time and he has muffed it. 
I think the thing that we might also reflect on when discussing housing legislation is what is happening in the industrial scene within the building industry. 
-The honourable member mentions an official of the Building Workers Industrial Union. What a notable contribution this person has made to the state of the building industry in the last few years! On my way to Canberra this week I passed a computer building in Doncaster which must have cost many millions of dollars to build. This building has been completed for quite some time. However, unfortunately, there are still 2 windows missing from the building, because of an industrial ban tradesmen will not fit the windows. The building has effectively been declared black. This means, of course, that the air conditioning in the building cannot work properly and as a result the sensitive equipment which makes up the computer cannot be installed. The investment of millions of dollars, the work opportunities of many people and the development of an area are being effectively destroyed by this form of industrial thuggery. This sort of action has been far too evident within the building industry. 
Industrial bans imposed on a big project in Collins Street, Melbourne, are costing the contractors or owners, or both, literally millions of dollars. Work on this building is stop one minute and go the next. There have been instances where even the pouring of concrete has been impeded specifically to inhibit the completion of the building. 
-If the honourable member gets me going on that I would have to ask for an extension of time. 
-Tonight I would like to make some comments on the Regional Employment Development scheme. It should be noted that this scheme was based on the Canadian Local Initiative Program, or LIP. The Canadian program was never aimed at solving the problem of long term unemployment. Instead it was a local initiative to relieve the temporary unemployment which arises in Canada because of seasonal factors. Alternative work is therefore provided in areas where unemployed people live. In Canada it was found to be cheaper and more equitable to do this rather than to require unemployed people to shift to cities or other areas. However, it is incorrect to transfer such a localised program to Australia and then attempt to convert it into a response to the problem of solving long term unemployment as became apparent during 1974 and 1975. 
Five points require examination when discussing the RED scheme in its 2 years of operation. The first is the aim. The RED  scheme  was to be a manpower measure to improve employment opportunities in areas of high local unemployment. In this sense, as I said, it partly resembled the Canadian LIP scheme. Labour intensive projects were selected so that at least 50 per cent of approved grants to individual projects had to go towards meeting the cost of employing people who were currently registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service as unemployed. The second point is the cost. The total cost of the scheme during 1974-75 and 1975-76 was $183m. In the financial year 1974-75 it was $60m. In the financial year 1975-76 the estimate of total expenditure was intially placed at $450m. However, this amount naturally came under attention when the Labor Government set about cutting back expenditure. 
The RED scheme was therefore allocated $135m but only $123m was actually expended. In September- one month after the Budget was brought down- the former Minister responsible for the scheme decided that only those projects which were in progress would continue to be funded. This meant the virtual demise of the RED scheme, so that by June of this year it had virtually ended. The present Government continued to fund the remaining projects which had not been completed. The average cost of a project was just under $27,000 while average RED grants were $23,000. The cost of employing a person under RED projects was estimated at slightly over $200 a week. The third point is the magnitude of the scheme. By July 1975 there were nearly 32 000 persons directly employed on RED projects. However, the life of all these projects was coming to an end. In September those Ministers responsible for its administration had decided on terminating it altogether. Those 32 000 people represented 13 per cent of the level of unemployed as registered with the CES. The average number of persons employed per project was eight and the average duration of a project was 14 weeks. Over 81 000 people were employed on project funds under the RED scheme. 
The fourth point is the expansion of the scheme. Although the RED scheme had originally been established to provide employment in areas of excessively high unemployment by encouraging local initiative, as in Canada, it expanded to cover all Australia and even State departments and instrumentalities. It therefore departed from its local character in 2 directions, and at the same time. Conditions of the scheme, such as the 50 per cent labour component, proved impossible to fulfil. 
The fifth point is the general assessment. Organisations submitting applications for grant often did so without proper attention to accurate estimates of costs. This meant projects were often left partially completed, something which was further worsened when moves were made to cut back and finally to terminate the RED scheme. Many organisations did not have experience in project supervision. Funds were often not correctly or efficiently used. Some sponsors misunderstood the conditions under which grants were being provided. No built-in co-ordinating mechanism for administering the scheme existed at the local level with the result that relative importance of projects within the community could not be adequately expressed. Minor projects were often approved well ahead of more important ones. 
The sixth point is the response to growing unemployment. Since unemployment grew in 1974 and 1 975 the RED scheme served temporarily to alleviate the stress. By the middle of the latter year some 32 000 people were provided with jobs. Over the RED scheme's entire existence some 81 000 persons were employed under it. This was an important factor in relieving some of the distress caused by unemployment. 
In conclusion, the RED scheme set out to become a localised initiative program like the . Canadian LIP scheme. It rapidly expanded to the extent of covering all Australia- not just areas of local high unemployment but even State government departments and instrumentalities. It therefore failed to stay within its original prescribed limits. This as well as other areas of expansion in spending meant that the Labor Government had to dismantle it in September 1975. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
How many persons in the Electoral Division of La Trobe were registered as unemployed on 1 July in each of the years 1972 to 1976. 
What proportion of the persons was (a) under 2 1 years of age, ( b) 2 1 to 45 years of age and (c) over 45 years of age. 
What proportion was (a) males and (b) females. 
) How many dependants were claimed by these persons. 
What were the principal work categories stated as being those of the persons unemployed. 
How many of those persons (a) were engaged in apprenticeships or traineeships when retrenched and (b) had completed apprenticeships or traineeships. 
May I have answers to some or all of these questions by 18 September 1976. 
-I believe it is a sorry day for the Australian Labor Party when the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  has to resort to 20 minutes of reading extracts of speeches by State Premiers in order to make the substance of a speech to the House.  His  speech did not contain one original thought and not a single contribution to the debate on the most significant reform the Fraser Government has yet introduced to this House. It was quite evident from what he said that he does not recognise the fact that income tax is in fact a growth tax. This overlooks the simple and blunt fact that in the 3 years in which he was Prime Minister of this country income tax revenues increased by something like 300 per cent. 
In supporting the Bill to provide for personal income tax sharing arrangements between the Commonwealth Government and State and local governments, I intend to demonstrate the outstanding and indelible differences between the course this Government will take to restore true and responsible federalism and the rather sinister and certainly centralist objectives of the Australian Labor Party. Few measures demonstrate more vividly the grand socialist design that drives the Austraiian Labor Party than its objectives in the field of financial relations between the traditional and constitutional tiers of Australian government. Despite the ample layers of sugary icing that members of the previous Labor Party Government applied to the national cake in the last 3 years they could not conceal the course on which they were set. In fact the real wonder is that it took so long for the true realisation of this course to become thoroughly apparent to the Australian people. Of all the assaults that the Labor Party mounted against established and respectable national purposes in its 3 years nothing compared with its assault on the nature and basis of constitutional federalism. 
The Bills now being debated are the clear indication of this Government's firm support for the strengthening of Australia's federal structures. We are in some respects limiting the powers of the national Parliament. But more importantly we are setting the basis for the maintenance of financially independent State and local governments and for re-defining certain proper and constitutional duties to the 3 established tiers of government- Commonwealth, State and local. The contribution of the Labor Party speakers in this House has again shown their bitter and unrelenting antagonism to any reform which limits the concentration of effective power in the hands of one central parliament, one cabinet and one caucus. 
In the case of the Australian Labor Party, this is particularly important because, as my colleague interjects, its members in the Parliament are bound by the Party discipline and by policy laid down not by elected members of Parliament but by machine men outside whose credentials are quite unknown to the voting public. 
It is fair to ask why Opposition members regard this Bill with such venom. So far in the debate they have failed to sustain any valid reason for their opposition. The answer is clear to anyone who knows a little of their history. True federalism is the single most severe restraint on their ambition to socialise Australia at the earliest opportunity. I ask honourable members to listen to what the Australian Labor Party Federal  President, Mr Hawke,  said in Newcastle in September 1972: 
I believe that the sensible path to socialism is to say honestly that at the moment federally we have not got the constitutional power to bring about socialism. 
He calls it 'the sensible path'. 'At the moment', he pleads. Later he said in the same speech that he had 'an honest and constitutional way of going about his ambition'. The simple and undeniable fact is that members of the ALP are not only anti-federalists; they are also distinctly in favour of national unification, that old bogey that first crept into their Party platform in the early 1920s and which remains there today in a thinly veiled form. Their prelude to attaining the socialist state is the creation of a unitary state with all effective power- political, economical and financial- at one centre. The ALP adopted this platform half a century ago and retains it today although, of course, members of the Party seek most ardently to deny it. 
Listen to what the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  said at Monash University recently: 
It is true that the platform of the Australian Labor Party once contained references to clothing the Commonwealth Parliament with unlimited powers. 
But he said that these references were removed at the federal conference in 1969. One might be tempted to believe that the leopard had changed its spots. The believers may even think so. But the facts speak quite differently. What were the references that he claimed had been removed from the ALP platform? The origins took place after World War I when the ALP broke away from its initial support of federalist policies and joined other national socialist parties in embracing unificationist doctrines. Its members were deeply impressed by the militarised industrial  economic  and institutional arrangements that the contingencies of war required. They got the notion of the 'planned economy', the 'controlled state'. As a consequence, the Labor Party in this country introduced a series of planning and unification planks to its platform. The Party rejected the concept of autonomous association, which is federalism, and adopted the goal of unification. 
Unification meant the breakup of the States and replacement by smaller provincial units which were to become dependent on the central government. Labor's leadership aimed at unification with all its sinister and desperate implications because 'by no other means could its socialisation policy be imposed on Australia as a whole'. Supreme control of all Australia under one parliament was deemed necessary. The 1918 Australian Labor Party conference abolished its platform for effective federation and adopted the following platform: 
Unlimited legislative powers in Australia to be vested in the Commonwealth Parliament with a devolution of adequate local powers upon subordinate legislatures and municipalities. 
Later, the Party adopted the fighting platform that called for (a) unification and (b) reconstruction of Austraiian government with centralisation of legislative power in the Commonwealth Parliament. Furthermore, the Labor conference developed this concept to the point of dividing Australia into 31 provinces which, of course, required that the existing sovereign States be abolished.  Mr Scullin,  who later became a Labor Party Prime Minister, proposed the motion: 
A people's convention be elected to recast the Federal Constitution to provide for the  sumpremacy  of the national Parliament, the abolition of State parliaments and the creation of provincial councils. 
His idea was, as stated at the time, based on the South African example of unification. That is where the ALP idea came from. The Bill we are now debating is the antithesis of the South 
African concept and bears far closer comparison to the Canadian provision. Later, the Labor Party conference carried a resolution for an Australia-wide unification campaign which called for 'unlimited legislative powers for the Commonwealth Parliament and such delegated powers to the States or provinces as the Commonwealth Parliament may from time to time think fit'. 
I now come back to the present claim by the Leader of the Opposition that the Australian Labor Party has removed his Party's reference to clothing the Commonwealth Parliament with unlimited powers'. I queried whether the leopard had changed its spots. Honourable members should remember that there is a first time for everything. But the answer is no. While he may seek to boast that the old unification plan has been dropped, the stark fact is that his Party has secretly and furtively dressed it in different clothing. For all his native cunning, the Leader of the Opposition fails to conceal the fact that there is no effective change. While he used to talk of unification and the establishment of provinces, now he remains an ardent centralist and boasts of regions. The current ALP platform places great stress on the establishment of arbitrary regions- regions without reason, as they were described. There was no logic in their boundaries, little similarity of interest and no conclusion with the State or individual municipalities. Yet, again and again emphasis is placed throughout the present Labor Party platform on the significance and the role of regions and regional councils and, indeed, regional governments. These regional councils are simply the modern day manifestation of the proposed provincial governments. They represent stage one of the ALP grand scheme. Even the boundaries were identical in many instances. It was the whole unification policy- the centralist, insular power grab, the instrument of Labor's unbending socialist goal- crudely disguised by a bunch of Labor Party amateurs in 1969. This is the simple and undeniable reason that the Labor Opposition is so opposed to the thrust of our federalism policy. Honourable members opposite know quite correctly that it spells the end of their socialist dream. 
Consider for a moment the role that the previous Labor Government accorded these regional councils. Firstly, take the instance of revenue assistance grants where the only submissions for funding of municipalities had to be made by the notorious regional councils. Secondly, consider the procedures that the Labor Government required for the so-called area improvement grants. The regional councils were required to rate various applications from the constituent councils in order of priority. There is no great logic in this requirement. It was simply designed to promote the regional councils to a status which sought to challenge the role of State governments. It was the first of a series of specifically designed and thinly concealed attempts to establish provincial, or as they were more latterly called, regional councils. There we have the ALP plan. It is time it was recognised in the Parliament. It is time it was recognised in this nation. Honourable members opposite would socialise with their unification the human and the physical resources of this country because they believe it is the trendy democratic socialist thing to do. 
But not even the great German democratic socialist, Willie Brandt, for whom the Leader of the Opposition has such great respect, supports this outdated and inept view of centralism. The German Party is more committed than ever to its reconstituted federalist arrangements. It upholds the practice of respecting independent state and local governing units. This is in direct contrast to the theory and practice of their predecessors, the National Socialists. The ALP would be better advised to follow the role that its trendy democratic socialist trendy friends in Germany have adopted. 
They will be further back if they proceed with this extraordinary view and seek to contest the great social and national reform which the Fraser Government is introducing in this Bill. I support the Bill. 
-I ask for leave to make a personal explanation. 
-I will not delay the passage of this legislation for any extensive period. I am aware that debates on airline Bills- particularly Bills relating to Qantas Airways Ltd- have been characterised by one thing over the years, that is, the fact that they have been relatively dull. I commend the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  for trying to inject some slight element of humour into the debate. I presume that that is what he was trying to do. I did not realise that he was so preoccupied with the term 'duchess'. All I can say in response to that is that I think it is unlikely that he will ever be bothered in the future with the accolade of a duke. I apologise for the fact that the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  is not in the House tonight. It is unfortunate that he has not been able to be present. The honourable member for Newcastle took particular exception to that. 
He made a personal attack upon him notwithstanding that - 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. Has the Government made a detailed examination of recent proposals calling for a reduction in the level of indirect taxes? If so, will the Treasurer tell the House which proposals have already been studied and the likely consequences if such cuts were to be made at present? 
Has the attention of the Minister for National Resources been drawn to reports that the New Zealand Government representative on the British Phosphate Commission has allegedly objected to the Commission's purchasing phosphate rock on behalf of Australian manufacturers from the Australian deposits at Duchess? Would this action constitute an impediment to the Australian Government's stated objective of having competitively priced Australian phosphate rock available to the Australian market in the immediate future? 
We are debating the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads (Repeal) Bill 1977 which will result in the amalgamation of the existing Bureau of Roads with the Bureau of Transport Economics. I was a little surprised to hear the honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis),  who has just been speaking, say in his earlier remarks that the change had been a little bit sudden. I think I quote him correctly. The changes that we are debating tonight were announced by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  on 17 November 1976. So in fact the Parliament and all those interested in Australia have had 5 months to comment to the Government on these matters. I am in the happy position of being able to say that in the electorate of La Trobe I have had a great deal of comment from local councils and people involved in the transport industry, expressing their opinions to me about the proposed changes. 
I should like to record that I have had contact from the councils of the cities of Knox and of Croydon, and the shires of Sherbrooke, Lilydale, Healesville and Upper Yarra. All have written letters to me on a number of occasions expressing their views and asking me to make particular comments to the Minister about the Bill that we are now debating. I am pleased to be able to say that the Minister has seen fit to give the fullest consideration to the suggestions that I have put to him on these matters, which were initially put to me by those local councils. I am surprised that the Labor Opposition cannot agree to the Bill though I recall that it opposed the original Bill that was brought into the Parliament in 1 964 to establish the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads. It seems rather strange to me that the Opposition opposed the establishment of this Bureau at that time and is now opposing the change that we are bringing about. One wonders whether it is just opposing for opposition's sake or whether the Opposition has some genuine reason for that opposition. 
The Minister knows that I have queried certain aspects of this Bill at an earlier stage but 1 am pleased to say that I am now supporting it completely. I believe the Minister has accepted the suggestions that have been put to him by Government supporters and I think that the arrangements we have now and the explanations we have had from the Minister, which have been spelt out in his second reading speech, put beyond doubt the sort of reservations that Government supporters raised initially. In fact I support the Bill for the very reason that the criteria that the Councils were asking me to set down have been adopted by the Government. I congratulate the Minister for this. 
The problems of transport in Australia are considerable. This is largely due to the geographic character of Australia. Equally the problems of transport are in a dynamic situation. I do not believe that we should be scared of changes in administration or of planning provided we can satisfy ourselves that such changes will produce the improvements and the efficiency that we should be seeking. The Australian transport industry has not only expanded rapidly over the past few decades but also has undergone considerable changes both in technology and in organisation. I believe it is incumbent upon this Parliament to adopt and to profit from those changes, to encourage further innovation and to maintain and improve the efficiency of the industry. We should be prepared and ready to restructure our institutions in order to best meet our rapidly and continuously changing transport industry scene. That surely is what we are doing tonight. 
The Bureau's aim and achievement have been to provide a framework for evaluation of the medium to long term outlook for road transport. I think it is recognised that the Bureau has been a leader in seeking and gaining public participation in the evaluation of programs. I think it is also fair to state that the Government has put itself in a position in these 5 months that have elapsed since this Bill was initially introduced to receive from interested groups all over the country comments and suggestions which might result in these changes being even more profitable for Australia. The Bureau of Transport Economics, into which the Bureau of Roads is now being amalgamated, arose out of the growing complexity of transport operations and the increasing importance of the transport sector as a whole during the 1 960s. 
All governments require expert advice on all aspects of transporting people, freight and raw materials and certainly this advice should not be restricted to road transport. It was to provide that advice that the Bureau of Transport Economics was created in 1 97 1 . It is important to realise that the Bureau of Transport Economics has similar autonomy to the Bureau of Roads. For instance, the Director has always had access to the Minister for Transport on all matters relating to the Bureau's work. One of the reservations that was expressed to me by local councils was that the independence of those officers working with the Bureau of Roads should not in any way be impaired. The Minister has stated, not once but on a number of occasions, that that guarantee would be given. It has been given. I think it is reasonable for the House to support the measure now. 
There has been a good deal of misunderstanding, I believe, by some people who believe that the Bureau of Transport Economics is simply a division within the Department of Transport and thus is subject to direct influence by the Department. The BTE receives administrative support from the Department of Transport, that is true. That very fact allows for considerable cost savings. It does not put the Department in a position where it is able to alter the professional advice that the BTE provides. The Bureau of Transport Economics, into which the Bureau of Roads is being amalgamated, has no less and no more independence in this regard than the Bureau of Roads presently has. The independence of the advice of the Bureau of Transport Economics and its Director's access to the Minister are established facts. The Minister has positively undertaken that there will be no erosion of these rights as a result of the amalgamation. The new body will act as independently in undertaking research and supplying advice as the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads and the BTE have acted in the past. 
I believe the benefits to be gained from amalgamating the 2 bureaus are clear. The staffs of each bureau will be able to gain a greater insight into the problems of the other, an insight and an understanding that are essential for the effective handling of transport problems and for work towards the best solution of those problems. The new BTE will enable the full weight of total available expertise to be brought to bear on the complex and vital transport problem areas in the country. Scarce professional resources can be employed to the greatest advantage and considerable administrative savings can be achieved. I cannot for one minute see why the Opposition should take such exception to these efficiencies being introduced by this Bill. A particular function of the new Bureau of Transport Economics will be to assist Commonwealth, State and local governments as well as instrumentalities. The private sector also will have access to the resources of the Bureau of Transport Economics. It will be able to liaise and co-operate with the Bureau. 
In the course of commenting on the role of the local government instrumentalities in transport problems, I think that it is quite reasonable to put on the record now the proposals that the Government is putting up for those areas of funding which mostly affect local councils- the areas of funding in which municipalities have complete autonomy over design, administration and construction. If, for instance, we look at Victoria we see that the allocation from the Federal Government in regard to the program for urban local roads for the financial year 1977-78 will rise from $4.6m to $8. 9m- an increase of 93 per cent over the allocation for the present year. The allocation for the MITERS program- the minor improvements for traffic engineering and road safety program- under which a considerable amount of work is done in connection with road safety, particularly intersection work and signal systems in Victoria, will rise from $2.6m to $3. 5m- an increase of 35 per cent. The planning and research section allocation for Victoria will rise from $ 1.4m to $2. lm- an increase of 50 per cent. It is in those areas that the municipalities to which I referred earlier will be able to get particular assistance to help them to carry their responsibilities which presently are such a burden to them. 
Another interesting figure which I think should be recorded is that in 1975 public sector capital investment for transportation of all governments has been estimated at $ 1,000m, or $80 per head of population. More than $788m of that amount was spent solely on roads and streets. These sorts of levels of expenditure reflect our degree of dependence on highways, urban arterial roads, urban local roads and rural roads. The benefits to be gained from amalgamating the 2 bureaus are clear, as I have stated on a number of occasions and as the Minister has mentioned in his second reading speech. 
I am grateful to so many members of the Opposition for coming into the chamber to listen to me tonight. Obviously they are interested in hearing what I have to say. I think that they are feeling somewhat guilty that they opposing the Bill. They realise from what I have said that they really ought to be supporting it because it makes such good, logical sense. In addition, the reports of the Bureau will continue to be made public. I remember the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  standing in this chamber the other night and saying that the reports of the Bureau were going to be kept in some secret file to which there would be no access by either the Parliament or interested people. The honourable member for Scullin will not listen to me- he is too deep in conversationwhen I say to him that the reports of the Bureau will continue to be made public to the same extent and in the same way as they are now. There will be no restriction by the Department of Transport or any other Commonwealth department on the work or the advice of the Bureau. Its officers will be as freely available to State and local government, private enterprise and individuals as they are at present. I am confident that practice will show the new Bureau providing an even better service to governments at all levels and to industry than the separate bureaus have done in the past. 
There have been suggestions that the new Bureau of Transport Economics should be established by an Act of Parliament that is, its powers, duties and procedures should be set out in legislation. We have given careful consideration to this question and we have reached the firm conclusion that legislation is not required. The present Bureau of Transport Economics was not established by legislation and is attached to the Department of Transport. As I have said already, no one has ever questioned the integrity or independence of the Bureau of Transport Economics. It has always operated with the same degree of autonomy that the Bureau of Roads has enjoyed. 
The honourable member for Shortland says that that is nonsense. The honourable member for Shortland is displaying his ignorance in the same way he has done ever since I came into this Parliament. 
I realise that it is a tribute to me that members of the Opposition are interested in what I have to say, but it is a matter of some disappointment to me that members of the Opposition front bench do not understand what we are debating, do not understand the facts and make such inane comments as did the honourable member for Shortland. The Bureau of Transport Economics as we will be constituting it through this amalgamation, will be able to react to the changing circumstances and problems of Australia. It will be able to move with the times rather than be rigidly controlled as the Opposition would seek to do. I have pleasure in supporting the Bill. 
-We have just experienced the arduous task of listening to 40 minutes of Opposition speeches- two successive speeches- devoted to the States Grants (Dwellings for Pensioners) Bill 1977 and I must say by way of introduction that I do not think I have ever heard such a lacklustre performance. I am surprised that members of the Opposition have not seen fit to develop this debate into a general discussion on the state of housing in the country at the present time. This Government is vitally concerned that Australians should have reasonable access to home accommodation, whether it be for rental or for purchase. But of course, being a Liberal-National Country Party Government, we are primarily concerned to see that as many people as is possible should have the opportunity to buy a home of their own. 
As my friend says, it is the basic right of all Australians. It is an objective which Liberal-Country Party governments have pursued for many years- in fact, over 30 years. We are prepared to say that the record achieved prior to 1 972 was one of which a Federal government could reasonably be proud. I would not go so far as to say it was good enough, but in excess of 70 per cent of Australians were buying or owned their own home. In the intervening years, when this country got into such economic difficulty, when interest rates went through the roof and when housing and land costs went through the roof, the prospect of home ownership and the right to own a block of land and to build a house on it went far beyond the grasp of many Australians. Today only slightly in excess of 60 per cent of Australians own or are in the process of purchasing their own home. I was surprised to hear the honourable member for Hughes claim that the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  had a puzzled look on his face. After listening to the honourable member for Hughes for so long and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  before him, the Minister was not puzzled; he was just plain bored. 
The Bill is basically an interim measure. It serves to provide continuity for the various State housing authorities to build housing units for aged people until such time as the next Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement is completed. In this regard the House will recall that the Minister and his officers are presently negotiating with the States to come up with a formula for the next 3 year housing agreement. The efforts that this Government will be putting into getting a satisfactory, worthwhile solution to the various problems in the welfare housing field shows that the Government regards this as an absolute top priority. The Minister has been very active in this regard. 
The Government believes that many people enjoying the benefits of the welfare housing programs in the various States are in a financial position to make more of a contribution towards either the rent or the repayments on the homes they are occupying. It is all very well for members of the Opposition and State Labor Party Premiers to mischievously claim that the Government is determined to increase the rents for people in welfare housing. Nothing is further from the truth. What this Government believes determinedly is that the people who should have first access to the welfare housing units and the people who should be paying nothing more than the minimum repayment or the minimum rent should be the people who have the greatest need. That is the principle and the criteria that the Government will be laying down. If Opposition members cannot associate themselves with those criteria, why do they not say so in the Parliament? We have heard nothing in this regard except abuse in the Press from State Premiers who are taking cheap political points on welfare housing by claiming that the Fraser Government is seeking simply to increase the repayments and other dues of people who are in needy circumstances. I positively deny that on behalf of the Government and I challenge Opposition members who disagree with that comment to say so during the course of this debate. 
The legislation provides for a further $ 10m to be paid to the States as an interest-free and nonrepayable grant. I seek leave to incorporate a document showing the breakdown between the various States. 
Is the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development aware that a married couple in the electorate of 
La Trobe have achieved a unique event with the recent birth of identical male quadruplets? Does the Minister realise that when there is the happy expectation of one little addition to a family it is at the very least unnerving to suddenly find that there will be 4 little additions to a family? Will the Minister liaise with the Minister for Housing in Victoria and with the Shire of Sherbrooke to make provision for the additional living space that will be required as a result of this memorable event in respect of which all concerned have the fullest congratulations of this House? 
-I ask the Minister for Construction: Is he keeping a close watch on the vigour of the building and construction industries in Australia? What effect would the immediate provision of $800m of government money have on the future of these industries? Would such a stimulus provide for a further 50 000 jobs in these industries? Are growth and stability in the building industry helped by the artificial measures suggested at the weeked by nongovernment spokesmen? Finally, is the recent announcement by the Government that savings banks may now release a further $500m for home loans a far more significant and rational approach to the problems of home building and home ownership? 
-We have just heard in the course of this debate on the Supply Bills, a contribution from the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  which was another of his eloquent contributions in this House. However, I think it is unlikely that anybody could expect to lead the Opposition or indeed the Government while their approach to measures that come before the Parliament and to Bills which are debated in the Parliament, results in nothing more than a cynical attack on what are false standards. We might think that the Leader of the Opposition was on the offensive during the course of that speech; the fact is of course that he was on the defensive because he has a certain appointment tomorrow which is likely to cause him a good deal of embarrassment. 
The point is that there was no substance to the speech he made. He attacked the Government. He offered absolutely nothing as an alternative. He offered nothing in the way of policy. He completely and utterly failed to recognise the fact that recovery is under way in this country; that the inflation rate is coming down and that investment is taking place in industry, both by small business and larger business, to see that employment opportunities are again available for the people who want to work. The Leader of the Opposition positively refuses to recognise that these things are happening. It is the Jonahs in the Opposition, such as the Leader of the Opposition and those who sit behind him, who have done so much to set back the recovery which would otherwise have been a good deal more advanced by this stage in the Government's term of office. 
When I heard the Leader of the Opposition speak, I was reminded of a pamphlet that has been distributed recently in the electorate of La Trobe. The pamphlet bears no authorisation but apparently it comes out under the auspices of nothing less than the Blue Gum Press. That pamphlet offers 'Labor's Alternative Economic Strategy'. So at least the pamphlet which has been distributed in La Trobe in support of the Opposition does offer some sort of strategy. The Leader of the Opposition of this Parliament and those who sit behind him offer no such strategy. Perhaps it would be appropriate, in the circumstances, if I told the House of one or two of the proposals in the strategy which has been circulated. The first thing it calls for is the restoration of the Regional Employment Development scheme- and I shall deal with that in a moment. The second thing it calls for is nothing less than: 
A modest increase in government expenditure to maintain essential government programs. 
Unfortunately, the strategy fails to set out any details of the amount of increase in government expenditure or, more importantly, to where that government expenditure should be directed. 
I shall come to that in a moment. But even more significantly, the pamphlet leaves out what would be the consequences of such an increase in government expenditure at this time. Now, as my friend the honourable member for Denison says, at the weekend there was a call by a prominent member of the Opposition for an increase in Government expenditure of no less than $800m in the building industry and, I gather, one or 2 other projects as well; though, of course, that was not spelled out in detail. This expenditure, we are told, is going to provide jobs for another 50 000 Australians. There is no reference in that statement or indeed in this pamphlet to the effect that would have on the deficit, to the effect it would have on interest rates and to the effect it would have on inflation. They are simply idle words which emanate from the minds of people who are devoid of any policy, devoid of any concern for the recovery of this country and who fail the whole way along the line. 
I am glad to say that the people who live in the La Trobe electorate can see through this sort of cheap political stunt. During the course of the Labor Administration, they have seen deficits go to nothing less than $3, 800m in one year. And 3 years before that, when Labor took office, the deficit was negligible. The pamphlet then calls for full indexation of wages- something which the previous Labor Government did not believe in itself. In fact it was prepared to go to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and argue against it. Yet in this pamphlet the Labor Party calls for the restoration of full indexation of wages. There is not one member of the Opposition who sits in this House who does not understand the consequences for Australia, for employment opportunities in this country and for our competitiveness in world trade if full indexation of wages is carried out by the Commission. Honourable members opposite know the consequences but they are not prepared to admit it. They put out a pamphlet in support of their policy which is quite at odds with what they know the exact and true position to be. 
My friend says that only one member of the Opposition is sitting in the chamber. I know that is right. I have noticed that they do not like to hear what is being said because it hurts when we have to get down to discussing the real situation which exists in this country, what the real problems are, how those problems came about and, more particularly, how those problems are being solved. The Leader of the Opposition typifies the attitude which the Opposition shows in these matters by specifically failing to put forward any alternative policy. The Labor Party is bereft of economic policy. The policies that they did have brought about in 3 years the greatest havoc that could possibly be imagined. Indeed it was far beyond what could possibly be imagined. Yet the Leader of the Opposition has the hide to get up in this chamber and talk about the borrowing of money. He was the person who went to breakfast with Iraqi emissaries to try to borrow- how much was it? 
It was not for this country-it was not quite as much as my friend suggests, either- but it was for the Australian Labor Party. 
My friend reminds me that it was not to be a loan; it was to be a gift. It was money from the bazaars of the Middle East to come into Australia, with a political pay-off subsequently, for the purpose of funding the Australian Labor Party in this country. The Australian people saw through that in quick time and gave their judgment on it on 13 December 1975. I want to discuss the RED scheme in a little more detail. In the discussion of any finance Bill it is important to discuss employment opportunities and what the Government can do to assist in programs for this purpose. But first I wish to introduce another note for a moment. I should like to refer to a very significant event that happened in my electorate recently. 
My friend behind me from the neighbouring electorate of Casey reminds me of something with which he is pleased, as are other members of this House- that recently we had the good news that  Mr and Mrs Roger  Hughson became the parents of quadruplets.  Mr and Mrs Hughson  live at Monbulk, which is in the heart of the La Trobe electorate. The birth of quadruplets is very unusual, but this event was made even more unusual by the fact that the quadruplets are identical male babies. I am told that the statistical chance of quadruplets being born is something like one in every half million births, but the chance of identical male quadruplets is at even longer odds. This event has caused a good deal of celebration among those who have recognised the event. I hope that feeling extends to the Hughson family and their immediate relatives, as I am sure it does. Last week in this Parliament I asked a question of the Minister for the Environment, Housing and Community Development on this matter. The Minister was just as stunned as we were in the electorate at this rare event. I was pleased that he undertook to liaise with the Victorian Minister for Housing, my colleague  Mr Hayes,  to see that we make adequate provision to help this family. Recently I telephoned the Victorian department and established that they are in touch with the family. On this occasion it has to be recognised that we need to be sure that the help that we as a government give to the Hughson family is the sort of help that will best suit their immediate requirements. 
My friend refers to family allowances. The arrival of these quads of course takes the Hughson family from three children to seven, which qualifies them for substantial help from the family allowance scheme. But in addition, as my friend would recognise, we will need to go a good deal further than providing that assistance. This House congratulates the Hughson family.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I thank you for your nodding approval that I convey to that family the congratulations of the House on the arrival of David John, Scott Bradley, Clinton Neil and Grant Roger Hughson. On this occasion I think congratulations should go also to  Dr John  Grantley Shelton and the team at the Royal Women's Hospital. As the doctor would be the first to recognise, this is a team event. I think all at the Royal Women's Hospital should be very pleased indeed with the medical record in this case. It reflects very well on the medical services that hospital has provided in this case and in many other cases. 
I was referring previously to the reintroduction of the RED scheme which was mentioned in the pamphlet to which I referred a little while ago. I have had requests from every municipality in the La Trobe electorate for a reintroduction of the RED scheme or something like the RED scheme. What has to be recognised in this situation is that the RED scheme as it previously existed under the Labor Government was the sort of scheme to 'make work'. It was a make work' program. The difficulty in such programs is that they do not really solve the basic problem that exists. Everybody in this Government recognises that unemployment is at an intolerably high level. But the Government expresses the view- I have conveyed this to the municipalities involved- that there are certain basic causes for the present unemployment problem and we do not believe that by creating expensive 'make work' programs we will grapple with the basic problem. The Government believes inflation is the principal cause of the high levels of unemployment and that, unless corresponding cuts are made in other programs, increased Federal Government expenditure on relief schemes will only add to the deficit, thereby aggravating the inflationary spiral. 
Some evidence of this is given by these figures: In December 1972 the rate of inflation was 4.6 per cent a year and the total number of unemployed was 136 000 or 2.4 per cent of the work force. By December 1975 inflation was at a rate of 14.3 per cent and the total unemployment figure had climbed to 328 000 people, which was at that time 5.4 per cent of the work force. The information that we have from every comparable country confirms that there is a direct relationship between inflation and unemployment. Every country that has experienced rampant inflation with corresponding high levels of unemployment has also experienced a return to more acceptable unemployment levels as inflation has been brought under control. It has been suggested by some municipalities that the recoup which would come back to the Government in taxation and in the reduction of unemployment benefit payments might cover or at least reduce the cost of relief programs. We estimate that such savings would total only about 30 per cent of the direct unit cost of labour and materials in such schemes, and there would be other labour related expenditures such as workers compensation payments and on-cost charges which cannot be ignored. 
At the weekend I was approached by a number of people during a public meeting. They suggested that people receiving unemployment benefits might be required to undertake certain work programs in order to qualify for unemployment benefit payments. At first sight these proposals may have some merit but on closer examination I do not believe they stand up to criticism. I remind the House that unemployment benefit payments are made by the community to persons who are genuinely seeking work but who are unable to find it. The payments are a recognition that persons for whom no continuing employment is available should in some way be compensated. Of course, there are people who seek to take advantage of the system and who prefer to subsist on unemployment benefit rather than to work. However, the number of such people is relatively small. The Government has been taking vigorous steps to prevent people from exploiting the present unemployment benefit system. In addition, there is a problem in relation to the contravention of International Labour Organisation Convention 29, which refers to the use of forced labour and which Australia has ratified. 
In respect of the number of young people who are unemployed, it is not generally known that at the end of the 1976 calendar year 95 per cent of the schools leavers from the previous year who had sought jobs were in employment and that by March 1977 the corresponding figure was more than 75 per cent of the school leavers of 1976. We believe that the current figure is in excess of 80 per cent. I mention also that at the end of April there were 32 600 school leavers looking for employment, The comparable figure for November 1975, which is when the previous Government was in office, was 60 249. In additionthe number of people under 2 1 years of age who were looking for employment in April of this year was 127 352. The comparable figure when we took office was 1 52 000. 
Despite the protestations of the Leader of the Opposition, despite the sort of misleading information that is contained in the pamphlet distributed recently in my electorate- the most misleading and damaging pamphlet that I can possibly imagine, which was sent out without any authorisation but which purported to support the Australian Labor Party- and despite all the Jonahs who exist and who seek to defer the economic recovery of this country and the return to employment and investment opportunities, the fact is that recovery is under way. It is time that the Parliament and the country recognised this fact and pulled together to ensure that the recovery goes from strength to strength. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
It never ceases to amaze me that Opposition members want to engage in a debate on federalism with every Bill that comes before this House. In fact they take the opportunity to attack federalism. I am not really surprised that they do so because I know as well as they do that the policy of federalism, for which this government stands, is the ultimate frustration to all the socialists on the other side of the House who aspire to control from Canberra everything that takes place in this country. The most pompus action of which I can possibly think is that of a Minister who believes that he, by some divine right, has the power to control all federal funding programs, in fact funding programs that extend right through State programs into local government. It is believed that this power even includes the location of streets in a municipality. That is exactly the attitude of the Opposition in this Parliament in respect of road funding. Honourable members opposite displayed this attitude when they were in power. Now that they are in Opposition they are going back over the same old ground. They are not looking at the merits of the Bill; they are not looking at the merits of the road funding programs; they are trying to turn this debate, as they do every other debate, into an attack on federalism. 
What did we have from the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  who spoke for the Opposition? We had 35 minutes of the dullest, most repetitious and cynical speech that I could imagine. All he did during the course of his speech was to knock and criticise everything that the Government has done. He did not put one word of policy into his speech. He did not say what the Opposition in this Parliament would do in the same circumstances. It was a speech devoid of policy and of any meritorious comment. 
-I must say that that was on my mind too. I thought that at least the Opposition has done one sensible thing- it has reelected the honourable member for Newcastle to the front bench. In other words, Charlie is coming back and the sooner he comes back the better because then at least we might get some policy from the Opposition. We might get some sort of comment which goes somewhere towards discussing the matter that is before the House at the moment. 
We can only hope for an improvement in the quality of commentary we get from the Opposition on road funding. I asked the honourable member for Shortland by way of interjection when he was making his speech and talking about the breakdown of funding to tell the Parliament what was the breakdown between the Federal States and local government funding. The honourable member floundered. He could not tell me. He did not know what the facts were. I shall tell him. In regard to road funding programs within Australia 40 per cent of total moneys are federal money, 40 per cent comes from the States and 20 per cent comes from local government. That is how the road funding programs are made up on a national basis. That shows the balance that exists between the 3 tiers of government. 
What the Opposition, of course, overlooks is the very vital role that local government has to play in the sphere of road building programs. After all, local governments know what the ratepayers in their municipalities want. They know what the priorities are. We had a different situation in the days of the previous Government. The honourable member for Shortland had the hide to talk about what happened before 1972. Let us look at what happened between 1972 and 1975. In 18 months rampant inflation put road building costs, in many areas, up 300 per cent. What happens when engineers have to do their costing for their road building programs? Where does the taxpayer's dollar or the ratepayer's dollar get to? It is absorbed in the inflation which resulted from the rampant spending of the Australian Labor Party Government and novel and cavalier attitude which it had to funding and to economic programs. 
I was speaking before to some constituents from the electorate of Holt. Earlier tonight those people reminded me that in 1973 when the Minister for Urban and Regional Development came to that constituency they took him around to look at the programs. At that time the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Yates)  was the Liberal Party candidate. He knew what was going on. The Minister came down to look at the Berwick by-pass road. He was driven around the place and he said: 'This is a serious situation. We will fix that.' He went away. He left the local municipality thinking that he would wave a magic wand and within the term of that Government the by-pass road would be built which would divert the Princes Highway from the town. But what is the position today? I was reminded by the constituents of the honourable member for Holt that the highway still goes through the middle of the town. The traffic builds up so that people have difficulty crossing the road; and the situation is chaotic. The former Minister visited there and told the local municipality how he would get it fixed. But this was typical. It illustrates how the Labor Government with its socialist techniques was controlling matters from Canberra. It wanted to make decisions as to what would be built and what would not be built. 
My colleague talks about a matter of credibility. Credibility went out the window. The Labor Government could not possibly fund that project. Still, the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  came in tonight and was prepared to filibuster in this Parliament by talking for an hour and a half about amendments which he knew were fictitious. He knew that we could not find more money to spend on legal aid. Yet he was prepared to come in here tonight and argue, until the breath had gone out of him, that we should increase the funds for legal aid. But I ask: Who cut back the money provided for legal aid? Was it this Government or the previous Government? 
That is right. The previous Government cut the money back. It sacrificed the people who needed legal aid. I get back to funding for road programs which is the subject matter of the Bill which is before us tonight. It is an interim Bill. It takes the funding program through for another 3 months while the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  discusses with the States the subsequent formula for the distribution of road funds. What does the Opposition expect us to do? Does it expect us to run the State governments and local government out of funds, to run them short of money and to throw them into further disruption? What an extraordinary attitude to take! 
This Bill is quite clear in what it seeks to do. It provides money so that these programs can go on during the parliamentary recess. When we come back for the Budget session of Parliament a Bill will be introduced covering the next 3 years of road funding programs. That is entirely in keeping with the Government's policy. It gives some predictability to State governments and local government and to highway and road building authorities so that the dollar will at least go somewhere towards meeting the requirements and so that these authorities can plan ahead and make the decisions which need to be made at a State government and local government level. This will see that we get the best value for the dollar spent. 
At a time when the Government is faced with very severe restrictions in the budgetary sense in relation to what money can be appropriated, I do not want to stand here and boast about how much money will be spent. But the fact is, as the Minister has stated in his second reading speech, in the year we are about to face, namely 1 977-78, there will be a significant increase in the amount of Federal money provided for road building programs. I ask honourable members to contrast that situation with what the Opposition did when it was in government. The value of the dollar spent on road programs decreased so rapidly that many road building authorities were thrown into utter confusion in what they could do with the funds. 
We are increasing the amount of money for this year from $436m to $475m. The Opposition spokesman, the honourable member for Shortland, does not recognise that fact. If we were to listen to him, he would have us believe that the amount of money has been cut. Of course, the situation was the opposite. There has been a significant increase. Let us look at the areas in the road program where the biggest increases have taken place. This illustrates the difference between the attitude of this Government to the efficient use of taxpayers' resources and the attitude of the previous Government. We have funded local government through the urban local road programs. This is a vital series of programs in every municipality and in the outer metropolitan electorates of Melbourne, Sydney and elsewhere in the other capital cities as well. It is a vital issue in every electorate. The urban local road programs were put into the greatest jeopardy during the term of the previous Government. 
In the coming year, we have an increase of nothing less than 93 per cent in the urban local road programs. This Government believes in funding these programs and road authorities so that they can get out and get the work done. How else will we get sealed roads such as those heartbreak streets, as they are called, where the residents have the greatest difficulty in access to and from their property. There are potholes everywhere. The graded roads cannot be maintained. We have taken the step of increasing that allocation of funding by nothing less than 93 per cent. What does the Opposition say to that action? The Opposition spokesman does not recognise the fact of that increase. He is prepared to overlook it. If we look at the rural local roads program we see a similar allocation is provided for rural shires. The amount represents an increase of 78 per cent. Because the honourable member for Shortland has talked for so long, Government members will have to reduce the time for which they speak. The point is- I have laid it clearly on the table- that this is an interim measure - 
Leader of the House, not the Opposition spokesman on transport. If he wants to waste his own time - 
-The House of Representatives is debating the Government's decision which was announced on 25 August 1977 regarding the future development of Australia's uranium reserves. Never before has a government policy decision been preceded by such an exhaustive series of studies and inquiries; never before has such attention been given to all details and aspects of the policy; never before has such thoroughness been applied to its presentation in the Parliament by the five Ministers. Firstly, I shall state what has been announced as government policy. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has made it perfectly clear that Australia's uranium may now be mined subject to the most stringent environmental and health conditions at home. It may be sold overseas for peaceful purposes, subject to the most stringent safeguards and conditions relating to the subsequent disposal or storage of the waste materials. I welcome the opportunity to speak in the debate on the uranium issue. I regret that only 15 minutes has been given to each honourable member. No previous decision has caused me so much personal anguish. No previous decision has caused me to seek the help and advice of so many people. Never before have I sought the views of so many residents and voters within the electorate of La Trobe. I thank those thousands of people who have helped me in consideration of the uranium question; particularly I thank those residents in the electorate of La Trobe who have written to me. There are nearly 1 00 in that latter category. 
The recent decision made by this Government on uranium is in stark contrast to the position taken in 1974 by the Whitlam Government. The Whitlam Government detailed its policy on the mining and exporting of Australian uranium in a major statement to Parliament on 31 October 1974. The statement, tabled in Parliament by the then Minister for Minerals and Energy, the late  Mr Rex  Connor, opened: 
This statement is to outline the Government's program for the rational development of uranium resources in the Northern Territory; a program which will return substantial economic benefits to Australia from our supply of this vital energy resource to our overseas trading partners who face such grave difficulties in securing their energy requirements . . . 
I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  certain other ministerial statements. 
-There are statements by  Mr Les  Johnson,  Mr Connor, Dr Cairns  and  Senator Wreidt, Mr Keating, Mr Hurford, Mr E.  G. Whitlam and  Mr Hayden. 

 The statements read as follows- 

-The same Labor Government gave undertakings that 11,757 tonnes of Australian uranium would be exported to meet existing orders. That government bought 42 per cent of the Mary Kathleen mining operation. It signed an agreement with the Ranger consortium which committed the Australian taxpayer to finance 72 per cent of its operation and to take 50 per cent of the profit from uranium sales. The Whitlam Government's policy statement made it perfectly clear that that Government put the mighty dollar before the environmental and safeguard conditions which must now apply before Australian uranium can be mined or sold overseas. That Government saw uranium as the great provider to finance its dream for Australia, its goal to make our people no more than the basic ingredients of the social laboratory. What an unprincipled attitude. What an ill-informed and morally impoverished policy for a federal Government. Labor's plan is all verified. It was to sell as hard as possible and to hell with the consequences for the misuse of Australia's uranium. 
The decision by the Liberal-National Country Party Government has been preceded by and based on the findings and recommendations of the two major reports by  Mr Justice  Fox and his fellow commissioners. Any decision on uranium taken before a thorough consideration of these reports would have been premature and inappropriate. As the Prime Minister announced in the 1975 policy speech, no decision would be made on uranium until the Fox reports had been received, considered and debated in this Parliament. This, I believe, is the sixth time that the subject of uranium has been debated in this House. The steps set out in the policy speech have complied with the mandate on which we were elected. 
The Government has adopted the major recommendations of the Fox reports. If currently there is agreement between Government and Opposition members that the Fox report is an authoritative and thorough study. 
The purpose of those reports was to advise on the worldwide and local environmental issues associated with the mining and export of uranium. We looked to the Fox report for advice on the issue of nuclear weapons proliferation, nuclear safeguards and waste disposal, and the role of nuclear power in meeting future world energy requirements. 
It is the natural concern of every Australian that any uranium leaving our shores should never be used in the weapons system of another country. Equally important is the concern that adequate provision is made for the storage or disposal of any waste materials from the peaceful use of our uranium. Having weighed all this advice and after months of consideration and discussion the Government has decided to allow further development of Australia's huge uranium resource. However, I stress that the approval is heavily qualified. Any sales of our uranium shall be for peaceful purposes only and then only under strictly controlled conditions? 
To those people who have read the Prime Minister's statement it will be obvious that the Government's decision has followed from four basic considerations. These are the need to reduce the risk of nuclear weapons proliferation; the need to supply essential sources of energy to an energy deficient world; the need to protect effectively the environment in which mining development will take place; and the need to ensure that proper provision is made for the welfare and interests of the Aboriginal people and all other people working on development projects. 
Our decision was taken on the basis of the Fox inquiry's main findings and recommendations. I shall advise the House about some of those findings. On uranium mining the inquiry concluded: 
The hazards of mining and milling uranium, if those activities are properly regulated and controlled, are not such as to justify a decision not to develop Australian uranium mines. 
The Government is well satisfied that the environmental control and industrial health measures proposed by the inquiry and adopted by the Government will provide proper regulation and control. On nuclear power reactors the inquiry concluded: 
The hazards involved in the ordinary operations of nuclear power reactors, if those operations are properly regulated and controlled, are not such as to justify a decision not to mine and sell Australian uranium. 
This too is in accordance with the Government's own view and statement. On waste disposal from nuclear power stations the inquiry concluded: 
While we do not think that the waste situation is at present such as to justify Australia wholly refusing to export uranium, it is plain that the situation demands careful watching, and, depending on developments, regular and frequent reassessment. 
The Government is now satisfied that the technology exists for the safe management and ultimate disposal of highly radioactive waste. International developments will continue to be closely reviewed and Australia will continue to participate in international studies directed to improve standards for waste disposal. 
On the possibility of nuclear terrorism the inquiry concluded: 
In our view, the possibility of nuclear terrorism merits energetic consideration and action at the international level. We do not believe that this risk alone constitutes a sufficient reason why the export of our uranium, including what is proposed to be done with it, and where, are matters which the government should keep under constant scrutiny and control. 
The Government is satisfied that the standards of physical security by the International Atomic Energy Agency constitute the basis upon which national governments can provide strong protection against nuclear terrorism. Regarding Australia's international obligations the inquiry concluded: 
A total refusal to supply would place Australia in clear breach of Article IV of the nuclear non-proliferation treaty and could adversely affect its relation to countries which are parties to the NPT. 
Article IV of the Treaty obliges Australia to cooperate in the production and use of nuclear energy for peaceful purposes. The export by Australia of uranium under stringent safeguards will give effect to our obligations under Articles III and IV of the Treaty. Australia became a party to the Nuclear Non-proliferation Treaty when the previous Labor Government gave it ratification in January 1973. We accept and support the obligations that Treaty imposes. 
The Fox inquiry concluded that to withhold our uranium from use as an energy source was undesirable and most unlikely to produce any worthwhile outcome. It further stated: the options were either to proceed to supply as soon as practicable, or to delay making a decision for a period of several years. 
The inquiry stated that the choice between these two options depended largely on what was deemed to be the best strategy in relation to the matter of proliferation. This proliferation of nuclear weapons was in the inquiry's view the most serious hazard associated with the nuclear power industry. Balancing this concern with the context of international demands for energy has been the fundamental basis of the Government's decision. We believe that the goal of limiting proliferation of nuclear weapons while at the same time easing the world's energy crisis is best accomplished by Australia agreeing to provide uranium for peaceful purposes and under the most stringent conditions. The simple fact is that nuclear energy is the only readily available alternative most countries have to meet their essential need for electrical energy in the wake of the oil crisis. By deciding to allow sales of uranium for peaceful purposes Australia can reduce the movement towards the use of plutonium as a nuclear fuel and lessen the attendant increased risks of nuclear weapons proliferation. 
Honourable members might reflect on the predicament facing countries such as Japan which today is 90 per cent dependent on overseas sources for its energy requirements. It is 75 per cent dependent on Middle East oil. Four years ago Middle East oil was $2 a barrel. Today it is $11 a barrel. Certain projections show that by 1985 it will be $55 a barrel. Despite the fact that Japan will build another 29 nuclear power stations by 1985 and given the escalation in her energy requirements by that time it is projected that Japan will still be 65 per cent dependent on Middle East oil in 1985. 1 suggest to the House that that is a most horrific prospect for an industrialised nation like Japan, one of our major trading partners. The Japanese Ambassador,  Mr Yoshio  Odawara. addressing the AustraliaJapan Society on 28 July 1977 put it quite plainly. He said: 
I can only envy Australia 's good fortune in having no need for nuclear power until the 1990s or later. We need it right now. 
I refer also to a comment by the doyen of Australian science,  Sir Macfarlane  Burnet, in a letter to the  Age  on 22 August 1977. He wrote: 
I believe that a majority of thoughtful people accept the inevitability, for at least an interim period, of large scale use of nuclear energy in most parts of the world . . . . . . With application of the best current techniques to ensure safety for the workers, environment protection, regard for Aboriginal land rights, and an obligation to rehabilitate areas damaged by mining, one can accept the (Fox) report's conclusion that there is no adequate reason why Australian uranium should not be mined and supplied at the world price to those countries that have elected to develop nuclear power and can be trusted. 
In fact it is only through our role as a major supplier of uranium for peaceful purposes that Australia 's voice on this most vital problem of international affairs, nuclear weapons proliferation, will be heard. It is the best chance we will ever have of ensuring that nuclear weapons do not come within the armoury of still more nations. It is a chance that in the interests of future generations we should not forgo. 
-I ask the Treaurer Did he say in his Budget Speech that as from 1 February 1978 the amount that may be earned before income tax is payable will be raised from $2,850 to $3,750? Does this mean that thousands of pensioners in the La Trobe electorate and tens of thousands of pensioners throughout Australia will no longer be required to lodge income tax returns or to pay income tax? Does the Government's tax reform put an end to the situation which took every possible tax dollar from Australians, including the pensioners of this country and which was a direct legacy of the previous Labor Government? 
-Let me say quite clearly in response to the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin),  that there is no way that the salvation of this country could reside in the hands of an Australian Labor Party Government. I am moved to remark on the havoc that the previous Labor Government created in the years that it held office, between 1972 and 1975. I am disappointed that the honourable member for Banks, who usually makes one of the more substantial contributions to debates in this House, did not see fit to use the time that was afforded him to come up with some constructive proposals on behalf of the Opposition for ways in which this country might be brought back to the state to which we are all looking forward. I suppose that the honourable member has a guilty conscience in that he was one of the more auspicious members of the Labor Government who served in the Parliament during that time. Of course, a good deal of the responsibility for what took place over those years must rest with the honourable member. 
The debate on this year's Budget is notable for one thing in particular. It again reveals, in very stark contrast, the difference between the Government and the Opposition on all arms of policy, but particularly on economic policy. Immediately the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  had read his Budget Speech, the Labor Party spokesman went into action to attack the Budget. What did those spokesmen reveal in their attacks? I suggest that they revealed an abysmal ignorance of what caused the shattered state of affairs during their three years of government, between 1972 and 1975. Firstly they attacked the income tax cuts which will commence from 1 January 1978, and then the tax indexation relief that has applied since our first Budget last year.  (Quorum formed).  Mr Deputy Speaker,  the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  pays me a compliment by drawing members of Parliament into the House to hear my speech. The honourable member makes no contribution whatever to the affairs of the Parliament other than to be thoroughly disruptive and to waste the time of honourable members who are busy and who have been serving on committees and working to see that the Government's policies are implemented and that we get some action. The honourable member does nothing more than irritate people by dragging them into this chamber. Before attention was drawn to the state of the House there was not one Opposition member present. I am glad to say at least the Government benches are full, as they usually are when the Parliament is sitting. I know I was touching a raw nerve of the honourable member for Hunter when I talked about the income tax cuts that will commence from 1 January 1978 and the tax indexation relief that has applied since the first Budget of the Fraser Government. 
Let me repeat tonight that it is now perfectly clear that the Labor Party is a high tax Party which is committed to charging exorbitant levels of tax on workers and even on the pensioners of this country. The Opposition has also attacked the Government's policy of restraint on expenditure with public money. We heard the honourable member for Banks make an assault on the Government for showing some sense of responsibility in restraining the rates of increase in government expenditure to see that the deficit is drawn into line. The Opposition is effectively saying to this Parliament: 'The deficit of $2,200m is too small- spend up more, far more, and everything will come right'. However, Australians are now well aware of one simple fact- a government cannot continue to spend more than it raises without serious effects on inflation, interest rates and employment opportunities. 
Between 1972 and 1975 the Labor Government increased expenditure by 20 per cent in one year and 45 per cent in another year. In two years it spent $8,000m more than was raised and this despite the most savage taxation increases in the history of this country. When will the Opposition understand that a national Budget is like a family budget- if one continues to spend more than one raises, the results will eventually be disastrous? The simple fact is that a massive deficit is highly inflationary. A deficit is not simply a book entry; it has to be financed. The money has to be found. It can be financed only by higher taxes or by printing more money or by borrowing money on a massive scale and at high rates of interest. 
Let us look at the alternatives of financing a deficit. To a Liberal-National Country Party Government they are all unattractive. The Liberal Party is a low tax Party and so is our coalition partner. We are simply not prepared to take the Labor Party stance of high tax. We believe the hard won earnings of a worker are best spent by that person, not by an authoritariangovernment on behalf of that worker. Only a socialist could be so presumptuous to think he knows better how a worker's earnings should be spent. So we reject high taxes to finance outrageous levels of government expenditure. We also reject running the printing presses overtime and all weekend to pay government bills. It is perfectly clear that this simply waters down the value of all money. Nothing could be more inflationary or devastating for the Australian community. 
The only other way of financing the over spending of a government is to borrow funds in competition with other borrowers. How is a home buyer to compete with the Commonwealth Government for funds to borrow? Such action by government simply makes borrowing by people more difficult and far more expensive as interest rates are increased. So long as large scale government borrowing keeps interest rates high, industry will not borrow or expand and so job opportunities will not be generated. That is why we have always been a low interest Government; that is why we are committed to bringing interest rates down. That is why I am pleased that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has given notice that steps will be taken to reduce the interest burden. We believe that people should have access to home loans at reasonable rates of interest. We believe the circumstances should be encouraged where industry, both large and small, can expand and develop and thereby help the work force of this country. It is this Government's approach to restraint on government spending, low taxes and low interest rates that distinguishes it from the socialist Opposition in this Parliament. 
Let us look at the scale of government over spending that was prevalent in recent years. When the Fraser Government was elected the deficit was to be $4,500m though the Labor Treasurer said he would be holding it to $2, 800m. In our first year we reduced the deficit to $2,700m and in this Budget it will be down further to $2,200m. So we see that the Fraser Government is absolutely determined to reduce these massive deficits, and we will never be moved from this path. Opposition members may still ask, as did the previous speaker: 'Why this insistence on reducing the deficit?' The answer is clear. Such action is the only way to reduce inflation, to lower interest rates and to restore employment and career opportunities to the people of Australia. The Opposition claim that we should spend our way out of recession is just the rhetoric of a lot of tired and dispirited socialists. 
Even the socialist Prime Minister of the United Kingdom has woken up to that fact, though I can hardly see the socialist party in Australia taking advice from him. 
A recent Labor Party pamphlet distributed in the La Trobe electorate contained this same elementary nonsense. It called for far more taxpayers money to be spent which is the very opposite policy to the one the Fraser Government will follow. The pamphlet effectively called for a deficit of $4,000m. Yet we all know such action would put inflation back at the old Labor Government level of 16 per cent. Nobody could have summed it up better than a pensioner who approached me two weeks ago at a meeting in the La Trobe electorate. Among other things he said to me: 'Not only did the Labor Government try a cover up by seeking to borrow money from overseas for their spending spree but they also taxed the workers of this country in a way which reduced all incentive, and when all that failed they taxed the pensioners to pay the government accounts'. It takes a pensioner- a person who has worked a lifetime for this country, lived through a depression, fought through a war, raised a family of five- to put it so simply. Yet we know that a Labor government would put the clock back and do it all again. The Labor Party pamphlet distributed in the La Trobe electorate makes it perfectly clear that its policy is still to spend up and to hell with the consequences. 
Despite the views of the Opposition, there is great consensus in the Australian community on one thing- inflation is the fundamental cause of Australia's problems. Since the election of the Fraser Government in 1975 we have not deviated from the major promise of our policy speech, namely, to attack inflation and to restrain government expenditure so that the deficit that Labor created will be reduced. We know we were elected to do this job because the people know there will be no return to the days of full employment or the days of lower interest rates and lower taxes until inflation is further reduced. In this regard we have made substantial progress in something less than two years. Inflation was 16.7 per cent and rising under Labor in 1975. Today it is 9.2 per cent and clearly falling. We are on the way to recovery, despite the claim of Opposition members who did so much to sabotage the 1970s during their three years of government. 
But the merit of this Budget is not only in the fact that the deficit will be down further to $2,200m-half that of the last Whitlam Governmentbut also that taxes for all workers have been slashed on a scale that was not believed possible before the Budget announcement. Last year our tax indexation meant $ 1,000m more remained in workers' pockets; this year will mean another $ 1,000m from the same policy. But, in addition, our tax cuts will leave a further $400m with wage and salary earners after 1 February 1978, and $900m for the following year. These reforms simply mean that the average taxpayers will have an additional $700 each year from his earnings. In fact 90 per cent of taxpayers will be on a flat rate of 32 cents in the dollar for all taxable earnings above the tax free limit of $3,751. Our Budget means that a tax.ayer with dependent spouse can now earn 5,500 before he would have to pay tax. What is equally important is that thousands of pensioners will be removed from the requirement to pay income tax. On 15 September 1977 I questioned the Treasurer in this House regarding the tax that the Labor Government imposed on pensioners. I sought confirmation from the Treasurer that the Budget announcement put many pensioners beyond the ambit of the Commissioner of Taxation. I quote part of his reply to my question. He said: 
I might say generally that the reform will make some 223,000 people free from tax for the first time and is therefore a very significant social reform in the interests of elderly people throughout the Australian community. In short, many thousands of pensioners will no longer have to pay tax. This is in very sharp contrast with the policies of the former Administration which imposed an intolerable tax burden upon the community generally and upon aged persons particularly. The House will be aware that personal income tax receipts for the first two years of the Labor administration increased by 89 per cent and that an impost was placed upon elderly people. The Government, recognising the inequity of what it was left with by the former administration, has moved decisively to lift this burden. 
A very real feature of this Budget is that Government spending in essential areas has not been reduced. Social security is up by 13.7 per cent; education is up by 16 per cent, despite claims that it has been cut; health spending is up by 1 1 per cent, including 17 per cent in assistance to the aged; funding to local government through the income tax sharing arrangements is increased by 19 per cent; and road funding and payments to the States has increased dramatically. Equally important is the fact that no increases have been made in indirect charges like beer, spirits or even cigarettes and tobacco. 
The message is clear- the Liberal-National Country parties are determined that spending programs will not be cut in areas where there is real need. We stand by our election commitment to look after those people who are genuinely dependent on Government support. The vital areas referred to have all been given substantial increases in Government funding. 
Pensioners will not only get relief from the savage income tax scales imposed by the Labor Government, but they also are now secure in the knowledge that increases will be made twice yearly, at full indexation rates, to see their purchasing power is not eroded. Special assistance to handicapped persons is increased by 33 per cent and there are great increases in funds for aged persons' accommodation. In fact, $4m will be spent in the La Trobe electorate on aged persons homes in the current three year program. Assistance to people in nursing homes is to be dramatically increased from 1 October 1977. These measures coming on top of the new scales of family allowances have been a great benefit to families in the La Trobe electorate. A glance at the figures reveals the fact that a Labor Government is anti-family. Under the Fraser Government scheme a family with three children now receive $14.50 each week. Compare this with the miserable $3.50 under the previous Government, and I understand it had planned to eliminate the payment altogether. 
The Budget has broken new ground in funding for in-servcice training schemes for unemployed people up to 25 years of age. There will be a 33 per cent increase of funds for such training programs and already there are thousands of young people in jobs where their employer is receiving the $63 a week subsidy towards wages for a six month period. Experience has shown us that over 70 per cent of young people employed under our Special Youth Employment Training Scheme have continued in their employment when the six month training period is concluded. 
The second Budget of the Fraser Government keeps the need to reduce inflation in sharp focus. It re-affirms the fact that lower inflation and lower interest rates are the only way to achieve stable self sustaining growth. It re-asserts the fact that a lower Budget deficit is the only way to get inflation and interest rates down. But even more, this Budget will be remembered as the most radical and dramatic reform of Labor's savage tax scales, it will be remembered as a Budget that maintained funding in essential areas of Government services to people, but most particularly to people in need of Government support. 
-I second the amendment because it is very important On page 7, Gough Whitlam said he was short of $lm. 
Motion (by  Mr Morris)  put: 
That the honourable member for La Trobe be not further heard. 
I second the motion. 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wil not contravene any sub judice rule. As was explained in the Parliament today, this matter has not been brought before the Supreme Court, as was claimed last night quite erroneously by the Leader of the Opposition. In fact, he made that claim in a statement in which he misled this House and in which, more particularly, he misled you,  Mr Speaker.  That was clearly demonstrated to this House this afternoon, I submit to you, by the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott).  In this document which was tabled in the Senate reference is made to an enormous sum of money which was sought by the Leader of the Opposition from emissaries from Iraq. 
I continue by saying that later in that document a revelation is made as to how money changed hands. I intended this morning during Question Time to ask the Acting Treasurer  (Mr Eric Robinson)  whether approval had been given under statutory regulations for a sum of $500,000 to be brought into this country. Unfortunately, I did not get the call. It is a matter of extreme importance that this House be told whether $500,000 was brought into the country with the necessary statutory approvals in November or December of last year. Furthermore, I believe that it should be explained to the House whether a subsequent approval was given for another $500,000, which was also requested and, I gather, approved by the emissaries from Iraq. 
The honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  showed the most appalling political insensitivity in raising this matter in the Parliament yesterday. He gave members of the Government parties an apportunity second to none to expose the immorality of the Australian Labor Party as regards the ways and means by which it goes about raising party political funds. 
-I ask the Prime Minister whether he attended last Saturday's Victorian Football league grand final at the Melbourne Cricket Ground? Does he agree with me that in the last two weeks the Collingwood and North Melbourne teams have provided some of the most exciting top grade contests in the history of Australian Rules football? Is the Prime Minister aware that North Melbourne's zoned territory for recruiting players takes in a good deal of the La Trobe federal electorate? In view of this link and as a result of the contribution by the North Melbourne Football Club to sport and entertainment, can I have an assurance that when next I make an approach for funds to improve certain sporting grounds and faculties in the La Trobe electorate I will get a sympathetic hearing? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-Is the Prime Minister aware of a memorandum of understanding that was signed between the Whitlam Labor Government and the Ranger uranium mining company? If so, what were the provisions of that memorandum? Who signed it on behalf of the Labor Government? 
-I am glad to join in this debate, but I must say I was surprised to hear the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr FitzPatrick),  referring to the National Water Resources (Financial Assistance) Bill as nothing more than window dressing. In fact I was really disturbed to hear him say this. In reply I would say that if this is window dressing then as far as I am concerned, the longer this Government keeps up window dressing the better because this Bill is good news for the electorate of La Trobe. I put it to the honourable member that what is good news for the electorate of La Trobe is good news for this country. I say that without any equivocation at all. 
I congratulate the Government on this measure. I was particularly pleased that mention was made of this legislation in the policy speech. In fact I go so far as to say that in addition to tax cuts and certain other measures, this particular announcement was one of the highlights of the election speech. I congratulate the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  for having it included in the speech. I suppose that now I can ease up on him slightly with regard to representations and approaches I made to him during the course of the previous Parliament, not only individually, but in conjunction with the municipalities in the area, the Water Works Trust in the area and indeed individuals in the area. Coupled with that of course was the approach and the support I received from industry in the area. 
It is a fact that in certain parts of the La Trobe electorate there are many constraints on industrial development. I remind the House that it is not without industrial development and growth that jobs will be created. It is a terrible situation when industrial development and industrial estates are held up simply because there are not adequate water provisions. Of course it is a far worse situation when residential development is held up because there are no adequate water provisions. There are delays in the development of land which should be and could be made available for housing simply because there is a delay in getting water and sewerage services. I know that this Bill is particularly related to water rather than sewerage but the two go hand in hand. 
A situation has developed in recent years- I am not saying in the last two years or the last five years; I will be fair and say probably in the last seven to ten years- where the provision of reticulated water supplies has lapsed appallingly in the capital cities. We have heard a great deal in speeches delivered in this Parliament by people representing rural areas. They say quite rightly that the provision of irrigation waters and irrigation schemes is lacking and that more money needs to be spent on those things. We have heard that stated today. We also hear members of parliament calling for improved provision of reticulated water to rural towns and regional cities. That is fair enough. We hear speeches from honourable members requesting increases in funding for the provision of water to the metropolitan areas of our great capital cities. What we do not hear nearly enough, in my opinion, is pressure being put on all governments for the provision of funds to improve water supplies to the outlying areas, the fringe areas, of the capital cities. Because not enough pressure has been put on governments in that regard, funds for reticulated water supply systems in the outer metropolitan areas, the fringe areas of the cities, have not been forthcoming. That is why I make a plea in the House this afternoon to the Government of Victoria- honourable members would expect me to speak on the needs of Victoriato see that adequate provision is made for the supply of water to the fringe areas controlled either by the State Rivers and Water Supply Commission or the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works, to ensure that there is an immediate increase in the funds provided for water reticulation. 
In my electorate of La Trobe are the shires of Sherbrooke and Lilydale. Both of those shires extend in area up to the Dandenong Ranges and the upper Yarra Valley. Hardly a member of this House would not have some familiarity with those areas. Yet the provision of water in those areas has been on a most limited basis. In fact, it is correct to say that for the greater part the only water that has been provided has been for fire fighting purposes and nothing else. Quite clearly, it is essential and basic that in areas of high fire risk there should be reticulation of water primarily for fire fighting. But, of course, it should go far beyond that. We have some of the most precious stands of native timber and vegetation in those areas. They need to be protected. But that sort of vegetation needs to be protected not only in the forest areas but also in those areas in which people have settled. Many more estates on which homes will be built have been established in the Dandenongs and in the areas adjacent to them. 
Despite the fact that certain influential people would like to see an immediate halt to that development, despite the fact that certain influential people would like to see removed some of the houses already there, the fact is that a good deal of development has taken place and there will be more in the future on a quite substantial scale. I urge the House to consider the plight of the people who are settling in those areas. Many of them have families and many have young children. They do not have access to water supplies. In towns such as Belgrave one sees people queuing outside the laundromat waiting to be able to put their washing into one of the IS to 20 machines available. That is not because the residents in the areas do not have their own washing machines; it is simply because in certain months of the year they do not have sufficient water to operate those machines. I think it is an absolutely disastrous state of affairs. It is quite unreasonable to expect mothers with young children to drive- often they have to take the bus- to the local town in order to make use of a service such as that. 
One. of the ironies is that in the electorate of La Trobe both the Silvan Dam and the Cardinia Dam are located. They are the two single largest water reserves in the Melbourne metropolitan area. The people of metropolitan Melbourne travel to those dams on weekends in order to picnic in the area and to appreciate the area. Yet the people who live in the area and who live adjacent to these dams are not supplied with any of the water. I know that members of the Opposition support me in this because they understand the situation. I can remember when the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins),  who is trying to interject, accompanied me when I went to look at the area. He was appalled. He supports me when I state that we are calling on the Victorian Government when it is distributing the money which is being provided by the Federal Government to consider ensuring that the shires of Sherbrooke and Lilydale and the areas of Belgrave, Belgrave South, Silvan, Montrose and the areas which extend into the region of Mount Dandenong are provided with those funds for the purpose of improving and increasing their water supply. If that proposition is accepted it will represent the single most significant measure that has been taken in the Dandenongs for many years. 
One can talk about roads, one can talk about other facilities that governments provide, but we are talking now about one of the most attractive areas in the country. It is certainly the most attractive area adjacent to a metropolitan area. We want people to have attractive gardens. The people in the Dandenongs work in their gardens with the dedication of professional gardeners. If we want to support those efforts and make it easier for them by taking the heartbreak out of trying to get plants and vegetation established, we should ensure that water is supplied. 
There are two problems. One concerns the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works, which is the water supply authority for a good deal of the area encompassed within my electorate. Then there are certain water works trusts. In particular there is the GembrookCockatooEmerald Water Works Trust. I might say that the latter body has been putting pressure on the Victorian Government and the Victorian Minister of Water Supply to increase the amount of loan funds made available to improve the reticulation system. The Government could get back the money which is required, provided that the revenue is available. Once the water is supplied and people start contributing by way of rates, it becomes a perfectly reasonable business proposition. It is a good policy and it is good government to provide those loan funds to water works trusts. They are run very economically. They are run with the expertise of local people when it comes to the management of particular programs. They get very good value for the money spent. 
So, on the one hand, we have those authorities. Then we have the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works. My heart bleeds when I see how much the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works does not do. Considering the amount of money that is spent and the amount of money that is available to that authority for the supply of water, I believe we should be seeing better results. How the Board of Works could agree to put in certain mains in the Dandenongs area when it was known before the first sod of soil was turned that they could not possibly be adequate, not only for future development but for the development which had taken place initially, is quite beyond my comprehension. It is the sort of thing which irritates the residents in the area. I believe it is perfectly reasonable that they should be irritated by that sort of thing because they can see the misuse of public funds. 
In addition, the Board of Works, in my opinion, does not operate nearly efficiently enough in the way it goes about its works programs. Also I challenge some of the criteria which it sets prior to agreeing to the extension of water reticulation systems. In the first instance, before it will do so the Board requires that something like 60 per cent of properties in a residential estate be developed. The other criteria is that there must be a return to revenue of 18 per cent from water rates on the total funds provided for the scheme. 
In some parts of my electorate- I am thinking particularly of the area around Montrose- the soil is very poor, and literally nothing can be grown unless people are prepared to establish gardens and water them. Once that is done things grow quite well. It is really heartbreaking to move into a new home in an area which has been desecrated by developers. Timber, along with everything else, has been removed. The soil is third rate. People are trying to settle in and establish some sort of garden. Even if they cannot grow elaborate plants, bulbs and such things at least they can get shrubs going. The establishment of gardens changes the look of an area within 12 to 18 months. In five or six years it looks terrific. The situation is heartbreaking for people who have to cart water or pay for the local fire brigade to do so. I do not believe that in this day and age people should be subjected to these hardships any longer. 
For those reasons I am particularly pleased the Government has taken steps to increase the allocation. I am looking to transfer to my colleagues in the State Parliament, irrespective of the political party to which they belong, any pressure that I can generate. We have a duty to the residents in the area to get together and to point out the serious situation which exists. In certain areas people are prepared to pay a charge additional to the normal water rates simply to see that the revenue comes up to the 18 per cent and meets the criteria for the Board of Works approval for a scheme. I think that shows that the request is more genuine than many of the other requests we receive. 
These people are prepared to pay more in the short term to see that the criteria are met and that the scheme is approved. It is a simple fact that, although they would be paying more for their water rates if the scheme were approved- I am not necessarily advocating that- they are now paying an additional sum to have water carted. 
This is not done every month of the year but is done in the critical months of the year. These people are left without domestic water for their households. They are left without domestic water to get a garden going and to do other things which many people in the metropolitan areas take for granted. In addition, these people are left with the most hopeless fire fighting provisions one can possibly imagine. This is occurring in a part of the country which has the most precious scenic assets to conserve. There is a lot of vegetation throughout the residential area. 
A change of government in Victoria would not solve anything. I think it would be a step backwards. It would make more difficult my task of getting finance for the areas in my electorate which are so critically affected. That is why I am so pleased that the Government has agreed on this measure. I congratulate the Minister and the Government. I think this measure is thoroughly overdue. We are years and years behind- I say that not as a political statement- in providing money for water in these areas. The Minister has been through these areas with me. He knows exactly what I am talking about. I have driven him around the area. We have looked at these estates. We have discussed the problems with the people in these estates. I am delighted to be able to congratulate the Minister for having this measure included in the Budget allocation and for bringing the Bill before the House. I am looking forward to some action. I ask the Minister for his support when I make representations to the Government of Victoria to see that the money goes where it is required, and that is in the electorate of La Trobe. 
I take a few minutes tonight to raise in the House a matter which came to my attention quite recently and which I commend to honourable members and to the Government. I had the pleasure of a visit in my office of  Mr K.  W. Brown of Ferntree Gully which, of course, is in the electorate of La Trobe.  Mr Brown  is secretary of the Professional Cross Country Club of Victoria. In addition, he is a very active sportsman and had had a distinguished career in athletics. At an age when many people would perhaps be thinking of giving away competitive foot running, he remains a regular competitor. 
I understand that the club to which he belongs intends to promote a relay race to be known as a city to city relay which will take place between Sydney and Melbourne. This will be a race consisting of teams comprising either amateur or professional runners. Each team would consist of eight competitors and would have at least one emergency runner, a team manager and, of course, the necessary backup reinforcements that would be required for a venture of this sort. 
-I expect that the race will be direct between Sydney and Melbourne but if honourable members would like it to come through Canberra perhaps that suggestion could be considered. I think this will be a notable event on the athletic calendar of this country. The initiative these people are showing is very commendable. I recommend that honourable members take an interest in this matter. 
In addition to teams of either amateurs or professionals,  Mr Brown  and his associates are very anxious that members of the armed forces consider entering teams in this event. As with other amateur teams they would be given special consideration concerning the number of representatives who would be allowed in each team. I have no doubt that they would be allotted some handicap allowance or some other provision to help to make them competitive in the race. 
The honourable member for Robertson suggests that a team from the Parliament may enter the race. I think that would be tremendously exciting and very well received by the sponsors of this race. Quite frankly, I think we have the talent in the Parliament to do so. I think that the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom)  might well lead a team from the Parliament. I appreciate the suggestion of the honourable member for Robertson in the matter and I shall be glad to take it up with the Minister. 
In conjunction with this,  Mr Brown  would be very pleased if the defence forces could see fit to lend some assistance by way of communications, logistic support, command operations and all associated factors. Of course considerable expense will be involved. I have seen projected figures and if the event is conducted on a thoroughly commercial basis it is likely that the cost will be something like $1,500 a team. But. if the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  could see fit to lend his support to the proposal, I believe it would be an excellent opportunity for the defence forces to foster relationships and cooperation between themselves and the community. It has all the possibilities of being an excellent project for them and one which may well do a great deal for the military forces' recruiting programs which are conducted from time to time. I think it is an excellent adjunct to the 'Life Be In It' program and other programs which this Government has suggested and taken up. I thoroughly commend it to the Government. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Riverina) ( 10.50)- I raise tonight a matter which is of grave concern to parents, teachers and citizens in the remote parts of my electorate. I refer to the changed policy of the Australian Taxation Office in assessing the value of low rent housing, thus imposing a further slug on the school teachers in that area. In many remote country towns the citizens provide the school teacher with accommodation in order to compensate for the extra expense incurred by virtue of the fact that his home is in another town or a city. To encourage him to stay in a small country town the citizens and parents often club together and provide housing for him. I do not know very much about the low rent housing situation for school teachers in the Riverina but I do know that I have received several telegrams in the last few days from teachers in the area complaining about this matter. 
I shall relate to the House some of the problems of which I was aware in the former Darling electorate. I had discussions on one or two occasions about this very matter with parents in a little town called Nymagee which is located about 60 miles from Cobar. That town does not qualify for the Zone B allowance, yet its provisions have to be brought in from Cobar which does qualify for the zone allowance. One can understand the price that has to be paid for commodities in Nymagee. The school teacher's children are not able to watch televison out there. Of course, it is pretty difficult to keep school teachers in the area. When a school teacher does go to a town like that the people in that area are only too happy to provide him with cheap accommodation. That is only natural because they want their children to get a good education. They want a teacher of good quality. But, of course, the imposition of the extra tax on the teacher's earnings will certainly remove this other incentive. I feel that mC children   *11  suffer  11 AL,  difficult enough to keep good teachers in these country areas. There is no doubt that educational facilities will be denied to the children who live there. 
Another matter I wish to raise concerns the citizens of Ivanhoe approaching me and asking me to use my influence to ensure that a married school teacher was sent there rather than a single man because they wanted a teacher with children in order to improve the standard of the school. Apparently certain facilities are available to a school which has more than a certain number of pupils, whereas those facilities would not be available if the school had less than a certain number of pupils. That is how delicately balanced the situation is. It shows the importance of the school teachers in those areas. I ask the responsible Minister to give this matter urgent consideration and to see that some kind of concession or some consideration is given to those school teachers, because I can assure him that it is difficult enough to provide education for the children in those remote country areas. Certainly a school teacher has imposed on him a big penalty by living in an area which lacks a television reception and all these other amenities. 
I want to touch on another matter which concerns the provision of a telephone at the Coombah Road House, which is known as the Halfway House and which is located between Broken Hill and Wentworth. I raise this matter tonight because someone sent me a message asking me whether I had given away the light to have a public telephone installed out there. During the last few weeks I have presented to the House petitions with many thousands of signatures on them. Prior to that, having had interviews with and requests from the Country Women's Association, the Broken Hill Police and many other people in the area, I had taken the matter up with the Minister on several occasions. Unfortunately not much progress has been made. With modern technology and with the large profit that Telecom Australia is making, we hope that some consideration will be given to providing a telephone at the Halfway House. The road beside which it is situated is very busy, carrying a lot of traffic including many heavy trucks. I believe that in this day and age a telephone is warranted out there. I ask any honourable member who has been on that road to inform the Minister how remote the area is and to ask him to do something about the situation. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Health, arises from advice that  Mr Milan  Brych will be entering Australia in the near future from the Cook Islands. Is the Minister aware that many Australians alive today, who were advised by local doctors that they had terminal cancer, honestly and sincerely believe they have been cured or that their life expectancy has been considerably increased after treatment by Brych? Will the Minister take steps to see that Brych is interviewed by responsible people nominated by the Minister to evaluate the treatment methods and medical knowledge that he possesses? Will the Minister subsequently advise the Parliament of the results of such investigations? 
-This morning in the House I asked a question of the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  about  Mr Milan  Brych who is giving medical service to Australian residents and others in the Cook Islands. I sought from the Minister an assurance that he would authorise certain officers to have discussions with  Mr Brych  during his anticipated visit to this country. I think the answer I received would be well known to members of the House. I have subsequently had discussions with the Minister to pursue this particular point and I am pleased to say that I think the Minister's mind is moving in the direction that I was trying to develop at Question Time this morning. 
I should like to say a word or two on this matter during the adjournment debate tonight. The Government's position and the Minister's position regarding  Mr Brych  is clear to everyone. Clearly that position is not favourable to  Mr Brych.  Previous answers by the Minister make it clear that he considers that  Mr Brych  has no medical qualifications and that he does not want  Mr Brych  in Australia; that  Mr Brych  set up practice in the Cook Islands in somewhat extraordinary circumstances, supposedly after having fled to the Cook Islands from New Zealand rather than face an inquiry; and that an Act of Parliament was amended in the Cook Islands in order to enable him to qualify as a medical practitioner. It is claimed by detractors in this matter that Brych has no qualifications from his native country of Czechoslovakia and that he allegedly will not divulge his treatment methods or allow any scientific evaluation of his treatment. 
I commend to honourable members that they speak to somebody who has been told by a registered medical practitioner in this country specialising in the treatment of cancer that they have no reasonable life expectancy with the treatments that are available in this country and who, following that advice, has gone to the Cook Islands and sought and received treatment from Brych and who subsequently returned to Australia claiming that they had had considerable remission- perhaps 'cured ' is not the correct word to use- from the medical condition diagnosed in this country. The other day I had the experience of speaking to a woman who went to a surgeon in Melbourne to have a lump removed from her leg. It was removed and the surgeon advised her that he did not regard it as a dangerous lump. A subsequent diagnosis revealed that it was a very serious melanoma. The surgeon advised her quite specifically that there was no treatment for her complaint in this country, whereupon she said, in effect, to the doctor: 'Well, what do I do next?' I am advised that he said to hen 'If you were my wife I would send you over to  Dr Brych'.  That lady went across to the Cook Islands and she has come back with a very considerable remission in her condition. To the best of all my hopes and her hopes and, I am sure, the hopes of members of this House, she is cured. 
It is incidents like this which should bring home to honourable members the fact that the Government has a clear responsibility either to see that Brych comes to Australia and is investigated and his claims are checked out, or that a deputation is sent to the Cook Islands to carry out exactly the same process there. If the information given to me is correct it is entirely contrary to the advice that has been coming through to the Minister regarding Brych. My advice is that Brych would welcome such investigation in the Cook Islands. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
This House notes with grave concern that during the term the present Leader of the Opposition served as Minister for Social Security: 
Purchases were made from the international computer firm IBM for between $ 1 0m and $ 15m worth of computer equipment without public tenders having been called. 
The action taken was subsequently endorsed by the previous Government. 
Representatives of the firm IBM accompanied officers of his Department on an overseas trip prior to  the  equipment being ordered. 
The explanation given to Parliament at the time, by the present Leader of the Opposition, of this irregular  purchase was plainly deficient, and the whole affair was not only less than an acceptable level of public administration, but a blatant misuse of public funds. 
And this House therefore calls on the Leader of the Opposition to table without undue delay all the documents in his possession relating to this lapse of ministerial responsibility, and misuse of taxpayers ' money. 
It seems that the chickens are coming home to roost. I have in my mind at the moment the well known quotation:  0, what a tangled web we weave, When first we practise to deceive! 
The Opposition in this Parliament has spent the last few weeks trying to deceive the people of Australia into believing that the Fraser Government has in some way in the recent past indulged in a practice, with regard to the ordering and purchasing of computer equipment, which in some way is reprehensible. It has completely failed to substantiate that claim. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has made it patently obvious in his statement to the Parliament this week, that the behaviour of the Government in the events that led to the reletting of tenders for certain computer equipment has been conduct of the highest and most meticulous order. It has reflected an approach to the use of taxpayers money which has been lacking in the recent past to a very notable extent, but which has been restored since that occasion in December 1975 when the Fraser Government was elected with an overwhelming majority. It was elected with that majority for many reasons, not the least of which was the fact that the people of Australia called for a whole new approach to the administration not only of government in general but also of the use of public funds in particular. 
The Opposition has sought to denigrate the actions of certain Ministers which took place towards the end of last year when it was known that computer equipment was required for use by certain Government departments. It came to the attention of Ministers and of the Prime Minister in the course of the good and orderly conduct of their departments that certain measures which had been taken in the commercial world did not appear to be clear and above board. What did the Government do? The Government called for a complete reappraisal of the approach to the tendering process as it related to the ordering of this computer equipment. The Government sought advice from senior public officials regarding the matter. It convened an appropriate committee of senior public servants to investigate and to report on the whole train of events that had taken place. It finally came to a decision in the interests of the Australian taxpayer that justice not only should be done but also should clearly be seen to be done. As a consequence, tenders for the contract are to be recalled. 
The Prime Minister listed in this Parliament the reasons why the Government was taking such action. He set them out plainly for all to see. What happened? The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  responded in the debate which followed- I quote him virtually verbatim- by saying that he approved of the action that the Prime Minister had taken, and disapproved of a situation which existed in respect of a senior public official who had been closely involved in the study of tenders and in the whole negotiating process leading up to the recommendation of the successful tenderer. It was found that that public official had resigned from his post and taken up a position with the firm which was to be recommended as the successful tenderer. I believe that it was a situation with which not one single member of this House could feel comfortable if the Prime Minister had not taken action to have tenders recalled. 
So, the Government began to have a serious look at the regulations and the procedures that are adopted in the consideration of tenders for public contracts. What is the result of that action? Our minds go back to an incident in 1973 when the present Leader of the Opposition was serving the Parliament in his capacity as Minister for Social Security. It came to our attention that the Department of Social Security was in the course of considering the purchasing of computer equipment to serve what subsequently turned out to be the Medibank system. 
I remind honourable members that at that time, the word 'Medibank' had not actually been coined. All we knew was that some new and unique form of medical health insurance was about to be introduced into Australia. We were told that it did not fit the model of the United States. We were told that it did not fit the model of France. We were told that it did not fit the model of Canada. Yet it transpired that officers of the Department of Social Security had gone on a mission to Canada to look at IBM computer equipment that was used in Canada's health scheme. I remind the House that the Minister had already said that the Australian Government was not going to use the health insurance scheme adopted by Canada. One might well ask the question: Why was a mission going from the Department of Social Security to look at IBM computer equipment in Canada, given the fact that our system was not to be based on the Canadian system? There was more to come. It came to the attention of the Liberal-National Country Party Opposition that executives of IBM Australia Ltd were accompanying officers of the Department on the mission to Canada. One might well ask the question: What was the purpose of sales representatives of IBM accompanying officers of the Department? 
The honourable member for Robertson intervenes to say that the representatives were trying to make a sale based on the equipment used in Canada. But it was said that we were not going to use the Canadian system. So what was the good of sending a mission to look at the Canadian system? The plot thickens. The honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street),  a very alert member of the Opposition at the time, representing the interests of the country and the taxpayer, had the audacity to ask a question of the Leader of the Opposition who was at the time Minister for Social Security. He dared to challenge the then Minister for Social Security to explain to the Parliament firstly why officials had gone to Canada to study the Canadian system when the Parliament had been advised that the Australian Government was not going to adopt the Canadian system and, secondly, why representatives of IBM were accompanying those officials on the mission. I venture to say, as  Hansard  makes patently clear, that it was not apparent to the present Leader of the Opposition why officials were in Canada at all. In particular, it was not clear to him why officials of IBM were accompanying his officers. I venture to say that he is still in some doubt as to why representatives of IBM were accompanying his officers. The question this House asks is: Why were officials of IBM accompanying representatives of his Department on this mission? Why did the Leader of the Opposition not know that officials of IBM were accompanying his officers? 
The allegation which the Government makes against the Leader of the Opposition is most serious. When the Leader of the Opposition responded subsequently to the honourable member for Corangamite he made it patently clear that he did not know what was going on in his own Department but that he would take steps to find out. What happened? 
The honourable member for Prospect might well express some misgivings about what I am about to say next. It does not reflect well on the present Opposition or on the honourable member who is the present Opposition spokesman on health. The Leader of the Opposition as he now is made a subsequent statement to Parliament for the benefit of the honourable member for Corangamite who had raised the matter in the first instance. He confirmed to the House, in somewhat apologetic terms, that in fact he had to confirm the basis of the question that the honourable member for Corangamite had asked. He had to confirm to this House that his officers were on a mission to Canada- for some reason that was strange because the Australian Government was not going to adopt the Canadian system. He had to confirm to the House that representatives of IBM Australia Ltd were accompanying them every step of the way. I make it plain to the House that this Government will have no part of such conduct; it will not have officials buying equipment for Government departments and Government instrumentalities being led by the hand around other countries by representatives who, to put it plainly, are trying to flog their equipment to the Australian Government. 
The honourable member asks: Who paid for the drinks? Perhaps when the Leader of the Opposition responds he will tell us who paid for the drinks. It is a good question. Who paid not only for the drinks but for many other things as well? It is part of this whole shabby scheme of affairs which the previous Labor Government entered into and it is part of the way in which honourable members opposite conducted themselves in respect to government purchases. Little wonder it is that a notable former member of the previous Labor Government said: 'We spent money as if it was simply water'. The previous Labor Government spent thousands of millions of dollars, much of which it cannot account for. It did not account for between $10m and $15m of public money which was spent in this case. 
The officials came back from the trip and very soon afterwards an order was placed for this equipment. I ask the House to consider the firm with which the order was placed. It was IBM Australia Ltd. Not one other computer company was given the opportunity to tender for this equipment- not one company in the world. There are dozens of companies engaged in the manufacture and sale of computer equipment. The Australian officials were conducted around Canada and other countries by representatives of IBM. They were feted from one end of the country to the other. They looked at equipment which was servicing a system we would not use. Very soon after their return to this country, an order was placed for a number of pieces of equipment. An amount of $4.5m was spent on one item, $3. 3m or $3.4m was spent on another piece of equipment and a further amount, in excess of $5m, was spent on another part of the order, making in total a sum of about $ 1 5m. 
This Government asks the question: Who had their sticky fingers in the bin? Why was the procedure adopted whereby $15m of public money was spent without any tender being let and without any advertisements being given of the Government's intention? Was it because this was the cheapest way to go about it? I suggest to the House that it was not. I suggest to the House that a deal was done. A very clever deal was done whereby the departmental representatives and the Minister who was in charge of those representatives put themselves in the most hopeless position of having no option but to honour the hospitality they had been given. This is the sort of approach to the spending of public money that this country can do without. 
The Leader of the Opposition says that he welcomes the opportunity to debate the matter. We welcome the opportunity of hearing his explanation of this affair. We welcome the opportunity of seeing the Leader of the Opposition rise to his feet in this Parliament and telling this House, in no uncertain terms, why it is that some $ 15m of public money was spent on computer equipment without public tenders having been called. It is the sort of question that will not be left to rest by this Parliament, by this Government or by the people of Australia. The Leader of the Opposition must be prepared to explain the issue fairly and squarely in this House, in a way that puts it beyond doubt. I do not believe that he can do it. I do not believe that the people sitting behind him today believe that he can do it. He was called upon to do it during the period when he was in government. He refused repeatedly to expand on his answer in the Parliament, either verbally or by way of a reply to a question on notice. It has to be stressed- I say it now unequivocally- that this order was placed on the specific authority of the then Minister for Social Security. It was placed on his specific order and he put his signature to the documentation. That order could not have been placed without an authority from the Minister in the first instance and obviously a subsequent endorsement by Cabinet. That is the charge that this Government places against the Leader of the Opposition. 
It is little wonder that the Leader of the Opposition has spent all this week and half of last week trying to pin on the Fraser Government and the Prime Minister that the present Australian Government in some way has taken some mischievous action regarding an order that it now contemplates placing. So we have a situation where the Leader of the Opposition and his colleagues have been trying to create a smokescreen, a diversionary tactic, to take the attention of this House from consideration of what took place previously. That is why this House welcomes the opportunity to hear the Leader of the Opposition stand up, place his credibility fairandsquare on the line and explain to this House in terms which everybody in this House, everybody listening to this debate and everybody in the Australian community who is paying taxes can understand. It is for that reason that we call on the Leader of the Opposition to put his house in order if he can. We do not believe he can. We require him to stand up here and explain his position and to produce in this Parliament forthwith all papers in his possession relating to this series of incidents. We call on him to stand and to do it now. 

 - Mr Speaker, in accordance with your direction, I formally move: 
That this House: 
Notes with grave concern that during the term the present Leader of the Opposition served as Minister for Social Security: 
purchases were made from the international computer firm IBM for between $ 10m and $ 1 5m worth of computer equipment without public tenders having being called; 
the action taken was subsequently endorsed by the previous Government; 
representatives of the firm IBM accompanied officers of his Department on an overseas trip prior to the equipment being ordered, and 
the explanation given to Parliament at the time, by the present Leader of the Opposition, of this irregular purchase was plainly deficient, and the whole affair was not only less than an acceptable level of public administration, but a blatant misuse of public funds, and therefore; 
2 ) Calls on the Leader of the Opposition to table without undue delay all documents in his possession relating to this lapse of ministerial responsibility, and misuse of taxpayers' money. 
It gives me great pleasure to be returned as the member for the federal division of La Trobe in the Thirtyfirst Parliament. In saying that I must confess to a twinge of sentimentality. At the recent redistribution I lost literally a third of my constituents. 
They are fine people, as the honourable member for Casey says. He would know better than anybody else as he has taken the vast majority of those constituents from my electorate. Those electors had a significant effect in returning him so comfortably in the neighbouring electorate of Casey. It was a great pleasure for me to represent those people for the first 2 years of my parliamentary career. I pay tribute to the wonderful friendships that I made in that capacity and simply say to those people who I once served in this Parliament that I know they are now in the good hands of the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Falconer)  and the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Simon).  I thank them for the support they gave me in recent years. 
I am here because many hundreds of people believed in what the Liberal-National Country Party Government was offering to the electors of Australia. I am also here because those people applied themselves with dedication seldom seen before in any election campaign to support the cause for which I stood. I pay tribute to them. Of all the electorates in the country probably none experienced such a hotly and vigorously contested campaign as that conducted in La Trobe. 1 even recall on one occasion seeing the cheerful figure of the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  taking part in the campaign in La Trobe on behalf of the Australian Labor Party. I thank him for doing so. I am sure it was beneficial to the numbers that I was able to poll on that day. 
I have pleasure in supporting the AddressinReply so capably moved by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Carlton)  and seconded by the honourable member for Tangney  (Mr Shack)  who, in their maiden speeches, made excellent contributions to this debate. The Governor-General's Speech had certain special priorities. I would like briefly to mention them. Firstly, he referred to the need to build on the progress made in this country within the last 2 years, to defeat inflation and unemployment and restore full economic health to the country. He also talked of the need to promote vigorously the development of Australia's resources and to enlarge external trade with other countries. He spoke of the need to maintain the policies which have halted the excessive growth in government bureaucracy and expenditure and to continue the pursuit of greater efficiency and responsiveness by the public sector. He referred to the need to revitalise our federal system by co-operating with State and local governments and giving them a greater measure of financial assistance. 
I mention the overwhelming support that exists within the electorate of La Trobe by the representatives of local government who put so much stress on the need for a continuation of the federalism policy that the Fraser Government introduced which was a complete reversal of the more centralised approach to government administration that had been one of the hallmarks of the previous Labor Government. I look forward within the term of this Parliament to the time when we will be able to honour the commitment to increase the revenue sharing arrangements whereby local government will have access to no less than 2 per cent of personal income tax revenues. This most dramatic policy has the most far-reaching implications for people at the local government level. In an electorate like La Trobe, which has many and diverse demands on local government, one realises the tremendously heartening policy that the Fraser Government has introduced. 
The Governor-General also spoke of the need to provide effective assistance to the disadvantaged within the community in ways that promote their independence and their self-respect. He talked of the need to protect and enhance the rights and the civil liberties of every Australian. Finally he spoke of the right to secure the defence of this country and to act as a positive and responsible force for world peace. I think it was an excellent statement by the Governor-General. I look to the term of this Parliament to achieve so many steps along the way to make what I refer to as a vision for this country into a reality. 1 want to turn in the course of my remarks tonight to the area of manufacturing industry within Australia. Australian industry is well aware that we are entering a vastly different period from that of the late 1960s and early 1970s, a period in which stability and a good degree of economic certainty still existed as influences on business and investment decisions. Decisions of this nature are so critical if we are to bring about the necessary creation of more jobs, and provide more opportunities for people. Those who have a vision for Australia realise that our manufacturing industries cannot expect to keep looking to the Government's spending habits for their support. It is obvious and in fact vital that the Government continues to exercise restraint in its expenditure programs. So long as we have governments producing national budgets in which they spend literally thousands of millions of dollars more than they are taking in revenue, a highly inflationary situation will persist. It is quite unrealistic to suggest that that sort of conduct can continue. It needs to be understood that it will compromise the futures, ambitions and possibilities of every person in the country. 
Government spending has had to be reined in. It had become excessive and bloated. It placed an undue strain upon our resources. It decreased productivity and it added to inflation and interest rates. Investors must be prepared to take advantages of whatever share of the market can be won for Australian manufacturers. I believe it is essential that serious discussions on industry policy should be developed if we are to resolve the problems and evolve an industry policy for the future which will be capable of being implemented successfully on a national basis. In this regard, the work that has been conducted in the industry advisory councils has been of the first order. I have had the pleasure of serving on the Heavy Engineering Advisory Council. Some of the discussions that have taken place around the table have been of the greatest importance. We are about to commence some work within that advisory council which I think will be of tremendous value to government. This is emerging from an absolutely vital and critical part of Australian industry- the heavy engineering sector. 
Although manufacturing dates back to early colonial times, the bulk of present manufacturing industry was developed during and after the Second World War. Government assistance during the 1950s and 1960s greatly assisted this development. During the 1950s, the Government imposed import licensing for balance of payment purposes. This greatly assisted industry, particularly import replacement industries. In the 1960s, industry benefited from Government policies aimed at providing employment opportunities for a considerably expanded work force. However, in the latter half of the 1960s, a number of events took place which were to have a profound impact on Australian manufacturing industry. One of the first of these was the opening up and development of vast mineral project. The dramatic increase in Australia's export revenue which followed the opening up of these resources removed the long-standing uncertainty and concern about our balance of payments. The development of mineral deposits in the mid-1960s placed great pressure on the scarce resources of labour and capital with the price of each responding to the increased demand. 
The increase in export receipts from mineral exports led to a changed balance of payments aspect. The increase in reserves led to demands that the Australian domestic market should be made more open to the world and that imports should be consciously increased. People began to question the levels of protection accorded manufacturing industry, arguing that this protection allowed manufacturers to bid up the prices for our scarce resources and thus increase the costs of Australia's export industries. The phrase 'misallocation of resources' became fashionable, the argument being advanced that the high level of protection given our manufacturing industry was resulting in a serious misallocation of resources within Australia. Consequently, the growth rate was lower than it otherwise would have been. The government of the day recognised the desirability of having the Tariff Board review the tariff levels of products which had not been looked at for some time. Thus the tariff review program for all industries came into being and is still proceeding. 
Since the beginning of the tariff review in 1971, the average tariff on manufactured items has fallen from 23 per cent to 1 7 percent. During the same period a very high level of inflation, influenced largely by the rise in wage costs, also confronted manufacturing industry. Average weekly earnings increased from $79.80 a week in 1970 to $96.70 in 1972 and $133.50 in 1974. The 1976 average weekly wage was $180.50 a week and today it is over $200 a week. That is an increase of 150 per cent over these years. In this period female earnings also rose at a rate faster than male earnings, reflecting the implementation of equal pay for women. These increases greatly exceeded comparable increases incurred by our trading partners and so led to the competitiveness of Australian manufacturing industry being compromised. This decline in competitiveness was a prime reason for the devaluation in November of 1 976. That devaluation impact has been affected to some extent by subsequent revaluations and price rises for imported raw materials. The last devaluation eased the situation on the domestic market for Australian manufacturers and also helped their access to export markets. 
Another influence is the change in community attitudes towards general working conditions and pollution controls. All these pressures have resulted in higher costs which in many cases have added to the pressures arising from increased import competition. The increased competition from imports is not derived just from internal changes; it is derived also from changes occurring outside Australia. The changes in the international monetary and trading systems which have taken place over the last few years are some of the issues affecting Australia's industry structure, although Australia's move to a more flexible exchange rate offset to some extent the problems we faced in the previous system. One aspect which is being looked at closely is the influence of flexible exchange rates on the effectiveness of the tariff. Recent experience has shown that changes in the exchange rate can be more significant than tariff changes. Therefore, the Government will continue to maintain a close watch on the implications of movements in the exchange rate. 
The recent world recession has emphasised the interdependence of the economies of various countries. A recession in one country has been transmitted to others. As domestic demand falls or export markets dry up, industries in such countries seek other export markets. This phenomenon was a contributing factor to the import surge we have experienced over the last few years. Increases in imports of manufactured commodities have a more marked impact on the structure of Australian industry than the same volume of imports would have on the industry structure of other developed countries. This is mainly because of the small size of the Australian domestic market. 
A further factor in this surge has been the continued development of technically advanced industries in developing countries. Such countries have set themselves as an objective the achievement of 25 per cent of the world's industrial production by the year 2000. This contrasts with their present contribution of less than 7 per cent. The continued pressure of industrialisation in developing countries and their consequent requests for more liberalised access to the Australian market will be a major influence on Australia's future industry structure. For instance, our imports of textiles, clothing, apparel and footwear from countries in the Association of South East Asian Nations has multiplied nearly 18 times in the past six years to a current rate of $35m per annum. It is not always understood that Australia is one of the largest importers per capita in the world of textiles and clothing from developing nations. We are ahead of the European Economic Community, Canada, the United States of America and Japan. If these developed nations further restrict access to these imports from the developing countries, Australia cannot become a market of last resort. Our economy just is not big enough to absorb the surpluses created. 
Despite these problems, manufacturing industry is still playing an important part in the Australian economy. In particular, it accounts for about a quarter of national production and contributes about one-fifth of total exports. In addition, it employs 22 per cent of the total work force, comprising over one and a quarter million people of whom one-third were born overseas. The dramatic turn in the fortunes of manufacturing industry since 1974 can be illustrated clearly by a table I have on employment and production statistics. Employment fell by 9 per cent between May 1974 and August 1975. It rose by 1.7 per cent to a million and a quarter people in November 1976. Yet production fell by 13 per cent from early 1974 to mid- 1975. It has since picked up to be about 6 per cent below the early 1974 levels. These figures pose an interesting question. Industrial production is now only 5 per cent below 1974 peak production levels whereas employment is 7 per cent lower than for the same period. So production is recovering at a faster rate than employment. This is a situation which exists in many developed countries. It is becoming a major discussion item between those countries. 
A frequent response to the employment problem is to say: Let the tertiary sector absorb those unemployed in the manufacturing sector. But steady growth of employment opportunities in the tertiary sector is by no means assured, at least in the short term. For one thing, the tertiary sector covers a wide range of diverse economic activities, each facing different pressures. Furthermore, wage costs in the labour intensive tertiary industries such as tourism, accommodation and retailing are affecting growth possibilities. In other areas new technologies are being applied which are affecting job opportunities. To provide some perspective I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a short table which outlines the current pattern of employment in the tertiary industries. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 


<graphic href="108131197803090_75_5.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the House. There is a case for specific policies to be developed and applied when it is apparent that across-the-board policies are inadequate to handle the problems of a particular industry which, for one reason or another, must be maintained. An example of this is in the motor vehicle plan which is now in operation. The issues that I have raised in these few remarks highlight the complex and difficult nature of the problems which have to be faced in understanding the future of Australian manufacturing industry. Australia is not a series of isolated groups and governments- Federal, 
State and local. The primary, manufacturing,  mining  and tertiary sectors are all involved with each other. The prosperity of one group is important to the prosperity of others. This is an interdependent society and all sectors must work together in the economy we seek. I emphasise that a successful industry policy can come about only through discussions between all interested bodies- governments and Oppositions, both Federal and State, industrialists, unions and consumers. It will not come out of a single body or person alone. Consensus and a will to work are necessary. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry in his capacity as Leader of the House. Does he confirm that Question Time is provided to enable Government and Opposition members to question the Executive on matters of great national interest? In view of the fact that Government members can question the Executive at Government members' meetings, and particularly as the Opposition seems intent to ask only the most inane and bungling questions - 
I address my question to the Minister for Transport. Is it a fact that AUS Student Travel Service Pty Ltd sells exclusively Trans-Australia Airline tickets for domestic travel and offers travellers a discount of 25 per cent? Is it a fact that to qualify for this discount a person needs to produce only an Australia Union of Students identity card available to anyone for a modest sum rather than producing a campus identity card available only to a genuine student? Is AUS Student Travel paid commissions by TAA in the form of airline tickets rather than cash? If so, what is the annual value of such tickets? Is this the mechanism used by AUS radicals to move around the country offering their rent-a-crowd facility to all takers? Is AUS Student Travel an accredited International Air 
Transport Association organisation? If not, how can it have a scheme of arrangement with Qantas Airways Ltd or even sell Qantas tickets? Finally, have Qantas or TAA lent money to AUS Student Travel? 

 -Mr Deputy Chairman - 
Motion ( by  Mr Bourchier  ) put: 
That the question be now put. 

<graphic href="108131197804114_37_5_2_N.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="108131197804114_37_5_1_A.jpg"></graphic>

Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Question put: 
That the amendment  (Mr Willis')  be agreed to. 
-We have just heard one of the most impassioned speeches made by any member of the Opposition in this Parliament. I should say to the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding)  that really and truly none of us is losing any great amount of sleep over the fact that he is terribly disturbed that the Government did not see fit to take up his motion this morning. I realise that the honourable member would not be very well acquainted with the situation in which he raises a matter which he believes to be important to the Parliament and the government of the day does not suddenly leap out of its seat, accept the proposition he puts forward and see that it is debated there and then. But I gather that the honourable member for Melbourne Ports does not exactly carry the weight in this Parliament that he carried or sought to carry in the Parliament from which he came. 
The honourable member is ungenerous enough to say he was a dead weight. I believe the honourable member for Melbourne Ports made an extremely important contribution to the Parliament of which he was previously a member. If my observation is correct it was he almost alone who kept the Liberal Government in power for some 15 years in that Parliament in which he played such an auspicious role. The fact is that the honourable member cannot seriously expect to come into this House as nothing more than a relatively insignificant backbencher and suddenly think that for no good reason the government of the day will take up every matter he wishes to discuss in the House, take it off the Notice Paper out of order and suddenly call upon it to be debated. 
Of course, the honourable member overlooked the fact that the Prime Minister  (Mr 
Malcolm Fraser), and the Minister to whom he referred have made very full and substantial statements to the Parliament in regard to the matter he raised. In fact I would even go so far as to point out to members of the Opposition who are singing like a lot of canaries at the moment that the matter raised by the honorable member for Melbourne Ports was a substantial element in the last election campaign. I can recall going around the electorate of La Trobe during the 1977 election campaign and seeing posters put up on windows and other obscure places alluding to the particular matter that the honourable member seeks to raise in this House. This matter was an extremely important element in the Labor Party's campaign during the December election. In the electorate of La Trobe it was probably one of the more substantial issues upon which the Labor Party u" d its campaign. The area had been so well represented that the Labor Party had no other matter on which to rest its case. 
The fact is that the Opposition gave tremendous weight to this particular matter. It is also a fact that the Opposition got the greatest mother and father of a hiding it has ever had in a Federal election save the one in 1975. Therefore we on this side of the House are not really all that disturbed if the honourable member for Melbourne Ports is out of sorts as a consequence of the fact that the Government did not take up his motion this morning. If this matter had been raised by a front bench member of the Opposition or indeed by a member as notable as the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  maybe the situation would have been different. When matters of such eminence are raised by Opposition spokesmen the Government will look upon them with the regard that should be accorded to them. However, when the honourable member for Melbourne Ports raises these extraordinary matters in the House and particularly when he gets up and shouts at us for interminable periods advocating a particular cause, all I can say is that we on this side of the House think that there are more important questions for this Parliament to be discussing and more important matters that should be the everyday business of this Parliament and of this Govenment. So long as we are elected to government we will see that the business of this Parliament is concerned with specific issues that are of the greatest relevance to the people whom we represent. If it so happens that the honourable member for Melbourne Ports cannot identify with those issues we feel sorry for him. 

 -Mr Chairman, I have a feeling that the Committee is beginning to take the view that this clause is being done to death. However, if the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  will extend his courtesy for one or two moments more I should like to make a few verybrief comments. This debate has been characterised by the contributions of lawyers and accountants, and in respect of the Opposition, by one or two graduates of the London School of Economics. However, I will speak for a moment or two about some rather basic elements in this discussion. There has been a continual haranguing from both sides of the chamber as to whether this legislation is retrospective. On that question I think the greatest possible confusion has come into the debate. I would not for a moment support legislation that I thought was retrospective and worked against the people's interests. I do not believe that there is a supporter of the Government who would support such legislation. I do not believe for one minute that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  would have anything to do with such legislation or, indeed, that the Treasurer would have anything to do with such legislation. The Opposition can speak for itself on that particular point. I think honourable members opposite have made it fairly clear that they would prefer to see this legislation start from 1974 which, of course, would be thoroughly retrospective. 
To decide in one's mind whether this is retrospective, one needs only to think of a very simple proposition- that is, to consider the perspective that faced an individual who sought, on or after 16 August 1977, to enter into a Curran-type scheme. I suggest that the perspective was thoroughly plain and evident for any person to see. It may have been referred to in 1974 in a statement of then Treasurer Crean. However I refer the Committee to a statement made by Treasurer Lynch in the 1977 Budget. He said: 
The Government is well aware of the activities in recent years of tax planners who, increasingly, are promoting tax avoidance schemes and arrangements throughout the business and professional community. 
He stated further: 
We propose to crack down hard on such practices. Many of the arrangements that taxpayers are being introduced to enter into are highly artificial and contrived, but they are causing substantial amounts of revenue to be either lost altogether or deferred for considerable periods of time. 
The Government takes a serious view of these developments and proposes, in these Budget sittings, to bring forward amendments to combat these abuses of the provisions of the taxation laws. 
That was the perspective facing any individual, any taxpayer, in this country who sought on or after 16 August 1977 to enter into a tax avoidance scheme, the subject with which this clause deals. For that reason, I support the Government. 
Is the Minister for Foreign Affairs aware that many of the people worried about the mining of Australian uranium are concerned that adequate controls do not exist regarding its use? In view of the fact that the Government has given details of the international and bilateral agreements that must be met before uranium can be sold overseas, will the Minister explain how these conditions and safeguards will be enforced and the nature of supervision that will apply? Could fuels or wastes be diverted without the supervisors knowing it? What would happen if supervisors discovered fuels or wastes being used for purposes other than within the agreement that this Government has made a pre-condition to any sales? 
-As is well known in the electorate of La Trobe, I am always very pleased to listen to residents of that electorate who come to me and discuss matters of either personal or public importance. In this context I want to discuss tonight an incident which occurred in my electorate office a week or so ago. I made an appointment with a  Mr Stephen  Hall, whom, I understand, is an office bearer of the Knox-Sherbrooke Movement Against Uranium Mining. It was agreed that he would come to my office and we would discuss some matters regarding the rnining and sale of Australian uranium for peaceful purposes and that I would endeavour to explain to him the Government's policy, answer any questions and deal with any worries that he had. 
At the time he made the appointment he was asked whether he would be coming alone or whether other representatives of the local Movement Against Uranium Mining would be attending at the same time. This question was asked simply because it was necessary to make arrangements within the office to accommodate the number of people likely to come.  Mr Hall  stated unequivocally that he would be coming alone. So the appointment was duly set for 9 o'clock one Monday morning. When the discussion started it became evident to me that  Mr Hall  wanted to put to me certain criticisms regarding the legislation concerning environmental controls and other matters that had been introduced into the Parliament in recent weeks. 
As the honourable member for Batman said, that was perfectly reasonable and I was pleased to make the appointment. As the conversation progressed it became evident to me that  Mr Hall  had not read the Bills that had been introduced. He really did not have any knowledge of them but apparently found himself in a position to criticise them. I offered to provide him with copies of the Bill so that he could inform himself. That is something that I would be prepared to do for anybody who wanted to ask me such questions and whom I believed was keen to study the matter and take an informed position on it. However, after I had been discussing the matter with him for a quarter of an hour or a little more it came to my notice that a disturbance was taking place outside my office. I chose to ignore it in the short term and to finish the conversation with  Mr Hall,  but events overtook that course. A rather small but unruly mob of MAUM demonstrators forced their way into my office. 
The honourable member for Batman  (Mr Howe)  laughs. The honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  calls them urban guerrillas. He can call them what he likes. The fact is that an unruly mob of MAUM demonstrators forced their way into my office, manhandled my staff out of the way, forced the door open and broke into the room where I was having a meeting. They then proceeded to unwrap a rather ungainly looking container which they informed me contained a material which could not be cleaned up. This, of course, aroused my suspicions and I, not unreasonably, took action to reduce the likelihood of any of the material being spilt in my office. I managed to take the container from the demonstrators and proceeded to tip it out of the open window whereupon, as honourable members can imagine with the odds at live or six to one, somewhat of a fracas developed, during which some of the material contained in the cylinder was spilt all over the office. Honourable members opposite may think that that is funny. They may think it funny when demonstrators go to the trouble of getting the Press out and embarrass the Press in such a set-up. It was a very unseemly and untidy affair and, as honourable members who take a responsible view of these matters would realise, it did nothing to further the cause of those genuinely concerned about uranium mining. The fact is that this was a bunch of local secondary school teachers who should have been at work at that time of the day. They were people who should have been setting an example as to how to conduct oneself to the young people over whom they have influence. It was a disgraceful exhibition. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
The Minister for Industry and Commerce will recall indicating to the House early last week that the outlook for investment in Australian manufacturing industry was particularly promising. In the light of the statistics published towards the end of last week by the Australian Bureau of Statistics, will the Minister inform the House whether the rate of investment during the early part of this year is consistent with earlier expectations? Is this a good indication of future growth in employment opportunities in Australia? 
What an inconsequential speech by the honourable member for Batman  (Mr Howe).  I am moved to suggest that the honourable member was giving a diatribe, not on the Schedule but on some strange philosophical attitude that he has to the issue of welfare housing. He was at great pains, in discussing the Schedule, to criticise the Victorian Government's performance on housing. He does less than justice to the Housing Commission of Victoria which has been to tremendous pains to provide for the housing needs of the citizens of that State. I contest the remarks that the honourable member made, by responding that I can think of no State housing authority that has devoted more attention, more research, more innovation, to the particular needs of the people of its State, in regard to housing both for purchase and rental. 
It is an unquestioned fact that the Victorian Government has a distinct preference that Housing Commission homes and flats should be available for purchase, as opposed to rental. The honourable member contests that view. I respect his position because it represents the attitude of the Austraiian Labor Party on these matters; but the Victorian Government, through its Housing Commission, in recent years has left no stone unturned to endeavour to provide the greatest possible number of homes for purchase by the people of Victoria. Only one thing has stood in the way of that ambition. I refer to the agreement between the Commonwealth and the State that was brought in between 1972 and 1975 by a Labor government. That effectively outlawed any goal of, or determination by, the Victorian Government to provide that in excess of 30 per cent of Housing Commission homes be for purchase. For the first time we have before us a Bill which provides the kind of flexibility that I would recommend to all honourable members, one that is unquestionably supported by the people of Victoria. I specify that State because the honourable member for Batman has referred to it. 
The Bill specifically provides for what we believe to be the fulfilment of the ambition of the people of Victoria- to purchase, to own a house of their own. If the Opposition wants to contest that view, so be it, but I want on record in this Parliament which side stands for home ownership, and which insists that homes for rent be provided. Whatever the justification may be- I know that honourable members opposite go to all sorts of esoteric limits to try to justify their stand on homes for rent, rather than for ownership- I suggest that it is not acceptable to the people of this country. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  That is not a point of order. If the honourable member wishes later to claim to have been misrepresented, he has the right to do so. 
I have merely been responding to the honourable member and illustrating what nonsense the Opposition generally has been uttering in regard to the Bill. 
The honourable member for Hughes, a previous Minister for Housing who introduced the most centralist housing legislation this Parliament had ever seen, has the gall to interject- this at a time when he should hang his head in shame, rather than interfere with the proceedings of this chamber. 
The point of this legislation which the Opposition has refused to acknowledge, and which during the course of this debate, it has consistently contested, is that the legislation introduced by the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom)  in this session provides for the most flexible, the most logical and the most innovative approach to welfare housing that this Parliament has ever seen. Members of the Australian Labor Party are prepared to contest that point. What is acknowledged by the States is that this is the sort of legislation that they have been seeking for years. Yet, the honourable member for Reid, speaking for the Opposition, contests the legislation all the way down the line. He says it is biased and bigoted. He makes all sons of other criticisms of it. What the honourable member for Reid and members of the Opposition should understand is that this legislation has been sought and approved by the governments of every State of the Commonwealth, whether they be Liberal or Labor. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)- 
Order! The honourable member for Burke, who has only just arrived, might wait and listen to the speech for a while. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member for Burke will resume his seat. 

 - Mr Deputy Chairman, how indebted we are to the honourable member for Burke. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Order! There is no point of order. 

 - Mr Giles, I am not a person to be distracted by Opposition comments, but perhaps the honourable member for Burke will tell us why his Government bought land in the parish of Yuroke near Craigieburn which is in the heart of his electorate? Perhaps he can tell us why his Government bought 326 acres of land for $1,485,000 which had changed hands a short time previously for $187,000. Perhaps he will tell us about that. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Order! There is no point of order. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member will resume his seat. I warn him. The honourable member for La Trobe will kindly return to clauses 1 to 1 7, if he can. 
-I will be pleased to do that,  Mr Giles.  It is just that when interjections like that one come out and when one realises that the Labor Government was taken for $1.5m on a block of land, that one begins to wonder why members of the Opposition question what else has been happening. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member will remain silent and resume his seat. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  -Order! This is no way to conduct the business of the Committee and the honourable member for Burke knows it. The honourable member for La Trobe will return to the clauses under consideration or I shall ask him to resume his seat. 
-I will leave the matter of those disastrous land purchases behind me for the moment. The reason the Government is supporting this legislation so vigorously and the reason it stands four square behind the Minister in this regard is that this is the best arrangement for housing that has yet been introduced into this Parliament. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The Housing Assistance Bill 1978 was introduced by the Government to provide for the new Commonwealth-States Housing Agreement. It is one of those Bills that appear in the Parliament from time to time and illustrate so clearly the difference between Government supporters and supporters of the Australian Labor Party in their attitude to housing and to home ownership in this country. A number of basic questions should be asked when it comes to a debate on housing. Do Australians want their housing opportunities controlled by a bureaucracy in Canberra? Do Australians want policies which prevent opportunities for them to purchase their own homes? Alternatively, is it in the best interests of the Australian people to have access to flexible, efficient public policies relating to housing which actively promote home ownership? I think the choices are perfectly clear. They are the sorts of choices which electors in this country take into account at Federal and State elections. 
Last December the Government put to the people in its policy speech the undertaking that it would negotiate a new welfare housing agreement with State governments. In the Budget a sum of $390m has been allocated to the States for 1977-78 for the purpose of housing. Not surprisingly the Opposition has taken great exception to this Bill. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  referred earlier to the results of a recent gall up poll which showed that since the December election support for the Government had increased and support for the Opposition had decreased quite dramatically. I suggest that it is Bills of this nature which make the distinction between support for the Government and support for the Opposition so dramatic. 
We have heard Opposition spokesmen reply to the second reading speech of the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom)  on this Bill. Let me illustrate briefly what was said by the Opposition shadow Minister. I think his remarks can be summarised in this way: A great deal more money should be spent on welfare housing. That is a thought with which I think we can all identify. He went beyond that and claimed that money provided for housing should be used to rev up the economy in a thoroughly artificial way. In short he said that there should be a return to the big spending days of the Labor Government between 1972 and 1975. He called for a return to the grandiose spending plans which got this country into such difficulties during that period, difficulties which resulted in massive deficits and massive inflation rates. Those difficulties are reflected, of course, in the escalation in building costs during that period. The Government's spending also resulted in dramatic increases in interest rates charged on home loans. 
Above all else, interest rates made it so extraordinarily difficult for people on lower incomesthat is, the people who find support through welfare housing programs- to meet the demands made by housing authorities for interest and capital repayments. Interest rates also made it difficult for State housing authorities to charge what we would regard as a reasonable rental rate, which meant that rent payments had to be increased by those authorities. The Labor Government's spending program also resulted in an enormous increase in the demand on taxpayers. We all know that the Australian Labor Party is a high tax party. It has said this on occasions and has illustrated this when in government. The Labor Government had an almost insatiable demand for taxpayers' money, for people 's money, to use for its grandiose plans and pipedreams. The Australian taxpayer, the Australian voter, has come to recognise that this position cannot be sustained in the interests of the country or in the interests of economic recovery. 
Particular attention has been given to housing policies since the Liberal-National Country Party Government has been returned to office. The homes savings grant scheme was amended in the previous Parliament. Some 20,000 grants worth a total of nearly $ 15m have already been approved under the scheme, and a further $20m is expected to be provided during the current financial year. The Housing Loan Insurance Corporation legislation was amended so that it can insure up to 100 percent of loans to assist private buyers. The Government has taken a series of other initiatives in the housing field. It has set up a special inquiry to advise it on the impact of building and other regulations on the cost of home building, to inquire into the efficiency of the present land development process and to make a review of the total housing market. The results of those inquiries will be used for a range of new and modified policies which the Government will be introducing during the course of this Parliament to promote home ownership. The Liberal-Country Party Government over the many years it has been in power has traditionally promoted home ownership in this country. The record achieved until 1972 is one of which I think every Australian can be justly proud. Seventyfive per cent of Australians owned or were buying their own home up to that time. That figure subsequently dropped dramatically. It dropped for the reasons that I gave earner- a Labor government made it so extraordinarily difficult and demanding for an individual person to meet repayments and interest demands on housing loans. 
The people whom the Labor Government claimed it could best represent- the low income earner, those people whom we might say are the battlers of this country- were the people most disadvantaged by the escalation of building costs and interest rates which occurred in the traumatic days between 1972 and 1975. This fact is on the record. The Bill is a major reform in national housing policy. It has resulted from the most intensive negotiations and discussions between the Federal Minister and respective State housing Ministers. 
I congratulate the Government, and I am pleased to support this legislation because once again it gets us back on the path by which more and more people will have access to welfare housing programs on just terms. One of the main criteria in this program will be that help from government housing sources will go firstly to those in greatest need. There are many anomalies in the present welfare housing arrangements. Everybody on the Government side of the House knows about them, and I would like to think that members of the Opposition know them as well. However, in view of the fact that members of the Opposition are contesting this legislation perhaps I ought to make these points a little more clearly. It is a fact that the people who were the beneficiaries of welfare housing programs have in some instances been in a position to make repayments in excess of that required by existing contracts. The flexibility built into this legislation is such that a State housing authority will be in a position to require a household whose income. increases, to increase its repayments to the authority. Nobody can reasonably take exception to that as a principle, particularly when it is realised that as a result of such people making increased repayments State housing authorities will be able tt&gt; extend the range of people to whom they will be able to offer their services. We should remember the remarks made by the Henderson Commission of Inquiry into Poverty regarding the approach to welfare housing. That Commission's report made it abundantly clear- as did the report on housing of the Priorities Review Staff- that there were a great many instances of people in welfare housing - 
If the honourable member would like me to refer to references in the report on housing by the Priorities Review Staff I would be pleased to do so but I do not think that he will appreciate that because to do so will make it perfectly clear that that report iri some elements of its approach to .housing introduces the most socialist concepts* that can be imagined. If the honourable member wants to be aligned with that approach I will gladly accommodate him but I think his colleague sitting beside him might not appreciate it. 
In relation to this Bill the Opposition is saying that State housing authorities apparently cannot be trusted to execute satisfactory, meaningful and efficient welfare housing programs. This Government contests that view directly. It is because they can be trusted that provision has been made for very considerable flexibility to be given to State housing authorities in the approach they will take to welfare housing. There has never been a time when it was more important for public money, whether it be for housing or for any other program, to be used efficiently and in an innovative way to ensure that the best use is made of those . funds, I would be surprised if there is an Opposition member here , todayheavens above, there are only two of three in the House now-  (Quorum formed).  I know the Opposition does not like -to hear Government supporters talking about home ownership because it is so dramatically and. dogmatically opposed to the concept of home ownership which the Government is promoting in the legislation which is before us. Who, other than a socialist, would take the attitude that all decisions regarding welfare housing programs should be made in Canberra? Who else would take the attitude that there should be no flexibility between States or within States on how welfare housing funds can best be utilised. This Government takes the view, and will not swerve from it, that present circumstances require the most efficient use of funds and the most innovative approach to welfare housing that can. be adopted. In Victoria the State housing authority is about to undergo a major reconstruction to ensure that in the services it will be offering it will be making the best use of funds. The Victorian Government is to be congratulated for taking this step. It is leading the States again and it is leading them in a way in which I, as a representative of Victoria, can be proud. 
As my friend has said, the Victorian approach to home ownership in welfare housing leads the States without exception and has done so for many years. This approach is a basic tenet of Liberal philosophy and it is a crying shame that the level of home ownership in Australia has been allowed to fall away in recent years, bleak years which saw the most devastating consequences for people seeking to purchase a home. It is all very well for the socialists to talk about what happened ki Sweden where such a large percentage of the population is renting homes instead .of buying homes. What they do not say is that in 20 years the. government in Sweden has made it so dramatically unattractive for individuals. to own their own home because the financial consequences of owning or buying a home are far beyond what most people can afford. That is the reason home ownership fell away in Sweden. That is the syndrome on which the Labor Opposition is hung up at the moment. It is the reason the Labor Party is objecting to this Bill. This legislation is the most far reaching reform in the approach to welfare housing that this country has seen. 
-I oppose the amendment which has been moved by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis).  It is a rather spurious amendment. I think it can hardly be said that debates on loan Bills are among the more interesting debates in this Parliament. The honourable member for Gellibrand tried to introduce an element of drama into his speech by claiming that there had been an unprecedented 'blowing out'- to use his words- of the deficit that is facing this country in the current financial year. I say that it was a dramatic interpretation because the honourable member for Gellibrand knows perfectly well that although the deficit will be slightly higher than was originally intended, there are perfectly good reasons for that. He is very well acquainted with those reasons- the ground the Government has given in respect of revenues demanded from people, that is, from personal and corporate taxation, and certain other factors which have arisen during the course of the year and which have required an increase in government expenditure. One of the more obvious areas to which I will refer briefly is the step that the Government has taken to provide such funds as will be required, without limitation and without ceiling, for employment programs and training programs directed at people who presently find themselves unemployed and who need to improve their skills and abilities in order to present themselves to employers in such a way that they can find successful employment. 
Does the Opposition contest that action taken by the Government? If it does, I believe it should come out and say so. The honourable member for Gellibrand was singularly quiet with respect to that matter. It is not a dramatic 'blowing out' of the deficit at all. This is a machinery Bill. Successive governments have introduced similar Bills. Loan Bills, such as that which we are now debating, are not a new development. They have been used by successive governments for many years as the simplest and most effective method of completing the financing of a deficit which extends over the end of a financial year. So, there is no great secret about this. I am surprised at the stand the Opposition has taken on it. In fact, what should be appreciated by this House is that the Opposition consistently has been calling for the Government to ' rev up' the economy. 'Rev up' are not my own words; they were the words, I believe, of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden).  What did he mean by that? 'Rev up' simple means: 'Spend more'. 
'Stimulate it', says the honourable member for Hawker. 'Stimulate the economy' are the very words that the Opposition spokesmen on economic matters have been using in relation to economic matters. I do not think that the Government can possibly consider a course like that at this time just when there has been some marked improvement in certain elements of the economic picture. Inflation has come down very considerably since the Fraser Government was originally elected. This is not the time to change horses in midstream and to go back on one of those spending sprees that we witnessed during the period that Labor was in government. So, we reject this call to 'rev up' the economy. We take the view that there is some noticeable improvement in the economy and that is the only way that we will see a return to longterm prosperity. 
The deficit that we are talking about in this debate can be financed by a range of mechanisms. These include net drawings under overseas credit arrangements; net proceeds of other overseas borrowings; net proceeds of bond sales to the non-bank public; net changes in treasury notes on issue to the banking system; net proceeds in bond sales to the banking system and the use of cash balances with the Reserve Bank of Australia. 
I should like to dwell for a moment on this whole question of deficit and of government spending. I have observed among certain people in my electorate that there seems to be a misunderstanding of what the deficit really is and how it comes about. There are people in the communityI respect their views- who are pressing the Government continually to increase allocations in certain areas of government spending and in a range of areas of government spending. When I discuss these ideas with people, it comes back to the stark reality that they do not realise the Government is already spending in excess of $2, 500m more than is being taken through the various forms of revenue. I am often surprised at the effect it has on certain of my constituents when I make it clear to them that the Government is in a position where it does not want to create hardship for people, or groups of people, but it has to be recognised in the consideration of any government spending program that it is starting from a base of a deficit in excess of $2, 500m. Many people are absolutely amazed when I say that to them. But, when I tell them that when the present Government came to office the deficit was  $4,500m  the effect is even more dramatic. They understand, as soon as I put it in those terms, that the Government has managed to reduce the deficit from  $4,500m  by some $2, 000m. I say without any hesitation that the Government is very pleased that the Treasurer has been able to effect that improvement. 
I indicated that I wanted to make some remarks on government spending policy. The Opposition has consistently refused to say what it would do. So be it. If that is the contribution the Opposition wishes to make to such debates, doubtless the public will judge the Opposition on that basis. That is one of the reasons why support for the Government has improved in recent months. The electors recognise that there is some improvement in the economy. They realise that there is no easy way out for an economy which is still running at a considerable deficit. People relate these matters right back to the family budget. A national budget is only a family budget on a far more involved, and infinitely greater, scale. People know perfectly well that if, with a family budget, they continue to spend far in excess of what comes in by way of earnings, they will get into some awful problems. There is no secret about it. The basic principle is the same. People understand that perfectly well. 
The Government is determined to reduce the rate of government spending and to see, as a result, that there is a further return of confidence to the private sector, to industry, to business and to people in the community. It is determined to see that there is a return to a climate in which people are willing to make investment decisions, whether it be to build a house, add to a house, start a business, expand a business or all those things which create employment and generate prosperity for a range of people. 
Consumer confidence, my friend comments. That is exactly what it is. Australia needs more of that. If we had the misfortune to have in power a government which was going around saying that it would rev things up, at the expense of the taxpayer, the people of the nation know it cannot be sustained. The people have been through that once before, in recent years. It happened during the term in office of the former Government. The people do not want to see that again. 
We are not a Government of big spenders. To give some perspective to this I point out that the Commonwealth Budget outlay increased by 46 per cent in one year during the term in office of the former Government, in 1974-75. From where did that money come? Largely it came out of the pockets of the people, the pockets of individuals. It was borrowed to a large extent, certainly, and the money was printed at the Mint. In 1975-76 that was down to 23 per cent. The present Government halved the rate of increase in Budget outlay in one year. This year it is down to 10.4 per cent. Maybe it will come up a little over that. The deficit may be greater because the Government has provided additional funds for employment training programs. They are terribly important programs. The Government has also provided additional money for certain rural relief programs. Does the Opposition contest that, given the state of the rural industry at the moment? There have been some additional expenditures towards national disasters and things such as flood problems. 
The aim of the Government is to contain government spending, not to 'blow it up'. It believes that people should have more say in how their funds are spent, not less say. In effect, that means that governments should have less say. There is support around my electorate for that point of view. It is clear that the Government is reducing the burden of taxation. That is the Government's philosophy. It has been backed by action. The cost to revenue of the various taxation measures introduced by the Government, such as tax indexation, the new tax scales, the investment allowance, comes to a loss to government revenue of some $2,250m a year. That means that money, instead of going into government revenues, is staying in the pockets of the people for them to do with it what they want. Do members of the Opposition contest that? They are dramatically silent about it, but it was a big issue at the elections last December. I know the interest that the Australian electorate took in that matter at that time. People said that they wanted a government that was willing to reduce the taxation burden on them. That is exactly what they got. If the Opposition wants to 'rev up' the economy again it would be doing so by the demand on taxpayers. It would not be private or nongovernment money. It would be doing it with the money of the people. That would illustrate an insatiable demand to take from people a higher percentage of their earnings and use it for government spending purposes. 
That is not correct. They do not want to take it from the rich. They want to take it from the battlers. They are the people who have been hard pressed. I am speaking of the people on average weekly earnings and less, who have suffered the most dramatic increase in the taxation burden. That is where the increase has come from, it is not at the other end of the scale, as my friend suggests. I have to correct him on that matter, though he has been here far longer than I. The figures support the view that the wealthy have not copped the tax burdens. The big revenues come from the small man, the multitude of small people in the nation. They have experienced a more dramatic increase in the taxation burden, relatively speaking. That is one of the problems: The people on less than the average weekly earnings and slightly above the average weekly earnings have carried the burden. It has been the middle management structure, the shop foreman and not the bosses or those people who sit in the executive suites. It has been the workers who have suffered. That has to be clearly understood. 
I should like to indicate the elements of government expenditure which have increased most dramatically in recent years because I think it gives some understanding of where federal funds have been going. These are the trends: Commonwealth expenditure on social security and welfare programs has increased from less than 1 7 per cent of the total outlay in 1 967-68 to more than 27 per cent today, 10 years later. Effectively it is up ten per cent in ten years. In actual money terms it is a very considerable increase. I do not want to introduce a series of figures into my comments on this Bill, but this is a very dramatic increase. 
The outlay on health has increased from six per cent of total expenditure in 1975-76, just a couple of years ago, to 13 per cent, or slightly less, today. Maybe today's figure is closer to 1 1 per cent. As a result of that trend we had to introduce measures following the latest Medibank review. There was no option. The point is that Government expenditure cannot continue to escalate in line with the trend of recent years because if it does the opportunities for people to do what they want with their money, for the benefit of their well-being and that of their families, will be reduced. That is the difficulty that is being faced up to now by the Government. 
When it comes to effecting savings there are many areas which I think the Government has to look at. I am sure that in the Cabinet discussions which are taking place now in relation to the next Budget there will be certain areas to which most consideration will be given. The basic question to be asked in relation to any program is whether there is a real need for the expenditure. Once that need is established the Government then has to determine where the cost burden should fall as between the public or the private sector. In health there is clearly a public sector and a private sector. Inevitably the debate on where the emphasis should lie will continue. Where do we get the best medical service for the most attractive overall cost? Let us be in no doubt that if the cost of medical services is to come from the public sector it will come out of the pockets of the people. The burden will not fall on the executives in this country because traditionally the escalation in tax scales has hit hardest the people at the lower end of the tax scale; in other words, those with lower earnings. That is one of the great anomalies we face today. 
So there is no great difficulty in understanding what the Government is about with this Bill. It is doing its darnedest to restrain the increase in government expenditure without restricting government services. It is looking to the most efficient delivery of government services. It is cooperating with the States, with industry, with employers and with representatives of the trade union movement and it has never deviated from that course. Neither will the Government deviate from that course. It is getting a tremendous input from the groups to which I have just referred. The only input it is not getting into the economic debate in this country is that which should be expected from the Opposition. 
-The listeners to this debate tonight, or the readers of this debate, will realise that they just heard, or they have read, the full force of the left wing of the Australian Labor Party really rearing its ugly head. Could anybody imagine a more irrational, illogical or incoherent series of speeches from Opposition supporters than those made in this debate tonight? The situation is that the Senate has used its constitutional powers and returned this Bill to the House of Representatives, requesting that certain amendments be made to it. The Government supports those amendments. Why does the Opposition proclaim such agony in respect of these amendments as has been expressed tonight? Is it because of some genuine concern to ensure that the mining and the sale of uranium in this country is carried out on the most appropriate basis? Of course it is not. It is because of a desire on the part of Opposition supporters to frustrate at every turn of the road a decision taken by this Government. 
Thank you,  Mr Chairman.  Members of the Opposition can interrupt as often as they like. I do not mind because we will go on with this debate for as long as members of the Opposition want. The fact is that the Opposition has proposed the most irrational criticisms of the amendments we are discussing- amendments 1 to 5. There is no secret about that. We have heard the views of the full force of the left wing- the anarchists- of the Australian Labor Party. We have heard from those members of the Australian Labor Party who hate the States with a vengeance seldom seen before in this Parliament. 

 - Mr Chairman, what members of the Opposition have said in this debate- it is their allegations that I am answering- is that the States are entirely incompetent to have any influence over the code relating to the uranium environmental protection that we are debating tonight. 

 - Mr Chairman, you have the confidence of the Committee, despite what the honourable member for Hindmarsh says, because you perform your role with complete impartiality, and I congratulate you for that. 

 - Mr Chairman, it is perfectly evident from the way in which members of the Opposition are trying to frustrate this debate by interfering with the remarks I want to make that they have no logical basis on which to take their stand. They are intent on frustrating what I want to say. This is absolutely typical of their philosophical stand on the uranium mining question, particularly in respect of the Environment Protection (Nuclear Codes) Bill that we are now debating. Members of the Opposition will use every possible measure- they are not very productive thinkers- to frustrate this debate and the passage of the Bill. It is perfectly obvious to those with the capacity to learn, read and listen - 

 - Mr Chairman, I will go directly to the clauses we are debating and point out the fact that the codes which are the subject of the amendments are part of our obligation under international agreements that presently exist and which this Government will be proposing in forums to see that there is a universal approach to safeguards and environmental standards which will apply to the mining of uranium. 
We have the gigolo from Batman who will not concentrate on the amendments we are debating. The amendments and this code which the Government has come up with after a great deal of consideration after receiving the report of the Fox inquiry are specifically designed to provide that level and degree of environmental protection which is absolutely basic to the mining and treatment of uranium. These are the sorts of provisions which any country involved in the uranium cycle should regard as absolutely basic. The Government proposes them for that reason. The reason why members of the Opposition are opposing these amendments is that they do not trust any State to have any input into these codes, their execution and administration. It is not only a question of federalism; it is a question of protecting the rights of the citizens of this country irrespective of whether they live in a Territory or a State. As a supporter of the Government I do not understand why the Opposition should take such an antagonistic stand towards that position. We heard the previous  speaker  refer to one of the State governments as the most corrupt government in the Western democracies. I have seldom heard a more provocative or unparliamentary statement than that. The claim was made by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding),  a rookie in this House, a man who did more to devastate the position of State governments - 
I am concerned by the alarming number of solicitors who are defrauding unsuspecting and trusting Australians by withholding money paid into trust accounts. The practice of these solicitors to whom I will refer tonight is simple, effective and lucrative. They ignore, and treat with contempt, all requests to return deposit moneys due when a contract has been rescinded. By taking advantage of their superior knowledge of the law, and the reluctance of a citizen to be involved in expensive court action, they simply keep the money. 
It is apparent from the cases that I have before me that this is done when the funds held in trust are less than the cost of legal action for their return. I have a letter from one solicitor advising me that if my constituent wants his money back let him sue for it'. The money held in that case amounts to $1,000. The cost of a barrister to defend my constituent could be $500, and this is before stepping inside the courtroom door. Another of my constituents, fighting for the return of a $900 deposit, was advised by her solicitor that she was fighting a lost cause. Despite the fact that she was legally and morally entitled to the return of her money, she was advised that it would cost her more to go to court. Her solicitor advised her to give up and cut her losses. How many other trusting citizens are being duped by such dubious solicitors? I am aware that honourable solicitors are alarmed by the actions of their less than honourable colleagues. 
I call on the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  to investigate this situation in which the rights and dignity, not to mention the cash, of citizens are being abused. 
My question, which is addressed to the Acting Prime Minister, refers to the recent disastrous floods which have occurred in certain pans of Victoria, particularly in Gippsland. Can the Acting Prime Minister give the House an assurance that the Federal Government will co-operate in the excellent measures announced already by the Victorian Government to help people who have been disadvantaged in the recent floods? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In answer to a question I previously asked in this House the Minister for Foreign Affairs stated that the projections for France relating to the use of nuclear sources for electrical energy were that by 1985 France would be 60 per cent dependent on nuclear energy for generating its electrical power. In view of this startling revelation, is the Minister in a position to inform the House of comparative figures for other industrialised nations regarding the use of nuclear energy in the future? 
Has the attention of the Minister for Transport been drawn to a report in this morning's Press concerning a new aviation policy announced by the American  President  which it is claimed will offer cheaper fares to the 
American travelling public? Will the Minister tell the House whether similar policies are being proposed for the benefit of the Australian travelling public as a result of the reviews of aviation recently completed and the current negotiations with the British Government on new air fares to London? Will the Minister also inform the House of the latest position regarding the application of Continental Airlines Inc. as it applies to Australia? 
My question which I direct to the Minister for Transport relates to the general question of air fares and particularly to the Government's objective of introducing lower air fares for international travel. Is the Minister aware that the Australian Council of Trade Unions in a joint arrangement with Jetset Tours (Australia) Pty Ltd is proposing to launch a major program whereby members of the ACTU and affiliated unions will be offered what are alleged to be travel subsidies for international travel? Is the Minister aware that the travel industry believes that such a scheme could seriously undermine the stability of the international travel industry in Australia and jeopardise the Government's efforts to introduce a range of lower international air fares that are available to all Australians? 
I want to spend a moment or two tonight in this section of the Estimates debate to talk about some of the measures that the Government has introduced to assist Australian industries which are interested in developing our export potential. I am particularly pleased that the Government has broken new ground in this Budget in a national effort to promote export within our manufacturing industry. At a time when so many of our industries are operating below capacity and when an unacceptably high proportion of our work force is unemployed, the export incentives in the Federal Budget are timely and welcome. Australian industry has fallen behind in the export race. Now is the time to catch up, and the Government recognised what must be done by this Budget. It is unarguable that the well being, the prosperity and the standard of living of all Australians is dependent on our performance as a competitive export nation. 
It is important to recognise the difficulties Australian manufacturers face when it comes to winning export orders. It is important also to recognise the efforts that Australian industry is making to secure reliable export markets. In this regard I mention the efforts by certain manufacturers in the electorate of La Trobe. I can cite the case of an individual who heads a local industry and who makes in excess of 20 overseas trips each year, particularly to the Asian and South East Asian regions, in an effort to hold export contracts that he has won on behalf of his firm and to secure others. It is this sort of dedication which we should recognise and which the Government should support all the time. It is clear that the inflation rate particularly of the years between 1973 and 1976 has reduced our competitive edge in the export field. Equally, the slow-down in world trade has made our task in this area far more difficult. Australian industries that are serious about exports have faced immense difficulties. We should be grateful that the initiative to compete and win export orders still exists within our manufacturing industries. I invite the Parliament to put all possible effort and all possible assistance behind those elements of our industrial output where export success can be achieved. If we ignore this expertise and initiative we will do so at our national peril. The Budget recognises this position by taking the necessary steps to supplement the performance of our manufacturers in the area of export. 
For any of this national export effort to be effective certain factors must be resolved. The escalation in our cost structure must first be reduced. Recent figures show quite clearly that the fight against inflation has been dramatically successful. Who would have thought that Australia's inflation rate, which just four years ago was nearly 17 per cent annually, will be down to 4 per cent or 5 per cent within a few months? Only when Australia's inflation rate is substantially below that of our competitors can we start to win the battle in securing export orders. The position now is relatively clear. Inflation is no longer our national bogeyman and, given a sensible approach to wages demands and other elements of our production costs, the future of this country is unlimited. What should not be overlooked is that it is our capacity as exporters that will determine our capacity to import. It is Australia's productive capacity that will in the longer run determine our influence in matters of world trade, world development and the interests of all people. 
The elements of the Australian industrial scene- management, labour and governmentmust realise and acknowledge that it is our performance as exporters that will determine the future of our work force. Every Australian parent or worker has a vested interest in achieving success in export. The Government has shown the way. I trust that all Australians will co-operate in a national endeavour to be successful. If nothing else will draw Australia together in a national cooperative effort, if nothing else will cause us to lay down the mantle of political division, surely export endeavour will provide such a medium. The obvious fact is that in recent years many Australian manufacturers have transformed their businesses, either in whole or in part, from that of manufacturer to that of importer. Nothing could be more devastating to Australia's interest in general and the interest of those people in the work force in particular. The displaced work force cannot find alternative employment. 
Instead of playing a role in using Australian resources in manufacture, they become part of the pool of unemployed, depending on the support of social welfare payments. Despite the abnormally high level of unemployment, some elements of industry are experiencing a shortage of labour. Not always is the requirement for skilled labour. Only this week I learned that General Motors-Holden's Ltd has vacancies for 300 unskilled workers on its assembly lines at Dandenong and Pagewood. Vacancies for skilled workers, particularly in the metal trades, are numerous. It concerns me greatly that, as economic activity picks up, the shortage of skilled workers will be still more serious. These are conflicts which I bring to the attention of the Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony)  because policies of the Government must be refined to deal with such conflicting issues. If training is not stepped up in the skilled areas of the metal trades, industrial recovery will be compromised as the industry sectors compete for this limited human resource. There is a responsibility for both industry and government in this regard. 
In recent months there has been widespread discussion on the effect that mechanisation and technical development are having on job opportunities. Some people have doubted the wisdom of the 40 per cent investment allowance which provided an incentive for industry to re-equip for more efficient production. The argument, I gather, is that such investment replaces people with machines. In some respects this argument clearly is correct, but it overlooks the fact that in many cases the task performed by the machine is of a repetitive or at least an uninspiring nature. As such it is hardly an attractive form of employment for a person. People who hold this reservation might do well to look at some figures that were prepared by the Heavy Engineering Manufacturers Association in 1976. These figures, which I will seek to incorporate in a moment, indicate that countries with the highest employment levels generally were those with the highest percentage of machine tools that were less than 10 years old. For instance, Japan is the most outstanding case. It was found to have 41 per cent of machine tools that were less than five years old. I seek leave to incorporate the table in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="111131197810172_54_1.jpg"></graphic>

Equally significant are figures from the same source which illustrate the expenditure that various countries have made on capital plant and equipment as a percentage of their gross domestic product. We would do well to compare these statistics with the corresponding numbers of the available work force who are without jobs in these same countries. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table covering that situation. 
Leave granted. 

<graphic href="111131197810172_54_2.jpg"></graphic>

In fact the 40 per cent investment allowance, whilst it was a significant and welcome initiative. is not all that generous to manufacturers. In the United Kingdom, for instance, manufacturers are able to depreciate most items of capital equipment at rates of up to 100 per cent in the first year. That is the policy of a socialist government. In his 1977 policy speech the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said that this Government would introduce a twopronged system of export incentives to encourage manufacturers to promote and sell their goods overseas. It is my pleasant task now to compliment the Government on the implementation of this election promise. I believe that the measures that have been taken up by the Government will go a very long way towards accepting the challenge that is required of this country in the export field. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Tonight in the adjournment debate I would like to pay a tribute to the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon).  I think there comes a time in the Parliament when it is important that the members recognise when a Minister has done a particular task in a resolute and fair-minded way with the highest objectives and principles in mind. The House should take note of this action. We have as the Minister for Transport at the moment the honourable member for Gippsland. One of the first initiatives on which he embarked when he took up his appointment in the Fraser Government was to see that the opportunity should be given to the widest range of Australians for access to a lower cost of air travel on international routes. This objective meets the wishes of the people of my electorate who have been requesting it of all Australian governments for a considerable number of years- particularly during the years between 1972 and 1975 when they were completely disenfranchised. 
In approaching this task the Minister had to face the fact that there had been a dramatic escalation in the cost of international air travel in those years which I mentioned. In his approach to this matter the Minister has been completely determined that a number of criteria should be adopted. Included in those criteria, for instance, is the fact that any lower cost or charter air flight that leaves Australia should be available to every Australian who wishes to travel in that way. Such opportunities should not be available only to members of a particular trade union, a particular association of trade unions, a political party or indeed any other specific group of people. On the contrary, they should be available to any Australian who wishes to utilise such a service. In addition the Minister has been resolute in the view that there should be no variation in the standard or quality of service operated by such airlines or in the access to that service. 
More particularly, with the interests of all Australians at heart he is insisting that such flights will be available out of all the major capital cities. That opportunity presently does not exist; it never has existed. The Minister is determined that he will not approve charter or lower cost fares out of Australia unless such opportunities are available through all of those ports. Furthermore, the Minister is insisting that the standard of service that will be operated will be comfortable for those people who will travel on that service. That is, he will not approve of an airline- I stress that there have been some airlines in this category- that thinks it is appropriate to add another 50 or more seats to a Boeing 747 aircraft, particularly when six or eight toilets in that aircraft have to be removed. This is what the Minister for Transport is seeking to bring about. 
As his statement that was made in the House during the last week or so pointed out, he is within an ace of being able to announce to the Parliament and to the country that he has achieved this goal. I would have thought that with the interests of all Australians at heart Opposition members would be prepared to support the Minister in what he is doing rather than carry on with a low quality, not thought out smear campaign to discredit one of the most able Ministers who has ever been in this Parliament and certainly the most able Minister for Transport in the 1970s. 
-by leave-I too welcome the tabling of this report in the Parliament this afternoon by the  Chairman  of the Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation. I thank those honourable members for their co-operation in the preparation of the report and for the work that went into it. It was a substantial undertaking which has been going on for some considerable months. Although we are pleased to see the end of it in one sense we are pleased also that the matter has been drawn to a conclusion and the report introduced. I recommend the report to honourable members and to a range of interested people. In the speaking time available to me I would commend particularly a number of innovations that have been introduced into the report. In addition to the conventional recommendations that are a normal part of these parliamentary reports, the Committee decided to record a number of findings. These, of course, are simply matters of fact and substance which the Committee has identified during the course of the inquiry. In addition a catalogue has been provided for Ministers so that they can readily identify those sections of the report for which they have particular responsibility. This is in line with the procedures announced by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  whereby Ministers will be required to give consideration to particular elements of parliamentary committee reports which are brought to their attention and on which they will be required subsequently to report to the Parliament. 
The inquiry has resulted in the co-operation of a large number of people, not only the staff of the Committee who, of course, have given their usual excellent service, but also representatives of industry and other interested people who, I believe, have made a genuine attempt to improve the safety and environmental precautions within the industry generally. The one finding to which I would draw attention is that the Committee believes that the risk of a major oil spill in this country is increasing largely as a result of the volume of maritime activity associated with the transport of oil and petroleum and also because of the size of vessels and equipment handling the products. It must be recognised that Australia is not really in a position to deal with a major oil spill at sea. In order to put that remark in perspective, it must be recognised that no other country really has the capacity to deal with such a catastrophe. The point that can be drawn from this is very clear. It will require the co-operation of everybody involved in the industry and beyond to see that such a catastrophe simply cannot occur. The emphasis needs to be on prevention. The opportunity for cleaning up, dispersing or even recovering a major spill is almost nonexistent. I think that this is the point which the Committee has brought home most particularly in the report. Successful prevention will require the co-operation, interest and dedication of a wide range of resources and services. It is to this area that I will be looking particularly to see that certain contingencies are tightened and certain directives are given by government. 
The one other point that I raise is that some evidence was given to the Committee that the masters of ships still persist in washing tanks at sea. This procedure is used when ships are carrying ballast that needs to be emptied in order to take on another product or simply when tanks that have been carrying petroleum or oil or similar products are being cleaned for domestic purposes with the waste and the washings being deposited at sea. 
I can think of no more serious example of environmental vandalism than this irresponsible conduct. An honourable member asks how it can be prevented. I reply by saying that the Committee gave serious consideration to that problem and has made certain comments and recommendations in respect of it. The honourable member for Griffith and other honourable members would recognise that it is an extraordinarily difficult task to trace such irresponsible people who would engage in this activity. Certain measures can be takenhonourable members will understand that I will not go into them at this stage- which I think will break some new ground in ensuring that that activity no longer takes place. I am pleased and proud to have been associated with the inquiry. I thank all honourable members and others who co-operated to make it such a success. 
We are debating a Bill which seeks to authorise the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  to guarantee a loan of something in excess of $llm to enable Ansett Transport Industries (Operations) Pty Ltd to purchase an additional Boeing 727 aircraft in 1979. Before going into details perhaps I should answer one or two of the reservations made by the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones).  The honourable member has the experience of having been Federal Minister for Transport. Nevertheless he raised a number of matters which I think effectively express his indignation, and very likely the indignation of the Opposition, at the Bill that is now before the House. The honourable member referred to most favoured treatment being given in this Bill to Ansett Transport Industries. He, of course, rather conveniently overlooks the fact that this Bill does nothing more than put Ansett Transport Industries in a comparable position with Trans-Australia Airlines when it comes to the question of borrowing money for the purchase of essential aircraft. I say 'essential aircraft' in the sense that the equipment we are discussing tonight is essential to the development plans that one of the major domestic carriers has for this country. 
The honourable member for Newcastle talked about such matters as a secret deal being carried out. He referred to the fact that this money may be raised overseas. He wants to know intimate details of the interest rate that will apply. What he overlooks- with respect, he should know better- is that there is no obligation whatever on Ansett Transport Industries to raise this money overseas. In fact, Ansett Transport Industries is at perfect liberty to raise the money in Australia if it should wish to do so. How can the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  be expected to declare to the House at this moment what the interest rate shall be? The Minister rightly believes that it is up to Ansett Transport Industries to raise this loan money on the best terms and conditions it can negotiate. Whether that happens in Australia or whether it happens overseas, or whether it is one single loan or whether it is a series of smaller loans, are things that Ansett Transport Industries is best able to negotiate for itself. I think that answers the query raised by the previous  speaker  who is a former Minister for Transport. The honourable member's claim about special or most favoured treatment is a lot of nonsense. 
This agreement, this guarantee, puts Ansett Transport Industries in an entirely comparable position with the government-owned airline. What the honourable member for Newcastle is saying, more likely, is that he does not approve of the two airline agreement. I query why he did not say that directly. When he was in government he took no steps to abolish or to interfere with the two airline agreement; yet when he plays the role of Opposition he takes a different stance. He depicts the two airline agreement as something sinister. I am not here to say that I will defend all aspects of the two airline agreement. Far be it for me to do that. But I think it is fair to say and to put on record that the two airline agreement has served Australia and Australians particularly well. That is not to say that the time might not have arrived for some modifications to be made to that policy. 
I think the House should rightly congratulate the Minister because this Minister and his Government have undertaken an exhaustive review of the domestic airline policy in addition to the international airline policy. I believe that the Minister will announce soon certain policy matters in this regard. I think we can believe that the changes which might result will be innovative. I think the most important thing we can look forward to is that the changes will complement movement within Australia by Australians 
I would describe the present airline policy as regulated competition. Why do I say regulated competition? In the first place, two domestic carriers are using virtually the same aircraft, flying virtually the same routes on virtually the same timetables and, generally speaking, charging the same fares. Any independent observer looking at this situation would have grounds for querying where the competition exists in such a policy. I have contact very regularly with people in the electorate of La Trobe who say they want changes to domestic airline policy. Certainly they want cheaper fares. Who does not? We want cheaper fares both within the country and internationally. 
With the regulated competition to which I refer one feature is perfectly evident, that is, the supply may well regulate the demand; it will certainly dominate the demand. The question that arises is whether such a situation is in the best interests of Australians who want to travel. To be fair, one should say there have been considerable achievements in domestic airline policy. For instance, taking the fare structures, twenty years ago the cost to fly from Sydney to Melbourne was in the order of $24 in today's money terms. Now it costs three times that amount. One might well say that is not a bad achievement over an elapsed period of 20 years. If one looks at international air fares one will see that there have been some very spectacular gains. For instance, to fly from Australia to London today, even at the going rates, costs half of what it cost 30 years ago. Of course the services provided are not comparable. Today's services and today's conditions of travel are infinitely better than they were 30 years ago. It should be fairly stated that the Parliament and the country are looking for some innovations from the Minister in regard to international airline policy and international air fares. I have a feeling that this Minister will deliver the goods. 
It is not a question of any prejudices. This Minister does not have prejudices. What he is looking for is the best deal for Australians who wish to travel and indeed for people who want to come to Australia. Presently the number of people who leave this country in the course of any 12 months is double the number of people who come here as visitors. Clearly that is a situation which any responsible government should take steps to arrest. What has been done? The honourable member for Grayndler refers to the record of this Minister in this regard. Only at the weekend an American negotiator arrived in this country to conduct discussions regarding the airline cost structure across the Pacific and to discuss which airlines should be operating across the Pacific. It would not have been the first time that international negotiators have arrived in Australia with an incorrect impression of government airline policy, and the steps this Government has taken to make international travel more attractive and less expensive to people leaving the country and people visiting Australia. 
I would congratulate the Minister in that he was prepared to open negotiations on a government to government level not only with the United Kingdom which is the area to which perhaps most publicity has been given, but also with a number of other countries and a number of other governments with a view to introducing an entirely new international air fare structure. We might reflect on whether the delay in introducing a new air fare structure has been the fault of the Australian Government or whether it has been the fault and the procrastination of governments of other countries with which we have been dealing. I think the role that has been played by the Minister for Transport in this regard warrants the respect and congratulations of this House. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! Before the honourable member proceeds, I draw his attention to the fact that in the last 10 minutes he has travelled a considerable distance from the subject matter of the Bill. If he could come back to the general circuit area, it might be helpful. 
-I will be pleased to do so,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I entered the discussion on the international scene only because the previous two speakers from the Opposition side in fact referred to it. If you want to limit the discussion to the domestic situation, I will be pleased to do so. I want to say to the Minister quite categorically on behalf of the people in the electorate of La Trobe, that they require the stand-by fare structure to be continued. I do not know how I will explain to my constituents that the stand-by procedures may be curtailed during the Christmas period. I would like the Minister to comment on that point in his response. To me that is devastating news which I do not believe any honourable member of this House anticipated. 
-I do not believe any honourable member anticipated the situation. I believe that when the stand-by fare structure was introduced, when the policy was introduced, and when the Minister announced and revealed the discussions that he had had with the domestic carriers, the understanding of this House was and remains that the stand-by fares and provisions would be adhered to, irrespective of the time of the year. I know the airlines have an argument at present whereby they claim that they are carrying 40 per cent more passengers but are taking no additional revenue. 
Let me say not only on behalf of the Tasmanians but also on behalf of Victorians who want to travel interstate- after all it is the people from Victoria and New South Wales who are generating the greater part of this capacity because many of them are going to Tasmania and are coming back- that they wish to see the stand-by policy continued. Might I add one more point, that is to refer the Minister to the parallel scheduling. I know that is has been said in this context that the first domestic carrier that discontinues the parallel scheduling procedures will go broke. That is the feeling within the industry. I do not agree with it. Certainly there are the milk runs, a terminology which is used in the industry and which refers to the east coast major airline routes. It may be acceptable that the majority of traffic wants to leave Sydney or Melbourne at 8 a.m. in order to travel to one of the other major capitals; it is perfectly understandable and that service should be provided. What is indefensible is that on virtually every airline route within the country, not only capitaltocapital but also to provincial and some of the inland cities and certainly across to the west coast, parallel scheduling has resulted in the two domestic carriers working within minutes of each other. 
My friend says it is a bit stupid. I think it is indefensible, and I ask the Minister to take what steps he can to see that changes are made, although not necessarily in relation to which airline may or may not go broke. I do not believe that that is an argument in this context. What needs to be made perfectly clear is that Australians who travel wish to have a choice, and I do not believe that that choice is provided adequately at present by the two domestic carriers. I think there is a tendency that the twoairline policy as presently constituted is in fact limiting competition, although how that situation might be changed is too detailed a discussion to get into tonight. That is a policy matter on which I know the Minister is working and on which I hope he will continue to work. I suggest that when the Minister replies tonight he gives us his and the Government's position on the measures that may be taken to provide a greater choice, a greater variety and a more competitive atmosphere whereby Australians who wish to travel domestically can have access to the best and most efficient and, last but by no means least, safest possible airline service. 
My question, which is directed to the Treasurer, concerns the Government's success in reducing the rate of inflation from 16 per cent to under 8 per cent in three years. Has the Treasurer noticed that certain people have claimed that this success has been at huge social cost? What would the social cost have been if rampant inflation had been allowed to continue? 
-I ask the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs whether he has seen reports from the Murray and Goulburn Valley areas of Victoria that thousands of tonnes of fruit may go to waste because growers cannot get enough people to pick the annual harvest. Is it correct that nearly 2,000 people are registered for work at the Shepparton Commonwealth Employment Service office but there are 400 job vacancies in the Shepparton area for fruit pickers? What is the explanation for this position? Will the Minister ensure that the work test is applied when determining whether unemployed people in the areas mentioned should qualify for the unemployment benefit? 
Has the Minister for National Development seen Press reports attibuted to the Leader of the Opposition criticising the Government 's oil pricing policies? Would it be responsible policy, and would it ensure greater stocks of petrol for future generations of Australians, if petrol prices were reduced? 
-The people of Victoria are looking forward to Saturday, 5 May. On that day Victorians will be given the opportunity to thwart the Australian Labor Party's attempt to grab power. It will be the chance to end the Labor Party's ambition of subjecting the garden State to its special brand of radical communist-inspired left wing socialism. The Victorian election provides voters with the clearest choice for many years: Forward to a prosperous and stable future under the Hamer Government or backwards to a negative, socialist jungle. Victorians will obviously reject the socialist party. We have seen how the less militant British Labour Party has wrecked Britain's economy and has failed to moderate the irresponsible extremes of trade union responsibility. Such a record of failure is nothing to the havoc the Victorian Labor Party would cause if given the chance. The Victorian Australian Labor Party is leaderless and confused. 
Frank What's-his-name. In a last desperate bid for respectability it first changed its leadership. This was achieved by offering its former leader,  Mr Clyde  Holding, a safe seat in Canberra and a golden parliamentary hand shake of several hundred thousand dollars. The Victorian ALP is now leaderless and confused, with spokesmen running everywhere, making contradictory policy statements at every turn. Why is the Victorian ALP unfit to govern? Firstly, it has turned the clock back to 1921. Under its former leader,  Mr Clyde  Holding, now the honourable member for Melbourne Ports, the Victorian ALP watered down its socialist policies. Since  Mr Holding's  departure from the Victorian scene the socialist Left has again dominated ALP politics. It is now perfectly clear that  Mr Holding  was removed by the militant Left because his moderation was a hurdle the Victorian ALP could not overcome. Late last year the Victorian Conference of the ALP adopted this resolution: 
The wording of the socialist objective should be the . . . 1 92 1 wording, namely, socialisation of industry, production, distribution and exchange- and this objective . . . should precede any other contemporary analysis of Labor's philosophy. 
The Conference also carried a separate resolution in these terms: 
This Victorian branch of the ALP rejects proposals which in any way delete the socialist objective of the ALP. 
So there it is. No ifs, buts or maybes. Flying at the masthead of the Labor Party in Victoria is the unequivocal objective of total socialisation, and that means homes, it means industry, it means factories, it means shops, it means banks, it means farms. The re-stating of that socialist pledge, to which all ALP members of parliament are committed, shows the degree to which the Labor Party of Victoria is dominated by the militant socialist left wing. It has pushed out some of its more moderate members of parliament from safe seats for this election and is putting up some of the most extreme left wingers. Let nobody doubt which faction will be in charge of the ALP in the future or which objectives it will pursue. Under Labor, the State Insurance Office would become the largest in the country, amid the ruins of the free enterprise offices. The same thing would apply with banks. Under Labor, the State Bank would destroy the free enterprise banking system. We should not be surprised. Control of banking and finance is basic for any scheme for nationalisation. Labor tried it in 1947 and the electorate threw it out. Effectively, it tried that again in 1975, but at that time it wanted not only ownership of the banks but also use of people 's savings as well. 
What would this socialist purge mean for the citizens of Victoria? Competition would disappear. If you do not like the terms of an insurance policy or if the premium is too high you would be stuck with it. There would be no choice- like it or lump it. When the insurance company is stateowned, state-run and state-managed, a person must conform to the program offered by that institution or miss out altogether. The more people employed by government the less choice they have of employer. The more business owned by government the less choice people have of what they buy, the less competitive business becomes and the less it responds to people's needs. Think of the post office. Think of the railways. One choice is no choice. It completely revokes the Liberal principle of freedom of choice under which this country has prospered. Imagine what would happen under the Victorian ALP's housing policy. It is not serious about home ownership. The socialist ambition is for everyone to live in state-owned rental housing. As evidence of that, we have to look only at the statements of the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Dawkins),  who claimed that Australians were brainwashed into believing that owning one's own home is the Australian thing to do. What a pretentious statement! How strange it is that socialists are always so eloquent in telling other people how they should live. Their attitude is: Do as I say, not as I do '. 
This is a vital election for Victoria- backward with Labor or forward with the Hamer Liberal Government. The Hamer Government is set to take Victoria into the 1980s with plans and policies for growth and development. The Australian economy is now beginning to emerge from the stagnation and recession of the past few years. The signs of renewed confidence and activity are breaking out all over in Victoria in record retail turnover, recovery for local business, increased production and better order books throughout the length and breadth of industry. What a contrast to the record inflation and soaring wage costs from 1973 to 1976. High inflation and its evil companion, high interest rates, are the worst enemies of industry and employment alike. It has been the Hamer Government's first objective to fight inflation with all the means at its disposal, to get it under control and keep it under control. Before Frank What's-his-name can make decisions on these matters he has to clear it with Gallagher and Halfpenny. Three-quarters of the jobs in Victoria are provided by free enterprise, and the Hamer Government's aim has been to support and stimulate free enterprise by all possible means. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! There is no point of order in the point raised by the honourable member for Melbourne. In the process of putting his point of order he charged the honourable member for La Trobe with telling lies. That is unparliamentary and I ask him to withdraw the expression. 
If honourable members opposite will give me an extension of time I will prove that what I am saying is true. Look at the position of apprentices in Victoria. By June, Victoria will have 38,000 apprentices in training, evidence that the Victorian Government is concerned about employment opportunities. Last year the increase in apprenticeships in Victoria was greater than in all the other States put together. The Victorian Liberal Government is taking up another 2,000 young people into special jobs under the Federal programs offered by the Fraser Government. The Victorian 
Government has tackled the road toll. It is educating many handicapped and retarded people who were previously neglected. It has the highest expenditure on education of any State in the Commonwealth. The Hamer Government has set a stable and balanced development plan for the State. It is on the basis of these fine achievements and upon the State platform and policies now being circulated in Victoria that the Hamer Government faces this election. The Liberal Government in Victoria offers the prospect of further prosperous achievement and development. The Labor Opposition portrays itself as a moderate socialist democratic party. In fact it is rife with factions and feuds. So the message for Victoria on 5 May is this: 'Dick for Vic and Frank for the plank'. The Victorian ALP can look forward to another term in opposition because the electors of Victoria will have none of its socialist nonsense. What better could describe the situation than the following rhyme taken last week from a factory notice board in the La Trobe electorate: 
I love the Opposition. 
They know how to oppose. 
They all oppose each other: so 
We know they're on their toes. 
-I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 
Is the Minister for Housing aware of certain claims being made in Victoria that the level of home ownership has dropped in that State during recent years? Could the Minister possibly provide some facts to this Parliament on the level of home ownership in Australia, and in particular in Victoria? 
-For a moment I thought the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  was going to give us a dissertation on tax policy, which would have come as something of a surprise, as he is a member of the party which has indentified itself as the biggest collection of tax bandits this country has ever known. However, he apparently thought better of doing that and went on to make some critique of the performance of the honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem)  during which he misquoted and misrepresented the honourable member for Canberra. Can we expect anything else from a man of the calibre of the honourable member for Melbourne? But what is more important is that he did not even observe the usual courtesies of the House, and notify the honourable member for Canberra that he would be commenting - 
I too support the concept of endeavouring to have a rational debate on the question before the House at the moment, and to that extent I support the remarks of the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren).  But I think that if we are to have a rational discussion the point that should be made is that in terms of organising Government Business, there has been a consistent lack of names put forward by the Opposition of Opposition members who wish to speak on Bills coming before the Parliament. Not only do members of the Opposition absent themselves from the chamber, but they also do not put their names on the speakers list, or else that speakers list is not conveyed to the Government Whip in order to allow him to arrange the business of the House. That is a matter of great inconvenience because many Government members wish to speak on Bills that come forward for debate. But when we cannot get Opposition spokesmen to participate in those debates, naturally the debate lapses. 
This situation was brought to a head last evening in the debate on the Commonwealth Employees (Redeployment and Retirement Bill). Government members were prepared to debate numerous clauses of the Bill in the Committee stage but when the debate had concluded, there were not enough Opposition members present in the chamber for the Opposition to call a division on the matter. The Opposition did not call for a division simply because it was so ashamed of the number of members it would be able to muster to attend the division. I started by saying that we ought to talk about this in a rational way. I close on the same note. If the affairs of this House are to be conducted rationally, it is necessary for the Opposition to play its part. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Riverina) ( 1 1.39)- I know that the time of this House is valuable, but I cannot let the misleading statement that the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Baillieu)  has just made go unchallenged.  Mr Speaker,  you would know that time and time again we on this side of the House have asked to put our name on the speakers' list, but we have not been able to rise to speak because the Government will allow only two speakers from each side of the House. 
The honourable member for La Trobe spoke about the number of Opposition members present in the House. If we take the percentage of members on this side of the House present in the chamber and the percentage of those on the other side, it is obvious that the Labor Party wins hands down. If we were to have a count right now, we would see the small number of Government members present. Yesterday during an important debate no members from the other side of the House were in the chamber. These things should be pointed out. We cannot let the honourable member for La Trobe get away with so many untruths. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I have been following with considerable interest tonight the contributions from both sides of the House in the debate on the amendments to the health insurance Bills. One of the things I have been looking for in the debate is evidence of a consensus between the Government and the Opposition parties on the approach to health care. I regret to say that so far I can see no evidence of a bilateral approach to this very important question. The Opposition members are rejecting the amendments being put forward by the Government. In fact the Opposition has moved certain amendments and I will come to those amendments in a moment. There has been much talk tonight about opposing change. It seems to me that it is opposition for opposition's sake rather than the Australian Labor Party having alternative proposals of any merit whatsoever. 
I welcome the claim made by Opposition speakers that health will be an election issue at the next federal election. The Government would welcome it. But I am surprised quite frankly that Opposition members want to make an election issue of it. I do not think that the original Medibank proposal introduced in 1975 had anything like the respect in the Australian community that Opposition members believe. Let us consider why members of the Opposition are resisting the changes. Can the Opposition not identify that the changes which have been made to the health schemes- there have been several since this Government came to office- have been to improve those schemes and the services provided? Why does the Opposition resist change when it is to effect an improvement, a refinement, of the scheme? Why do members of the Opposition take such an extraordinary inflexible approach? The honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding)  said that there should not be a change because there is not enough information available. What a specious argument that is. He did not define the stage at which he would regard the information as sufficiently fullsome to enable a more rational change to be made. What I would like to point out to him is that when the Australian Labor Party Government brought in the original Medibank proposal in 1975 - 
In 1974-75. It is absolutely correct to say that at that time the then Labor Government had no idea of the costing of that proposal. It is of no use to talk about a lack of information at this very moment. The original Medibank proposal is five years down the track. But there is now a wealth of information available, and as time goes on more information will become available and maybe that information will be helpful. What the members of the Labor Party cannot get away from, and I say this in answer to the honourable member for Melbourne Ports, is that when the Labor Party Government brought in the original Medibank proposals it had no idea what would be the escalation in health costs. That scheme was begun without any evidence of a substantial nature about the costing of the scheme. 
The honourable member for Batman asks whether there is any evidence. Yes, there is plenty of evidence. But, in answer to the honourable member, the best evidence is what happened to the escalation in health costs after Labor brought in Medibank. In 1 974-75 - 
If the honourable member listens he will hear the answer, so he should just pay attention. I want him to know that in 1974-75 total health costs increased by no less than 35 per cent. If he thinks that is bad enough, and he obviously does, he should also know that in 1975-76 they increased by another 27.1 per cent. When the Fraser Government came into office it had to take certain steps to put an end to this excessive cost escalation in health services, so it made certain changes. In that year 1976-77 there was still an increase of 19.7 per cent and this year the increase will be about 10.7 per cent. 
I ask the honourable member who keeps interrupting me what he thinks is a reasonable escalation in health costs. What does he think the taxpayer can sustain as an annual escalation in health care costs? He has no answer to that question and neither have his supporting speakers because not one of them has set out a proposal - 
It is no good arguing like that or saying that health will be an election issue, unless you have a policy. The most significant feature of tonight's debate, revealed in all its glory, is that the Australian Labor Party does not know where it is heading regarding a national health insurance scheme. The points that have been made by Opposition speakers in this debate show clearly that they are at odds with one another. There are four or five proposals. Nobody knows which is the policy. Quite clearly, the conclusion we can draw is that of those Opposition speakers who have taken part in the debate this afternoon and this evening, there are at least four or five different policies. On the one hand, the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman),  who leads for the Opposition, has moved an amendment which, if literally interpreted, makes it perfectly clear that he believes the Labor Party has moved away from the original Medibank concept. On the other hand, it is apparent from the speeches made by certain other members that they do not accept the changes that the Government has made in the past or will make in the course of this amendment. 
That is right. The honourable member for Murray points out a very important feature. When the Government made the changes to Medibank last year the Opposition opposed them. Tonight they have come into the House and are moving an amendment which effectively asks the Government to go back to the last set of amendments which it made in 1978. I fully expect that some Opposition member in this debate is going to ask for reapplication of the Medibank levy. I can remember the second series of improvements to the health insurance scheme that were made by the Fraser Government, namely, to do away with the levy. I can remember speaking in that debate and I can remember the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden),  as I think he then was at that time, coming into the House and moving an amendment which effectively sought to reintroduce the Medibank levy. 
If the Opposition wants to make health an election issue the Government welcomes it because we have the policy and the improvements to the original Medibank program. We have made the refinements and we have made the improvements. We are at the stage where we have a rational' approach to the nation's health situation. 
If the Opposition cannot agree with the detail of the amendments, can it at least agree with the criteria upon which we make our approach to the whole question of health? Let me discuss the criteria for a moment to see whether we can get at least some sort of agreement in the course of this debate. I think health care, hospital care and medical service are important to everyone. Every electorate is affected by this issue. Every member of Parliament is confronted with it every day. I think it is an issue the importance of which ought to be looked at in some sort of bipartisan way by the Government and Opposition members. 
I am looking for a consensus to come out of this debate tonight. Honourable members who are a little bit cynical on these things may give me fairly long odds that I will be able to identify a concensus. Nevertheless I think it is worth trying because I believe on issues like health, medical service and hospital service, the people of Australia are looking to the Government and the Opposition to come up with a proposal, a scheme or an amended scheme, which is within the reach of everybody in the community and which makes full and adequate care available for people whose particular circumstances make it extremely difficult- in many cases impossible- to take out private insurance. 
These people have to be helped in a very particular and special way. I know that this is very much in the mind of the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  in the course of these amendments. Also, I believe the consensus argues that there should be a very high and efficient standard of professional care available to everybody. Let me say quite categorically that the thing that most interests anybody who has the misfortune to be hospitalised, and interests relatives, friends and those interested in them, is that they should have the full benefit of a very professional and far reaching medical service and standard of hospital care. Is anybody in the Opposition prepared to argue or debate that the Government has compromised any of those objectives by these amendments? I do not hear even a whisper so I think it is reasonable to conclude that there is consensus on that issue, that the Opposition does support the fact that the Government has reinforced those very virtues, those very criteria on which I have elaborated. 
I say to the Minister that if there is one thing which has come out of tonight's debate that he should be very pleased with, it is that he has come up with a series of amendments which have met those criteria. They also have particular reference to a criterion which I know the Government takes very seriously, that the escalation in medical and hospital costs just has to be curtailed. These costs could not continue to escalate at the rate we have seen in previous years. Earlier I gave some figures regarding the escalation in health costs. I would like to mention very briefly the escalation that has taken place in the hospital cost average per bed. Australia-wide, the average cost per bed in a hospital is $150 a day. In 1976, by way of comparison, it was $120 per bed per day. Going back a few more years to 1973, it was $41 per bed per day - 
The Minister is quite right. Effectively, what the Government is saying is that the cost has gone up nearly four times in the course of six years. I ask anybody in the Opposition: Can that rate of increase be sustained? 
-The Opposition is not dumbfounded; it is just not prepared to say yes. It will not say no because it is incontrovertible that it cannot be sustained. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a short table setting out total community health costs. 
I was surprised to hear the spokesman for the Opposition defending the industrial disruption on the waterfront in Australia. It has compromised the export of so many of our commodities, in many respects has brought the most difficult circumstances to the rural industries and has set up a situation in which the export of our primary products could be placed in jeopardy next year. I was surprised to find that the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris),  who led for the Opposition in this debate, should identify himself with that form of disruption. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, that is a rather provocative statement. If the honourable member for Shortland would like me to elaborate on what he said I will be pleased to do so.  His  remarks were a labyrinth of incorrect statements. I might say that they were almost a litany of deception. If the honourable member would like me to go into them chapter and verse, I would be prepared to do so. 
To do so would be to make my speech as boring as was his speech. I welcome the introduction of the Navigation Amendment Bill 1 979. If the Opposition does not have speakers who are prepared to discuss and debate the legislation, I am more than pleased to follow my colleague, the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman). 
I noticed that the honourable member for Shortland did not quote the Standing Order under which he took that point of order. It was of course a frivolous point of order, and it should be recognised as such. Well might he leave the table. The reason this legislation which is before us tonight is so important is that the standard of maritime shipping around this country has reached such a level of sophistication that the time has come to make amendments to the Act. If we take into account the volume of shipping that is moving around the Australian coastline, the size of vessels engaged in that activity, and the treacherous aspects of the Australian coastline, it is immediately apparent that the time has come to make these amendments in order to ensure the safety not only of the vessels concerned and their cargoes, but also and more importantly, the safety of the personnel involved. 
Certain facts have been mentioned tonight in respect of this matter. They point up that certain unsatisfactory practices have taken place. I believe that it has been shown that some of the navigational aids and backup systems used in the past have not been adequate to deal with the volume of maritime traffic at the speeds at which vessels move in the restricted passages which they have to navigate. I compliment the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  and the Government in this respect. At last the day has arrived when the Government is prepared to take the necessary action. It has been evident that such action has been required for a number of years. 
I serve on the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation. The Committee took into account certain aspects of maritime activity around the Australian coast, particularly inasmuch as they might influence the spillage of oil from collisions at sea. That is one of the gravest risks that presently exist with maritime activity. Today we have trading on the Australian coastline tankers which are engaged in domestic trade or which are in transit to other ports. These vessels are of enormous capacity; 400,000 tonnes is typical. It would be recognised that with traffic of this tonnage, given the speeds at which these vessels travel today and the fact that they are by no means manoeuvrable, the back-up systems, navigational aids and other facilities that are required must keep pace with trends. 
In this context it always surprises me that members of the Opposition take such belligerent objection to the Omega facilities which, when installed and available to our maritime traffic- to say nothing of our air traffic- will provide tremendous support to vessels. It is all very well for Opposition members to sneer at the Omega system but I invite them to put themselves in the position of the personnel aboard tankers at sea, travelling at 25 knots, with a 400,000 tonne load and knowing that such vessels are extremely difficult to manoeuvre. They require a distance of some miles to pull up in the event of an emergency. Fog conditions may prevail and other maritime traffic may be in the area. I can assure you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that it would be a very comforting feeling for the personnel to know that they can press computer buttons in the control rooms of those ships to establish their position at sea to within hundreds of yards. That is to say nothing of air traffic. 
Recently I talked to some people who had flown in some remote areas of New Guinea during the parliamentary recess. They flew in military aircraft near mountains 12,000 feet high in the heavy cloud and fog conditions that can be experienced in the highlands of New Guinea. The aircraft carried the navigational aids that conventional aircraft carry. Civil aircraft need to rely entirely on those navigational aids. I am told that it is a very comforting feeling to be able to press buttons on the computer in an aircraft to identify to within 100 yards, as a final check, the exact location of that aircraft in the mountainous terrain of New Guinea. 
I wonder why members of the Opposition, particularly the one who laughs at that suggestion, object so violently and indeed protest at the installation of the Omega system. I am particularly pleased that the Government has taken action in respect of the recommendations of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation, particularly as they refer to navigational aids in Torres Strait. During the course of the public hearings that Committee conducted it became apparent that certain navigational aids in the Torres Strait and Great Barrier Reef areas were not satisfactory. A number of representations were made to the Committee. This was reported to the Parliament and of course to the Government. The Minister has seen to it that those navigational aids have been upgraded and improved. In some cases further installations have been established. 
I turn now to the use of pilots on these vessels. I know that there is a deal of dispute within the maritime industry as to the necessity to carry pilots. The claim is made that in many respects the master of a vessel' knows the capabilities of his vessel better than a pilot who steps on board for a limited passage. If a disaster took place it would be extremely hard to justify a decision not to require pilots to be carried. As a nation, a parliament and, indeed, as a government there is only one position to adopt in these situations; that is that the possibility of a collision at sea must be eliminated. 
The honourable member for Wills knows Murphy's law. It states that if a situation is such that an accident may take place, sooner or later it will take place. I suggest that that is the only philosophy which can be adopted by any responsible authority when administering the journeys of these vast ships. It is for that reason that the navigational aids in Torres Strait and in adjacent areas of the Barrier Reef have been improved. 
I refer now to the hydrographic services in such areas. Honourable members might be surprised to know of the extreme limitations in certain key shipping lanes around the coast of Australia. At certain times ore carriers, bulk ore ships and crude oil tankers using the Australian coastline have clearance between the sea bed and the underside of the ship of no more than a couple of metres. That is probably satisfactory so long as the terrain of the sea bed is known accurately. But it would not take any university graduate to work out that it would take an imperfection of only six feet or nine feet in the hydrographic study of the sea bed for a disaster to occur. The degree of sophistication of hyrographic surveys is tied up with maritime safety. I make a non-partisan plea, one which I believe will be supported by all members of the Opposition, the Parliament and the Australian community. I say to the Government that only the best navigational and safety equipment will do for maritime activity. The same safety requisites are required in respect of air safety. Of course, the legislation being dealt with tonight does not touch on air safety so I will not delve into that area. 
I would like to mention one other point. I am glad that in this legislation the Government has required all ships using Australian waters to report details of their movements to the necessary authorities. Honourable members may recall the tragedy involved with the  Blythe Star.  That ship was on a relatively short journey from one of Tasmania's ports to Melbourne. Clearly some disaster took place aboard that ship. The reason for it probably still remains obscure. The thing that worries me about that incident is that it took two days to find the survivors of that disaster. I know that at the time honourable members thought that it was almost beyond belief that vessels could be using the Australian coastline without a requirement to report their presence to the maritime control centre. It seems to me to be absolutely basic for such a requirement. 
I think it should be a basic requirement of every vessel using the Australian coastline to be acquainted with what other vessels are in the area. I know that it is a requirement of ships to keep a watch at sea. I have never been on a ship, but I would like to go on one just to see how it operates. I would be very surprised if an effective watch were kept on all ships at all times. Maybe there are some ex-mariners in this Parliament who could put my mind at rest on that point. I know that radar systems are available which are second to none. Mind you, I do not believe that the equipment on all ships is second to none. Clearly the best equipment available should be installed. Notwithstanding that, the human error factor does come into all these considerations. It would seem to me to be absolutely basic that every ship's master using Australian waters should be acquainted with information about the other vessels travelling in the area. I realise that until the introduction of this legislation a voluntary reporting system was used. As honourable members will understand, there is a difference between a voluntary reporting system and a compulsory system. Nobody wants to compel people to do things but when human life is involved there has to be an exception. Clearly, use of the compulsory system should prevail on the high seas because not only is human life involved but also there is a very real and grave danger of damage being caused to the coastlines and environs in the event of a disaster taking place. 
If I may raise another point, I notice that the prohibited area in which a ship can approach offshore oil rigs is not more than 2.5 nautical miles. Given that the very large vessels in use today are nearly a quarter of a mile long, I find it absolutely absurd that a ship at sea is legally allowed to get within 2.5 nautical miles of an off-shore oil rig. There is tremendous risk to the personnel on those rigs. The damage caused by a vessel striking a rig at sea is appalling. Given the conditions that prevail not only in the Bass Strait but also on the North West Shelf, with fog and difficult meteorological conditions, I think it is the height of absurdity to permit large sea-going vessels to come so close to oil rigs. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Les  Johnson) adjourned. 
-I claim to have been misrepresented. 
Can the Prime Minister confirm that a Government aircraft will take the Australian representatives to London for the funeral of Earl Mountbatten? Has it been necessary to make any other arrangements in respect of this delegation? 

 - Mr Acting Speaker, my question is addressed to the Treasurer. 
Is the Treasurer aware of a call by a prominent political official in Victoria asking local government councils to support a protest against the Government's federalism policy? Has the Treasurer seen a report in the  Knox Sherbrooke News,  a prominent newspaper in the electorate of La Trobe, which states that the City of Knox has resolved to support the protest? In view of the Government's commitment to provide 2 per cent of personal income tax revenues to local government and in view of the dramatic increases in untied revenue grants to the city of Knox under the Fraser Government and the level of funding provided to the States under the federalism policy, does the Treasurer consider that this protest is warranted? 
I will be supporting the State Grants (Roads) Bill, which provides a total of some $508m to be made available to the States for road programs on the condition that a further $48 lm is contributed by the various State governments. In doing so, I will be rejecting the amendment moved by the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris).  The honourable member ranged fairly widely in his remarks and mentioned such matters as energy policy generally, fuel efficiency and various other engineering factors associated with the whole transport scene. I think it is probably quite appropriate that some of those matters should be raised in the course of this debate because it is very much on the mind of every Australian and certainly every Australian motorist. 
I was a little shocked to hear this week that a constituent of mine who manufactures a fuel saving device for installation on motor vehicles, both as original equipment and as extra equipment, had run into certain marketing difficulties as a result of publicity which had come from certain sections of the Trade Practices Commission- I think more particularly the consumer protection division. I speak of the firm of Davies Craig Pty Ltd, which has developed a radiator fan device for the motor car. Quite simply, I believe the principle is that this device is electrically operated on a thermostatic control. It does away with the conventional radiator fan which is driven all the time by a fan belt. This device is electrically operated and cuts in when the temperature of the engine is sufficiently high. 
The difficulty is that certain other devices have been claimed in advertisements to be energysaving devices. Tests conducted by the Department of Transport have shown that certain devices which are intended to save fuel have been what might be called shonky. I think these devices relate more to certain fuel systems and spark plug performance and that sort of thing. I raise this matter in the context of roads and transport generally because the device developed by Davies Craig has been shown to improve fuel efficiency by as much as 10 per cent. I think that is very important in the context of transport. It accomplishes this, I gather, simply by ensuring that an internal combustion engine does not become too cool. An engine which is running below its - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! I must ask the honourable member to be relevant to the Bill. 
Just to finish this short statement, I believe that the technology involved seeks to ensure that the internal combustion petrol engine does not become too cool because as the temperature goes down, fuel consumption goes up. 
It may not be related directly to the Bill but I think these are important issues to be raised when this Bill is being debated, particularly as they were canvassed by the honourable member for Shortland. He made a thoughtful contribution to the debate. 
By way of response to the honourable member for Shortland I should like to touch also on the question of fuel pricing policy. He dwelt on that issue for quite some time. I think it is something that should be discussed in this Parliament, not every now and then but quite frequently because it is a matter which is on the mind of every Australian motorist. It is certainly on the mind of the Australian Government. We have now reached a situation where, like it or not, Australia cannot get away from the various world influences in the energy crisis. In fact, that crisis has taken on deep implications for Australians and particularly for Australian motorists. 
Although I suppose it is some small comfort, Australians do not always realise even today that, together with the United States and Canada, we pay amongst the lowest prices in the world for petrol. The Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries actually quadrupled the world price of crude oil in1974 and the Australian price for oil products and crude oil has remained relatively low since that time due to the supply of our crude oil at less than half the world price. In the context of this Budget- this is a Budget Bill- we are moving towards what is known as an import parity pricing policy. There is nothing very descriptive in those words. Probably to the average motorist who might be listening to this debate and contemplating the rather unsavoury prospect of having to refuel his motor vehicle in the not too distant future, import parity pricing does not really mean much except that when we pull up beside the bowser we will have to pay a great deal more for our fuel. 
In response to the honourable member for Shortland, I should like to address myself for a moment or two to this question: Why should Australia price its crude oil at or close to the world parity price? Why indeed should Australian motorists pay more for their petrol, given that so much of it is produced on our own doorstep? It is a well known fact that some 70 per cent of our crude oil is produced domestically. Of course, the greater part comes from the Bass Strait areas but contributions are made from Queensland and off Western Australia as well. If we were to continue to sell our crude oil or to make it available at some price which is unrelated to the world trends in energy instead of moving towards world parity pricing, certain very obvious things would happen. 1 think they have to be realised. 
Firstly, of course, the supplies of petrol which have been squandered in the past would continue to be squandered. Reserves would soon be exhausted, exploration would cease and Australia would become totally dependent on the oil-producing Arab states. World parity pricing- if I can be excused for using that terminology again- is designed to encourage conservation of liquid fuels and to promote the use of alternative energy sources. Perhaps even more particularly than that, it is designed to stimulate oil exploration and commercial development. It is absolutely inevitable that we will have either to pay the world parity price for our own domestic crude oil or pay for imported crude oil. Virtually no other options face Australia and Australian motorists. I just make it clear, although there is no joy in it, that in the former case we would be encouraging exploration for and development of our own resources whereas in the latter case we would become dependent on foreign suppliers. Either way we are faced with paying something approximating the world parity price for petrol. That is the situation in a nutshell and it does not help when Opposition spokesmen try to portray the energy problem in any other way. I suggest that to do so is not the most responsible position to adopt. I might add that the Opposition has no alternative energy policy in this regard. To that extent I believe that the present position is bipartisan. 
The honourable member for Shortland says that that is untrue. I do not stand here and try to make untrue remarks. I believe that no significant alternative energy policy has been developed by the Opposition in this Parliament. No member of the Opposition, including the honourable member for Shortland, has ever stood up in this Parliament and spelled out an Opposition energy policy which is significantly different from that adopted by the Fraser Government. 
I was surprised at the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr John Brown)  finishing with those intemperate remarks at the end of his speech, although I realise he was getting on to difficult ground when he tried to justify the performance of the Parramatta Council. As an alderman on that Council, it seems to me that he has a extraordinary approach to municipal responsibilities. Although he is an elected representative of that body he seems to think that the way in which municipal facilities are provided is for him to come bleating to the Federal Government trying to wring more money out of it for the sporting ground and facilities he has been speaking about. I am surprised that the honourable member for Parramatta can combine the duties of a Federal member of Parliament with the duties of a local alderman. 
-Maybe he does not. No doubt the ratepayers will judge him on that in the future. He does do a good job in this Parliament but I cannot see how he can possibly do a full days work on his local responsibilities. The purpose of this Bill is to increase the annual percentage of net personal income tax collections which are allocated to local government under the Local Government (Personal Income Tax Sharing) Act introduced in 1976. The particular measure that we are debating lifts the amount payable to local government directly from the Commonwealth from 1.52 per cent to 1.75 per cent of personal income tax collections. 
As my friend the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  comments, it is a further stage in honouring the Government's 1977 election commitment in which it said quite unequivocally that we would allocate 2 per cent of personal income tax revenue to local government during the course of this Parliament. One of the aims of the Government's federalism policy- I will come back to that matter in a moment- is for State governments and local authorities to have maximum independence and flexibility in determining their priorities and carrying out their functions. Accordingly, the Liberal-National Country Party Government places emphasis on the provision of untied funds, that is, funds which can be used by local authorities as they deem fit rather than having it spelt out for them by the Federal Government. 
As a result of the tax sharing arrangements which the Government has introduced since 1976-77, untied funds made available to local government have increased very substantially indeed; in fact, by a total of 1 45 per cent in the three years to 1 978-79. There is good reason to believe that the amount will increase by in excess of 20 per cent again this year. For some extraordinary reason, members of the Opposition still say that that is not a fine record for local government funding. I am not exactly sure what they mean when they say that, but successive Opposition speakers have been critical of the Government for not providing sufficient funds or sufficient increases in funds to local government. One is prompted to ask whether the Federal Opposition is in fact saying to the Government that it should raise the level of personal income tax in order to provide more funds for local government. If one looks objectively at what the Opposition has been saying, one can only draw the conclusion that the Australian Labor Party is stating as a matter of policy that the Government should increase personal income tax- 
Or increase the deficit. I believe in this case that the Opposition is not advocating an increase in the deficit. Goodness knows, the deficit is high enough now. I believe that what the Opposition is saying is that personal income tax levels should be increased. The Australian Labor Party may be a high tax party. It certainly showed in the years it was in government that it had an almost insatiable demand for taxpayers' funds. But I say quite unequivocally on this Government's part that we will not be increasing personal income tax levels. It is the determination of this Government to reduce income tax levels and that will manifest itself on 1 December when the new tax scales are brought in. A person earning $200 or so a week, with a wife and dependant child, will be $10 a week better off from that date than he would have been under the tax scales introduced by the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  when he was Treasurer in the Labor Government. 
It is no use interjecting and trying to contest that issue. The fact is that Federal income tax revenues last year would have been up by $4,000m if we had not taken steps during the course of this Parliament to make reductions in the income tax scales. Let me make it perfectly clear and put it beyond any doubt that this Government rejects the call by the Opposition to increase personal income tax scales in order to boost still more the funds given to local government. I should like to comment on a couple of other suggestions that have been made by Opposition speakers in this debate. In the process of calling for increases in funding for local government, they mentioned some of the schemes that the Labor Party advocated and implemented when it was in government. I refer particularly to what is known as the RED Scheme. That was the Regional Employment Development Scheme. 
The honourable member for Parramatta interjects to say what a good scheme it was. I simply pose to members of the Opposition this question: If the RED Scheme was half as marvellous as they claim it was, why did they abolish it? Why was the RED Scheme thrown out of the window in the last year of the Whitlam Government? The present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  when he was Treasurer, abolished the RED Scheme. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order!  The honourable member for Grayndler will remain silent. 
He is very sensitive about it. He has his colleagues in the Parliament today calling for the reintroduction of the RED Scheme. He was not in the Parliament at the time and he may not be aware that the RED Scheme was thrown out by a Labor Government. It was thrown out because the spending was out of control. 
-It was thrown out by the present Leader of the Opposition, because it was a vote buying exercise. All I can say is that as a vote buying exercise it did not do the Labor Party much good. The hundreds of millions of dollars of taxpayers' money that were squandered during that period on the RED scheme did not buy the Labor Party one vote in the1975 election. It was not part of Labor Party policy in the 1977 election to reintroduce the RED scheme. It was a spending program that was completely out of control and nobody knew it better than the very recipients of the funding program- the local governments themselves. During the course of those years, they all said one thing and it came out loud and clear. They said: 'We will take the money while we can get it but we know that the Commonwealth cannot continue to provide funds in this way indefinitely'. As I said, it was the present Leader of the Opposition who abolished the RED scheme. So, let us not have any hypocrisy on this question from the Opposition. 
Of course, the Opposition has come up with an alternative. As the matter has been raised, I think it might be in proper context for me to discuss it for a moment. In the Budget debate, the Leader of the Opposition said that a Labor government would introduce a community service corps. At that time he did not set out any definite details as to what the service corps might do, how it might be funded, the cost or anything else; but he did make those elements clear to the Parliament this week. Two days ago when he was speaking on a matter of public importance the Leader of the Opposition spelled out what was implied by the community service corps which a Labor government would sponsor. This has implications at the local level because clearly the sorts of work programs that might be carried out under such a scheme would involve a large content of local administration. Let me make clear what the Australian Labor Party is saying in the context of a community service corps. The Leader of the Opposition stated that he believed that a community service corps would provide 50,000 jobs a year. That is a significant number of jobs. At a time when any person is out of work, every member of Parliament should be thinking about ways in which to provide more job opportunities. But let me go a little further. The Leader of the Opposition also said that he envisaged spending $100m on this program. If we do our sums, we will find that this is effectively an allocation of $2,000 a year for every one of these 50,000 people. Put another way, it is roughly $40 a week. 
Despite that, he went on to add that he envisaged that the young people who would take part in such a project would be paid at the award rate and covered under award conditions. I should just like to know how the Opposition reconciles those two positions. If ever I heard of a scheme which should be brought to the attention of the International Labour Organisation, it is the one proposed by the Leader of the Opposition. Here we have a situation where he is asking for local funding programs under a community service corps- that is exactly what it is- to pay young people to work for what he calls award wages and the wage turns out to be $40 a week. 
He may not know what it is like to be on a low income but the fact remains that, if ever I heard of slave labour, it is what is being advocated by members of the Opposition. They should hang their heads in shame at coming into this Parliament and playing on the emotions of the young unemployed in that way. They say that they have a program to deal with unemployment and when they try to spell it out it is shown to be a farce. It is one of the cruellest hoaxes of which I have ever heard in relation to the young people of this country and it will be taken into account by the electors of this country. 
As I said earlier, this Bill is really part of the federalism policy. I know that if there is one thing that distinguishes members of the Government parties from members of the Opposition in this Parliament it is their attitude to the federalism policy. We might well pose the question: Why are members of the Opposition so het up about the federalism policy? It is because they are centralists. Labor is a centralist party with centralist views which believes that the spending programs in this country should be controlled from this Parliament in Canberra. 
-I thank the honourable member for Parramatta for his interjection. He confirms those views. It is on the record. If ever there was a time when he should have been silent it was then. He came in with an interjection to confirm that he and his party have a centralist approach to government. I want the people of Australia to be perfectly clear on that matter. If there is one thing which is felt universally around this country, it is the view that not all the wisdom in the world resides in Canberra. There is a role in this country for State governments and local governments and it is the federalism policy that recognises that position. The honourable member for Parramatta walked right into the trap- come in, sucker! He walked right into the trap and he pinned his philosophy as being one of a centralist organisation. These are the sorts of issues that the electors of this country look at when they come to casting a vote in a federal election. They have tried it in the States and they are doing it in the Commonwealth. The Federal Opposition in this Parliament stands for the devastation of local government and that view has never been better expressed than the way in which it was put by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  who was the Minister for Urban and Regional Development in the previous Government. Today the honourable member for Reid recounted his proposals for regional councils in this country. Effectively, he said to individual councils: 'We do not trust you to make your own decisions. Although you may be the elected people for your area, you do not have the capacity to decide your priorities for funding programs'. 
He said: 'We know better than that. We, as the Commonwealth Labor Government, know better than that. ' Referring to the councils, he said: 'You must now form into regions and put up your proposals for Commonwealth assistance through the regional council'. Instead of a local municipality being represented by the local people, the councils would have to go to a regional forum and argue the issues out with councillors who had no particular interest in or representation of that local municipality. It is the same old unification proposal dressed up in new clothing. Any student of Australian political history should know the Federal Labor Party's view on unification. It is not even original. It is the old provincial arrangement dressed up in new clothing. Opposition members were not even smart enough to dream it up for themselves. They went and looked at the old South African provincial system. 
It was not apartheid then. They looked at the old South African provincial system and they said: 'This federation is not for us. The system they have in South Africa is better'. They had the gall to come in here and adopt such a policy. 
It is in your records; you cannot get away from it. It is all there. I know that you are not a student of political history: I know that you are not very effective as a local government representative - 
-I would suggest that the Opposition look at its regional proposals, and it will see that it is the old provincial proposal. The regional maps that were drawn up by the honourable member for Reid when he was the Labor Party Minister for Urban and Regional Development are the same maps that were drawn up 60 or 70 years ago under the old unification platform of the Australian Labor Party. There is no difference in the maps that they drew up. That is the history of this situation. 
That illustrates once and for all which is the party that believes in a federalist approach, which is the party that believes there is a role for State and local governments and which, on the other hand, is the party that believes in a centralist approach to the whole question of government. There is not the slightest doubt in my mind about what the people of Australia think on that issue. They might have criticisms of State governments and of councils, and at times they might even have criticisms of Federal governments. What one cannot get away from is that people at the local level feel they have an opportunity to influence local decisions through council elections and by taking an interest in their municipality. If there is one thing they will not stand for it is having a Commonwealth government of any political persuasion telling their council how it shall spend the money of ratepayers and taxpayers. That is the whole nub of this debate. It has been made patently obvious again today not only by the speeches of Opposition members but, bless their little hearts, by their interjections as well. 
I conclude by saying what I wanted to say earlier, that we should look at the issue of personal income tax sharing for local government as it affects the electorate of La Trobe. If one looks at the money that has been made available to the Shire of Lilydale and the Shire of Sherbrooke, as well as the City of Knox, it will be seen that the most dramatic increases have taken place in Federal Government funding. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table which shows the actual amounts provided by the Fraser LiberalNational Country Party Government for municipalities in the electorate of La Trobe. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 


<graphic href="116131197910114_67_0.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the House for allowing that document to be included in  Hansard.  What a change that document shows to the situation that prevailed in 1975 when, in the last year of the Whitlam Government, the money provided to the City of Knox- through the honourable member for Reid who was the then Minister- was so miserable that the Council passed a resolution that it ought to be sent back. That is the stage from which we have come. It was an insult to fund the City of Knox at that rate because it would have meant more and more demands on ratepayers. Instead of that, this Government has taken steps to give local councils some security and predictability about where they are going with their funding. This is the sort of policy that the people of the electorate of La Trobe understand because they read about it in the local press, they see the figures and they know how much good it is doing them. I am delighted to support this latest development in a major program of the Fraser Government for due recognition of the role, significance and need for funds by local government. 
-I think the report acknowledges that the Federal Government has an enormous responsibility in the area of environmental protection, and it must be borne in mind that the whole question of environmental protection is probably one of the main responsibilities of any elected representatives. I would be disappointed if Opposition members who are interjecting so determinedly at the moment could not associate themselves with those remarks. But it also has to be borne in mind that whereas the Federal legislation for environmental protection refers primarily to the impact proposals, it is the State governments and local authorities which have the on-going responsibility to administer and to monitor any development that is approved. It must be remembered that the whole question of environmental protection does not finish after there has been an inquiry, under the auspices of either this Act or any State legislation. 
The second point I make is that I recommend chapter 2 of the report to the honourable members because I think it is the best explanation I have yet seen of the constitutional and legal position regarding the involvement of the Commonwealth in these areas. Whenever these matters are discussed, inevitably a lot of what might be called grey area arises as to where the actual role of the Commonwealth starts and finishes. In conclusion 33 the Committee states its belief that the application of any Commonwealth powers should occur only in certain circumstances. The Committee recommends: 
As a general rule Commonwealth involvement in environmental protection be restricted to geographic areas under the direct control of the Commonwealth (e.g. Commonwealth Territories), Commonwealth works and activities, activities which the States have referred to the Commonwealth and matters considered by the Commonwealth Government to be of national significance. 
The threat to the environment of this country is not only of an industrial nature. The urban and recreational interests of man have a huge impact on the most precious physical assets of this country. Nowhere has that been more exemplified than in the Federal electorate of La Trobe, which, for the benefit of some honourable members who may not be aware, includes a very great deal of the Dandenong Ranges adjacent to Melbourne, and until the recent tragic redistribution of Federal electorates it also included a great deal of the Upper Yarra Valley and areas which were subsequently seconded by the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Simon),  who I know is doing an admirable job in representing that area. In the shire of Lilydale and the shire of Sherbrooke within the electorate of La Trobe, we see a typical conflict between the urban and recreational interests of people and some of the most valuable scenic country in this Commonwealth. In fact, I would go so far as to say- and I do not think this would be disputed by any other member in this House- that the electorate of La Trobe has the most attractive country of any electorate in the Commonwealth. I am glad that it is not contested by any other member. 
It has been a pleasure to have been associated with a most interesting inquiry. I hope this report will be read by people who take an interest in environmental matters, particularly some of the people who came before the Committee with what I might call some of the more far-out evidence that was brought to our attention. It has been an interesting exercise for both Government and Opposition members to co-operate, as we have, to come out with a unanimous report. 
I will be responding to a good many of the allegations made in the rather lack-lustre speech of the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen).  I really wonder whether he had his heart in it. I listened attentively to what he had to say, and I was not surprised that he dealt with this matter in a rather off-handed manner, because when one reads the matter of public importance that he raised one sees that it is based on an entirely false premise. The subject that he has put up for discussion is 'the Government's stated intention to hand over to the States certain areas of responsibility for environment protection'. The simple fact is that the Government has not stated an intention to absolve itself from the area of environmental protection. The facts are quite to the contrary. This Government has a record second to none in the area of environmental protection. It is a record of which we are proud. It is a record on which we will go to an election, and we will invite the Australian Labor Party to contest that record with us at an election. This Government has made achievements in the area of environmental protection- not just nonsense, not just scatter. 
It is all very well for the honourable member to interject. The trouble is that when his party was in power it achieved nothing in the area of environmental protection. The honourable member for Robertson had the hide to boast about the Ranger uranium inquiry. He- said that the Labor Party set up an environmental inquiry into the mining of uranium at Ranger. 
It is hard to underestimate the pretentiousness of the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant).  Just at a time when it suits the Government to extend the sitting of the House, he protests. The remarks he just made were a complete contradiction of the speech he made in the House a few days ago, when he insisted that the House should sit for a little longer. We have just heard an impassioned speech from the honourable member for Wills objecting to the fact that the sitting should be extended. Now, when the Government is in a position to extend the sitting, the honourable member for Wills objects to it. I suggest that he is not serious when he makes a speech of that nature. 

<graphic href="116131197911083_106_3_1_A.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="116131197911083_106_3_2_N.jpg"></graphic>

Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-by leave-I simply want to put the record straight in view of the statement just made by the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris),  who I suggest should know better. He said that two Boeing 707 aircraft had been bought as flying hotels for the Prime Minister of this country. I simply want to say in one sentence that that is entirely incorrect. The honourable member for Shortland knows it to be incorrect. He should not make remarks in this Parliament which are so untrue. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Veterans ' Affairs and follows the question asked a few moments ago by the honourable member for Cook. It concerns the status of certain merchant seamen and, in particular, the service they gave during periods when Australia was at war. Is the Minister aware that a merchant seaman who lost his life while serving on troop transport ships involved in convoy work in war zones is not eligible to have his name recorded in the Australian War Memorial in Canberra? Is it a fact that this matter has also been under review by successive Ministers and successive governments and apparently still has not been resolved? Does the Minister agree that now is the time to make a decision on this matter and to record in the Australian War Memorial the names of those people who gave such valuable service? 
