My question is addressed to the Minister for the Army. 1 refer the honourable gentleman to mine explosions in Vietnam in which nine Australian soldiers were killed and fifteen wounded. I ask the Minister: What mine detection devices were used by the units in these operations and what training had these units been given in the detection of mines? I further ask the Minister: Is he satisfied that equipment and training are adequate to prevent the decimations of Australian units? 
My question is directed  to the Prime Minister. Has he noted the criticisms made of conscription in Australia by the American Gates commission on a volunteer army? Will the right honourable gentleman appoint a similar commission to look at ways of ending the present unjust form of national service by establishing an all volunteer army for Australia? 
-I now move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the debate on the Delivered Meals Subsidy Bill proceeding forthwith. 
Motion (by  Mr Snedden)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
I move: 
That so much  of  the Standing Orders be  suspended  as would enable the second reading debate on the Delivered Meals Subsidy Bill to proceed forthwith. 
1 ask the Minister for the Army a question. Has a committee been appointed to examine the administration of the Army and to make recommendations about reorganisation? If so, who are the members of the committee and what are its terms of reference? 
If that is so.  Mr Speaker,  I move: 
That the ruling be dissented from. 
by leave-  Mr Speaker,  the last occasion on which a Minister for Defence made a hurried visit to the United States of America was in 1963 to order the F111. Now, 6 months after the last federal election to be held in this country - that was in October 1969 - the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is to make a trip to the United States ostensibly for the purpose of investigating the F111 but quite obviously, from what the Minister has said, for the purpose of cancelling the project. 
The Minister for Defence has had his nose well and truly rubbed in the whole sorry mess of the F111. After only a few brief months in office, he has been humiliated and made foolish by an overenthusiastic commitment to the F111 aircraft. It is just over 3 months since the Minister, in the first freshness of his accession to this office, committed himself with incredible gusto to the F111. In a spurt of showing himself to be a man of action and decision, the Minister said that the Fill would be delivered early this year. He announced an expedited programme to obtain the plane and have it operating from Australian airfields. Like his illustrious predecessors, including  Sir Robert  Menzies,  Sir Allen  Fairhall, the late  Sir Shane  Paltridge and the late  Mr Athol  Townley, he has been hopelessly frustrated and belittled by the albatross of the Fill. He has to appear in this House tonight and admit the complete failure of the expedited programme. 

 Mr Speaker, it has been obvious for at least 2 years that the Fill programme was futile, that the plane despite its great merits had very serious problems, that it was too costly and that it was not relevant to Australia's needs. For the first time, the Government has conceded all these points. The timing of this announcement is significant because another quarterly payment for the Fill is due at the end of this month. So far, this country has outlaid $207m of the purchase price without getting a single plane out of America. Another substantial payment, probably at least $10m, is due in 3 weeks' time. With training and other costs, this will mean that at the end of March this country will have spent at least $220mon the Fill. 
In the United States, the plane is encountering tremendous difficulties and it is gravely open to doubt whether it will ever assume an effective professional role. I give as one example the future of the reconnaissance version to which this Government is committed. Quite obviously, the effectiveness of the FI 1 1 will be nil without a reconnaissance version. To develop this version - the so-called RF1 1 1 - an appropriation of $US15m was made in the United States defence budget. This was rejected by Congress which refused to allocate funds for a reconnaissance version in the 1970 budget. This reveals the lack of faith of American legislators in the plane. It also indicates the very limited role envisaged for the Fill even if it overcomes the present severe structural deficiencies outlined by the Minister. 
There has been an immense volume of debate on the Fill in this Parliament. I believe that we are rapidly reaching the situation where there is little more to say on the suitability or the viability of the Fill. But the Minister for Defence must clearly understand that the Opposition in this Parliament and the people of Australia will want to be informed, indeed they should be informed, on what arrangements this Government will make if it decides not to proceed with the Fill purchase and what arrangements will be made to recover the $207m that has been committed by the taxpayers of this country towards the purchase of the Fill. So the Minister can expect that the Opposition will need to be further informed on these matters. 
I think the implications of the Minister's statement are very plain. The hint of con.cellation is very strong. The inescapable conclusion is that the Minister is going to America to scrub the Fill and to find an alternative. The Opposition agrees that this is the only course left. We have been saying it for at least 2 years. It is tragic that this Government has rejected opportunity after opportunity to get out of this mess before now. The whole Fill exercise has been a very tragic one. The best that can be hoped for is that something can be salvaged from a sequence of events for which the Government must accept complete responsibility. The Opposition hopes that the burden on the Australian taxpayers will not be too great. Certainly, in the event of cancellation there must be some considerable losses. 
The only course open to the Minister is to try to negotiate an acceptable alternative, and this means the purchase of an aircraft already in service. I do not want to make any predictions, but there must now be an overwhelming probability that this alternative will be the Phantom aircraft, which has been rejected repeatedly by the Government. I have said repeatedly in this House, on behalf of the Opposition, that this was the most suitable aircraft for Australia's needs. I pointed out in this House more than 12 months ago that, if it was suitable for West Germany, if it was suitable for the United Kingdom, if it was acceptable to Israel and if it could be made under licence in Japan, then quite obviously it was suitable for Australia's requirements. The Government is now confronted with the unpalatable task of accepting the Phantom as an alternative. 
The Minister for Defence has had to make a very abject about-face from his confident remarks of December. With a little caution and forethought he could have avoided this humiliation. The country can only hope that he possesses the negotiating ability to extricate the Government from this fiasco with as little financial loss as possible and with a suitable alternative fighter-bomber to assure Australia's security. 
Has the Minister for Defence seen reports that a sales team from LTV Aerospace Corporation is in Australia? Is this organisation the manufacturer of the Corsair fighter-bomber? If so, has the delegation been invited to Australia by the Government to negotiate the replacement of the Fill by the Corsair? 
Has the Minister for Health seen reports that the Government, under a contingency plan will exclude doctors who refuse to co-operate with its health scheme from participation in the scheme? Does such a contingency plan exist? If so, what is its nature and how does the Government intend to enforce it? 
 In resuming the debate on the Address-in-Reply, I would first of all like to join with those members from both sides of the House who have expressed their congratulations to the new members who have delivered their maiden speeches. Some notable contributions have been made by these members, and I think that, as a result of the contributions one can expect them to make, this Parliament will be much better off in the future. The Address-in-Reply debate deals with a wide range of issues pinpointed by the Governor-General in outlining the programme of his Government. The main emphasis of the debate falls on the domestic issues of the economy, namely, health, housing, primary industry, education and social welfare. These issues have been covered in a series of extremely competent speeches by the new members of the House, who expressed many fresh ideas. 
In essence, what this House has been discussing during the past few days has been the election programme of the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton).  It is refreshing that this election programme should be debated because, after stating these policies in his policy speech, the Prime Minister did not debate them further. As a result, an election campaign which should have settled down to constructive and wide ranging dialogue was cheapened by the Prime Minister. For the purpose of expedience he chose to muddy the policies of the Australian Labor Party on health and social welfare rather than to debate the alternatives. Linked with this domestic policy strand was the traditional re-statement of what the late Harold Holt termed 'kicking the Communist can*. This process is so deeply ingrained in the Liberal Party-Country Party election strategy that it is doubtful whether it can ever be scrubbed out. 
It is remarkable that in a country of Australia's maturity it is next to impossible because of the default of the Government, to have a rational and reasoned debate on defence policy during an election campaign. It is an intellectual tragedy that the defence policies of the contending parties cannot be forcefully debated without charges of treachery and lack of patriotism being raised in the most scurrilous fashion. Happily, there are signs that a better climate for these most crucial debates is evolving in the Parliament. The GovernorGeneral's Speech was cursory on defence because of the expected defence statement by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  This statement was delivered last night. As it will be debated in this House tomorrow night, I do not want to deal with the substance of the Minister's extremely lengthy statement. However, 1 intend to look in some detail at two important questions touched on by the Minister. 

 Sir, the first is conscription and its relation to future military manpower problems; the second is the structure of service pay and conditions and their relation to the future role of the armed services. In his statement the Minister for Defence said his Department was making a full examination of the total service manpower problems including national service. He said, further, that despite overseas experience there was no likelihood that Australian forces could be sustained without conscription. This explicit commitment to conscription follows a statement to this House last week by the Prime Minister. In answer to a question the right honourable gentleman confirmed that the Government intended to maintain the system of selective conscription for manyyears. 
These statements should be examined in the light of the report of  President  Nixon's commission on all volunteer armed force, known briefly as the Gates' Commission. This commission was appointed by the  President  following an electoral pledge to find ways of meeting the draft. It was by no means a radical commission. A prominent Conservative economist, former armed service heads and businessmen were among its members. Yet this committee unanimously recommended that America end conscription of a selective nature and substitute an all volunteer army. In the process the Commission made some very cogent criticisms of the nature of conscription in Australia. Its report said that the return of Australia to conscription in 1964 had been put up as an analogy that an all volunteer force was not feasible for the United States. The Gates' Commission rejected this analogy and it did so, I believe, for several reasons. The most significant reason was that the Australian Government had not made a concerted effort to attract additional recruits on a voluntary basis. The report goes on: 
Once the decision was made to use conscription to raise force levels no serious effort was made to increase voluntary enlistments either by raising pay or redoubling recruiting efforts. 
In the view of the Commissioners the Australian Government could have expanded the size of the armed forces on a voluntary basis by raising pay and reorganising recruiting. This adds up to a very serious indictment of the Government's conscription programme from a responsible and far from radical source. The essence of the statement is that the Australian Government took the lazy man's way out when it encountered recruiting problems. With a swift buildup for Vietnam in mind, a needless and unjust system of selective conscription was imposed although alternative ways of raising recruiting rates had not been tried or even considered. 
The arguments against selective conscription have been put in this House many times. These basic arguments have been reinforced by the economic arguments against conscript forces put forward by the Gates' Commission. The basis of this case against conscription is that a tax in kind in the form of involuntary service is imposed on a small proportion of the population. Men are forced to serve in the military forces at artificially low rates of pay. This means that these conscripts pay a form of tax which subsidises those in the community who do not serve. This amounts to a very substantial hidden cost which does not show up in the budgetary costing of the defence forces. There are other substantial social costs resulting from conscription which are not revealed by standard accounting techniques. There are costs borne by young men who are not conscripted but who arrange their lives in response to the possibility of being called up. Another factor is the loss of output to the domestic economy from those called up to serve. 
In total these hidden costs refute even the most dubious justification for conscription - that it is cheaper than an all volunteer army. Of course, there is a substantial increase in the budgetary cost of an all volunteer army over a mix of conscripts and volunteers. But this paper increase in defence spending is actually a shift in the tax burden from a small number of conscripts to the whole taxpaying community at large. Taxpayers pay more in cash for their defence forces but this is achieved by elimination of a vicious tax in kind borne by a handful of 20-year-olds. This is a highly discriminatory tax which sharply curtails personal freedom. 

 Sir, in summary, those conscripted by the Australian Government or who volunteer because they may be called up are paying a hidden tax. The benefit of this tax goes to all taxpayers in the form of a lower defence payroll budget. Because young men are coerced into service at pay levels well below what would be required to induce them to volunteer, the whole structure of service pay is distorted. The supply of conscripts can be varied according to demand by the Government. One turn of the conscription screw and any shortfall in recruiting can be sopped up. This puts the volunteer serviceman in an invidious position because his pay rates are not dictated by market forces. They are controlled artificially by a Government which pays lip service to the free play of supply and demand. Again, if there is any lack of specialists in the military forces the conscription laws can be manipulated to fill the gaps. There have been complaints that this has happened in Australia, notably with doctors and engineers. With this very effective tool always at its disposal there is no need for the Government to concern itself with better pay and conditions for servicemen or with improving techniques of recruiting. For volunteer professional soldiers, military service in a conscript oriented army imposes severe financial penalties. These strains are weighing with increasing severity on the non -conscript component of the army as their wages and conditions become increasingly non-competitive. 

 Sir, the inescapable conclusion is that conscription is unjust and inequitable for those compelled to serve. In addition, it is extremely damaging to the long-term status, dignity and effectiveness of the armed forces. The trend of overseas experience is against conscripts and volunteers on the Australian model. Great Britain and Canada have been able to assure their national objectives without resort to conscription. In Britain the abolition of conscription has increased the average length of service per man by approximately 200%. It has reduced the proportion of troops in training by a third, thereby cutting turnover rates and training costs. This has enabled the maintenance of a higher proportion of troops in an effective status. 
Again, in Canada, where military pay is closer to civilian earnings, there has been no difficulty in attracting recruits for a volunteer army. According to evidence submitted to the Gates' Commission the quality of entrants is remarkably high and the number of enlistments could be doubled or trebled without difficulty. Now the United States of America has opted clearly for transition to a volunteer army. Australia has relied on all volunteer armies except in the two Great Wars, in the 1950s and since 1964. lt fought in two wars in the 1950s, Korea and Malaysia, without resort to conscription for overseas service. Only in Vietnam, the most dishonourable and discredited war in Australia's history, has conscription for overseas service been sanctioned and applied ruthlessly. At a time when countries in a similar position to that of Australia have dropped conscription or are moving to drop it this Government remains wedded to a selective draft and refuses to examine the alternatives. With cynical opportunism the Government has settled on an easy solution which suits it and which it can vary with a minimum of effort. In this context the manpower study announced by the Minister for Defence can be used only to determine the future levels of conscripts required. The probability is that the future will see steadily increasing inputs of conscripts with volunteer levels dwindling as Service pay rates and conditions deteriorate. This is a dismal outlook for Australia's defences and for the career serviceman in particular. 
A belated recognition of this injustice is disclosed on the notice paper in the form of a motion from the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Jeff Bate).  He moved that Service pay be brought into line with the pay and conditions of comparable industry. With an eye, no doubt, on his own electorate and the Nowra naval base he has cited the trade groupings and pay rates applying in the Navy. According to a report in the 'Canberra Times' last week this motion has been made to pre-empt Opposition action on Service pay. Unfor tunately the move comes years too late. Higher pay rates for the Services have been part of the Labor Party's policies for several years. It has been consistently expressed by the Labor Party that substantial improvements in pay and conditions are needed to attract volunteers and to raise the effectiveness of the forces. Therefore the matter that has been placed on the notice paper by the honourable member for Macarthur is not new. As I pointed out, this is a policy that has been advocated by the Labor Party for some years. The honourable member for Macarthur can read the Labor Party's platform on defence. There he will find that we have advocated, as a means of raising a volunteer army for this country, better pay and conditions, to move their pay and allowances to rates equivalent to those in professions outside the armed Services, and in addition to provide to all members of the armed forces the benefits of the war service homes legislation and full repatriation benefits whether they are serving in Australia or whether their service is outside Australia. So there is nothing new in this policy, as undoubtedly the honourable member for Macarthur now believes. 
It is hypocritical of the Government to call for better pay and conditions while at the same time enforcing a system of conscription which assures that these rates remain at inferior levels. It is unnecessary to outline to the House the soldiers' complaints about pay, the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund, Service housing, the disruption and expense caused by frequent repostings, separation from families, repatriation and resettlement problems. The new Minister for the Navy  (Mr Killen)  who is now sitting in the House will no doubt remember the complaints that were made last year by serving members of the Navy concerning their pay and conditions. Some action was promised. Very little improvement was made by the present Minister's predecessor. I hope that the present Minister will show a better performance. 
The Minister for Defence has emphasised the two areas of housing and repostings. He referred to these areas last night in his defence statement. They are constant sources of irritation to servicemen and their families, and it is right that remedies should be found. However, these pressing problems should not be examined in isolation from the whole range of sociological disabilities affecting servicemen. On the subject of pay and conditions generally, the Pay and Conditions of Service Branch established in the Department of Defence is a commendable innovation, but its work must be associated with a fresh approach to the pay and conditions of servicemen. An approach of this sort has been made in the United Kingdom where the Standing Committee on the Pay and Conditions of the Armed Forces has been established and reports regularly to the National Board for Prices and Incomes. The Committee has made a series of valuable reports on Service pay and conditions and the peculiar disabilities associated with Service life. Such a standing committee is the sort of model which could well be adopted by Australia for securing the changes in pay and benefits that are urgently needed. 
On the question of pay the most frequent complaint of servicemen is that it always seems to be fixed on the basis of some sort of equivalent civilian work. No soldier will ever concede that the work value of his job can be assessed by reference to civilian labour. Of course there will be components which are comparable - for example, the work of a carpenter or plumber who may transfer his trade to the Services. But there are many aspects of military service which cannot be assessed by a civilian yardstick. In the civilian economy premium pay is offered to attract workers to risky and odious tasks. These are accepted as part of the everyday work of a combat soldier. In the United Kingdom it has been suggested that these peculiar aspects of Service life should be assessed in terms of a special factor called the X factor. This would take into account the special conditions of Service life and provide a compensation factor in Service pay rates. The X factor, as defined by the Standing Committee on the Pay and Conditions of the Armed Forces, takes account of four basic elements peculiar to Service life. The first is the soldier's commitment to his Service and his subjection to a code of discipline much more far reaching than in any form of civilian service. The second is the soldier's exposure to danger on active service. The third is his obligation as part of normal peacetime service to endure bad or uncomfortable conditions while in the field or on board ship. 
The final one is the constant upheaval and uncertainty imposed by the need for high mobility in a military force, the so-called turbulence of Service life. In sum these constitute the X factor, for which an additional increment should be incorporated into Service pay. 
This seems an eminently reasonable way of assessing the excess demands on a serviceman which would never be accepted by a civilian workman. It would also give an element of work value to the pay of servicemen, something which is completely lacking at the moment. The lack of such a study or of some special factor in Service pay rates puts a highly skilled soldier at a considerable disadvantage when compared with civilian earnings. For example, a private soldier of relatively high skill earns about $60 a week, including his marriage allowance. A very highly skilled soldier who is married will earn about $80 a week. A Warrant Officer Class 2 who is also a tradesman of high skill may earn about $100 a week. Against these figures it is worth noting that in the December quarter of 1968 the average weekly earnings for a man were $70 a week. Bearing in mind the demands and responsibilities of Service life, it is beyond question that servicemen are poorly paid on a work value basis. The same applies to officers' pay rates if their duties and qualifications are examined in the light of civilian earnings. 
In summary, there is little benefit in taking a few isolated sources of Service dissatisfaction and looking for remedies, but this is apparently what the Minister for Defence did last night. A comprehensive review is needed of the peculiar physical and psychological strains of Service life and of the Service environment. Associated with this is an urgent need for future projections of Service manpower. For example, does the Government have any idea how many servicemen will be needed after the Vietnam conflict ends? The evidence is that the Government is just as deficient in its knowledge of trends in military manpower as it is in future projections of the workforce generally. There is every reason to suspect that the Government will use the conscription legislation as a tool to manipulate troop numbers for short term ends. It can only serve to distort further the inequalities and injustices which conscription has brought within the Services and within the civilian economy. 
I conclude on one of the fundamental points 1 made during the debate. I refer to the findings of the all important Gates Commission in the United States of America. It made a very thorough investigation of the draft system in the United States and recommended its complete rejection and the substitution of a new system of enlisting forces on a voluntary basis. We cannot overlook the fact that this Committee had an opportunity to consider fully the conscription legislation which was introduced by the Australian Government and it rejected it most emphatically. 
I ask the Treasurer: is a further quarterly payment for the F111 aircraft due at the end of this month? If so, what is the amount of the instalment? Will the honourable gentleman consider suspending these regular payments until the status of the F111 is resolved? 
I move: 
That the Minister for External Territories lay on the table of this House all documents related to the District Commissioner for Rabaul,  Mr West,  particularly that document concerning the granting of leave. 
 I ask for leave. 
Motion (by  Mr Barnard)  put: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent me moving a motion to have the documents relating to the District Commissioner for Rabaul laid on the table of this House. 
The defence statement that has been made by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is the first significant defence statement made since 2nd May 1968. On that occasion the former Minister, now  Sir Allen  Fairhall, delivered to the House an abridgment of what was intended to be a new defence review. This followed the expiry of the term of the previous review at the end of 1967. The normal procedure would have been for a major defence review listing the important items of defence spending to be delivered to the House either during the final sessional period of 1967 or during the first sessional period of 1968. The practice of defence reviews extending over a period of years was established by the Labor Government in 1947. The general pattern of 3-year defence reviews was followed during the administration of  Sir Robert  Menzies, culminating in the 1964 statement, which re-established conscription and which was designed as a prelude to Vietnam. 
However, in 1968, with the accession of the present Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton),  this sort of defence planning was scrapped. The review which had been drafted by  Sir Allen  Fairhall was shorn of its defence purchases and whatever strategic assessments it might have contained. After this disembowelling all that remained were some vague generalities about South East Asia and an extended eulogy of the Fill aircraft. The Minister devoted rather more than half of his statement to justifying the purchase of the Fill and outlining its cost and performance in some detail. Significantly, there is not a single reference to the 
Fill in the present Minister's statement. Nor is there any acknowledgement of the role of strategic aircraft which has dominated the Government's defence thinking over the past 7 years. 
Another quite remarkable feature of the statement on defence is the cursory treatment given to Vietnam. The Minister dismisses in 21 lines a war in which Australian troops have been engaged for 5 years and in which several hundred Australians have died. Even more remarkably, the section on Vietnam consists mainly of an extract from the Governor-General's Speech. The Minister could not or would not commit himself further. I will deal with these notable omissions from the defence statement in some detail later in this speech. 
The first task in assessing the overall relevance of the Minister's statement is to set out something of the political context. This explains many things about the nature of the statement and its omissions and defects. For the past 2 years there has been a remarkable hiatus in defence planning produced by the Prime Minister's scrapping of the old programming pattern. While the right honourable gentleman re-examined his sense of priorities and tried to grapple with domestic problems, defence planning was allowed to languish. A new concept of rolling defence programmes subject to regular revision and replacing the 3-yearly defence review was announced. Little was done to flesh out the bare bones of this concept apart from a handful of defence purchases announced in the last Budget. 
This meant that for a period of 5 years there had been no re-assessment of defence objectives with consequent defence spending designed to implement them. Defence planning and policy did exist on an ad hoc, day to day basis while the Government employed diversionary tactics, mainly on Vietnam. This situation persisted through the course of the election campaign despite repeated efforts by the Democratic Labor Party to coerce the Prime Minister into an aggressive defence stance. Basic defence planning was not a key issue in the election because the Prime Minister deliberately adopted a low key attitude to constructing national defence policies. The right honourable gentleman was able to resist the standover tactics of the DLP before the elections. 
He caved in completely once the full enormity of the Government's electoral catastrophe was sheeted home to him. The result has been a conscious attempt at rehabilitation by the Prime Minister, both of himself and of his Government. 
As part of this effort to burnish a new image the Prime Minister decided it was urgent that he do something about defence. To borrow the right honourable gentleman's phraseology, it was important not only that he be doing something about defence but that he be seen to be doing something. The result was a crash campaign announced by the newly appointed Minister for Defence, but initiated by the Prime Minister. In the weeks before Christmas the Press was filled with pathetic stories about the lights burning late in the Service departments and of how the civil servants would be denied their Christmas vacations because of the Minister's new broom. The Services and the defence departments were told that the Prime Minister had to have a list of defence purchases prepared by the start of the session. There had to be evidence that the Government was active in defence planning and defence buying. The so-called rolling defence programmes had to be given substance. 
In this truly political context a heavy responsibility was put on the armed Services. The burden was shared by the officers of the Service departments and in particular by the staff of the Department of Defence. In this Department an extensive reorganisation had been carried out by  Sir Allen  Fairhall and  Sir Henry  Bland, the former Permanent Head of the Department. This reorganisation had replaced the former inter-Service committee system with joint staffs drawn from the 3 Services but based in the Department of Defence. A Systems Analysis Branch had been established with the purpose of testing alternative defence programmes in cost effectiveness terms, and projecting future streams of defence operating costs. 
Many features of the reorganised Department of Defence were at an extremely rudimentary stage when the new Minister took over. Many branches were inadequately staffed and there had been little chance to get the revised machinery geared to an effective working pitch. Against this background, its biggest task in 5 years was pitchforked into the lap of the Department of Defence. The Department was told a list of purchases had to be drawn up and drawn up quickly. There was no economic or rational basis for this hastily conceived exercise. It was pure politics. 
The defence programme has been deferred for 2 years. In the normal course of events the hardware items to be bought could have been announced in the 1970-71 Budget. This would have given the Services and the newly organised structure time to deal adequately with a new defence programme. Instead a politically conceived exercise in window dressing was foisted upon both Service and civilian officers. The net effect was to pre-empt a portion of the next Budget. There are no appropriations for the purchases announced by the Minister in the last Budget, nor will there be a supplementary Budget for such appropriations to be made. Spending on the list of acquisitions will not start until the introduction of the next Budget. I believe that this adds up to an extremely reckless and irresponsible approach by both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Defence. 
There was no reason for this urgency or the excessive strains it placed on the Services and the Department other than cynical political motivations. It is no credit to the Prime Minister or the Minister for Defence that this panic approach has not produced bad results. It reflects great credit on the restraint of the Service officers at a time when the Government was anxious to spend and spend lavishly on prestige defence consumption. Further it reflects very great credit on the officers of the Defence Department who have responded superbly to demands which should never have been imposed on them. 
In this light the defence statement emerges as an elaborate exercise in public relations and window dressing. An example is the way the expert techniques of systems analysis were employed in drawing up this programme. The basis of this technique is that alternative programmes or purchases are submitted to elaborate mathematical techniques designed to elicit their cost effectiveness. In this way decisions designed to implement defence objectives can be tested and a choice made of the most effective programmes or purchases. This sort of analysis is based on a set of rigidly defined objectives in terms of which a comparative analysis can be made. The essence of the technique is that it is applied at an early stage in the decision making process. Further it aims to project the flow of future costs arising from a project or a purchase over a number of years. In terms of this defence statement, it is completely obvious that such an analysis could not have been applied with the time scale dictated by the Minister. 
It seems that each Service has drawn up a list of items of equipment. These lists were then thrown to the experts in the Defence Department who were not given time to apply their techniques and make cost benefit assessments of alternatives. Instead the members of the planning staffs and the analysts have had to test each suggested item in isolation. This is a complete perversion of what the much publicised re-organisation of the Defence Department was designed to achieve. It is futile to build a sophisticated instrument and then use it in such a crude way. Virtually all the analysts and planning staff could do in the situation was to look at each purchase submission and try to pick holes in it. Such ferreting out of information negates the whole purpose of establishing these specialist branches in the Defence Department. This is important because the Minister devoted considerable space in his address to outlining the functions of these new sections of his Department. It is ironic that a speech in which these improvements are outlined should constitute a complete contradiction of how they should operate. 
I do not want to comment in detail on the list of purchases announced by the Minister. On the surface they seem basically sound. The emphasis on mobility is welcome although only tentative steps have been taken to achieve it. The need for mobility and flexibility in the organisation of the defence forces has been written into Australian Labor Party policy for several years. The emphasis on helicopters should increase mobility of the Services. But it is worth sounding a note of caution here about the future employment of helicopters. This is particularly relevant to the 11 helicopter gunships announced by the Minister. There is danger that the effectiveness of these gunships and to a lesser extent that of observation and utility helicopters may be overstated because of the Vietnam experience. Helicopters have certainly been immensely successful in Vietnam, but there may be illusory factors in this effectiveness. Helicopters have operated in Vietnam under the overwhelming air cover supplied by the United States. This has given helicopters much greater mobility in combat zones than would be possible where air cover is either lacking or is keenly contested. 
There is no opposition and, as I have just pointed out there is cover by the United States Air Force. In such situations helicopters could be extremely vulnerable or even a liability. The extra Oberon submarines will give a 2-ocean capability, which has been lacking. The logistic cargo ship will increase the sea-lift capacity of the forces and its employment by the Australian National Line when not required for defence is an interesting innovation. The rest of the items in the Minister's shopping list are unexceptional and require little comment. 
A disappointing feature of this part of the Minister's statement is the costing of the purchases. This is confined to the estimated capital cost. Even with the limited time available, it should have been possible for the Minister to have provided estimates of the flow of operating costs arising from the purchases. The Minister pointed out in his statement that costs cover more than the price tag on prime equipment. They include also the identification and costing of all ancillaries such as the cost of support facilities, manpower, training and maintenance. After making this point the Minister went on to list only the price tags on the new projects. It is contradictory of the Minister on one hand to stress the importance of identifying operating costs and on the other blandly to ignore these facts in giving his shopping list. 
It is impossible to assess the impact of a programme of purchases and other projects when cost estimates are confined to capital costs. If the stream of operating costs is known for a period of, say, 3 years, the impact of the programme on future Budgets can be assessed. According to the statement this programme and the programme announced last year by the former 
Minister represent a total estimated capital cost of $306.9m. It can be assumed that operating costs in the next few years will be at least double this amount. Even if there are no substantial cost escalations, the total spending flowing from these two programmes will be at least $1 billion. This adds up to a vast defence programme which will have a substantia] impact on future defence spending and on the Budget provisions. For these reasons it is important that future cost flows from these decisions should be estimated. This is the essence of the programming, planning and budgeting approach which was referred to by the Minister. The failure to give this information is a major defect of this statement and it is one the Minister should rectify as swiftly as possible in a supplementary statement. 
The Minister ranged over a wide range of issues in his statement. Much of this material is of a descriptive nature and calls for little comment. The same applies to the turgid preamble which attempts to set the strategic setting for assessing the Services' capability against their role. The Minister is rather more successful in his statement of the guiding principles of the development of defence capability. The Opposition would not quarrel with most of these principles, which are in harmony with the defence sections of the platform of the Labor Party. Indeed there is a rather remarkable similarity in the phraseology applied by the Minister to these Labor policies which have been stated frequently in recent years. We agree with the Minister when he says that Australia needs versatile and flexible forces capable of rapid deployment over a wide range of situations. This was the context of the Minister's application to this part of the defence programme. It has been clearly expressed as the policy of the Australian Labor Party over the last 3 years, when we have pointed to the need for Australia to develop highly mobile and flexible forces that can be moved immediately when the occasion arises. 
Where the Opposition differs from the Government is in the emphasis given to where these troops should be stationed and in what circumstances they should be used. The Labor Party believes that flexible and highly mobile forces should be built up and concentrated in Australia if they are to have maximum effectiveness. The Government wants them scattered willy-nilly through South East Asia and over the Australian mainland. This is a difference of basic policy which cannot be reconciled despite the general agreement on the sort of forces Australia needs. 
The Minister also emphasises the need for the organisation of the Services on functional lines. Again this is an integral part of Labor Party policy and we are glad to see the Minister taking it up. It is welcome that some attempt will be made to re-organise the Army on functional lines. The present organisation with 8 commands embracing the six Australian States, the Northern Territory and Papua-New Guinea, is extraordinarily cumbersome and wasteful. It is a structure which is perhaps the most important example of the federal principle existing in Australia. In essence this antiquated sort of organisation on territorial lines is much the same as it was in the Zulu wars of the last century. 
The Navy and the Air Force are organised on strictly functional lines with support headquarters centred on Sydney and Melbourne. This sort of organisation should be applied to the Army to avoid wasteful duplication. It would also have a beneficial effect on two of the disabilities affecting servicemen which were mentioned by the Minister. These are defects in service housing and the disruption caused by frequent repostings. These problems could be tackled much more effectively if the Army were organised on functional rather than State lines. 
On the most crucial defence issue confronting this country, the Vietnam war, the Minister is singularly tongue tied by contrast with the verbal excesses of the rest of the statement. Implicit in his brief reference is the Government's commitment to the concept of Vietnamisation which has succeeded the strategic hamlets, revolutionary development and pacification, in the fashionable lexicon of Vietnam. 
What the Minister seems to be saying is that if the progress of Vietnamisation is accounted to be satisfactory, the Government will discuss withdrawing some troops with the United States, New Zealand and South Vietnam. This is a most unsatisfactory outlook for a war which is already one of the most protracted in Australian history. 
The duration of the full scale commitment already exceeds that of World War I and the Korean war. It is now comparable with and soon will exceed that of World War II. Only the Australian commitment to the Malayan insurgency has lasted longer. 
The basis of Vietnamisation is reputed to be the disengagement from Vietnam by America and its allies as the burden of the war is progressively transferred to the Saigon regime. It assumes that the South Vietnam Government and Army will become more and more capable of containing the Vietcong and countering the North Vietnamese. These are questionable assumptions. Although the Communists have suffered severely in recent years their military forces are still formidable. 
The major part of the Army of North Vietnam, including its best five divisions, has not been committed to the war. It is most unlikely that the Communists will allow the process of Vietnamisation to proceed at the pace the Americans want. It is extremely doubtful, anyway, whether the gradual substitution of one fighting force for another is a plan for peace. 
Vietnamisation has been criticised in the United States as a move to a proxy war with America and its supporters supplying guns, money and advice, and the Vietnamese supplying the bodies. These critics have claimed that this would not get America out of the war; rather it would prolong the American presence in the war. According to this line, even if all American combat troops were pulled out, at least 200,000 support troops would have to stay and shore up the South Vietnamese army. If these support troops were withdrawn it would be impossible for Saigon to withstand the combined pressures of the Vietcong and North Vietnamese. With collapse imminent another rapid build up of American troops as in 1965 would be made and the cycle would start anew. This is the import of recent statements on Vietnam by  President  Nixon who has threatened strong and effective measures if Hanoi took military advantage of American withdrawal. 
It is just to add that  President  Nixon was not associated with the American build up in 1963, that he has withdrawn more than a hundred thousand troops from Vietnam, and that he may have the key to an acceptable solution to the war. The same charitable assumptions cannot be made about this Government. Every assessment of the war made by successive LiberalCountry Party governments has been proven wrong. Furthermore the present Government still adheres to the mistaken concepts of the war that destroyed an American  President  of considerable ability and achievement.  His  Australian equivalents, who were just as culpable, have escaped the consequences of their repeated distortions and misinterpretations. Only in the past 3 months has the Gorton Government conceded grudgingly that some Australian troops can be withdrawn from Vietnam. This move must be regarded with the gravest suspicion. 
It is most probable that a battalion of the Australian task force will be withdrawn from Vietnam around the middle of this year. This will be done in an election context, with the Senate election at the end of 1970 in mind. With electoral support deteriorating, the Government is perfectly capable of seeking the same popular response that  President  Nixon achieved initially with his withdrawals. This is the same Government that shamelessly exploited Vietnam as an election issue in 1966. Why would it not do the same thing this year when the tide is running against it? Certainly it would be an act of extreme political cynicism to exploit withdrawal at an election after winning an earlier election on building up a commitment to the Vietnam war. However, I do not think that any idealism on Vietnam can be expected from a Government that has proved the most fervent supporter of the war in the world. The inescapable conclusion to be drawn from recent statements by the Prime Minister and the Minister for Defence is that the Government wants to maintain the commitment until the other side capitulates. 
No political compromise short of absolute military victory is contemplated by the Government. It can be predicted with confidence that the concept of Vietnamisation will be used to mask this dedication to a continued commitment. This adds up to the policy that a continued occupation of Vietnam can be made palatable to the electorate if some reductions are made in troop levels. 
In short, we are entering the 1970s with the prospect of a long stay in Vietnam with mounting casualties and still no victory if the Government has its way. I am sure that most Australians now agree that the Vietnam war was never any of our business and that we should not have become involved in it. The war has brought 25 years of massive slaughter, pestilence and famine to a small Asian country of marginal significance to Australian security. The Australian commitment has been a grave mistake and it is a mistake the Government should have acted courageously to liquidate. Instead it has failed to accommodate to reality; it has pinned all its faith in the effectiveness of Vietnamisation, and an indefinite Australian presence in Vietnam. 
In conclusion, I want to refer briefly to the ruthless excision of any reference to the Fill from the Minister's statement. This cannot be excused because of the present uncertainty surrounding the future of the programme. It points up the fact that the Air Force has got comparatively little out of the new decisions. This must lessen its chances of getting more in future Budgets because of the impact of future operating costs arising from this programme and last year's programme. In these circumstances the Minister should have discussed the alternatives to the Fill, even if no firm decision can be made until he goes to the United States. It was his clear duty to indicate how defence capability could be varied ii the Fill was scrapped. 
How different was the Minister's statement in 1970 from the attitude adopted by the Government in 1963. As I said quite recently, this will be the second occasion on which a Minister for Defence has made a hurried visit to the United States of America. But how different are the circumstances in 1970. In 1963 the purpose of the visit to the United States of the then Minister for Defence was to purchase the Fill aircraft, which was then still on the drawing board. The issue was to be raised during the election campaign in 1963. Now, 7 years later, more than $200m has been paid out for the purchase of 24 aircraft, and not 1 aircraft has been received by the Australian Government. 
The Minister for Defence has dismissed the importance of the Fill. He has completely ignored the Fill in his statement. 
There is no reference to it at all, and no reference to alternatives. Surely one would expect that in a responsible defence statement - and one assumes that the Minister was making a responsible defence statement on behalf of his Government - he would have at least offered some alternatives if he knew that he was to go to the United States to renegotiate the agreement to purchase the aircraft. It is quite clear that after 7 years the Government has decided that it can no longer fool itself or the Australian people. But the Minister for Defence offered no alternatives. 
What will be Australia's fighter attack capability if the Fill is not to be made available to Australia's defence forces? What is the alternative? The Minister has dismissed the Fill. He made no reference at all to this important question in his defence statement. I believe it was his clear duty to indicate how defence capability could &gt;be varied if the FI 1 1 was scrapped. The absence of such an analysis effectively tears the heart out of the Minister's statement. 
In summary, there are many matters of substance in the statement with which the Opposition agrees. It is unfortunate that the evasions of Vietnam and the Fill should sharply curtail the value of the document. More importantly, the whole manner in which the statement was produced concerns the Opposition. The new programme was drawn up with reckless and irresponsible haste for blatant political purposes. There is no reason why this programme could not have been deferred to the Budget and greater emphasis put on proper analysis of its components and the alternatives. This sort of irresponsible approach poses very grave risks of harmful or even disastrous decisions being made. Further, it endangers the morale of the Service officers and public servants who have to do the spade work in such an atmosphere of haste and expediency. In future the expertise which has been developed in the Department of Defence must be used with greater efficiency and effectiveness. 
I listened to the reply of the Postmaster-General  (Mr Hulme).  I think that probably he might have related to the House that the honourable member for Lang first saw him on 16th February. 
That is some time ago.  Mr Hulme  - He might have spoken to my secretary. He did not speak to me. 
I think that the honourable member probably was quite correct in adopting the attitude that he did. I wish to refer to another matter of some significance and importance. It concerns entitlements of servicemen. In this case, I refer to serving members of the Royal Australian Air Force who, under Government legislation, become entitled to the normal benefits to which servicemen are eligible. I refer to repatriation benefits and the benefits that these servicemen would have extended to them as a result of the war service homes legislation. 
This case concerns some serving members and, I have no doubt, those members who are no longer serving in the forces. 1 am referring particularly to a number of members who served, and probably who are still serving in some instances, at the RAAF base at Richmond. I raise this matter because, whatever we may personally think about the situation in Vietnam, I want to make it perfectly clear that we on this side of the House always have adopted the principle that while our servicemen are there we would not deny to them the benefits and rights to which they are entitled. Whatever one might think about the situation in Vietnam is another matter entirely. Unquestionably a number of members serving in the Royal Australian Air Force are being denied benefits to which they are entitled. 
The Minister for the Navy  (Mr Killen)  who represents in this chamber the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  has been good enough to come into the chamber tonight to listen to what I have to put on behalf of members of the RAAF who have served in Vietnam. I appreciate his interest and I will recite the situation to him. The members of the RAAF to whom I refer are entitled to the Vietnam medal. As the Minister knows, a soldier who serves in Vietnam, even if for only 1 day - provided he was sent to Vietnam, or to any one of the areas that have been prescribed by the Government, but I am now referring particularly to Vietnam - becomes entitled not only to the Vietnam medal but also to the returned from active service badge. This is the issue with which I am concerned. 
There is no doubt about it. Airmen at Richmond air base were attached to the Hercules squadron, flying in Hercules air craft into Vietnam, some of them on as many as thirty flights. They are entitled to the Vietnam badge. This is the same entitlement as a soldier who served in a regiment in Vietnam for 1 day and then, for various reasons, was invalided back to Australia, but that soldier has an additional entitlement to the returned from active service badge. 
The significant point is the very important consideration that a returned from active service badge gives to an ex-serviceman two rights. Firstly, he becomes entitled to benefits under the Repatriation Act and receives the normal entitlement under the war service homes legislation; secondly, it entitles him to become a member of the Returned Services League. The point I wish to stress tonight is that some airmen who served and are now serving with the Royal Australian Air Force have had as many as thirty flights into Vietnam, some of them during the Tet offensive when they flew into Phan Ran air base. The Minister will be aware that the air base is quite frequently subjected to rocket and mortar fire. Those airmen are doing the same kind of work as members of the United States Air Force, and in fact worked together with United States airmen in transport aircraft at the Phan Ran base. Those members of the United States Air Force are entitled to all the benefits that the United States gives to those who have served their country in a theatre of war, including taxation concessions, but the Royal Australian Air Force personnel are denied that benefit. 
I concede that those airmen immediately qualify for the Vietnam medal, but why is there a distinction? Airmen who have flown on 30 missions into Vietnam - into Vung Tau to take out wounded or to bring in supplies - become entitled to the Vietnam medal, but for some reason known only to the RAAF they are denied the returned from active service badge. Until about a month ago some RAAF personnel were issued with both the Vietnam medal and the returned from active service badge, but subsequently the returned from active service badges were recalled. 
I do not wish to refer to individuals because it might be embarrassing to some members of the RAAF to have their names mentioned in this chamber. However, I have here a Royal Australian Air Force memorandum from which I wish to quote. I will make it available to the Minister. He can look at the names. It reads: 
Records at DEPAIR show that the following members were issued in error with the RAS Badge when their applications for the Vietnam Medal, under the provisions of ABO AS/28 were processed . . . 
Then it gives the names of the Air Force personnel. If the Minister wants me to state them, I shall, but I think it would be better for me to let the Minister have the document. 
It continues: 
As the members do not qualify for the award of the RAS Badge under the terms of ABO AS/25, you arc to regain the Badges from the members and return them direct to DEPAIR. 
The Dept. regrets the errors made, and the apparent confusion caused by the issue of the Badges. 
The confusion referred to relates to the fact that some members of the RAAF, having qualified for the Vietnam Medal and having been issued with the Return from Active Service Badge, applied to the War Service Homes Division for loans. Their applications were returned to the RAAF for verification. Subsequently they were told that they were not eligible. As I have indicated to the Minister, their Return from Active Service Badges were taken from them. 
I ask the Minister to study this matter very carefully. I know that he is not unsympathetic. Maybe it will have to be determined by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  and by the Cabinet. No-one can convince me - and I hope that the Minister will agree with me - that a person in the RAAF who has had 30 flights into a combat zone and who has accepted all the risks that go with service in that area should be denied a Return from Active Service Badge. Normally the badges are issued to members of regiments serving in Vietnam. After only 1 day a person serving in Vietnam becomes eligible for all the benefits of the repatriation legislation and of the war service homes legislation as well. The same circumstances should apply to members of the RAAF. In this chamber the Minister for the Navy is the responsible Minister. I hope that he will have the matter investigated thoroughly for me. 
I ask the Minister for Shipping and Transport a question. The Minister will be aware that Tasmania is the only State where no firm decision has yet been made about the provision of a container port. I ask the Minister: Has his attention been drawn to the consequent disadvantages experienced by Tasmania, especially in relation to freight rates? Has the Minister considered the advantages of an early decision in this matter and if so when will he be in a position to inform the House of the results of his Department's investigations? 

 - Mr 


 Speaker, with deference to your ruling, honourable members on this side of the House cannot accept a statement made by the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Jeff Bate)  with the malicious intent to damage the reputation of honourable members on this side of the House and I regret that, in view of your ruling, I will have to move dissent from it. I move: 
That the ruling be  dissented from. 

 - Mr Speaker, I regret that I have to move dissent from your ruling but I do so to support the contention of honourable members on this side of the House that a malicious statement has been made by the honourable member for Macarthur for the purpose of creating an atmosphere which would, in the words of the honourable member for Macarthur, destroy the reputation of honourable members on this side of the House. Of course, the honourable member for Macarthur is noted for the sort of statement he makes and for the accusations he levels at Opposition members under the privilege he enjoys in the House. He would not be prepared to make the same statement outside the House. If the honourable member for 
Macarthur thinks that this charge can be made against Opposition members, why does he not have the courage to name them? I do not think that many honourable members in this House would be prepared to support the honourable member for Macarthur inside the House or outside when he makes accusations of this kind against honourable members on this side of the House. 

 Mr Speaker, this is a very serious charge. I do not want to repeat it. You are well aware of what the honourable member has said. You have ruled against us. In fact the honourable member for Macarthur has said that honourable members on this side of the House are traitors to this country. Surely no responsible person in this Parliament is prepared to support the honourable member for Macarthur in this kind of accusation. He knows that it is not true. If he is man enough he will stand up in this House and withdraw the remark. I, like many other honourable members, am prepared at all times to give and to take in debate. I do not mind the references to myself that the honourable member for Macarthur made tonight. I accept them, when they refer to what 1 have said previously in a debate, as part of the debate. But when the honourable member lays a charge against honourable members on this side of the House without being man enough to stand up and name those honourable members who he believes are traitors to this country and who would betray this country, then J think the Parliament has the right to demand that the honourable member be man enough to stand up and make his charges against those who he believes are in this position. 

 Sir, I. believe the honourable member for Macarthur wanted to create the impression that all honourable members on this side of the House are in the category I have described. It was the kind of attack for which the honourable member for Macarthur and some honourable members who sit with him on that side of the House are notorious, under the privilege of Parliament. 
Yes, I think 'coward' would describe the honourable member for Macarthur. I challenge him to make the statement outside the House. 
I ask the Minister for External Affairs a question. Since the Minister for Defence is to visit Saigon soon, presumably to discuss, among other things, troop withdrawals with American and South Vietnamese officials, does the Minister still intend to visit Saigon next month for the same purpose? 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. He will remember his statement on 25th September last year when he said that his Government would introduce, at the earliest practicable date, legislation to provide for the portability of superannuation rights. I ask: When is this legislation to be introduced? 
I refer the Minister for the Navy to reports that the Naval Board has accepted the retirement of Captain J. P. Stevenson. Did the honourable gentleman in January this year recommend that Captain Stevenson should not be allowed to retire? Did he say that it was his judgment that to meet the needs of the Service Captain Stevenson should remain in the Navy? Did the honourable gentleman say, as reported in the 'Canberra Times' on 6th January, that he would not turn around and put his name to a form of words which smacked of perjury and which was against his plain belief and complete conviction? Did he say further: 'Any criticism should be directed to me. I have some old-fashioned ideas about ministerial responsibility?' If these statements are correct, does the Minister now support the Naval Board's acceptance of Captain Stevenson's retirement? 
I refer the Minister for the Army to a report in the 'Sunday Observer' of 29th March, ls it correct, as stated in the report, that Drug Squad detectives and military police had raided a barracks at the Canungra jungle training camp? Is it correct that after the raid a 21 -year-old soldier was charged wilh having marihuana in his possession? Further, is it true, as claimed in the report, that the raid followed complaints by young soldiers that they had been badgered to take drugs? 
asked the Minister for 
Defence, upon notice: 
Who are the members of the Defence Committee. 
Do the present functions of the Committee differ from those listed in the 1968 Commonwealth Directory, page 64. 
asked the Minister for De fence, upon notice: 
Who are the members of the Chiefs of Staff Committee. 
Do the present functions of the Committee differ from those listed in the 1968 Commonwealth Directory, page 64. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
How many times did the Defence Committee meet in (a) 1967-68 and (b) 1968-69. 
How many times did the Chiefs of Staff Committee meet in (a) 1967-68 and (b) 1968-69. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
What special advisers were co-opted for meetings of the Defence Committee in (a) 1967-68 and (b) 1968-69. 
What special advisers were co-opted for meetings of the Chiefs of Staff Committee in (a) 1967-68 and (b) 1968-69. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Who are the members of the Defence Administration Committee. 
Do the present functions of the Committee differ from those listed in the 1968 Commonwealth Directory, pages 64-65. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Who are the members of the Joint Services EDP Committee. 
What are the functions of the Committee. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Who are the members  of the Defence  (Industrial) Committee. 
What are the functions of the Committee. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Who are the members of the Joint Standardisation Committee. 
What are the functions of the Committee. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Who are the members of the Joint Cataloguing Committee. 
What are the functions of the Committee. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Who are the members of the Joint Planning Committee. 
What are the functions of the Committee. 
asked the Minister for 
Defence, upon notice: 
Who are the members of the National Intelligence Committee. 
Do the present functions of the Committee differ from those listed for the Joint Intelligence Committee in the 1968 Commonwealth Directory, page 68. 
asked the Minister for 
Defence, upon notice: 
Who are the members of the Business Board? 
Do its present functions differ from those listed in the 1968 Commonwealth Directory, page 69? 
asked the Minister for 
Defence, upon notice: 
Who are the members of the Australian Joint Services Staff in (a) the United Kingdom, (b) the United States, (c) New Zealand, (d) Malaysia and Singapore. 
Will the Minister for the Army say when the transfer of Australian troops from Malaysia to Singapore began and when it was finished? Has the rotational unit to be posted in Malaysia gone to Butterworth? Where will this unit be housed and where will it train? What will its duties be while stationed at Butterworth? 
I have listened with a great deal of interest to the debate on the motion for dissent. Nobody on the Government side has yet answered the proposition advanced by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  who asked how a censure motion could be moved against a censure. Quite clearly the motion moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  was a motion of censure against the Leader of the House  (Mr Snedden).  The Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  has now moved what is obviously in effect  a  motion of censure against the Leader of the Opposition. As the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  has pointed out,  Mr Speaker,  you are being asked to establish a precedent. One could give a number of examples to show clearly how significant your ruling on this matter will be. No motion which is, as the Prime Minister's amendment obviously is, a direct negative may be moved to another motion. I emphasise - this is very important - that if the Government wanted to move a motion of censure against the Leader of the Opposition it was entitled to do so, just as the Opposition is entitled to move a motion of censure against the Leader of the House. 
Whatever transpired in this Parliament yesterday was due to the attitude and activities of the Leader of the House. Everybody in this Parliament, even Government supporters, knows that the Leader of the House not only broke agreements but transgressed the generally accepted decent practices in this Parliament. So the issue this afternoon which was raised quite properly, in the opinion of the honourable members on this side of the House, is a well deserved motion censuring the Leader of the House. This is not the first occasion on which a motion of this kind has been moved against the Leader of the House. This is the second occasion on which the Opposition has had to take this course of action. It is quite clear why Government members are supporting the amendment moved by the Prime Minister to the censure motion submitted by the Leader of the Opposition. Quite clearly honourable members on the Government side of the House did not want to vote in a way that would support the Leader of the House. 
Let me put it to you,  Mr Speaker,  that there are members on the Government side who were entirely dissatisfied, and quite properly so, with the attitude and the activities of the Leader of the House yesterday. If they had to vote today on the motion moved by the Leader of the Opposition they would have in effect been voting for the Leader of the House. They preferred not to do this. One can assume that, if the motion had been put as it most certainly would when the debate had been concluded, there would have been members from the Government side who would have walked out and not participated in the vote. Their names would not have been recorded in a division. 
Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  Having made that point, let me conclude on the points that I made initially: No-one has yet answered the proposition that has been put or the argument that has been made by honourable members on this side of the House that this is in effect a censure motion moved against a censure motion. The Prime Minister's amendment is a direct negative. It would not be accepted in the normal course of debate and in these circumstances it should not be accepted by the Parliament on this occasion. 
Question put: 
That the Speaker's ruling be dissented from. 
It would be extremely difficult for one to recall after the suspension of the sitting for dinner all of the points that the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  made when he replied to the censure motion that had been moved earlier this afternoon by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  in these terms: 
That the Leader of the House should be censured for his mishandling of the business of the House and his repeated failure to honour agreements made between the Government and the Opposition. 
The Prime Minister experienced great difficulty in refuting the charge of the Leader of the Opposition. Instead he moved an amendment to the motion moved by the Leader of the Opposition, an amendment which one can accept only as a censure motion against the Leader of the Opposition. This was quite an unprecedented course of action. I do not want to recapitulate at this stage all the arguments that were advanced this afternoon in relation to this matter. Nevertheless the Prime Minister has chosen to move an amendment which one must accept, as I have indicated to the House, as a motion of censure against the Leader of the Opposition. 
I want to make it perfectly clear that whatever motion is moved in this respect aimed at the Leader of the Opposition must necessarily include every member who sits on this side of the House. Whatever responsibility one expects the Leader of the Opposition to accept in these matters must be accepted by every member who sits behind him. This was a course of action adopted by every honourable member on this side of the House. Certainly it was an unprecedented course of action, I submit to this House, with extenuating circumstances which led to the decision that was made last night by you,  Mr Speaker.  The Opposition does not hold you responsible for what happened last night but submit that it was the direct result of the attitude and the actions of the Leader of the House  (Mr Snedden)  yesterday in relation to the Bills that this House then had before it. So the whole of the blame for whatever happened in this House last night must be the direct responsibility, and must be accepted as the direct responsibility, of the Leader of the House. 
I said this afternoon when speaking to the motion of dissent from the Speaker's ruling that the Prime Minister chose to move his amendment to the motion moved by the Leader of the Opposition because there were obviously some members on the Government side who were dissatisfied with the attitude and the actions of the Leader of the House yesterday during the course of the debate on the  2  measures to which I have already referred. One can accept - and I believe it would be reasonable to argue in this way - that there were some members on the Government side who, because of this dissatisfaction with the attitude of the Leader of the House yesterday, would not have voted on the motion which was moved by the Leader of the Opposition. Indeed they would have refrained from exercising their right to vote in the division when the question was put. This means in effect that they were not prepared and would not have been prepared to accept the attitude and the actions of the Leader of the House. 
So as I have said, this is a most unprecedented action that the Opposition was forced to take against the Leader of the House. I want to make it clear at the outset that I do not put the whole of the blame for the intolerable situation which has arisen in this House on the Leader of the House. I believe that he is under extreme pressures from the Prime Minister, and this is obvious not only from what happened in the Parliament yesterday. I ask the honourable members who may disagree with this point of view to recall the  1  day session of this Parliament towards the end of  1969  when an agreement that had been entered into between the Leader of the House and myself, accepting the responsibilities in this way on behalf of the Opposition, was broken. It was quite clear at that time and fully understood by myself as well as by members on the Government side that an opportunity would be given to honourable members to debate a censure motion the following day. Quite clearly the Leader of the House had accepted this proposition and had agreed to the debate being continued the next day, but as a result of the pressure exerted on him by the Prime Minister he capitulated and the motion for the adjournment was moved that same day. That was a clear case of an agreement being broken by a responsible Minister - indeed the Minister who is charged with the responsibility of organising the business of this House, entering into arrangements with myself and seeking agreements in this way. This was one instance of the pressure applied by the Prime Minister. 
I had the experience of working for  2  years with the present Leader of the House from the beginning of  1967  to the end of  1968.  I acknowledge that during this period he conducted the business of the House in a rational and generally fair way. Certainly there were no disgraceful attempts to coerce the legislature. This is the only interpretation which can be put on the course of events in this House late last night and early this morning. The whole organisation of this chamber depends in large measure on co-operation. There must always be some flexibility in the flow of the legislative process in this House. For this  reason  there is a need for continual negotiation between the Government and the Opposition. In the past I have conducted these negotiations with the Leader of the House, in the main, on a basis which has been satisfactory to both sides. 
When the present Leader of the House was abjectly sacked as Leader of the House last year the business of the House was negotiated on a successful basis with the former Leader of the House and former Minister for Air, the honourable member for Ballaarat  (Mr Erwin).  For the whole of last year the honourable member for Ballaarat proved a most successful Leader of the House, certainly in every way a better one than the present Minister for Labour and National Service. Since the Minister for Labour and National Service resumed as Leader of the House on 25th November last year he has undergone a remarkable transformation. The desire he had in the past to negotiate and to compromise has been replaced by a bullying, hectoring and, I regret to say, even untruthful attitude. The Minister wants to prove himself a big and tough man. This has been evident in his public statements on industrial matters and in the whole tone of his dealings in this House. The Leader of the House will find that the Labor Party will no more accept this high-handed attitude than will the leaders of the great Australian trade unions. 
However I do not want to dwell at great length on this. I believe that the real villain responsible for this flagrant disregard for parliamentary forms is the Prime Minister. Quite clearly the Leader of the House has been returned to his post under very humiliating circumstances. The tone for a policy for complete suppression of the parliamentary and legislative process was set on 25th November last year. The House resumed for the historic 1-day session with a radically reconstituted membership. The 30 or so new members were edified by the sight of a panicking Executive and a debilitated Government in action. In the course of the day the gag was moved 7 times. The Leader of the House set the pace by gagging the debate on the election of the  Speaker.  I do not know what political point this was intended to serve, but it was done. This was not a political debate but a debate on a machinery measure. Traditionally it has been the occasion for light- hearted debate by members of both sides of the House. I am sure,  Mr Speaker,  that having experienced this kind of debate you would have appreciated the situation. It is not intended in a serious spirit and it is the custom for the debate to proceed without interruption until the vote is taken. The Leader of the House chose to set an anxious note by gagging even this traditional debate. He did the same thing with the debate on the election of the  Chairman  of Committees. More seriously he gagged the debate on the appointment of the Select Committee on Aircraft Noise. 
After the suspension of the sitting for dinner the Prime Minister got in on the act when he gagged a motion moved by the Leader of the Opposition, censuring the Government for its failure to pl'ace business before the Parliament. The Prime Minister made a most inadequate reply to the case put by the Leader of the Opposition and he tried to get himself out of trouble by applying the gag. The Leader of the House then moved the adjournment of the House, although he had given a clear and unequivocal undertaking before dinner that the sitting would continue on the following day. There can be no doubt about this: The clear impression was given to me, as a representative of the Opposition, by the Leader of the House that the sitting would be continued. This was reflected in reports of the national Press. 
During the dinner suspension of the sitting it seems that the Prime Minister leant heavily on the Leader of the House and it was decided to stop the Government's embarrassment by adjourning the sitting and the session. When we attempted to debate the motion for this special adjournment the debate was gagged by the Leader of the House. There was then a debate on leave of absence tor all honourable members until the next day of sitting. This was gagged after the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns),  the Leader of the Opposition and the Prime Minister spoke. Finally the adjournment debate was gagged. In all, on the first day of a new parliamentary sitting, after the Government had scraped back into office, the gag was moved 7 times. The Government was so anxious to avoid exposure and to get out of the public eye for 2 or 3 months that it gagged everything that came before the House that day. I suggest that there is no precedent in this Parliament for such indiscriminate use of the gag on the first day of a new Parliament. 
The pattern so dramatically established on 25th November has been repeated in the past month. On 4th March the gag was moved twice; on 5th March, twice; on 10th March, twice; on 1 1th March, twice; on 12th March, twice; on 17th March, twice; on 18th March, twice; and on 19th March, 4 times. In the first 3 weeks of the sitting the gag was moved 18 times - 16 times by the Leader of the House. When the House resumed on Tuesday last the Leader of the House had a day free from the gag, but only because of the adjournment of the House following the death of the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory. I do not suppose that even the Leader of the House would have the effrontery to gag a motion of condolence. However this momentary restraint was shattered yesterday when the gag was moved on 5 occasions. It was moved 3 times by the Leader of the House, once by the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  and once by the honourable member for Angus  (Mr Giles).  On the first occasion the Leader of the House gagged, for the nineteenth time this sitting, an Opposition urgency motion. Every matter of public importance raised by the Opposition has been summarily chopped off after only 1 Opposition  speaker.  On the first occasion the gag was applied in this way it was moved after what I had assumed was a clear agreement between the Leader of the House and myself for at least 2 speakers from each side. The matters of public importance raised by the Opposition have not been trivial. They have ranged over industrial issues. New Guinea, Aboriginals and serious deficiences in the war service homes legislation. Yet only 1  speaker  from each side has been able to debate these issues in the House. 
I do not want to talk at length about the remarkable sequence of events in this House late last night and early this morning. The Opposition was subjected to quite intolerable provocation by the Leader of the House. Through a lapse of memory on his part he did not provide for the suspension of the 11 o'clock rule so that a Bill which was part of a cognate debate, could be introduced. This was entirely the fault of the Leader of the House. Whether I sympathise with his problem in this respect is another matter; it was entirely his responsibility. When the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  quite properly refused the Leader of the House leave to waive the 1 1 o'clock rule the Leader of the House cut loose in a most extraordinary exhibition. It was a remarkable fit of pique intended to show that he was the boss of the House and that he would chop off discussion of crucial amendments to a most important piece of legislation. 
The honourable member for Dawson outlined the sequence of events relating to the amendments of which the Leader of the House claims he was unaware. The case of the honourable member for Dawson was vindicated substantially by the statement made this morning by the Minister for National Development who delicately left the can with the Leader of the House. The Minister for National Development made it quite clear that the honourable member for Dawson had informed him that there would be other amendments. Quite firmly he dissociated himself from the claim of the Leader of the House that he did not know of the amendments. The plain inference of the Minister's remarks was that the Leader of the House had been rather less than frank in his explanation this morning. The Leader of the House seized on the technicality that the amendments had not been circulated and were in a drawer at the Clerk's table. This is an accepted process; amendments are kept in this drawer until the mover asks that they be circulated. In the same way the amendment moved earlier in Committee by the Minister for National Development was kept in the drawer until he asked for its distribution to the House. As the Minister well knows, this is done on every occasion when legislation is amended. 
It is remarkable that the Minister for National Development knew that the amendments had been printed and were to be moved and circulated while the Leader of the House claims to have been completely ignorant of their existence. It is beyond credence that the Leader of the House did not have this knowledge. Even if he were incompetent enough not to know of their existence - and I do not accept this - his action in going ahead and bulldozing the Bill through the Committee stage was even more reprehensible. The legislation at issue was of extreme importance. It concerns a matter in which many members from both sides of the House are crucially interested. Further it is an issue with wide ranging implications in the politics of New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia as well as the Commonwealth. Yet despite the significance of the legislation the Leader of the House took the responsibility of shouldering amendments aside and gagging all attempts by Opposition members to state their case. This pattern of provocation was continued to a degree which could not be accepted by any responsible political party. The Opposition had no recourse but to act in the way it did this morning. Had we accepted the gross abuse of parliamentary procedure performed by the Leader of the House we would not have been worthy of our places in this chamber. 
The gag is a traditional part of the parliamentary process but by the same tradition it has always been used sparingly and, I believe, responsibly. In the past it has usually appeared late in the sittings when there is pressure on the passage of legislation. I want to say something about the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  because he had to accept much of the responsibility for what happened in this Parliament. No honourable member who sits in this chamber would be prepared to deny that the honourable member for Wills since he has been a member of this House has always shown that he believes in the rights of the individual members, and that he is prepared to protect their interests. He has been just as adamant - indeed he has seized every opportunity - to protect the interests and what he felt to be the rights of Government supporters as he has of honourable members on this side of the House. There must be many honourable members on the other side of the House who would sympathise with the honourable member for Wills and who would have accepted what he put forward as the proper course to take under provocation of this nature. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I ask the Minister for the Interior: Is he aware that in every State that has been visited by the Queen during the Royal tour which is currently taking place a public holiday has been declared by the Government concerned? What arrangements have been made or what arrangement does the Government intend to make in relation to employees in the Australian Capital Territory? Will they be given a public holiday when the Queen visits the Australian Capital Territory next week and, if not, why not? 
I refer the Prime Minister to his answer yesterday to the honourable member for Bonython on Press reports of an offer by the United States Government to lend Australia 24 Phantom F4E aircraft. Did the right honourable gentleman say that the reports had no official backing whatsoever? Did he say that no statement could be made until the Minister for Defence returned to Australia when a statement would be made in this House? Has the Minister for Defence, in a joint statement with the United States Secretary of Defence, earlier today announced that such an offer had been made and accepted? If so, why did not the Prime Minister know about it? Did the Minister for Defence exceed his authority in making this arrangement without the approval of the Government or of the Prime Minister? 
I ask the Prime Minister whether there is any substance In the report that the 8th Battalion Royal Australian Regiment is to be withdrawn from Vietnam thus bringing about a reduction of approximately 750 in the number of Australians serving in South Vietnam. I further ask the right honourable gentleman whether the battalion is to be replaced by 2 battalions of South Vietnamese forces. Is the Australian Army assistance team to be stationed in the Phuoc Tuy Province? When will the right honourable gentleman be in a position to make a full report on these matters which have been foreshadowed with considerable confidence by the Press? 
The Opposition supports the proposition moved by the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden)  who is the Leader of the House. Indeed, the Opposition welcomes this move, it does so for 2 reasons. Firstly, the sitting time of the House will be extended and this will provide greater opportunity for those of us who wish to participate in debates. The present session of the House of Representatives is notable for the amount of new legislation that has been introduced by the Government. Obviously, if honourable members are to be given full opportunity, as is their right, to debate the legislation which the Government brings before the House then, additional time will be needed. More time is needed to conduct the debate which is necessary if measures are to be fully investigated and considered by honourable members not only on this side of the House but on the other side as well, I repeat that the Opposition supports the proposition moved by the Leader of the House in respect of additional sitting times. 
Secondly, the Government has decided to move the adjournment of the House at 1 1 p.m. each day. We believe that this will be a worthwhile contribution to the debating procedures in this Parliament. There is no need for me to elaborate this point. Everyone can appreciate that honourable members will be in a far better position to debate legislation before the Parliament if they are able to adjourn at a reasonable hour each day. I do not want to raise this as an issue because it has been suggested before. "Now the Leader of the House and the Government have proposed that at least until the end of June the adjournment will be moved at I I o'clock each night. The Opposition welcomes this move. My next point is that the Government has decided to sit on each Friday until the end of the session, commencing on 8th May. Some honourable members on this side of the House have made very important commitments for 8th May. There is some disagreement between the Opposition and the Government as to when the Friday sittings should commence. We believe that they ought to commence not from 8th May but from 15th May. The Opposition has decided to move an amendment to give effect to this point of view. The amendment will be moved by the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns),  who will express the opinion of honourable members on this side of the House as to why we seek that amendment. Let me reiterate that the Opposition welcomes the extended sitting hours and the decision to move the adjournment of the House each day at 1 1 p.m. 
I believe it would  be  fair to say that the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Howson)  has just made a very thoughtful contribution to the present debate on foreign affairs. He dealt largely with the position in the South Pacific region. The honourable member made what I consider to  be  a number of very worthwhile suggestions. He referred in particular  13667/70- If- 148J  to the problems of Fiji and other islands in the South Pacific region.  His  comments about the need for foreign aid in this area are very relevant to the present debate. If I may interpret the honourable member's remarks in relation to the question of Australian assistance in this area, I think he really had in mind the need to increase our economic aid not only to the islands in this region but also, I would hope, to the countries in the South East Asian area for which we have some responsibility. 
The honourable member for Casey also made some worthwhile and, I believe, sound remarks in relation to the situation in Papua and New Guinea. If I again correctly interpreted what he had in mind, the honourable member was putting a case - quite properly - for early self government for the people in this area. The honourable member for Casey drew a parallel between the situation which could develop in Papua and New Guinea and the situation which has developed in some of the African countries. I think that what the honourable member was suggesting could happen is in fact very close to the situation which did develop in South East Asia. Unless the Australian Government - regardless of whichever party may be in office - is prepared to look realistically at the situation in Papua and New Guinea and to give some consideration to the problems which have developed in recent years as well as to the point of view which has been expressed by some people in Papua and New Guinea to the effect that they have every right to determine their own political destiny and they should have this right as soon as possible, a similar situation could develop. I agree that if there are to be priorities between the question of political development and economic development then, quite obviously, the emphasis should be placed upon political development. I believe that the matters to which the honourable member for Casey referred during the course of his Speech are matters of significant importance. I believe that he made a very constructive contribution to the debate. The honourable member for Casey did not, of course, deal in great detail with the matters raised by the Minister for External Affairs  (Mr McMahon)  when he delivered this statement on behalf of the Government about a fortnight ago. 
This House has become familiar with a sort of Cook's tour speech on foreign affairs, which takes up one country after another in geographic sequence. In his first set piece to this House the Minister for External Affairs has rejected this approach and concentrated on a few topics. He has given the House a series of unexceptionable and abstract principles which leave practical judgment and action suspended where he found them. It is a speech lacking in either authority or decisiveness. 
To be fair to the Minister his speech was circumscribed by the flashy statement delivered a fortnight earlier by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  Despite the shallow content of the analysis of the Minister for Defence, he did have a list of new defence hardware to announce. Naturally, this aspect was a popular and, I believe, desirable part of the speech of the Minister for Defence on that occasion. The Minister for Defence prefaced this shopping list with a series of notes on the strategic setting which preempted much of the ground of the Minister for External Affairs. 
It was unfortunate, also, that the Minister for External Affairs had to have his text vetted by Cabinet. This was a remarkable departure from the traditional practice, which has been that only the Prime Minister clears statements on foreign affairs. This procedure was followed last year when the former Minister for External Affairs refused to be alarmed about the presence of the Russians in the Indian Ocean. Now the present Minister, a man of immense experience and seniority in the Liberal Parry, has had his text sifted and amended by men considerably inferior to him in ability, experience and seniority. In these circumstances it is easy to comprehend why the content of the Minister's speech should be so disappointing. 
The core issue of the foreign affairs setting facing Australia at the moment is the future of Indo-China. This was emphasised in the sections of the Minister's statement which concerned Laos and Vietnam. As an addendum to his prepared text the Minister gave a few random thoughts on Cambodia. They were based in the main on a note from the Cambodian Ambassador in Australia. Cambodia did not rate a mention in the original draft, but because of an abrupt change in the course of events the Minister had to say something about it, although it did not fit in with the themes he had prepared. The Minister has since gone overseas for a fortnight without elaborating on these cursory comments or fitting them into the wider strategic setting of Indo-China. This is unfortunate because more and more the focus is switching from Vietnam to the whole of Indo-China. The dangers manifest in Vietnam for the past few years now apply in equal measure to Laos and Cambodia. It is a tragic possibility that in the months ahead we will be referring again to the Indo-China war and not the Vietnam War. If this happens the world will be ferried back in time to the early 1950s and 15 years will have been completely wasted. 
At the moment attitudes to the Vietnam war have crystallised into three main groupings. The first is commitment to a complete military victory in Vietnam. This attitude was frankly put in a recent statement by  Mr Frank  Serong, formerly a distinguished Australian soldier and now a senior adviser to General Abrams in Saigon. According to  Mr Serong  the revolution in Cambodia has given the Americans and the Thieu Government an undreamed of opportunity to end the war in 6 months. 

 Mr Serong did not elaborate but the implication of his remarks is that decisive military victory could be achieved by extending the war from Vietnam to Cambodia. In this way the frontier between Cambodia and South Vietnam could he sealed off and North Vietnamese units denied the use of Cambodian provinces as a sanctuary. Undoubtedly this sort of thinking is very tempting to the military commands in America and South Vietnam. But the weak Cambodian army would need very substantial assistance to contain the powerful North Vietnamese units in Cambodia. An extension of the war on this scale would undoubtedly provoke a much higher level of activity by the North Vietnamese in Laos. 
So far the offensives of the North Vietnamese in Laos have been intended to achieve as much as possible with a minimum of effort. Apart from their nuisance value these limited annual offensives are dictated by the commercial motive of securing the opium crop each year so it can be sold and earn foreign exchange. 
Any extension of the war in Cambodia would bring a marked change to the almost ritual war in Laos. Undoubtedly the North Vietnamese have the strength to sustain much greater effort in the three regions of Indo-China. Certainly they have been weakened, as the Minister pointed out in his statement, but they retain in North Vietnam very powerful reserves which have never been committed to the war. It may be possible to vanquish the Communists in Indo-China by military means but it would mean a war in which North Vietnam would have very marked advantages. But this would require a massive military effort extending over several years and bringing in its train the destruction of the whole Indo-China region. 
The second group of attitudes covers what might be termed the middle ground. This is the position of the Labor Party and has been lucidly outlined by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  in his speech on this debate. The essence of this approach is the achievement of a negotiated settlement in South Vietnam with the objective of neutralising the whole of Indo-China. On the run of events since  President  Johnson started to scale down the war, the best the Americans could achieve would be the stabilisation of Indo-China on the basis which existed early in 1968. This would mean a Communist North Vietnam, an independent South Vietnam with a much more broadly based Government than the present one, a neutral Cambodia and a neutral Laos. It may still be possible to achieve such a solution but I believe the chances are diminishing. 
In this context the Prime Minister of New Zealand,  Mr Holyoake,  has stressed the need for restraint, cool judgment and a concerted diplomatic effort to find an acceptable solution. In a statement made last week to the Standing Committee of Asian and Pacific Council in Wellington,  Mr Holyoake  pointed to the dangers of a general war in Indo-China. He said further: 
Indeed the most sensible approach may well be to call an international conference at which all the parties concerned could be represented to work out the outlines of a regional settlement. 
The New Zealand Prime Minister made it clear that New Zealand would pursue such an initiative and suggested that the existing machinery of the Geneva conference should be used.  Mr Holyoake  has swung to the prudent view that a military solution in Vietnam is not feasible and that some form of a political compromise must be sought. This shifts the New Zealand Government to the ground consistently occupied by the Labor Party and stated concisely by the Leader of the Opposition. 
The third approach is one which has never been contemplated even remotely in the thinking of the Government, lt has been stated with quite brutal frankness in the United States by  Senator Fulbright;  it is the ultimate acceptance and recognition of Communist supremacy in Indo-China. This may be extremely unpalatable; it may also be inevitable.  Senator Fulbright  said that the plain fact to come out of the Vietnam war was that North Vietnam was the paramount power in Indo-China. He said further: 
I do not advocate  a  Communist dominated IndoChina. I merely propose to accept it if it arises from the local power situation as something unwelcome but tolerable. 
This is the sort of tough minded thinking on Indo-China which is being put forward with increasing persistence in the United States. It is part of a growing recognition that Indo-China matters not a jot to America's security or basic interests. According to this way of thinking the issues in Laos, Cambodia and Vietnam are inseparable and a political settlement must be negotiated which applies to all of them. Faced with the alternatives of plunging in altogether or getting out altogether, the Americans should get out altogether. Supporters of this line concede the Communists have the initiative and can vary the battleground as they like; they do not have to light in the open field against the Americans. Such thinking, repugnant though it may be, should be part of the contingency thinking of a responsible government on foreign affairs. Unfortunately, it is completely beyond the limited scope and unsophisticated analysis of the Minister's statement. 
In summary, the Opposition finds itself aligned with the huge volume of thoughts of people who want a negotiated neutrality for the whole of Indo-China. The Government still clings wistfully to hopes of a military victory which cannot be obtained at an acceptable price. This is part of the fairy tale quality which suffuses all the foreign policy thinking of the Government. It cannot formulate and conduct a successful foreign affairs policy because it takes an issue and simplifies it to the point of absurdity. It reduces issues such as the Vietnam war to a choice between winning and losing and a choice between hard policies and soft policies. There is not the slightest concession to flexibility or compromise which must always be the foundations of successful external policy. 
I mentioned earlier the Minister's uneasiness and evasiveness on Cambodia. The overthrow of Prince Sihanouk can only accelerate the overall deteriorating in IndoChina. It raises the possibility that the last haven in Indo-China as yet untouched by war will not be spared the bitter fate of Laos and Vietnam. Whatever the motivations behind the coup against Sihanouk, it can only drive him irrevokably into the Communist camp. There must be grave doubts on whether the military regime can maintain the stability and neutrality Sihanouk brought to Cambodia. The best that can be achieved with this regime would be a period of instability and racial strife with no slackening of the North Vietnamese hold on their bases in Cambodia. The worst would be the absorption of Cambodia into a full-scale Indo-China war. The last vestiges of stability and responsibility in IndoChina may have been lost with the Prince's fall. Sihanouk has a ready made army for his restoration in the North Vietnamese units based in the eastern provinces of Cambodia. 
I want to conclude with some brief comments on  President  Nixon's Guam doctrine on which the Minister placed considerable reliance in his statement. The essence of the doctrine is America's retreat from a policy that was grandiose and global to a stance that is restrained and cautious. There have been many conflicting interpretations of the doctrine and there are many inconsistencies in its exposition. What is quite clear is that in future America will define its interests much more rigorously than in the past. America is committed to helping some 42 nations against external aggression. Australia is one. Tn the past these commitments have involved America in military intervention in Greece, Guatemala, Lebanon, Cuba, the Congo, the Dominican Republic, Bolivia, Peru and Colombia. Very few, if any, of these interventions can be justified in the cold light of retrospection. What  President  Nixon seems to be saying is mistaken assessments have been made in the past which produced hasty and misconceived commitments. In the future American intervention will be based on a scrupulous rigid definition of American interests projected over a long term period. There will be no more abrupt interventions to support anti-Communist dictators or in response to momentary flare-ups anywhere over the globe. In the past hasty commitments have been made and America's interests have had to be bent and redefined to fit in with accomplished facts. In a commitment such as Vietnam this has produced an inevitable progression of further involvements. Since World War II the United States and Australia have held common interests; in the years ahead they are likely to diverge sharply. The focus of United States attention will lift from South East Asia where, in the words of  Senator Fulbright  it does not matter very much for the United States in cold, unadorned strategic terms who is ruler. In the 1970s it is obvious that America will look directly across the Pacific to Japan, Korea, Taiwan and beyond to China and Russia. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Hallett)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for the Navy, upon notice: 
What jet trainers are at present used by the Navy. 
Has the Acting Prime Minister no'.ed  President  Nixon's pledge to withdraw 150,000 United States troops from South Vietnam within a year? Does he recall the Prime Minister's promise that Australian troops would be phased into the next substantial withdrawal? Does he agree that, on the scale of the American withdrawal, the whole  Australian Task Force should bc removed from Vietnam? When will Australian units be phased into the withdrawal as promised by the Prime Minister? 
asked the Minister for the 
Navy, upon notice - 
What was the cost of repairs to HMAS Hobart' following the accidental attack by United States aircraft in 1968? 
Who paid the bill for these repairs? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Health. Is it true that the Department of Health is preparing a large scale leaflet campaign to explain the Government's health scheme? If so, is it intended to send leaflets to more than 4 million Australians? Would a campaign of this nature cost at least $300,000 to prepare and complete? If that is correct, how can such spending be justified when there is a critical shortage of hospitals? Would the cost of such a campaign provide substantial additional hospital accommodation for the Australian Capital Territory? 
I want to refer tonight to the difficulties confronting Tasmania because of deficiencies in Federal Government shipping policy. The first problem area derives from delay in integrating Tasmania into the overseas container shipping service. This entails that the cost of feeder services from Tasmania to the Melbourne container port be absorbed either by the shipper or by some form of Government subsidy. The second problem area results from the inadequacies of existing services between Tasmania and the mainland and Tasmania and overseas ports, particularly in Japan. The crisis facing Tasmania goes beyond defective services and uncompetitive freight rates; in the broader sense it strikes directly at the policies of decentralisation which have been vaunted by the Federal Government. Because of 
Tasmania's exclusive reliance on sea transport for its place, in national and international trade, this is just as much an issue of national policy as the .provision of beef roads in Queensland and the building of the standard gauge railway. There is no lack of evidence to support the belief that Tasmania is facing an era of economic stagnation if solutions are not found quickly to these pressing problems. 
The threat of stagnation is already menacing the industrial development which has been carefully nurtured over the past 20 years, lt is also undermining the expansion that mineral developments in recent years have brought to the island. 
The disadvantages facing Tasmania in the container era were emphasised in the report of the Senate Select Committee on the Container Method of Handling Cargoes. The Committee recommended that Tasmania be given special treatment for the disabilities it would certainly suffer in export trade. On 23rd February 1967 the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen)  told this House that it was the intention of those operating container ships to provide feeder services from outports to the three main container ports of Sydney, Melbourne and Fremantle. 
On 13 th May last year, in answer to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  the Minister said it was still the intention of the shippers to provide feeder services from outports and absorb the cost in freight rates. He said that with freight from Hobart to Melbourne it had been found that the price quoted for shipping containers would make the through freight to London quite uneconomic. This was a matter that would have to be negotiated and the Minister expressed confidence that it could be resolved. The Minister concluded by saying that if there appeared to be any unjustified delay in introducing the feeder container service he would take immediate action. It is a year since the Minister made this promise but the Government seems to be no nearer to stating a clear policy on providing container facilities in Tasmania, or in securing equalised freight rates. On 17th March I raised this issue with the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Sinclair).  The Minister stressed that this was primarily a question for negotiation between shipper bodies and Conference members. However, he said that the Commonwealth recognised that this was a serious matter and should be settled as soon as possible. The Minister said he expected the negotiations to be resolved at the meeting between Australian shippers and overseas shipowners scheduled for the end of April. I understand that these talks began on Tuesday. This should make it possible for the Minister for Shipping and Transport to make a statement when the House resumes. 
In the light of the assurances of the Minister for Trade and Industry it is not good enough for the Minister for Shipping and Transport to throw the whole weight of the success of negotiations on to shippers and shipowners. It is the clear duty of the Commonwealth to set a more active example in getting a just and rational formula for equalising freight rates. According to the Tasmanian  President  of the Associated Chambers of Manufactures of Australia,  Mr Cuthbertson,  Adelaide shippers who send their cargo to Melbourne for overseas container shipping pay the same cargo rate as Melbourne shippers. The same applies to Brisbane shippers who send cargo to the container port at Sydney. Yet as between Hobart and Melbourne, which are not as far apart as are Adelaide and Melbourne or Brisbane and Sydney, the container companies will not absorb the cost. On the face of things this seems to be an incredible perversion of basic economic logic. 
Doubts about the Commonwealth's sincerity in assuring an integrated container service have been reinforced by a meeting of the Export Development Council in Hobart last December. At this meeting, the head of the Department of Trade and Industry,  Sir Alan  Westerman, said that it could be too costly to integrate Tasmania fully into the container service. He suggested, as an alternative, the use of special ships similar to the great Scandinavian vessels now being used overseas. According to  Sir Alan,  these ships could call at Tasmanian and mainland ports collecting goods for direct transport to Europe. What this sort of thinking implies is a second string shipping service outside the container shipping network. A service of this sort may be useful for subsidiary ports and less important exports of the mainland. But it is vital for Tasmania that it be incorporated into the container system with equalisation of freight rates. The Government has made this promise and it must be honoured. 
Beyond the container issue, poor shipping services are seriously impairing the effectiveness of the Tasmanian economic structure. The Tasmanian Premier approached the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  in December last year seeking some remedy for these grave problems. He seems to have got little if anything from these negotiations. Inadequate shipping has dealt a heavy blow to wool and fruit exports from Tasmania. Overseas merchants are reluctant to buy Tasmanian fruit because they know that delivery cannot be assured, and delays in shipping make purchases from Tasmania uneconomic. Delays in wool shipments mean that brokers have to extend the period of repayment, which increases the interest bill and forces the growers to wait longer for their returns. It has been estimated that shipping delays will add $20,000 this year to the interest bill of Tasmanian wool growers. The pattern has been established of Tasmanian exporters accepting discounted returns for their commodities. Inadequate shipping services and the high freight framework also have had an unfortunate impact on the domestic price structure. The prices of consumer items are often substantially higher than for comparable items in other States. 
The most unfortunate effect of the shipping crisis is the loss of key industries to other States. This crisis is blotting out the work which has been done over many years by way of incentive schemes to develop industries. The disabilities of the shipping services have been felt with particular severity by companies exporting to the eastern market, particularly to Japan. Irregular and widely spaced sailings have put shippers who are based in Tasmania in an extremely uncompetitive position. The availability of shipping to Tasmanian shippers averages out at 1 shipment every IS days. Quite often the gap between shipments is as long as 1 month. Shipments in South Australia and Victoria average 1 a week. Already Cadbury Fry Pascall Australia Ltd, which is a traditional part of trade and tourism in Tasmania, has had to close down a large portion of its Hobart operations and move to Melbourne. 
The present situation which applies in Tasmania as a result of what can only be described as an inadequate shipping service is a matter which has been raised by honourable members in this Parliament, particularly honourable members on this side of the House. The Minister for Shipping and Transport will recall that it is also a matter which has been dealt with extensively by those people who have the responsibility of maintaining a regular flow of exports from Tasmania using the shipping services which are available to them. Representations have been made to the Commonwealth Government by the present Tasmanian Government and the Labor Government which preceded it. The shipping services provided to Tasmania have deteriorated rapidly in recent years. The stage has now been reached were a shipping crisis has developed in Tasmania. Therefore, I have taken the opportunity tonight of raising this matter. J believe that the responsibility for the present situation must be accepted, as I have already pointed out, not only by the ship owners and the exporters in Tasmania but also by the Commonwealth Government, because it has a clear responsibility to solve some of the shipping problems which are now facing the State. Tasmania is completely dependent upon shipping, lt is the only State in the Commonwealth of Australia which depends almost entirely upon shipping to ensure that the goods which it produces are available for sale in the mainland States as well as overseas. I hope that the Minister will take the opportunity of dealing with this matter. 
Mir  SPEAKER  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 Mr KING (Wimmera) U 1.9]- Rarely do I rise on the motion for the adjournment of the House, but I believe that a member of this chamber has two very great responsibilities. The first is to watch over the interests of his constituents and make representations to the Government and the Parliament on their behalf. The second is to report the activities of the Parliament and the Government to his constituents. I do not wish to make any apologies or offer any excuses this evening for again raising the question of the present situation in the wheat industry. I only regret that the honourable member for the Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  and the honourable member for 
Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  are not present in the chamber. However, they may turn up before I conclude. Over the last 12 or 15 months there has been a great deal of comment in relation to primary industries, and particularly to the wheat industry. It is not surprising that the problems within most primary industries today are created by world surpluses. Unfortunately the Opposition is making a great play of the misfortunes of the people in primary industries. It seems to be using every opportunity it can get either to pull down the Government or to pull down the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  and those supporters of the Government who represent rural interests. Even the honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison)  recently tried to make great play of the question of our gift of wheat abroad and 1 quote from the Melbourne 'Sun' of 26th February the heading, Gift of wheat called a trick'. I have not sufficient time to go on and explain to the honourable member for St George just how far out he is in some of his comments. 
The real reason for my rising is to answer some of the statements made by the honourable member for Riverina and I am glad that he has now returned to the chamber. I want to quote very briefly some of the comments that he made in this chamber last night. I have not time to quote the whole of his speech. He said. 
I think the scheme is iniquitous, ill-conceived and hasty and is operating against the best interests of all concerned. 
He went on to say: 
The argument as to who is responsible for the introduction of wheat rationing in the middle of the season . . . 
And I repeat the words 'middle of the season' - 
. should be dealt with now. The decision was made here in Canberra. It was forced on the States. In the debates in the New South Wales Parliament that I took part in it was made quite clear to every member both in Government and Opposition that the Commonwealth waved the big stick. The Commonwealth had the decision to make. The Commonwealth made the decision- and said: 'You will do this'. 
In other words, the Commonwealth or the Minister directed the wheat industry. The honourable member went on to say: 
The implementation In detail was left to the colleagues of members of this Government who are in government in the States. 
Let us be quite clear that the decision began here. It was conceived here and was implemented here. 
He went on to say that he predicted that the sales of wheat outside the Australian Wheat Board would be higher than those inside it. His final comment was: 
What is happening at present is a tragedy. It is based on policies which were hasty, ill-conceived and even badly implemented. 
They are statements which were made last night by the honourable member for Riverina. The honourable member should be reminded of a few things when he is talking about the reasons for over production. I want to remind him that it is the doings or activities not inside Australia but rather outside which are responsible. I would also remind him that over the last 5 years production and surpluses of wheat have increased tremendously. World production in the last 5 years has increased by some 20% . The carry over has increased by 30% and world trading has declined by 9%. That dispels any suggestion that there is ample scope for an open go in relation to wheat production. He mentioned that the decision was made in the middle of the season. He is well aware, or he should be as the representative of the seat of Riverina, that the bulk of the crop is sown in about May, June or July, depending on the part of Australia in which it is. I also remind him that the decision was taken by the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation in Perth on 11th, 12th and 13th March 1969, which is hardly the middle of the season. I want to quote very briefly some of the resolutions that were carried at that meeting. The resolutions are: 
'That this Federation accepts the principle that wheat production control is necessary.' 
'That this Federation formulate a plan for wheat production control to be recommended to the State affiliates for implementation as soon as practicable." 
That is hardly a decision by this Government. It went on: 
Ft is the unanimous desire of affiliated members of the Federation that the quota proposals be introduced for the coming harvest 1969-70. 
Now, I have mentioned these figures. This information was relayed to the Minister for Primary Industry who happened to be at a meeting in Hobart of the Australian Agricultural Council. Naturally enough this matter was discussed there. I want to, just briefly, quote again from a statement by a  Mr Price  who was senior vice-president of the Australian Wheatgrowers' Federation at the time. He is now the  president  of the Federation. He said: 
I would strongly refute that there has been any political pressure exerted on the Australian Wheat Growers Federation, either before the implementation of quotas or since their introduction. My organisation accepts full responsibility in originally assessing the need for wheat quotas; 
I hope these honourable members are listening - and it was at our request- 
Meaning the Federation's request - that the Federal and State governments recognised the correctness of our attitude in endeavouring to come to grips with the current situation involving a surplus to sales potential of at least 250 million bushels of wheat. Should any politician or political party endeavour to make adverse capital out of the introduction of wheat quotas, they will be responsible for the greatest disservice ever to the wheat industry of Australia. 
That was said by the senior vice-president of the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation and the  President  at that time, who happened to be  Mr McDougall,  said in the Financial Review' on 6th May 1969: 
On 13th March, the Australian Wheat Growers Federation decided to restrict the production of wheat in Australia. 
I want honourable members to note this. He went on to say: 
The initiative was taken without prompting by the Commonwealth or State governments. It was the result of a sense of responsibility and concern that leaders of the industry have felt for some time. 
asked the Minister for External Affairs, upon notice: 
How many Australians have been (a) killed (b) wounded and (c) reported missing in Laos since 1960. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Defence. Does the American offer of 24 Phantom aircraft on an interim basis include reconnaissance aircraft? What arrangements for the provision of missiles are included in the offer? Is the Minister able to say how much the offer would cost Australia on the basis of a yearly lease? 
asked the Minister for the Navy upon not ce 
What allowances are payable to members of the Royal Australian Navy. 
In what circumstances is each allowance payable. 
What was the amount of each allowance in (a) 1945, (b) 1951, (c) 1961 and (d) 1970. 
1 ask for leave to make a statement on the same subject. 
Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  The Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  tonight has pledged his Government's support to the violation of Cambodia. The Vietnam war has been extended to the CambodianVietnam war. The only haven in Indo-China not troubled by war will now share the bitter fate of its neighbours, Laos and Vietnam. It is only fair to say that the Government's reaction has lacked its usual enthusiastic acclaim for America's efforts in Indo-China. The Prime Minister tonight has paid lip service to  President  Nixon's hard line declaration. But there is a feeling of hesitancy and uneasiness about the whole of the Government's approach to the new extention to the war. Its support for American intervention in Cambodia has not extended to the commitment of Australian troops or the provision of significant arms assistance to General Lon Nol's Government. 
The Government's response has been a belated one. Quite properly the Prime Minister made his statement to this Parliament at the first possible opportunity. But for the first time there have been no earlier statements - no special television or radio broadcasts - no indication of the Government's response to President Nixon's action. The predictable response has at least been made but the delay is significant. There is reason for belief that the old ring of confidence which surrounded the Government s philosophy on Vietnam has been dissolved. The distinct impression can be gained that all it not well with the Government's assessment of its Indo-China policy and that it realises that America may have gone too far and that the period of unquestioned commitment may be nearing an end. 
It is tragic that the Prime Minister's statement follows hard on the heels of the first significant initiative on Indo-China taken by an Asian nation which was not a participant in the war. This was the call by Indonesia's Foreign Minister,  Mr Malik,  for a conference of nations in the Asian region on the Cambodian crisis. This was supported by Australia's Minister for External Affairs  (Mr McMahon).  A conference of this nature gave for the first time a chance for Asian nations to hammer out a concerted policy in an effort to end the Indo-China war. It meant that for the first time the great emerging nation of Indonesia and the great industrial power of Japan could use their influence and prestige in the area to find a solution. What Australia could achieve in the context of this solution was limited by its role in the war. Nevertheless it was right that it should have supported  Mr Malik's  initiative. At question time today the Minister for External Affairs briefly outlined what he hoped this conference could achieve. Unfortunately the potential of this conference was destroyed by the blunt use of power. The sudden intervention by the United States in Cambodia made irrelevant any meaningful political or diplomatic initiatives by Asian nations. 
There has been much talk of the use of Cambodia as a sanctuary for North Vietnamese and Vietcong troops. For the past 16 years Cambodia has been a sanctuary in another sense. Quite remarkably it preserved its neutrality and kept Indo-China's war beyond its borders. During this period Cambodia was certainly a country with a sluggish economy and of comparatively modest expectations and aspirations. However, it was a sanctuary from the anguish and suffering of Vietnam. It was an emblem of what could be achieved in Indo-China. President Sihanouk was able to contain a Communist presence in his nation while working to remove it by diplomatic means. 
At the same time he was able to assure a reasonable prosperity and a gradual progress for his nation. Cambodia has had unfortunately more disasters in the few weeks since his departure than in the 16 years of his rule. Under Sihanouk the areas of Vietcong control could be measured in miles or even yards from the border. They are now being measured in hundreds of square miles and even whole provinces. Under Sihanouk there were very few deaths from Communist presence or the occasional insurgence of troops from South Vietnam. The dead can now be numbered in thousands. Under Sihanouk the Vietcong and the North Vietnamese were contained on the frontier or hidden in forests. They are now marauding over communication networks and assailing provincial centres and even the capital. Phnom Penh. This has been the result of replacing accommodation with confrontation. 
I do not want to go into the circumstances surrounding Sihanouk's removal. Undoubtedly the Americans have snubbed Lon Nol and have treated him with the contempt they never dared to show to Sihanouk. They have rejected his request for massive armed assistance. They have invaded his country without giving advance warning or seeking his sanction. The decision to enter Cambodia was taken on South Vietnam's initiative not on Cambodia's initiative. This is a measure of the low standing Lon Nol has with America, lt is clear evidence that he is another puppet ruler propped up by the military. 
It is very doubtful what military impact these invasions of Cambodian territory will have. We do not know whether the North Vietnamese headquarters have been located or destroyed. There are conflicting reports on whether these headquarters are even in the areas invaded. It seems unlikely that the North Vietnamese or the Vietcong, knowing that the threat was imminent, would wait casually for the South Vietnamese and the Americans to arrive. We do not know how many Vietnamese or Vietcong will be killed. We do know that thousands of innocent peasants will be killed or maimed; water buffalo will be destroyed and rice crops devastated. The North Vietnamese and the Vietcong will be driven deeper into Cambodia. The whole country will become a sanctuary and ulti mately a charred battleground. This will bring in its turn all the paraphernalia of the Indo-China war - a propped up military regime, a war economy, inflation, corruption, dislocation of social life, thousands of refugees and immeasurable human suffering. The end result can only be the destruction of a magnificent little country and the complete commitment to Communism of its gifted Prince whose only defect was his efforts to save Cambodia from the evils now enveloping it. 
The whole tone of  President  Nixon's speech on the Cambodian military presence was deeply depressing.  President  Johnson said he would not be the first United States  President  to lose a war. This was the whole theme of  President  Nixon's speech, lt put politics and pride above pity and peace. The maintenance of national prestige was reared above the preservation of humanity. This extension of the war has been widely denounced by responsible sections of the United States - the United States Congress and the United States people. The Vietnam war has had terrible effects on America. It has produced the greatest internal social disruption and violence since the Civil War, 110 years ago. It has hamstrung American initiatives in the Middle East and is threatening the success of the talks on limiting strategic armaments. Yet it seems the United States has embarked on a course designed to reverse the positive achievements secured at heavy cost in the past 2 years. The war has been extended and intensified; the bombing of the North has been resumed; the negotiations in Paris are endangered. As the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  pointed out, the extension of military operations to Cambodia is not a turning point in the war; lt is a turning back to despair and disaster. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Turner)  adjourned. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What amount of the defence bill was spent within Australia in 1968-69. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Who is the owner of the cargo ship Joseph Banks'. 
Is it classified as an intra-state or interstate trader. 
What ports does the 'Joseph Banks' trade between. 
How many passages has the 'Joseph Banks' made in the past six months. 
How many have been made to Westernport in Victoria. 
ls a jetty being built at Westernport in Victoria for the exclusive use of the 'Joseph Banks'. 
Under what articles is the 'Joseph Banks' commissioned. 
Under what award is the crew employed. 
What is the base wage rate for a crewman employed under a Tasmanian wages Board Award. 
What is the base wage rate for a crewman employed under a Federal Award. (1.1) Have any breaches of the Commonwealth Navigation Act by the 'Joseph Banks' been reported to him. 
asked the Minister for External Affairs, upon notice: 
What amount has Australia contributed to the Mekong River project in each year since its inception. 
What Australian personnel have worked on the project 
What ecological studies for the project have been undertaken by Australia. 
How advanced is the project. 
When is the project expected to be finished. 
asked the Minister for External Affairs, upon notice: 
Which recommendations of the Sunderland Report on Australian Civil Medical Aid to Vietnam have been accepted and adopted. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Who are the members of the Defence Research and Development Policy Committee. 
Do the present functions of the Committee differ from those listed in the 1968 Commonwealth Directory, pages 66-67. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
How many officers have been appointed to the Special Studies Branch of his Department. 
What are the classifications of these officers. 
What are the functions of the Branch. 
What projects are being undertaken by the Branch. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Who arc the members of the Defence (Conditions of Service) Committee. 
What are the functions of the Committee. 
asked  the  Minister representing  the  Minister  for  Air, upon notice: 
When is construction work on extensions to the Learmonth airfield expected to start. 
When is the work expected to be completed. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
What manufacturers have received devaluation compensation payments since the introduction of the devaluation compensation scheme. 
I ask a question of the Minister for Defence. Does he know which South Vietnamese units are operating in Cambodia? Are members of the Australian Army Training Team attached to any of these units? If so, are these Australian soldiers in Cambodia and has their presence there been approved by the Government? If they are not attached to any South Vietnamese units in Cambodia, will the Minister ensure that members of the Training Team are not assigned to South Vietnamese units which may be committed to Cambodia? 
asked the Minister for Repatriation, upon notice: 
How many veterans of (a) the Boer War, (b) World War I, and (c) World War II are still living and what is then- average age. 
Has the Minister for the Army received the Fox report relating to Duntroon? If so, will he have the report tabled and make a statement on it to the House? 
asked the Minister for the Army, upon notice: 
What protective equipment is issued to members of the task force in Vietnam. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
How many officers have been appointed to the Systems Analysis Branch of his Department. 
What are the classifications of these officers. 
What are the functions of the Branch. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Why was no reference made to project Mallard in his statement of 10th March 1970. 
Is the project on schedule. 
How much has the project so far cost (a) Australia, (b) Canada, (c) the United States and (d) the United Kingdom. 
What is the estimated total cost of the project to (a) Australia, (b) Canada, (c) the United States and (d) the United Kingdom. 
How many Australians have been sent to the United States to work on the project, and what are their classifications. 
What is the total workforce engaged on the project. 
How many are from (a) Canada, (b) the United States and (c) the United Kingdom. 
What contracts under the project have been awarded to (a) Australian, (b) Canadian, (c) United States and (d) United Kingdom companies. 
What supporting technical studies are being undertaken by (a) Australia, (b) Canada, (c) the United States and (d) the United Kingdom. 
What is the main emphasis of the Australian contribution to the project. 
When is the joint communications system between the four, participants in the project expected to be in operation. 
My question is directed to the Minister for External Affairs. Has the composition of the Djakarta conference on Cambodia been decided? When will these talks start and how long will they last? Who will be the members of the Australian Delegation? What are the objectives of the Government participation in the conference? Does the Minister agree that this Government's commitment to the Vietnam war will severely restrict the effectiveness of the Australian participation? 
Yesterday in this Parliament Government supporters used the debate on the 2 appropriation Bills to deal largely with Vietnam, and the issues involved there, and the Moratorium being held in Australia today. Last night a particularly vicious speech was made by the Acting Prime Minister  (Mr McEwen)  during which he dealt with Vietnam. He referred back to the 1960s. He, like most honourable members on the Government side, will never learn. The Acting Prime Minister made a number of accusations against honourable members on this side of the House and against decent people outside this place who, because of their beliefs on Vietnam, believe that they ought to have the opportunity to be able to dissent from the Government's policy. Last night the Acting Prime Minister took the opportunity to go back over the events of the 1960s. He has not leaned the lessons that have been learned so obviously by the United States of America. He made no reference during his speech to the need to seek an honourable and satisfactory peaceful solution to this problem; no reference to the cessation of the bombing of North Vietnam which was agreed to by a former  President  of the United States; and no reference to the recognition of the National Liberation Front as a party to any successful negotiations to find a solution to the problem in Vietnam. 
Instead the right honourable gentleman set out to malign honourable members who disagreed with the Government. In his view if honourable members have an opinion which differs from that of the Government on this question then they, in his terms, can be regarded only as fellow travellers. Surely the Acting Prime Minister has not been brought up to date about those people who are participating in what is after all a vote of censure of this Government for its attitude to Vietnam. 
I said that the Acting Prime Minister made no reference last night to the need to bring about a peaceful solution to the problem in Vietnam. He did not devote any part of his speech to the call made by the Foreign Minister of Indonesia,  Mr Malik,  for an international conference - a conference which will deal not only with Vietnam but the crisis which has developed in Cambodia as well, a crisis which has extended this conflict to the whole of Indo China. The Acting Prime Minister was supporting those honourable members opposite who had consistently refused to face up to the realities of the situation in Vietnam. That situation had been accepted by the United States Government and by people who believe that a solution to the problems of Vietnam can never be found by military means. The general tenor of the Acting Prime Minister's speech confirmed that this Government is the most hawkish government in the world on the question of Vietnam, lt opposed the cessation of the bombing of North Vietnam. It said that we would be deserting our allies, that we would be breaking our alliance with the United States of America, if we accepted the National Liberal Front as a party to any negotiations to bring about a peaceful solution to the Vietnam war. 
In the limited time allowed to me in this debate I will not be able to read to the House the statements that have been made by responsible honourable members opposite on this subject. I have in mind the 
Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton),  the Acting Prime Minister, the Minister for External Affairs  (Mr McMahon)  and the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  who have said repeatedly that the 3 conditions laid down by the Australian Labor Party in 1967 for peace in Vietnam would never be acceptable to the Australian Government or the United States Government. We said then that we believed that a responsible Australian Government should be insisting on those conditions to bring about peace. Despite the protests made by the honourable members opposite those conditions have since been accepted by the United States Government. There was a cessation of the bombing of North Vietnam; the National Liberation Front has been recognised as a party to peace negotiations; but still this Government maintains that the war in Vietnam can b? won only by military means, by the continued committal of Australian and other troops to that war. This has consistently been the attitude of the Government. 
The Acting Prime Minister spoke with all the vehemence he can use on such an occasion to blackguard honourable members on this side of the chamber and people outside Parliament who believe they have a right to protest that we ought not to be involved in the war in Vietnam and repeatedly ask these questions: 'How did we become involved in this war? Why are our troops in Vietnam? Why do we not get out of Vietnam?' These questions have been asked by people not only in 1970 but ever since Australian troops were first committed to Vietnam in 1965. While the Acting Prime Minister was speaking in that vehement vein last night the Prime Minister made a statement in Japan about the Cambodian situation. It is a clear and concise statement which has the full support of honourable members on this side of the House. A report of the statement appeared in last night's edition of the Melbourne 'Herald' under the heading: 'Cambodia should be Neutral - Pull All Troops Back - Prime Minister'. The article is written by Vincent Matthews who is with the Prime Minister during his stay in Japan. The article states: 
Tokyo, Today - The Prime Minister,  Mr Gorton,  called today for all - and he repeated all - foreign troops to be withdrawn from Cambodia. He told a  Tokyo Press conference that Australia regarded the regime of General Lon Nol  as  the effective government of Cambodia. But after all foreign troops were removed it would be a mailer for the Cambodian people to decide who ran their country ... lt was at this point that he used the phrase 'It would be in the interests of peace there if the North Vietnamese, the Vietcong, the South Vietnamese - all those in Cambodia - were to withdraw and allow a truly neutral Cambodia.* 
This sums up the attitude of honourable members on this side of the House. It is a clear and concise statement made by the Prime Minister to a Press Conference in Tokyo. When the Prime Minister made a statement on Cambodia last Tuesday night in this House we said that the initiative ought to be taken to withdraw all foreign troops from Cambodia. lt is true that there is no specific reference to American troops in the statement made yesterday by the Prime Minister in Japan, but he used the phrase 'all foreign troops'. Surely one could interpret that statement to include not only South Vietnamese forces and North Vietnamese forces but also the United States forces in those which should be withdrawn from Cambodia. Honourable members on this side of the House and all thinking Australians would agree with the statement that those forces should be withdrawn as an immediate step at least to assist the conference that has been called by Indonesia's Foreign Minister to succeed. No other interpretation can be placed on the Prime Minister's statement. It said clearly and unequivocally that all foreign troops should be withdrawn immediately from Cambodia. The Opposition believes that the Prime Minister's statement should be supported. For that reason I move the following amendment: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: this House supports the Prime Minister's call for the withdrawal of Viet Cong. North Vietnamese and South Vietnamese troops from Cambodia and for the neutrality of that country to be guaranteed through the revived International Control Commission or through the United Nations*. 
The Opposition proposes this amendment because of statements made on the public record in Japan by the Prime Minister, to which I have just referred. Those statements on the presence of foreign troops in Cambodia are in some ways irreconcilable with statements made by the Prime Minister on the same subject in this House last Tuesday night. 
Two sources confirm the substance of the Prime Minister's remarks in Japan. The first is the report which appeared in the late editions of last night's Melbourne 'Herald'. I have already told the House that the report came from a political correspondent,  Mr Vincent  Matthews, who went to Japan with the Prime Minister for the Osaka Exposition.  Mr Matthews  is one of, I think, 7 journalists who were hand picked by the Prime Minister to accompany him on his VIP flight to Tokyo. The report to which 1 have referred came from Tokyo, is datelined Thursday and appears under the heading: 'Cambodia should be neutral - Pull all troops back - Prime Minister'. The report states: 
The Prime Minister,  Mr Gorton,  called today for all - and he repeated all - foreign troops to be withdrawn from Cambodia. He told to Tokyo press conference that Australia regarded the regime of General Lon Nol as the effective government of Cambodia. But after all foreign troops were removed it would be a matter for the Cambodian people to decide who ran their country. 
Two days ago, just before he left for Japan,  Mr Gorton  told Parliament that US attacks in Cambodia would make Australian forces in Vietnam safer. 
The report goes on to quote  Mr Gorton  as saying:   the Australian Government hoped that the proposed Djakarta conference would lead to a truly neutral Cambodia. 
During the course of his statement he had this to say:  lt would be in the' interests of peace there if the North Vietnamese, the Vietcong, the South Vietnamese - all those in Cambodia - were to withdraw and allow a truly neutral Cambodia. 
Later in in the report  Mr Gorton  is reported as saying:   .  . that Japan and Australia were 'very close together' on the Cambodian question. Both wanted Cambodian neutrality guaranteed by impartial and effective international inspection.  Mr Gorton  said this inspection could be through the International Control Commission or the United Nations. 
The substance of this Melbourne 'Herald' report is verified by a report of the Prime Minister's Press conference which  is  available in the Parliamentary Library. It quotes the Prime Minister as saying that his talks with  Mr Sato  had made it apparent that the 2 countries had a mutual desire for a truly neutral Cambodia, free of occupying troops and with its neutrality guaranteed by impartial and effective international inspection. The form of this international inspection did not matter as long as it was effective and impartial. It could be achieved through the revived 3 nation International Control Commission or through the United Nations. The veracity of these reports has been reinforced by further reports in this morning's Press. 
It may be argued that these remarks by the Prime Minister do not depart from Government policy. The Opposition believes that they represent a marked change of emphasis from the Prime Minister's statement earlier this week. The whole tone of the statement on Tuesday night was that the operations into Cambodia were vital to the safety of Australian and United States' troops. The Prime Minister said that the effect of the operation could well be to make all allied forces in South Vietnam more safe. It is difficult to see what impact the operations will have on the Australian Task Force in Phuoc Tuy which has never been endangered by North Vietnamese or Vietcong units based in Cambodia. If these sanctuaries were vital to Australian safety, on the terms of the Government's commitment. Australian troops should be fighting in Cambodia. The Prime Minister made it clear that Australian troops were not participating in the operations, nor would they participate. 
Plainly the Prime Minister regarded the effect of the North Vietnamese presence in Cambodia as marginal to Australian security. There is also a strong inference to be drawn from the Prime Minister's speech that the sanctuary camps in Cambodia are marginal to the success of the South Vietnamese and American war effort. Government speakers in this debate last night made considerable play on the Opposition's failure to condemn the Communist penetration of Cambodia over the past 5 years. The same error of ommission applies to the Government. For at least 5 years Communist forces have moved freely from South Vietnam to border areas of Cambodia. Undoubtedly during this period rest and supply facilities have accumulated in Cambodia along the border. But this access to Cambodia by the Vietcong and the North Vietnamese has never been regarded as a significant factor in the course of the war. The Americans and the South 
Vietnamese have looked on this use of Cambodia as an irritant rather than as a vital strategic determinant. 
Certainly the Cambodian border outflanked the troops in South Vietnam but, more importantly, much of the border of Laos outflanks South Vietnam. This has never provoked a major action by American and South Vietnamese units into Laos from South Vietnam. The allied forces in South Vietnam were always completely confident of their ability to seal off the border and contain any attempts by the Communists to make major strikes from Cambodia into South Vietnam. Under Prince Sihanouk this Communist presence in Cambodia was kept at levels apparently tolerable to all governments taking part in the war in South Vietnam. This Government has had repeated chances to emphasise the dangers of the Communist presence in Cambodia. From my recollection of speeches by successive Ministers for Defence and Ministers for External Affairs this question has never been exploited, lt has always been a minor artery off the main course of the Vietnam war as seen by the Government. This makes it a matter for regret that the Prime Minister sought to exploit this ground in his statement and that his numerous inaccuracies and distortions have been echoed by his followers. More broadly, the Prime Minister on Tuesday night made no reference to a role for the United Nations or the International Control Commission in assuring the neutrality of Cambodia. He referred vaguely to working for a neutral Cambodia and evolving a method of international inspection to assure this. The main substance of the Prime Minister's statement was a fullblooded commitment to the extension of the war effort of the American and South Vietnamese governments to Cambodia. There was a note of reluctance about the Prime Minister's approach. He seemed half hearted and even grudging in his support for the American initiative in the early section of his statement. This followed an unusual delay in making any sort of comment on the extension of the war undertaken by  President  Nixon without reference to Congress or any attempt to secure popular approval. 
Later in his speech the Prime Minister's probing feet felt out the Communist can and before sitting down he gave it a few lusty kicks for the benefit of his supporters. This was the tenor of the remarks of those who spoke for the Government in this debate yesterday. However, there was a distinct note of uneasiness about the Prime Minister's approach to America's intervention in Cambodia. An action which a few months ago would have been hailed as an act of political courage and a military triumph was given an almost frigid reception. This response has been verified by the new assessment of Cambodia given in Tokyo by the Prime Minister. It shows that the Prime Minister has the capacity to make a cool assessment of Vietnam and Cambodia. He now wants all troops withdrawn, including the South Vietnamese and the Americans. He wants the United Nations to intervene and control Cambodian neutrality. Alternatively he wants the International Control Commission to be revived and given teeth so that it can supervise effectively a neutral Cambodia. Most importantly, he emphasised the significance of the Djakarta conference on Cambodia and indicated what the conference could achieve. 
In every way this was the most mauture statement on South East Asia and on external policy that the Prime Minister has ever made, lt reflects a notable advance on his denunciation of the Paris talks to the troops in Vietnam and his innumerable gaffes during his first tour of South East Asia. If the Prime Minister can make a statement of this degree of responsibility in Tokyo, why can he not do it in this Parliament? Why did he not in this Parliament on Tuesday night call for the withdrawal of all troops - North Vietnamese, Vietcong, South Vietnamese and American? Why did he not refer the Djakarta conference and outline what the Government sought to achieve from it? Why did he not refer to an active role by the United Nations or the International Control Commission in assuring Cambodian neutrality? lt is quite remarkable that the Prime Minister can be sane and rational on Cambodia in Japan, and irrational and hysterical on the same subject in this Parliament. One interpretation could be that the long flight to Tokyo gave the Prime Minister a chance for re-assessment and reflection. It could also be that an abrupt removal from the feverish atmosphere of his Party room has facilitated his thought processes. Whatever the stimulus, the Prime Minister has spoken moderately and, I believe, sensibly about Cambodia. He has put forward completely reasonable propositions on the course of war in Cambodia, propositions which deserve the complete support of this House. While the Prime Minister has flown to Tokyo and some measure of enlightenment, his parliamentary colleagues have remained behind plunged in the same eternal night. I thought yesterday's performance by the Government was one of the most objectionable I have ever witnessed in this House. The Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden)  set the tone with a savoury meta.phore intended to describe the effect of the Vietnam Moratorium. The absurdity of the honourable gentleman's interpretation was exceeded only by the noisome vulgarity of the imagery created by him on that occasion. The honourable gentleman once described himself as being on the wave length of his era. He made perfectly clear yesterday the era to which he belongs. 
The Government went on to use this debate as the vehicle for an attack on the Moratorium Campaign. This, of course, is a legitimate tactic and one that could be expected in the Parliament. It was expected by the Opposition. However, it is not a legitimate tactic - nor was it expected by the Opposition - for the Government to issue a bogus speaking list. When I sought, before the suspension for dinner last night, a list of Government speakers for the evening I was supplied with a list which showed that the honourable members for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  and McMillan  (Mr Buchanan)  would lead off for the Government. Instead, the Government speakers were the Acting Prime Minister and the Minister for Defence. It is no disrespect to the honourable members for Mallee and McMillan that the Opposition places greater weight on these other members as spokesmen on Government policy. Certainly if the Acting Prime Minister and the Minister for Defence are to speak on an important subject it is remarkable that the fact should be concealed in this way. If the Government expected to unleash a devastating attack on the Moratorium with these two senior Ministers it must have been sadly disappointed. The Acting Prime Minister was concerned only with equating opposition to the Vietnam war with Communism. It was the most primitive exposition of crude politics that the Minister has ever given in this House. It was despicable in both tone and content. 
If opposition to the Vietnam war is to be linked with Communism and lack of patriotism in this way, there are some remarkable Communists in both Australia and America. According to the Minister's interpretation, the whole legislature of the State of Massachusetts is Communist because it has adopted a resolution condemning the war on the ground of constitutional invalidity; the republican  Senator Charles  Goodell, who moved a motion in Congress putting a time limit on the American commitment, is a Communist;  Senator Fulbright  is a Communist;  Senator Mansfield  is a Communist;  Senator McGovern  is a Communist; the whole United States Congress is a nest of overt Communism. In Australia, according to the Minister's interpretation, the proprietor and senior executives of the 'Australian' and 'Daily Mirror' newspapers, which support the Moratorium's aims, are Communists. These are gentlemen who over the years have been extremely close to the Acting Prime Minister and have done him many favours. Yet all these responsible people, none of them connected in any way with the Australian Labor Party, are Communists, according to the Acting Prime Minister's doctrine of parallel warfare. This is the sort of level to which the Acting Prime Minister debased the debate on the Vietnam Moratorium. 
The Opposition has moved this further amendment to draw attention to the contrast between the Prime Minister's measured and responsible statements on Cambodia and the frenzied irrational statements of his supporters in this Parliament. The war in Cambodia is looking more and more ominous as each day passes. There are reports in this morning's Press that an assault will be made by South Vietnamese and United States riverine units up the Mekong River as far as Phnom Penh. The operations in the socalled Fish Hook salient do not seem as yet to have flushed out the so-called Red Pentagon. It is reported that South Vietnamese units will be withdrawn from the other salient, the Parrot's Beak. It is probable that they will be recommitted to other operations in Cambodia. The whole trend of this war is towards extension deeper into Cambodia, and there is little prospect that that country will be spared the ravages already inflicted on Laos and Vietnam. In this context the Prime Minister has spoken with urgency and humanity on the need to limit the war and secure Cambodian neutrality. Whatever the Prime Minister's motivations, he has taken a notable initiative and he should be supported by this House. 
It is for this reason that the Opposition has taken the opportunity to move the amendment to which I have referred, an amendment which spells out quite clearly that honourable members on this side of the House support the proposition which has been put forcibly by the Prime Minister in Tokyo. It might be said by critics that the Prime Minister's statement differed a great deal from the statement which he made in this House only a few nights ago on the question of the invasion of Cambodia by the United States and South Vietnamese forces, but it would appear that the Prime Minister has had the opportunity to think very carefully about this question. He took the opportunity in Tokyo to talk to those who represent the Press not only of this country but also, one would believe, of most countries who naturally would be interested in the Australian attitude to the invasion of Cambodia. If the Prime Minister was correctly reported - and he has not denied, no Government supporter has denied, that he made this statement during his Press conference in Tokyo - he said as a clear statement of fact that he believed that all foreign troops should be withdrawn from Vietnam and that the processes of the International Control Commission should be used to ensure the neutrality of Cambodia in the future. This is the attitude that honourable members on this side of the House have expressed in relation to the situation in Vietnam. 
We have never believed that the war in Vietnam could be brought to a successful conclusion in the interests of all parties who are engaged in hostilities in that country other than by the representatives meeting around the conference table. If the Prime Minister is prepared to take the same attitude and the same sensible approach to the situation in Vietnam as he has taken to the Cambodian question this will show that the Government believes at least that the United States of America should be making a greater effort, if necessary, to bring about the kind of conference that the Prime Minister envisages to effect a solution to the problem in Vietnam. I believe, as I have said during the course of my remarks in this debate, that the Prime Minister's statement was realistic. It was made probably after a great deal of consideration had been given to the view which no doubt had been conveyed to him by his advisers on these matters. If it was a courageous statement it deserves to be supported not only by honourable members on this side of the House but also by all members of this Parliament. For this reason the Opposition has taken the opportunity to move an amendment which expresses our support for the Prime Minister's belief. The amendment has been moved in sincerity. We believe it is the correct approach and we expect the amendment to be carried unanimously. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Is the amendment seconded? 
I have made that clear in my speech. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2 p.m. 
asked the Minister for External Affairs, upon notice: 
Is he able to say how many refugees there are in Laos. 
What assistance has Australia given to these refugees. 
The Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has made to the House a highly complex statement with many ramifications. I appreciate the fact that the Minister was good enough to make the statement available to me approximately 5 hours before he delivered it. I appreciate the consideration of the Minister in this respect. I also would like to express my appreciation to the Leader of the House, the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden),  for moving the motion which enables me to speak without limitation of time. Even with the leeway which the Minister for Defence gave me it has not been possible for me to assess fully the significance of all aspects of his statement. Therefore the comments I make are somewhat general in nature and I hope they will be a prelude to a fuller debate at a later stage. 
The whole statement represents a devastating indictment of the course of the F111 aircraft deal over the past 7 years. The Minister did not waste any pity on his predecessors who negotiated the original arrangements. Nor did he spare the military experts who advised them.  His  remarks about the original arrangements are as damning a criticism in their own way as the denunciation of the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  last week by the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn).  The Minister said that those arrangements gave the United States of America overriding authority to modify or down-grade the aircraft specifications if this became necessary or unavoidable. Australia was given no say about this. It had to accept what the Minister aptly called degradation of this nature. However, when it came to sharing the consequences of such degradation the Australian Government was given, the liability of a full partner. 
In 1963 a total programme of some l,500 aircraft was envisaged. Australia was to get 24 aircraft - about 1 in 60. However, it was not given even a l/60th share of the control of the project. It was given a zero share. With regard to the sharing of liabilities the allocation was rather different. The split was straight down the middle - 30/30. If anything went wrong Australia lost everything. This was the agreement which the Minister outlined as flowing from the original Memorandum of Understanding and the Technical Arrangement. Two strangers who met casually on a street corner would not strike up a partnership to run a pie stall on such a basis. 
The Minister said that when these documents were first signed the Royal Australian Air Force felt that there was a negligible risk in saying that planes suitable for the United States Air Force would be suitable for Australia. What was a negligible risk in 1963 has become almost an accomplished fact in 1970. The 100 to 1 shot 7 years ago is now an odds on proposition. This is a dramatic change which has accompanied the progress of the Fill from the drawing board, through the combat zone to the testing laboratories where it is now and where it looks like staying for at least 18 months. The Minister has admitted that it has taken 7 years for his Government to secure even basic safeguards for Australia. I refer to clause 2 of the Agreed Minute which states that the 'special Australian position in relation to defence within the South East Asian region calls for a strike aircraft'. It is pathetic, after many years of ANZUS partnership and 5 years of Government commitment to Vietnam, that such an acknowledgment has to be written into an agreement between Australia and the United States. From 1963 to 1970 there was no recognition by the United States Government that Australia could insist on its specifications being met. The only right that this Government had before was the right of accepting whatever the contractor turned out. If the project failed through no fault of the Australian Government then Australia lost everything. 
The Minister at least, and at last, has confirmed what his predecessors have always denied and that is that the Fill agreement was entered into willy-nilly by the Government without forethought and without any attempt to project the implications of the programme over a period of years. The Minister seems to have put the last 7 years into perspective and at last to emphasise his own achievement in securing a partial re-negotiation. There may be some personal consolation in this for the Minister but there can be none for a government which consistently has reaffirmed the initial agreement. And no-one has been more adamant in the House on the question of the Fill and its capability and in denying that there was an agreement in existence which would prevent the Australian Government and the Australian people from being able to reach a satisfactory solution to the problem than was the Minister for Defence when he was Minister for the Army. One need only refer to the Hansard record to accept the proposition that the Minister for Defence, together with his colleagues, the then Ministers for Defence, Navy and Air, who were all honourable members of this House at that time, accepted the Fill as being the best aircraft available in the world and that it would be soon flying in Australia. We heard that from 1963 onwards. 
Now, in 1970, we are told by this new Minister for Defence, who has taken the opportunity, of course, to tip the bucket over the previous Minister for Defence and his predecessor, that we may be able to get the aircraft in 18 months time; but he is not certain. So we have a number of options.  Mr Speaker,  1 think there is something to be said for the statement made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  back in October 1969. He said that it sounded very much like the proposition: Take the money or the box. But having listened to the Minister for Defence tonight one could hardly blame those who happen to be sitting in the gallery if they delayed in getting any advice about taking either the money or the box. The Minister has confirmed tonight that the FI 1 1 aircraft is still in doubt. We may get it; we may not. lt may be in Australia by 1973. He is not able to say. Yet the Minister for Defence, if one could accept the statements that he made after he returned from the United States of America, had been able to secure a deal which would be satisfactory not only to the Government and to this Parliament but also to the people of Australia 
The Minister seems to have put the last 7 years into perspective. The value of the new agreement contained in the minute tabled by the Minister cannot be assessed at this stage. The whole deal is at a completely hypothetical stage as the Minister acknowledges in his resort to outlining a series of alternatives. One of these may come off; none of them may come off. A completely new set of circumstances may arise to determine the Fill deal. But even on the hypothesis put by the Minister, there is no chance that the Government can emerge with honour from this whole wretched business. The first alternative put by the Minister gives Australia the option of cancelling the contract within 3 months of the date of signing the minute - that is, 14th April. In this event the United States would buy back Australia's Fills and give Australia an equitable reimbursement. This buy-back arrangement also applies to other alternatives not contingent on cancellation within 3 months. For this reason it is of vital significance to the whole set of contingency alternatives that the Minister has outlined. 
The first thing to be noted about this buy-back offer is that it is heavily provisional. The first proviso is that the Fill be still part of the active United States Air Force inventory. This may be a fair gamble. It seems that the United States Air Force still wants its FI 11 As and that it is willing to accept lower standards than the Royal Australian Air Force. But it is by no means certain. The American Air Force attitude could change completely with advancing technology. The second proviso is even more uncertain - the approval of Congress. There is a long tradition of congressional paring of the United States defence vote. This was illustrated most recently in its consideration of the 1970 Budget. It is unlikely that Congress would look sympathetically at what it would regard as a substantial handout to Australia. Certainly this would depend on the political climate when the measure was put to Congress. Again one would have to consider all of the evidence that had been gathered on this question by the committee headed by  Senator Mcclellan  in the United States of America. All honourable members in this House can recall the statements that have been issued from time to time by the Senate Committee in the United States. It has been highly critical of the United States expenditure in this field and of the performance of the aircraft itself. Yet we are told by the Minister that this will depend on a decision of the Congress. 
Such an absorption by the United States of $US130m to $US150m would get pretty short shrift in a period of economic constraint. No American industries or jobs would be involved in rejecting such an arrangement; it could be done by Congress as a painless economy. Further, even if such a buy-back arrangement was completed, there is no guarantee of the amount involved. All that is stipulated is an equitable reimbursement. At the moment this is estimated to be from $US130m to $US150m. There is nothing to stop  Mr Laird  or his successors from reassessing this equitable reimbursement. In a project where already there has been considerable downgrading, there is nothing to stop the 
United States Government from scaling down this credit to $US100m or $US60m or $US30m. Even if the buy-back is passed and paid on the most favourable terms, the loss to Australia will still be considerable. On the figures given by the Minister the minimum loss to Australia would be S US 102m. This could be obtained only if the full reimbursement was paid and all Fill obligations ceased immediately. Unless these conditions are met - and this is very unlikely - the amount Australia would have to write off would be considerably more. It would not be unfair to put the total write-off for Australia at around SUS 15Om. A loss of this magnitude would flow from any of the alternatives put by the Minister tonight. The Government's only hope, and this is a slender one, is that the Fill will be Cleared completely of its flaws and be cleared for flying within 2 years. 
I intend to look in detail at only one of the alternatives put by the Minister, and that is the cancellation now of the Fill and its replacement by the Phantom F4E. The Minister put the cost of such a replacement at $US414m. In addition, the cancellation would add at least another $US100m. Unfortunately, the Minister did not give a breakdown of the cost of the Phantom programme he outlined, ft was based on replacing the 24 Fills with 40 Phantoms, 8 reconnaissance Phantoms and 8 tankers. I do not intend to get involved in any wrangle over the relative merits of the Fill and the Phantom. This is not the occasion to do that, but the Minister should have explained in greater detail the logic of such a replacement. No Government spokesman has ever explained why we arc getting 24 Fills and why this number and not 16 or 32 or 40 is considered to be a viable force. Would 24 Phantoms be any less a viable force than 24 Fills? Alternatively, would not an Air Force which needed 40 F4Es need 40 Fills as well? Even if the Fill comes through triumphantly, it has never been proved logically that we need only 24 of them. There is a volume of informed opinion in this country that insists we will need more. In addition, the Fill will need a reconnaissance capability just as much as the Phantom. The cost of providing this will be comparable to the purchase of 8 reconnaisance Phantoms. There is no reconnaissance capability of the 24 Fills on order. 
Also it is too early for the Minister to state firmly that the F111 will not require tanker support. There is a strong probability that it will need such support. The F111 may substantially exceed the Phantom in range but it also requires many times the volume of fuel. Until much more is known about the performance of the F111, it cannot be said with any certainty that the F111 will not need tanker support. There is every chance that it will. Bearing in mind that more F111s might be needed, that reconnaissance planes would certainly be needed and that tankers would probably be needed, it is difficult to put a figure at less than $500m on a successfully completed F111 programme. At this level the cost is comparable to that of the Phantom purchase put by the Minister, even allowing for the cost of cancellation of the F111. 1 would like to refer briefly to the Minister's concept of the role envisaged for whatever strike bomber the Royal Australian Air Force gets. This has a prime requirement of being a strategic deterrent, a long range bomber whose mere presence in Australia would ward off aggressors. The Opposition regards this sort of thinking as of doubtful validity. It is unlikely that any country capable of invading Australia would be deterred by the presence of F111s. The deterrent value of strategic bombing has been exposed by the Vietnam war as a myth. The heaviest concentration of bombs in history failed to diminish in any way the capacity of North Vietnam to sustain the war. If hundreds of B52s, Phantoms and other aircraft have failed in Vietnam it seems completely illusory to expect a powerful deterrent capability from 24 F111s with conventional armaments and bomb loads. This emphasis on a strategic bomber as a deterrent has distorted the whole pattern of the Government's concept of a strike bomber. It has made it focus on this one aspect, to the exclusion of all others. The Opposition has consistently maintained that a more versatile plane with effective performance of a variety of roles is much more relevant to Australia's needs. 
In summary, the Minister's visit to the United States has opened up a Pandora's box of possibilities. A full assessment of the value of what he has achieved must await the further statement on the interim force foreshadowed in the present state ment. On the face of it, what the Minister seems to have done has been to move the F111 project out of the woods and into the quicksands. We will still have to await the evaluation carried out by the latest team - and one would hope the final team - to visit the United States of America on the possibility of replacing the F111 with the Phantom as an interim aircraft for this country. So whichever way one looks at the statement, and construes and examines the statement made by the Minister for Defence tonight, it is a complete apology for a Government which set out in 1963 to purchase the F111 without any consideration for the country, without any consideration in terms of protection to be gained in return for the cost of the F111, and without having been able to accept as positive proof that the F111 aircraft which this country will finally receive, if it does receive it - the Minister expressed his doubt tonight - would be able to reach the performance in terms of range, bomb carrying capacity and all the other conditions set down by the United States of America in 1963 when the plane was on the drawing board. 
The whole story of the F111 reads like a saga from Grimm's fairy tales. The statement made by the Minister for Defence tonight can be accepted by honourable members on this side of the House only as a complete apology for the mistakes made by the Government and the Minister for Defence of 1963 and which have been accepted by those who succeeded the then Minister for Defence in his responsibility. The Opposition said more than 3 years ago that the circumstances outlined by the Minister tonight should have been investigated. But on what we have been told tonight, whatever happens, even if we do not get the F111, this country may lose as much as $150m. On this basis the Government deserves to be severely censured. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr  Giles) adjourned. 
asked the Minister for the Army, upon notice: 
What improvements have been made in the clothing issued to members of the task force in Vietnam since the initial commitment in 1965. 
asked the Minister for the 
Army, upon notice: 
How many national servicemen have transferred to the Citizen Military Forces. 
How many national servicemen have become CMF officers. 
The Opposition cannot accept this motion which in effect applies the guillotine and restricts the Committee debate, as the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden)  has pointed out, to approximately 6 hours 20 minutes. The Minister gives as his reasons for applying the guillotine that this is an urgent measure. He has declared it to be an urgent measure. The Minister must clearly understand that if there has been any delay in connection with this Bill it has not been the responsibility of the Opposition. We have co-operated in every way. I suggest to the Minister that he examine the report of the second reading debate. If he does so' he will find that there were just as many speakers from the Government side as there were from the Opposition side. So whatever reason the Minister has for applying the guillotine, if there is a reason, it cannot be said to be the responsibility of the Opposition. We agree with the Minister on the importance of the Bill. But this is an additional reason why honourable members on this side of the House ought to have a full opportunity to discuss the amendments that the Government will be moving to the Bill. Thirty amendments have been proposed by the Opposition. All of them must be regarded as being of very great importance, particularly to honourable members on this side of the House and to people outside the House who are interested in this measure. 
The honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  who is the shadow Minister for Health, has indicated to the Minister that Opposition members would not want to take more than the minimum time required to explain the amendments that will be put to the Parliament by the Opposition. I repeat that if there has been any delay the Government is to blame. The honourable member for Oxley was quite correct when he pointed out that at one stage this morning it was thought that the Bill would not be brought back, that we would not be dealing with the Committee stage this afternoon. The reason for this, of course, is well known, not only to honourable members on this side of the House but also honourable members on the Government side. For weeks now Government members have been dissatisfied with the form in which this legislation was presented to the Parliament by the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes).  There is extreme dissatisfaction on the part of honourable members on the Government side. They cannot agree with the legislation. It is quite clear that the Bill would not have reached the Committee stage this afternoon if the Government at its Party meeting this morning had not been able to reach agreement on the Bill. Apparently the Minister for Health - one would think with the assistance of others who perhaps have more responsibility in his Party - was able to prevail on the honourable members on the Government side to allow the Bill to reach the Committee stage this afternoon. 
Having said that, I point out that the National Health Bill is regarded by honourable members on both sides of the House, one assumes, to be of extreme importance not only to members of Parliament but also to people outside who have some interest in these matters. We believe that it is quite reasonable for Opposition members to argue - this applies particularly to those who will be proposing the amendments which have been distributed to honourable members - that they should have the maximum time to discuss the amendments and that all of them ought to be presented for a full and frank discussion by honourable members. But the Minister for Labour and National Service, despite the fact that he has had ample opportunity to bring the Bill forward, has delayed in doing so. The procrastination has been on the part of the Government, not the Opposition. The Government has denied honourable members on this side of the House an opportunity to consider the Bill fully. Now they will deny honourable members an opportunity to consider fully the important amendments that have been proposed by the Health Committee from this side of the House. Therefore for these reasons we oppose the motion moved by the Leader of the House, the Minister for Labour and National Service. We believe that honourable members ought to be given every opportunity to debate this Bill at the Committee stage. 
Has the Prime Minister seen the statement by the United States Secretary of Defence,  Mr Laird,  that America's combat role in Vietnam will be ended in June next year? Does this mean that all Australian troops will be out of Vietnam by the same date? 
I rise to support the motion that has been moved by the honourable member for Henty  (Mr Fox)  and supported by the honourable members for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  and Mallee  (Mr Turnbull).  I think on a motion as wide ranging as this is in relation to the protection of our natural fauna, all honourable members in this House will support the motion that has been moved by the honourable member for Henty. I think one should say that in this House he has taken  a  leading part in moving for the protection of the fauna of this country, particularly the kangaroo. In this respect credit should be given him not only by honourable members in this House but also by those persons outside the Parliament who have a very great interest in this matter. I also want to point out that it is not merely a question of what has been done by the honourable member for Henty. For example, members in another place have taken a very great interest in this subject. As a result of the agitation of honourable members in this House, honourable senators in another place and of people outside the Parliament, a move has now been made to set up a select committee which will provide, we hope, a measure of protection in the future. Future generations will not thank us when they remember that some of the most valuable fauna of this country are now extinct because we were not prepared to accept the responsibility for providing the kind of protection that is necessary to preserve what are, after all, our natural assets. 
I support this motion. 1 believe it is an extremely important one and it is the first occasion on which a select committee has been proposed. I have no doubt that it will receive the unanimous support of this Parliament. 1 have said on other occasions that I believe there should have been some kind of protection instituted in this country a long time ago. I read some figures recently - whether they can be substantiated I am not in a position to say with absolute certainty - which show that over the last 40 years 40 million kangaroos have been exterminated in this country. I think I can say without it being disputed that we are now exporting between 800,000 and 1- million kangaroo skins each year to the United States of America without any treatment at all. So having these factors in mind I believe that the honourable member for Henty and others who have taken a very keen interest in this matter should be commended for having brought this motion before the Parliament. In conclusion, I merely want to say that I regret that there is still in this country a desire by some people to organise mass shootings of kangaroos. This, somehow or other, is regarded as sport, but I oppose it. The Opposition supports the motion. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Minister for the Army, upon notice: 
How many officers of the Citizen Military Forces have gone to Vietnam on study trips. 
How many have (a) been killed, (b) been wounded and (c) contracted diseases while in Vietnam. 
Are these officers entitled to benefits under the Repatriation Act. 
The Minister for Defence will recall a question asked of the Prime Minister earlier this week by the honourable member for Stirling about naval exercises in the Indian Ocean. I ask the Minister: Did his predecessor announce last year that extensive naval exercises would be held this year in the Indian Ocean? If so, when will these exercises be held and what are their scope and objectives? 
I move: 
That the ruling be dissented from. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Labour and National Service, ls the Government considering a form of civilian employment as an alternative to compulsory military service? If this is so, when will it be introduced? Have a number of conscientious objection cases been deferred because of the consideration of such a scheme? 
asked the Minister for the Army the following question, upon notice: 
What allowance is paid to troops going to Vietnam for the purchase of tropical civilian clothing. 
When was the allowance last increased. 
I ask the Minister for Defence: What regulations apply to correspondents covering the Australian task force in Vietnam? Were these regulations revised and relaxed after complaints from journalists about excessive restriction of their activities in the field in Vietnam? 
1 direct a question to the Minister for Defence. I ask: Have American engineers finished surveys and investigations into a proposal to establish an Omega navigation facility in Australia to cover the southern Tasman Sea? If so, has a definite proposal been put to the Government for the establishment of such a site? What areas were surveyed by the Americans as potential sites for the facility? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. He will remember that during the Grievance debate yesterday the honourable member for Franklin requested him to make an immediate statement on the proposed apple and pear stabilisation scheme for Tasmania. In view of the long delay, is the Minister now prepared to give an undertaking that the honourable member's request will be expedited? 
asked the Minister for 
Defence, upon notice: 
What regular flights are made into Australia by United States Military aircraft: 
What routes do these aircraft follow. 
What aircraft are used. 
At which ports do they call. 
asked the Minister for the Army, upon notice: 
What allowances are payable to members of the Regular Army. 
In what circumstances is each allowance payable. 
What was the amount of each allowance in (a) 1945, (b) 1951, (c) 1961 and (d) 1970. 
I refer the Minister for External Affairs to the nuclear tests being held in French Polynesia and ask: Have French ships and aircraft carrying supplies for the- tests used Australian ports or facilities? If so, will the Minister ensure that this practice ceases immediately? Further, has .the National Radiation Advisory Committee reported to the Government on fallout from the tests held in May? If so, will the Minister table the Committee's report in this House? 
The Leader of the House, the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden),  has offered one or two suggestions about how the present parliamentary situation could be improved. ] am referring now to the point of view that has been expressed by a number of members in this chamber concerning the need for a more active participation by members in the affairs of the Parliament. There was nothing in the speech made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  that would suggest that there is any move on the part of the Opposition here or anywhere else to take the business of the Parliament out of the hands of the Executive. 
I appreciate that the Leader of the House approached this subject in a way which clearly indicated that he wanted to be constructive, and I think he was. I think that the only difference in opinion that would exist between what the Leader of the House had to say on this occasion and the point of view that has been expressed by honourable members on this side of the House, particularly by the Leader of the Opposition today, is that in proposing for discussion this matter of public importance on behalf of the Opposition the Leader of the Opposition said that we favoured joint committees. This appears to be the difference of opinion that exists between the point of view expressed by the Leader of the House and that put by the Leader of the Opposition. 
The discussion of this matter of public importance is designed to pave the way for substantial innovations in the functioning of this Parliament. In essence, it is intended to soften the rigidity of the present system by the creation of a number of standing committees in the form of joint committees drawn from both Houses of this Parliament. It is undoubtedly true that the Australian parliamentary system has lagged far behind the social and .economic evolution of this country. Our parliamentary institutions are still geared to the atmosphere of the early years of federation. The growth of the economy and the Public Service, the multiplication of interest groups, the new pattern of industrial, agricultural and social relations have been attended by a petrified parliamentary structure. 
The political parties and individual members, with some notable exceptions, have neglected the need for making the Parliament more flexible and evolving contemporary institutions. The events of this parliamentary session have jolted all members of this Parliament into a realisation that more is required and that individual members must be given a much greater part in the legislative and policy-making processes. With this new awareness of the need for revitalising the parliamentary process, it seems that we are destined to travel a long way in a very short time. The lead has been taken in the Senate where my colleague, the Leader of the Opposition in that place  (Senator Murphy),  has moved for the appointment of a series of standing committees. This will augment in very substantial form the important role of Senate select committees in recent years. 
It is a matter for regret that this House has not set up more select committees in recent years. The only select committee in existence at the moment is the Select Committee on Aircraft Noise. The only other select committee of this House that I can recall in recent years was the one that inquired into names for electorates. The honourable member for Henty  (Mr Fox)  has moved successfully for the appointment of a committee on conservation of animal life. This adds up to a rather depressing and uninspiring record on the use of the committee system by this House; and we all must share the blame for it. 
The Standing Orders Committee of this House has considered the question of committees. It has had before it an excellent report from the  Clerk  of the House. I hope that this report will be tabled in this House in the same way as the report of the  Clerk  of the Senate,  Mr Odgers,  was tabled in that House. The report by  Mr Odgers  formed the basis for the motion moved by the Opposition in the Senate for the setting up of a system of standing committees. Because the Standing Orders Committee of this House has not finalised its discussion on the subject of committees and because the report of our  Clerk, Mr Turner,  has not been tabled here, I will not canvass these matters in this debate, except to say that, as that report has been made available now to all honourable members in this House, it can be said that the report is well documented evidence relating to the appointment of standing committees and I think that the  Clerk  of the House and  Mr Speaker  arc to be congratulated on their initiative in this respect. 
That report is still a matter for consideration by the Standing Orders Committee. A number of varying attitudes to committees were reflected in the discussion in the Standing Orders Committee. I am sure that these attitudes are reflected in this House. They have been reflected already this afternoon. Some members want standing committees of the House of Representatives. Some want more select committees of this House. Some want joint committees with the Senate. Some want the committee role to bc left to the Senate. Others do not want any committees at all. Unfortunately, this is the view of some senior members of the Government. 
A huge volume of material is available on the functioning of committees in the United Kingdom, the United States of America, New Zealand and Canada. Much of this is relevant to the Australian Parliament. A lot of it is relevant to other systems of government only. It is ironical to note that Canada adopted a system of standing committees to cut down the sitting times of its Parliament. The purpose of setting up a committee system in this Parliament is to increase parliamentary activity and the participation in government of members of the Parliament. For such reasons, it is wise to absorb the lessons df the committee experience in other countries. But that experience cannot be translated directly into the Australian parliamentary experience. What we must try to create is a committee system responsible for the particular needs of the Australian Parliament. 
One suggestion has been .the setting up of a standing committee system in both Houses. This would mean a parallel organisation of 7 or 8 standing committees in each House covering the broad areas of the Executive and the bureaucracy. Such a system would have many virtues. I feel, however, that it would be much too elaborate for the requirements of this Parliament. Separate committee systems for each House may be appropriate to a country such as the United States where each House has substantially different functions. It is diffi cult to see how a parallel system could be justified in the Australian Parliament. Inevitably, there would be duplication of effort and bickering and rivalries between the two committee systems about the functions and prerogatives of each. This could bring a power struggle between the 2 systems and the 2 Houses for the lion's share of the committee work and the limelight associated with a committee system. I think honourable members will agree that this is not the climate for effective conduct of a bicameral system of government. 
The other argument against a parallel committee system would be its cost. Any system of standing committees would cost a lot of extra money. Extra research stait, Hansard staff and Parliamentary attendants would be needed. There would also be the added burden of travelling and accommodation costs for members of committees. Such a substantial extra cost on the annual running of the Parliament would be justified for one set of standing committees. If this cost were multiplied by 2, 1 do not believe it would be justified. One alternative would be confining the standing committee system to one House. This would not be fair to the aspirations of all honourable members of this Parliament to participate in a committee system. It would also raise questions of inter-House prestige and rivalries which I referred to earlier. The best solution to the problem of setting- up a standing committee system would be the creation of joint committees. This would assure a balanced representation from the 2 Houses, lt would keep the cost of a committee system within acceptable limits. It would fulfil the objectives which all members of the Parliament expect from a committee system. 
There is ample precedent for the operation of joint committees in the Australian parliamentary system. The war-time Joint Committee on Social Security is a notable example. The work of this Committee pointed the way for advances in social welfare policy. I. want to add at this stage that I do not believe that this Committee in any way at all usurped the functions of the Executive of the Parliament at that time. If I may interpret what the Leader of the House had to say en the question of joint committees and standing committees, he felt thai this would be one of the problems with committees of this type. Another notable joint committee was the Constitutional Review Committee of the late 1950s. It is true that the report has had little impact on subsequent constitutional reform, but this is no reflection on the Committee or the seminal document it produced, lt served also to give invaluable experience in the whole basis of Australian government to a generation of parliamentarians, including the present Leader o! the Opposition. The Joint Committee on Public Accounts and the Joint Committee on Public Works are institutions of many years standing whose value is beyond question. The success o: joint committees is well prawn. They represent the most appropriate and most practical vehicle for the introduction of a system of parliamentary committees in this country. 
asked the Minister for the Army, upon notice: 
What amount, was paid to (a) officers and (b) other ranks of the Citizen Military Forces in 1968-69. 
What is the present total enlistment in the Citizen Military Forces. 
How many (a) officers and (b) other ranks are in these forces. 
How many members of the Citizen Military Forces have been' discharged for failure to render efficient service in each year since 1961. 
asked the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
What films have been banned for blasphemy since 1961. 
What films have been cut for blasphemy since 1961, and how much was deleted from each film. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Defence and refers to the impending withdrawal of the 8th Battalion from Vietnam. Has it been decided which support troops will be withdrawn with the Battalion? Will the withdrawal of support troops mean any increase in the strength of the remaining battalions? What is the strength of the new train ng team and from where will its members be drawn? Finally, where will the 8th Battalion be stationed when it is returned to Australia? 
The Opposition opposes the motion moved by the Leader of the House, the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden),  to suspend the  11  o'clock rule. Our reason for doing so is that we believe that the Government has not considered the way in which the Opposition looks at the problem of the amount of business still on the notice paper. It is quite clear that the Minister is seeking  la  bring about the adjournment of this House by the end of next week. The attitude of members of the Opposition is that if there is legislation requiring debate in this Parliament then the sittings should be extended. There is no legitimate reason why the Government should set a target for adjourning the House at the end of next week. 
That might be all right for the honourable member for Deakin, who is interjecting. He never makes any contribution to the debates. It does not make any difference whether he is here or at home but there are other honourable members who want to make a contribution. It amazed me to hear the easy way in which the Minister dismissed the business that we have before us. The fact is that the blue sheet, the daily programme for today, shows that there are  13  Bills to be debated. It is true, as the Minister said, that we may not be expressing opposition to some of those Bills, but that does not mean necessarily that there are not honourable members on this side of the House who do not want to express a point of view irrespective of whether or not we support them. 
As an example I refer to the Handicapped Children (Assistance) Bill. There are IS speakers listed for the debate on that measure alone. If every honourable member takes the time available under the Standing Orders to debate this Bill then those IS members, speaking for  30  minutes each, would require  7  hours. That is for that measure alone. Yet we are told by the Minister that that Bill and  12  others have to be dealt with today and in the early hours of the morning. The point made by honourable members on this side of the House whenever this motion has been before the Parliament is that it represents legislation by exhaustion. Quite obviously the Government wants some very important measures dealt with in the early hours of the morning. Frankly, I would not expect that the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson),  for example, would appreciate having to deal with the  7  dairy industry Bills in the early hours of the morning. That is what will happen if this motion is carried. One could expect the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  to want to speak about the dairy industry. Surely one would expect even the honourable member for Mallee, who expresses interest in matters relating to the Australian Country Party, such as dairy industry Bills, to oppose this motion in order to give members of the Country Party and members on this side of the House who are interested in these measures the opportunity to speak about them not in the early hours of the morning but when the proceedings of this Parliament are being broadcast to the nation. 
I already have indicated that there are 15 honourable members who want to speak in the debate on the Handicapped Children (Assistance) Bill. There are still 36 Bills on the notice paper. If my understanding of the information conveyed to me is correct, the Minister will have introduced into this House a further 12 Bills. This will make a total of 48 Bills on the notice paper. The Government wants the Opposition to consider those 48 Bills some time before the end of next week. This Parliament ought not to sit in the early hours of the morning. We already have had a long discussion of this problem. As a result of the attitude expressed on that occasion by the Opposition the Government acceeded to our request and decided to provide for the automatic adjournment of the House at 1 1 p.m. That ought to continue to apply. Honourable members on this side of the House do not want to be discussing important legislation in the early hours of the morning. The answer from the Government's point of view is quite simple: It has 48 Bills to deal with between now and the end of next week. We on this side say that if they are to be dealt with in the way they should be dealt with by honourable members in this Parliament, the only solution is to extend the sittings of the House. There is no reason why the sittings should not be extended. 
I have given a number of reasons why the Opposition opposes the motion by the Minister. He has suggested that the 1 1 o'clock rule should be suspended for this week. No doubt we will be faced with a similar motion some time next week if the Government adheres to its schedule to adjourn the House at the end of next week. In these circumstances, having regard to the amount of business before us, the right of honourable members to debate legislation properly - not in the early hours of the morning but when the proceedings of this House are being broadcast to the nation - without the strain and stress of considering Bills in the early hours of the morning, the motion ought to be opposed. I put that point of view on behalf of the Opposition. 
Motion (by  Mr Snedden)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
asked the Minister for the Army, upon notice: 
What methods are used to give infusions of blood, plasma and glucose to casualties in the field or on stretchers while being transported. 
I ask a question of the Minister for Labour and National Service. Has the statement on national service been delayed? ls it true that his proposed scheme for an alternative to military service is to be scrapped? Further, is the Government reluctant to enter into a full scale debate in this House on the National Service Aci? 
This motion is intended to open up for debate the present status and future prospects of the Australian aircraft industry. The 
Minister for Supply  (Senator Anderson)  made a comprehensive statement in the Senate on 9th April 1970 on the aircraft industry. In his defence review the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  touched on aspects of the industry's future. But the last debate of any consequence on the aircraft industry was in this House early last year during an Opposition urgency motion on defence procurement. During that debate the former Minister for Defence cast grave doubts on the chances of setting up a viable aircraft industry in this country. That argument has been reinforced by the present Minister for Defence. In answer to a question asked by the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  on 20th May 1970 the Minister pointed out the high cost of developing sophisticated aircraft. As examples he used the F14 and F15 now being developed in the United States of America, pointing out that the developmental costs of one of these aircraft and the contract relating to it are of the order of $US40Om a year. It is labouring the point to say that a developmental programme of this nature is beyond Australia's resources. Of course, it would not be possible to build in  i  Australia weapons systems such as the Fill or massive transport aircraft such as the Galaxy. If aircraft of this kind are essential to Australia's defences - and I remain to be convinced that they are - they will have to be procured overseas. 
It is clouding the issue to put up development programmes such as the FI 5 having regard to Australia's modest capability and requirements. There are many less sophisticated aircraft relevant to our needs which could be and should be designed and built in Australia. It has been argued that Australia cannot afford to develop and build its own aircraft; that it should buy all its aircraft off the shelf overseas. Even if this were feasible it would still be necessary to maintain and service those aircraft within Australia. This would mean the building up of inventories of spare parts and the maintenance of quite a substantial skilled work force. We give our aircraft a long life span gauged on world experience - about IS years seems to be a fair average. If aircraft are to be maintained and serviced in Australia for this length of time the initial development and production should be done in Australia. It would be self defeating to buy abroad for some cost advantage if there were no bases in Australia for the servicing and maintenance of these aircraft. 
It can be argued that maintenance and service work with such bread and butter orders as missiles and target aircraft would be adequate to sustain the rudiments of an aircraft industry. This is the sort of tentative industry indicated by the Minister for Supply in his statement on the defence aircraft industry. The Minister said that the industry as now established had a range of technological facilities not inappropriate to the peacetime support of the Services. He said also that the industry had reserve capability for a war situation. What the Minister seemed to be referring to was the excess capacity now apparent in an aircraft industry with the completion of the major programmes which have sustained the industry during the 1960s. It would be completely wrong to suggest that defence orders should be made just to keep an industry going. This invokes the perverse logic of the military industrial complex and all it implies in the distortion of resources. Hut any projection of Australia's needs shows a requirement for large numbers of relatively unsophisticated aircraft for both military and civil needs. These can best be developed and built in Australia where they will have to be supported and serviced. 
The emphasis on getting elaborate weapons systems such as the Fill has in recent years obscured the need for the basic workhorse aircraft which all 3 elements of the armed Services will require. The procurement of helicopters and support aircraft is gathering momentum, as disclosed in the posture statement made by the Minister for Defence in March. Yet the aircraft industry remains in a state of insecurity and indecision about how much of this procurement will flow to its workshops. The Minister for Supply advanced 3 basic objectives for the industry. The first is to maintain basic defence aircraft facilities capable of supporting the Services. The industry has this capacity in excess at the moment. In fact, the only certainty confronting it is the continuing need to service the Mirage and Macchi aircraft. The second objective was to ensure that the technologies of the industry were upgraded in line with the latest developments. This is a major problem area because any industry must languish if its development is fitful and unplanned. 
The Australian aircraft industry has been a principle victim of the irrational and erratic procurement planning of the postwar years. There have been 4 substantial buildups within the industry since the end of World War EL. Each build-up has stretched the resources of the industry but it has managed to set and maintain high standards. At the same time each programme has brought an accumulation of skills into the industry. However, when each specific programme has wound up there has been no outlet for the designers, stressmen, engineers, draftsmen and other skilled aeronautical personnel. The reservoir of skill and experience has been allowed to trickle away on each occasion. When another major programme comes up this work force has to be re-formed. Inevitably there is a drifting away from the uncertainties of the industry and the reconstituted design and developmental teams are the lesser for this loss of experience and expertise. 
At the moment the run-down in the industry is reflected in the dwindling of the work force at the Government Aircraft Factories from about 2,800 at the peak of the Mirage project to fewer than 2,000 today. It may be many years before there is a project comparable to the Mirage. The next may well be the successor to the Mirage in the years from 1975 to 1978. Unless other work can be found within the industry there will be a marked waste of essential skills until again a hasty build-up has to be made in the mid-1970s. Even the major programmes have been subject to fits and starts in the placing of orders. Even the Mirage and Macchi orders were broken into haphazard and illogical segments. This lack of continuity has been the major cause of the industry's malaise. Without firm knowledge of forward requirements and what finance is available it is completely impossible to evolve a steady pattern of production and growth. It is absurd to expect specialist skills to be on tap when a sudden decision is made for local production after a lapse of some years. 
This leads to the third objective prescribed by the Minister for Supply - the need to rationalise the effort of the industry. Closer links between the 3 major components of the industry - the Government Aircraft Factories, the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation and Hawker de Havilland - have been foreshadowed in recent years. In answer to a question placed on notice by the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  the Minister for Defence has confirmed that the amalgamation of the Government Aircraft Factories and the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation is receiving close attention.  Sir Lawrence  Hartnett has gone further in suggesting that these 2 agencies should be joined with the aeronautical research unit of the Department of Supply to form a new corporation for the development of civil and military aircraft. I am sure that the Minister for Defence will agree that  Sir Lawrence  Harnett has had considerable experience in building up essential Australian industry. All honourable members will recall the significant part he played in the establishment in this country of the motor car industry. I suppose many of those who now advance arguments against the establishment of an aircraft industry used the same irrational arguments in 1948 and 1949 when the Labor Government, acting on the advice of and with the co-operation of  Sir Lawrence  Hartnett, set out to establish in Australia a successful motor car industry. It is now the third largest employer of labour in this country. The arguments against the establishment of a motor car industry are now being used against the establishment of an aircraft industry. 
It seems that some degree of rationalisation is inevitable although its final form cannot be predicted. It is to be hoped that this can be done without dislocation of the work force, which has made a notable contribution to the success of the major aircraft programmes of the 1960s. With regard to the future, there are a number of areas where additional work may be found for the industry. The outlook is not encouraging for local project design. The industry had pinned its hopes on the development of a joint project with the British Aircraft Corporation for a swing wing jet trainer. Much work has gone into this project but it seems there is no prospect whatever of it getting off the drawing boards. The only major project in view is the so-called Project N which is intended to fulfil a variety of military support roles. It has been claimed that this project was so-called because it was the nth design to come off the drawing boards after innumerable paper planes had been flown into the filing cabinets. There may be sound military and commercial prospects for Project N but it is a very hypothetical project at the moment. 
I referred earlier to the necessary role of the industry in the manufacture of aircraft engines and guided weapons, and in making spares and performing repair and overhaul work. A vexed area of the aircraft industry at the moment is the negotiation of coproduction, offsets and sub-contracting arrangements with overseas manufacturers. There has been some progress made here but the contracts obtained are negligible compared with the glowing words of successive Ministers for Defence about building the industry into the fourth arm of defence. There have been some reasonable contracts negotiated for aircraft components, particularly helicopter parts and jumbo jet parts. But this has amounted to a mere fraction of a percentage of our foreign exchange spent each year on aircraft and aircraft parts. Despite the Government's emphasis on offset and sub-contracting arrangements it seems to have been reluctant to insist on them when the actual terms of the contracts were being hammered out. 
In summary, there is room for great dissatisfaction about the present state of the aircraft industry and its prospects. There has been a complete failure to work out a forward planning policy assessing future needs and budgeting for them on a 5-year or 7-year basis. This state of uncertainty raises grave doubts about the future of the industry and even its chance of survival. The Opposition believes that it is not possible to opt out of the industry, that it is an essential industry and that it should be made as self-sufficient as possible. The fluctuations between over-commitment and comparative idleness have damaged the industry. It can be put on a footing of competence and confidence only by developing a forward programme which would meet military and commercial needs for aircraft of relatively simple design. 
Certainly elaborate weapons systems are way beyond Australia's reach but there are a number of less sophisticated aircraft which are needed and which can be developed by the Australian industry. There has been a reluctance on the part of the Government to see the aircraft industry in Australia as a viable one. It has maintained its absolute adherence to the purchase of aircraft overseas and its reliance on the technology available in other countries which may not always be available to Australia. The Government has shown a refusal to accept the factual success of European countries with a much smaller population than Australia and certainly with ho greater skills. These countries have been able to design and produce aircraft for defence and commercial purposes with very great success. These reasons- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Defence Act to bring into line the allowances payable to the  Chairman  of the Chiefs of Staff Committee, the Chief of the Naval Staff, the Chief of the General Staff and the Chief of the Air Staff with those of the First Division officers of the Commonwealth Public Service. The Opposition does not oppose this legislation. Indeed, we approve of the recommendation made by the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances which investigated this aspect of the payment now being made to certain members of the defence forces. It has been argued that under the Governor-General's regulations alterations can be made to the payment of allowances for members of the defence forces, but the report of the Senate Committee on Regulations and Ordinances was quite explicit. In its opinion the payment of allowances for senior members of the defence forces should be the subject of legislative action by the Parliament. I note, from the Minister's second reading speech, that bc has accepted that proposition, although the Department maintains that the regultaions were legal and valid. However, the Minister has accepted the recommendation of the Senate Committee that in future pay and allowances should be adjusted as a result of action taken in the Parliament. The Opposition is in complete agreement with this point of view. We believe that these matters should properly be dealt with by the Parliament and for this reason we do not oppose the legislation. We support the point of view expressed by the Minister for Defence when he introduced the legislation. This Bill represents an acceptance of the recommendation of the Senate Committee which was charged with the responsibility of examining this matter. 
I agreed to deal with the Bill this afternoon because of some of the difficulties associated with the time factor and with the business before the House. Then I was told that there would be two or three amendments proposed by the Government. Unfortunately I hae not had time to consider fully the amendments that the Govern ment will move. They were handed to me in the last four or five minutes. I am sure that the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp),  who is handling this matter for the Minister for Defence, would agree that I have not had a proper opportunity to consider what the amendments propose and their implication, therefore I ask him to take the opportunity to explain the amendments not only for my benefit but for the benefit of all honourable members on this side. 1 conclude by repeating that the Opposition supports this legislation. We believe that the Government has adopted a proper course of action in ensuring that in future the payment of allowances to senior members of the defence forces will be as a result of legislation introduced into the Parliament. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
My question is directed to the Minister for External Affairs. Now that the full magnitude of the disaster in Peru is apparent will the Minister increase the Commonwealth's rather meagre relief grant of $15,000? Further, will he see that contributions to private relief funds for Peru are made a taxation deduction? 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, this Bill is a machinery measure derived from changes made in the Superannuation Act. It is designed to remove differences between the Superannuation Act and the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act in the formulas determining entitlements for senior members. The Bill will provide higher entitlements for some senior members of the Services; it will lift their benefits from 50% of salary to 60% of salary. The tapering effect of benefits paid  will be from 70% of salary for lower paid members of the Services to 60% of salary for the senior echelons. Previously, the level of benefits tapered from 70% to 50%. The Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  did not state in his second reading speech how many officers would get extra benefits from the scheme. According to the Treasurer, there will be no increase at the moment in contributions for post- 1959 members of the scheme who pay a percentage of salary. He hinted quite plainly that these contributions could be raised by the quinquennial investigation of the fund as at 30th June 1969. lt is far from clear how pre-1959 contributors will fare under the amendment. These contributors take up units of pension entitlement in the same way as contributors to the Commonwealth superannuation scheme. The Treasurer says that since 1965 these members have had the right to limit their contributions when faced with increased contributions. Presumably those who have this limitation will get these extra category entitlements without extra contributions, lt is nol clear whether pre-1959 members who have not limited contributions and who now elect to do so will have to pay more. This should be clarified by the Treasurer. 
This piece of legislation is not in itself of particular significance. It does reveal in miniature the extremely complex nature of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund legislation. The Bill adds to an immense volume of legislation which 1 am sure is beyond the comprehension of most members of the Services and most members of this Parliament. The consolidation of the DFRB Bills from 1948 to 1963 is a massive document of 220 pages; it has been augmented in subsequent years by a number of minor amendments and major amendments of 1968. Without the specialist skills of a lawyer or a parliamentary draftsman it is difficult to navigate through the maze of the DFRB legislation. The simplest possible explanation of the complexity of the scheme is that an integrated system of pension benefits was imposed on a Service structure which was far from integrated or even rationalised to any extent. When the scheme was begun in 1948 the individual schemes of the three Services were absorbed into the DFRB scheme. The vastly different conditions applying to each of the services caused many difficulties in the subsequent 10 years; attempts were made to overcome these difficulties by frequent amendments of the Act. 
The first substantial reorganisation of the scheme was made in 1959 when a new basis of contribution was laid down for future ex-servicemen. Under the changes each entrant after 14th December 1959 was provided with a system of pension insurance against retirement, invalidity and death. This cover was intended to . be maintained in broad alignment with service salaries. It was financed by means of a percentage rate of contribution with the members' share initially 221%. It has since been cut back to 20% . These rates were based on a pooling principle under which broad groupings of members having certain similar characteristics paid a common percentage rate of contribution into a common fund from which benefits were eventually to be drawn in accordance with each member's circumstances. This change effectively split the scheme into 2 with pre-1959 members taking up conventional entitlements for superannuation and post-1959 members contributing a percentage of pay ranging from 4.75% to a ceiling of 12.5%. This split in the scheme is reflected in the piece of legislation at present before the House. 
Undoubtedly, the post-1959 scheme has many attractive features. The Commonwealth Actuary has described it as a generally first class system of pension insurance embodying cover against retirement invalidity and death. The main disadvantage of the whole scheme is that it does not apply equitably to pre-1959 contributors and post-1959 contributors. In addition, the scheme is shot through with anomalies resulting from the different ways in which contributors entered it. The distinction between pre-1959 members and post-1959 members is the most obvious distinction. Within the pre-1959 membership there are broad differences between members of the individual Services; between pre-war and post-war servicemen. Among post-1959 members there are differences between Services in salaries, length of service and comparative retiring ages. The net result has been that there is no consistent application of benefits; a benefit under the scheme can vary considerably because of the individual circumstances of the member - his age, when he joined the scheme, his rank and how long he has served. This has meant that servicemen do not understand the scheme and they do not trust it. 
Any honourable member who has frequent contact with servicemen knows that by far the most common gripe is the application of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund. Whatever its merits, a scheme which lacks the confidence of those it is designed to benefit must be accounted a failure. There is no doubt that the great majority of servicemen feel they are unjustly treated under the fund and that their contributions are too high. The report of the third quinquennial investigation into the fund got to the hub of the problem. In its submission to the Treasurer on the Commonwealth Actuary's report, the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Board said the complexity of the legislation and the general lack of understanding of the scheme were very well known. It said further: 
Having regard to the detailed information now available as a consequence of this quinquennial investigation, it would be reasonable to suggest there is scope for examining the possibility of evolving a simplified scheme, based on the adoption of a uniform scale of salary contributions, for all contributors. 
The Board said it had discussed with the Commonwealth Actuary the development of a scale of percentage rates of contribution for pre-1959 entrants. This would be based on individual calculations with a view to merging them with the contribution scales for post-1959 entrants. The Board has succinctly stated what the objective of re-organisation of the fund should bc It has confirmed that the information on which a re-organisation could be based is available. It has suggested ways of merging pre- 1959 membership with post- 1959 membership. This report has been available for 2 years now, but the Government has not sought to follow up the initiative it contained. 
It is an interesting commentary on the state of the fund that this quinquennial investigation was on the state of the fund at 30th June J 964. The report was submitted to the Treasurer on 1 6th May 1967 and the necesary legislation was passed by this House on 6th June 1968. Honourable members will recall that the investigation revealed a substantial surplus in the contributions of pre-1959 members. It recommended a disbursement of this surplus among contributors. This disbursement was delayed because of inadequate statistical data about contributors and the nature of the fund. I understand this disbursement of the surplus to pre-1959 members is under way at the moment but is still far from complete. In other words, 6 years after this surplus was accumulated, it is being paid back to members who overcontributed. 
Another quinquennial investigation of the Fund was due at 30th June last year under the terms of the original Act. Presumably this investigation is under way at the moment, although I do not recollect the Parliament being informed of it. lt is reasonable to assume that this investigation will show another surplus for pre-1959 members, although it may not be as much as the 1964 surplus. In 2 or even 3 years time it is probable that refunds of contributions will still be being made to pre-1959 members of the fund. This is because of mismanagement in the early years of the Fund and because of repeated delays in making the five-yearly investigations and implementing the recommendations. 
No blame can be attached to the Commonwealth Actuary or his staff for this situation. When this subject was last debated in the House the former honourable member for Maribyrnong,  Mr Stokes,  said that the Actuary had a staff of only 7. In addition to the DFRB fund, this staff had to handle the Commonwealth Superannuation Fund and the parliamentary retiring allowances scheme. I do not know to what extent this critical shortage of qualified actuarial staff has improved; the Commonwealth will always have problems in 'getting actuaries when the going commercial rate is around $15 an hour. But the over-subscription from pre-1959 members of the fund should have been detected much earlier. If the requirements of the 1948 Act had been fully carried out and proper actuarial investigations made in 1954 and 1959. this oversubscription would have been detected and remedied much earlier. 
It has never been explained in a satisfactory manner why the first full-scale investigation of the fund was nol made until the 1959-1964 quinquennium. Even more remarkably, the recommendations of this investigation are now being implemented 22 years after the scheme was introduced. The result has been that contributors who joined before 1959 have been unjustly treated and they have been denied the use of considerable economic resources. Many contributors and pensioners will have died before this disbursement is complete; it has never been made clear whether payment will be made to their estates. The 1964 investigation also disclosed a deficiency of S3. 26m in respect of the group of contributors and pensioners who entered the fund after 1959. This was met by increasing rates of contribution and by increasing the Commonwealth contribution to 80%. The main objective here was to restore solvency to the fund as quickly as possible. This seems ironical for a fund which has grown into one of the most significant superannuation and investment forces in the country - a fund which has a value of $108m. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Before the suspension I was referring to the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund and was pointing out that it could now bc classified actuarially as one of the most successful superannuation schemes in existence with assets valued at about $108m. Even on the most pessimistic projection of liabilities the Fund seems to be more than sufficiently solvent. This raises the question of how far the profit motive is being applied and whether excess reserves are being accumulated. These are some of the aspects of the management of the Fund over the past 20 years and the nature of its investment policies that are raised by the report of the third investigation. Undoubtedly improvements in the recording of data and the day to day administration of the Fund have been made in recent years. But these improvements have been accompanied by a rapid expansion of membership following the amendments of 1968 which extended benefits and made many more members of the forces eligible for cover. It can be said with certainty that the investigation of the Fund for the 5 years from 1964 to 1969 will reveal new problem areas. 
Because of the complexity of the legislation the Opposition believes it should be scrutinised by a joint select committee of this Parliament. Examination by such a Committee should be directed towards the following areas: 
Repealing the existing legislation and replacing it with a simpler and more lucid model. 
Putting all contributors to the Fund on the same basis. 
Assuring more effective administra tion of the Fund. 
Providing for more frequent actuarial assessment and adjustment of the funding of the scheme. 
Reviewing pension values more frequently to prevent erosion by inflation. 
This is a scheme which has not worked in a satisfactory way; it is one of the principal sources of discontent among serving members of the forces. It is riddled with anomalies and inequities although some improvements have been made in recent years. I believe that members of the Government Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund Committee which has done much valuable work on the scheme will agree with me on the need for reform. For this reason honourable members on this side of the House believe that the solution of this problem, to ensure that there is not only an equitable contribution to the scheme but also an equitable return to those who served in the Services upon retirement invalidity or death, and to ensure that the scheme is placed on an equitable basis lies in the establishment of a joint committee of this Parliament to investigate fully the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund. 
I point out that there has been no investigation of the scheme. The anomalies that have crept into the scheme have been perpetuated each time the Act has been amended despite the fact that honourable members on both sides of the House have indicated from time to time the need to investigate the scheme, to provide the basis to which I have just referred and upon which serving members of the forces will be able to contribute to a scheme that not only will guarantee them a return equitably assessed upon their retirement, invalidity or death, but also will ensure that the contributions they make to the scheme while they are serving members of the forces will not be beyond their means. There are very few honourable members who have had the opportunity to discuss the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund with serving members of the Services who have not been convinced that in far too many cases their contributions are beyond their resources. For these and other reasons which I have already put to the House we believe that the Government should seriously consider the establishment of a joint select committee of this Parliament to investigate the areas of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund to which I have referred. Because of the urgency of this matter and the grave problems it raises for the future for the armed Services, I move on behalf of the Opposition: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: whilst not opposing the provisions of the Bill, the House is of opinion that a Joint Committee of senators and members of the House of Representatives should be appointed to investigate and report on the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund'. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
What provision has been made for reconnaissance aircraft and search and rescue aircraft in the Malaysia-Singapore region after completion of the British withdrawal. 
What additional support and communication facilities will be needed in the Malaysia-Singapore region aftercompletion of the British withdrawal. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
What amount was received as devaluation compensation by each company listed in his reply to my question No. 839 (Hansard, 5th May, 1970, page . 1668). 
What was the reason for the compensation payment in each case. 
 I direct a question to the Minister for National Development. Has there been an alarming drift of geologists away from the Bureau of Mineral Resources in recent months? Has this been caused by relatively low salaries, poor career prospects and dwindling professional status for geologists? Has an increasing rate of resignation from the Bureau impaired the effectiveness of its survey and assessment work? What is the Minister doing to curb further staff losses from the mineral resources expertise remaining to the Government? 
The Opposition opposes the suspension of standing order 103. the11 o'clock rule. As the Leader of the House, the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden),  said, this matter was the subject of discussion in this House last week when he decided to move the suspension of the 11 o'clock rule for 1 day only. Now, for the second time, he has moved for its suspension. I think that many of the reasons that the Minister has just put to the House would justify or support the argument that I put to the House last week when, on behalf of the Opposition, I opposed the suspension of standing order 103. It is no justification for this action to argue that the 11 o'clock rule should be suspended merely to meet the convenience of certain people in the House, although we do have sympathy for them. Members sit in this Parliament to debate the legislation which the Government brings forward or which we initiate ourselves. 
As the Minister pointed out, today there are some 34 Bills and 2 reports listed on the notice paper. The Minister did not indicate whether the Government intends to deal with all those Bills. It may not do so. It may leave some of them standing over until the next session. But even if one halves that number, there are 17 Bills and 2 reports still to be debated. Surely the Minister is not going to suggest that the House can seriously consider that number of Bills and the 2 reports I mentioned, in the way they ought to be considered by honourable members in this Parliament, if the Government intends to conclude the session on Friday. It ought to be clearly understood by people outside the Parliament, as it is by those inside it, that the Government has moved for the suspension of standing order 103 merely to bring about the end of the session. There is no argument about the amount of legislation that remains on the notice paper to be dealt with. 
I have referred to the number of Bills and the 2 reports. One of those reports almost certainly will have to be dealt with. The Government may decide to stand the other report over until the next session. But honourable members will recall that during question time today a question was directed to the Minister for the Army  (Mr Peacock)  about another very important matter that has to be considered by the Parliament. I refer to the report of the Fox Committee into various matters affecting the Royal Military College, Duntroon. Is this matter to be debated? Are honourable members to have the opportunity of considering that report? It relates to a very serious matter. I hope the report will not merely be introduced into the Parliament with a statement being made to the House by the Minister for the Army and a reply being made by one member of the Opposition.I hope it will not then go on to the notice paper with no opportunity for other honourable members on both sides of the House, who undoubtedly have an interest in it, to consider fully and to debate it and the recommendations of the Fox Committee. Therefore this is one further matter which the Minister for Labour and National Service ought to consider before it is suggested that this Parliament end its sittings on Friday. 
I refer now to the legislation remaining on the notice paper. There are 3 immensely significant Bills still to he dealt with. I refer first to the Bills dealing with States receipts duties. There are 5 of these Bills. No doubt there will be a cognate debate but they are immensely important pieces of legislation which still have to be dealt with. When are we to deal with them? Are we to deal with them some time in the early hours of the morning on Friday just before the Parliament is due to adjourn, according to the timetable of the Government, or are we to have the opportunity to consider them properly? Those Bills are of very grave importance not only to honourable members in this House but to parliamentarians in the 6 State legislatures. These people will also want to consider the legislation that the Parliament will be debating in relation to this matter. But if the Government adheres to its timetable to end the session on Friday, what opportunity will there be for honourable members to consider this legislation? 
Let me turn to 2 other important pieces of legislation. I refer to the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill. This legislation is of extreme importance. When is it to be considered. Today is Wednesday. We will be sitting tomorrow, Thursday, andthe session is to end on Friday. So the States Receipts Duty Bill the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill and the Wool Industry Bill, which is another extremely important piece of legislation, will have to be dealt with before Friday, together with the remaining Bills on the notice paper. Yet the Minister for Labour and National Service stands up today and tells this House that the Government's programme is to end the session on Friday. 
He said the session could possibly end on Friday. But everyone knows that this is the Government's intention. If finishing on Friday means gagging the debate on legislation in this Parliament the Minister will do it. He will gag the debate and important legislation can be introduced after 11 o'clock. This means in effect we will be debating the kind of legislation to which I have just referred after 11 o'clock at night, in the early hours of the morning, although it ought to be considered at a time when not only honourable members of this House can have an opportunity to debate and consider it fully, but also those who want to listen to the debate outside the Parliament can do so. The debates in this House are not broadcast after 11 o'clock, as the Minister well knows. So this opportunity is denied those people who should have the opportunity to listen to important debates. 
All of the matters that I put forward last week on behalf of the Opposition when the Government moved to suspend the 11 o'clock rule apply again on this occasion. We of the Opposition quite seriously put it to the Minister that the aim of the Government should not be to end the session on Friday but rather to extend the session of the Parliament if necessary. There ought not to be any curtailment of the opportunities of honourable members to debate legislation which comes before them. For these and other reasons which I put forward last week, the Opposition opposes the proposal to suspend the 11 o'clock rule. 
asked the Minister for the 
Army, upon notice: 
What is the strength of the Army Food Science Establishment at Scottsdale, Tasmania. 
What has been the cost of maintaining the establishment in each year since 1965. 
What studies have been conducted since 1965. 
What recommendations made by the establishment have been adopted by the Army. 
Is the work conducted by the establishment relevant to food production and processing in the private sector. 
If so, have there been any joint research ventures between the establishment and the private sector. 
I rise to a point of order. 
I ask the Minister for Defence whether it is his intention to make a statement on the acquisition of the Phantom aircraft before the Parliament rises.. If so, will he table in the Parliament details of (he contractual arrangements, as was done in September 1968 for the FI 1 1 aircraft? 
I appreciate the fact that the Leader of the House  (Mr Snedden)  has recognised that there has been some misunderstanding. I want to make it perfectly clear that I did not understand that the Grievance Day debate would be withdrawn this morning. If that was the intention of the Minister it was not conveyed to mc. I fully understood that the debate would take place this morning. There has apparently been some misunderstanding. I do not deny that the Minister may have thought that this information had been conveyed to me. I assure him that I and honourable members on this side of the House had a clear understanding that there would be a Grievance Day debate. For that reason we drew up a list of speakers and those speakers have prepared their speeches. In all fairness to those honourable members I think the Minister should withdraw his motion. 
That grievances be noted. 
I welcome the opportunity to support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  to have established a select committee to review the operation of soldier settlement in Australia. I believe the committee should be established for many reasons. I listened with much interest to the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  who, T believe, in the concluding part of his speech made out a very good case for a committee of the kind suggested in the amendment to be set up to investigate war service land settlement in Australia. The member for Angas spoke about equity and about how important it was for the Government to look at this one problem area that is common to the war service land settlement scheme in. most of the States where it has been instituted. The honourable member said quite properly and correctly that many ex-servicemen whose applications for a property under the War Service Land Settlement Agreements Act have been accepted, and who have devoted their career and interest to the property and have worked hard, have failed to obtain any equity in the property. Obviously, as the Act stands at present, they will never be able to get any equity in their property. This is one area in which problems arise. As the war service land settlement scheme is constituted at present, many other areas that need to be investigated can be referred to. 
I appreciate the fact that we are very close to the end of a session. Normally I would hesitate to enter into a debate about war service land settlement, but in recent years I have found that there are now so many problems afflicting young people who have accepted a property under the war service land settlement scheme that the Government will obviously have to face up to this situation in the only way in which I believe it can be dealt with. The Government must set up a select committee of this House with sufficient power to investigate the problem areas that have been referred to not only by the honourable member for Angas but also by honourable members on this side of the House such as the member for Dawson, who moved the amendment for the Opposition, the member for Braddon  (Mr Davies)  and others. 
I believe most honourable members can appreciate the problems that have existed in recent years in relation to the war service land settlement scheme. Of course, there have been cases where the scheme has proved to be an unqualified success. But that matter also has been referred to already by other members and I do not want to canvass it at this stage. Currently a select committee of the upper House in Tasmania is investigating the war service land settlement scheme as it operates in that State. Having fully investigated the question of war service land settlement in Tasmania, that committee will obviously be able to report to the Tasmanian Government on the situation that now exists in that State. But it will be limited to that State. As the member for Angas said, we all acknowledge that there are problems in relation to war service land settlement, but they are not confined to Tasmania: They are common wherever the war service land settlement scheme has been established under the Act. Therefore, this committee's report will have limited use. For these reasons, the Opposition points out that a committee of this kind should have the opportunity to investigate war service land settlement on a much wider basis than in one State. 
This Bill provides for loan raising of  $4,500,000  for soldier settler projects in Western Australia, South Australia and Tasmania. The bulk of this loan raising is earmarked for working expenses, replacement of plant, and new stock and plant. The remainder is for development of irrigation holdings in South Australia. Therefore the Bill is mainly a machinery measure, lt will provide necessary funds and is not opposed by the Opposition. In his second reading speech, the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  made the crucial point that many settlers bad been unable to improve their financial position to the stage where they could operate without borrowing. Lacking security to obtain conventional credit, they needed access to credit from within the scheme. This, disability applied particularly to settlers offered farms in recent years, and unquestionably this is one of the main problems afflicting those who have been allotted properties under the Act. 
The Minister acknowledges that a problem exists in relation to the additional finance needed to improve and expand properties. Again, this is another area for investigation by a select committee of the type proposed by the Opposition. The war service land settlement scheme has operated since 1945, when it was formulated by a conference of Commonwealth and State Ministers. In subsequent years. Commonwealth funds have been allocated to the scheme by annual appropriations. The Commonwealth has been responsible for the policy direction of the scheme and its general supervision. It has financed a major share of the cost, with the State governments paying the cost of the administration of their side of the scheme and meeting a contribution to the capital cost. In many ways, the scheme has been successful. After World War 1 the planners of the scheme learnt the lessons from soldier settlement scheme that caused considerable economic hardship. Settlers who were fortunate enough to get their land in the years immediately after the war and to establish themselves before the rises in commodity prices of the 1950s were particularly successful. In the main, these settlers were more skilled in the techniques of agriculture than their predecessors of World War I. They were given better holdings and, because the scheme was administered with extreme care - some might even say caution in some States - there were fewer failures. 
In recent years the picture has changed somewhat. Later settlers have not had the good fortune of those who got in early. Some of the land opened was of a marginal character and could not be made to pay, and in other cases holdings were too small to be an economic proposition. The success of the scheme has varied immensely from State to State and from region to region. Even in Victoria, which perhaps provides the most successful example of soldier settlement, there have been remarkable fluctuations in the effectiveness of the scheme from settlement to settlement. Earlier, the honourable member, for. Braddon, the honourable member for Dawson and the honourable member for Riverina gave examples of the operation of the scheme. I should like to refer briefly to the operation of the scheme on Flinders Island, which has one of the largest concentrations of soldier settlement farms in Tasmania. The original plans for soldier settlement on the Island provided for 112 to 120 farms. Eighty-four were occupied. At present 76 are occupied and 2 are unoccupied, so there have been some absorptions. A considerable number of settlers have left for economic reasons; they went bankrupt or their farms were sold. The new farms are from 700 acres to 1,000 acres of pasture compared with the original farms which ranged from 535 acres to 700 acres. It is not surprising that only the new farms have anything like the carrying capacity as assessed originally by the Agricultural Bank of Tasmania. 
The area of the Flinders Island holdings compares favourably with those in the rest of Tasmania. However, valuations on Flinders Island are much higher which means that rent and rates are higher. Rents work out at about three times higher than those on mainland Tasmania while rates are about one-and-a-half times as high. Yet the potential sale value of a holding in Tasmania is double that of a Flinders Island holding. In addition, the settlers on Flinders Island face heavy freight costs to Launceston and Hobart and to Tasmania generally. There are also social difficulties arising from lack of educational facilities and little employment for school leavers. This is an example of the wide differences which can exist in the operation of the scheme and how inequities can arise even in the operation of  a  scheme within one State. 
The whole national scheme for soldier settlement represents a massive investment at all levels of government. In the 3 States affected by this legislation - Western Australia, South Australia and Tasmania - the Commonwealth has invested about S300m. Much of this has been repaid, but it gives an idea of the scale of investment in the scheme. This scheme has operated for 25 years. We believe it is time for an assessment of what has been achieved, what the problems are and what the potential is for the future. We are entering an era when the concept of closer settlement is looked on with increasing disfavour. This may be one of the cyclical swings which have always dominated rural land policy in this country. 
The trend of Government policy is towards the amalgamation of smaller uneconomic holdings into more viable economic units. An example was the marginal dairy farms reconstruction scheme which was debated in this House last week. Undoubtedly there is marginal land in the soldier settlement schemes and there are uneconomic holdings. This has provoked occasional flare-ups in settlements where soldier settlers have got into difficulties. We believe it timely that the scheme be completely reviewed and a blueprint for its future drawn up. For this reason, as I have already pointed out to the House, the honourable member for Dawson has moved on behalf of the Opposition that a select committee of this House should be appointed to investigate the problems that have arisen in relation to the war service land settlement. 
Many of the arguments that were put forward by the honourable member for Angas in relation to the problems, as he saw them, in war service land settlement can be applied to all of the States involved under the scheme. Certainly there arc areas for a full and frank investigation by a competent committee which would have the opportunity to investigate fully these matters on the spot - whether it is a question of the size of the property; whether the properties should be enlarged; whether there should be an amalgamation of properties. I know that the Minister must have some understanding of the situation in Tasmania particularly in relation to King Island - the scheme that was referred to earlier this afternoon by the honourable member for Braddon - and in relation to Flinders Island. The schemes on both islands are not succeeding, and they are not succeeding because of some of the problems that have already been referred to in this House this afternoon. 
In the opinion of honourable members on this side of the House, if, after a period of 25 years, the problem is to be dealt with effectively it can be dealt with only on the basis of the kind of investigation that is envisaged in the amendment which was moved by the honourable member for Dawson. Surely if it is competent for the Government in Tasmania to appoint a select committee to investigate war service land settlement in that State, because there is an awareness of the problems that afflict those who occupy properties in that State, there must be a general acknowledgment - indeed I believe there is by honourable members and by the Minister - that there are problems in relation to war service land settlement that can be solved only by a general investigation; not by seeking the advice of departmental officers in relation to the properties that have already been developed but by having a full investigation into the areas to which I have referred during the course of this address. It is a question of finance: - whether some of the liability should be written off; whether the expenses now being incurred by farmers of occupied properties under the Act are beyond their resources; whether they are able to meet their commitments including the high rents to which I referred in relation to the properties on Flinders Island; whether they are able to meet their commitments as a result of the general fall in rural prices which has been the subject of debate in this House in recent weeks. 
believe that a case has been made out for the Government to give very serious consideration to the appointment of a select committee along the lines suggested by the Opposition which, I believe, would at least be a guide to the Government to look at the war service land settlement scheme as a whole and to consider the problems that now exist , in relation to the scheme. This would give the Government the opportunity to provide the remedies that will be needed to bring back the scheme to an equitable basis or to place those who are now on properties on at least an equitable basis. 
Does the Minister for the Navy know whether the interdepartmental study on Australian dockyard facilities has been completed? If it has been completed, is the Minister now in a position to make a comprehensive statement about the development of naval facilities at Cockburn Sound? 
by leave- The Minister for the Army  (Mr Peacock)  has tabled the report of thu Committee of Inquiry into the Royal Military College, Duntroon, headed by  Mr Justice  Fox. This inquiry was ordered by the Minister's predecessor, the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Lynch),  after considerable controversy in the Press and iti this Parliament over the treatment of junior cadets at the Royal Military College. An interim report was made to the Minister and he released details of it on Christmas Eve last year. As a result of this interim report changes were made in the treatment of cadets entering Duntroon at the beginning of this year. These changes seem to have worked effectively. 
The full report which has now been tabled goes beyond these initial measures; it recommends a radical set of reforms designed to transform the whole atmosphere and procedure of the College. The report of  Mr Justice  Fox and his Committee was submitted to the Minister on 24th April. It has now been tabled 6 weeks later with the parliamentary session drawing to a close. The Minister seems to have encountered some difficulty in getting this report before the Parliament. I am glad he was able to table it before the recess so the House can make a detailed assessment of it. 
When this Committee was announced on 25th September I said in this House that its basic task was to solve the problems associated with absorbing a traditional military institution into an academic framework. This followed the affiliation of the College with the University of New South Wales. It was because of this affiliation that the practices collectively described as bastardisation' of fourth class cadets were revealed. There was a clash between the concepts of academic freedom held by academics and the rigid traditionalism of the Army. 
It should be noted here that members of the academic staff showed considerable courage in rejecting the practice qf bastardisation' and bringing it to the public view. This set in motion the rapid sequence of events which has culminated in this report. I do not want to go over the practice of 'bastardisation' which was dealt with in the debate last year. In essence it was the survival of traditional military practice in a changed environment; what once was acceptable in a rigidly-disciplined military college could no longer be tolerated in a changing institution mingling academic and military scholarship, and moving towards greater autonomy. Preliminary measures have been taken to eliminate bastardisation from the College; these have now been supplemented by a much more extensive set of recommendations. The recommendations of the Fox Committee seem to me to be eminently sane and reasonable. The way has been clear for the complete abolition of bastardisation by the recommendation that informal instruction of the fourth class by senior cadets be abolished. This was a major source of pin-pricking by the performance of absurd tasks and the learning in parrot fashion of trivial information. It is proper that instruction in the history, traditions and curriculum of Duntroon be put on a more formal basis. 
The recommendations designed to end bastardisation in the mess, the bathrooms and by the imposition of group tasks, fagging, and special restrictions, are extremely judicious. I am sure honourable members will agree with the Committee's conclusion that bastardisation is senseless and degrading; it is not countenanced elsewhere in the Army and there is no place for it at Duntroon. The report emphasises that bastardisation cannot be ended merely by issuing a decree: lt will have to be closely and energetically supervised until the propensity for such behaviour abates. The Committee goes on to advocate dramatic innovations in conditions of service. The net effect of these recommendations would be to give cadets much more freedom and make their life comparable with that of students at other institutions of higher education. 
A most important proposal is the abolition of the requirement that cadets who resign have to pay out sums varying between S300 and $1,500. This condition has been a source of much bitterness and it should be abolished. The recommendations on daily routine, local leave, discipline, alcohol, pay, marriage, cars, dress, and entertainment of visitors will, if adopted, give cadets a much more attractive environment in which to live and work. The report goes on to indicate broad guidelines for the development of the Royal Military College. In brief, these guidelines prescribe a gradual movement towards autonomy of the College, more students, more varied courses, and the relationship between the military staff, the academic staff and the cadets. These recommendations are generally sound and I intend to make only a few comments. 
The Committee looks to a closer association with the Australian National University. This is particularly desirable because of the remarkable success and growth of the University's Institute of Strategic Studies in the past 2 years. A. much more sophisticated and responsive climate for discussion of defence issues is emerging in Canberra and will become increasingly important in the next few years. It is appropriate that Duntroon plays an important role in the more informed evaluation of defence policies. 
In considering student numbers, the Committee was inhibited by the lack of precise information about the Government's plans for a tri-Service college. It is true, as the report points out, that there are too few cadets to ensure a comprehensive and completely autonomous institution with a high calibre staff, full facilities and a desirable variety of courses. A tri-Service college would be one solution. Unfortunately, it is not possible to consider this in the absence of the long-mooted report on the Government's plans for such an institution. The Committee suggests the widening of conditions of entry so that general students who do not intend to enter permanent military service can enter. It is vaguely suggested that young men who want to be Citizen Military Forces officers could find this attractive. Some broadening of the student body may be desirable but I feel that a concept of this sort is getting much too far away from the basic objective of professional military training. On the extension of the curriculum, the Committee recommends the setting up of courses in psychology, languages - particularly Asian languages - and military law. These are excellent suggestions. The teaching of military law as an academic subject is particularly relevant with the introduction of a joint military code for the Services foreshadowed in the GovernorGeneral's Speech earlier this year. 
In summary, the Committee has made 20 specific recommendations designed to remove for all time the stain of bastardisation from Duntroon and assure an attractive and creative environment for the training of military officers. Many of these changes will be resisted by traditional elements in the Army. It is difficult for successful career officers to recognise the flaws in a system which trained them successfully, and one can sympathise with this attitude. But, with military education developing so rapidly and moving into closer alliance with conventional academic scholarship, bastardisation cannot be tolerated; all vestiges of it must be eradicated. The Minister for the Army acted correctly and promptly by introducing the interim measures recommended by the Committee for the start of the 1970 academic year at Duntroon. It is now his duty to finish the job by adopting in toto the recommendations on assimilation of cadets and conditions of service made by the Committee. There is no reason why these important innovations and reforms should not be operating effectively at the College by the time the 1971 academic year begins. This can only bring immeasurable benefit to the Royal Military College. The Opposition welcomes the report and insists that the sweeping changes it proposes be treated as a matter of urgency. In conclusion, I thank the Minister for his courtesy in making available to me early last night a copy of the Fox report so that I could study it for this debate. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What would be the cost to revenue of making Citizen Military Forces earnings non-taxable. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice. 
What was the net cost to revenue of raising the maximum tax deduction for insurance and superannuation cover from 1800 to $1,200 in the 1967-68 Budget. 
How many taxpayers claimed the ceiling deduction of $1,200 in 1967-68 and 1968-69. 
What was the average income of those who claimed the ceiling deduction in 3967-68 and 1968- 69. 
asked the Minister for the 
Army, upon notice: 
How many members of the Citizen Military Forces are there in the Territory of Papua and New Guinea. 
How many members are indigenes and how many are expatriates. 
How many (a) officers and (b) other ranks are indigenes and how many are expatriates. 
How do pay rates for indigenes and expatriates compare. 
What amount was paid to members of the Papua and New Guinea CMF in each year since 1965. 
How many units does the Papua and New Guinea CMF contain, and what is the strength of each unit. 
What equipment is available to each unit. 
What training and base facilities are available to the Papua and New Guinea CMF. 
asked the Minister for Repatriation, upon notice: 
How many appeals were heard by each ot the War Pensions Entitlement Appeal Tribunals during the years 1968 and 1969. 
How many appeals were (a) allowed by each Tribunal, (b) disallowed and (c) referred to the Repatriation Commission for further consideration. 
How many cases were listed for hearing at the end of April 1970. 
asked the Minister  for  Repatriation, upon notice: 
Does Gordon House in Little Bourke Street, Melbourne, provide cheap accommodation for many homeless ex-servicemen. 
Is he able to say whether Gordon House will soon be closed. 
How many ex-servicemen who have been patients in Heidelberg Repatriation Hospital, Melbourne, have been referred to Gordon House for accommodation. 
How many ex-servicemen were residents of Elizabeth Guest House, North Melbourne, when it was destroyed by fin: in November 1969. 
What increased demand for accommodation does his Department expect from homeless exservicemen following the loss of Elizabeth Guest House and the proposed closing of Gordon House. 
What steps are being taken by him and bis Department to find accommodation for exservicemen who will be homeless after the closure of Gordon House. 
What other hostels and boarding houses are available in Melbourne for homeless ex-servicemen referred by the Repatriation Department. 
I ask the Minister for Shipping and Transport: Does the Australian National Line operate at a satisfactory profit level and has it substantial reserves? If so, why was it necessary to impose a 12% freight rise on the Line's operations? Is the Minister aware of the severe impact this increase will have on the cost structure of Tasmania? Is it considered jost that the Line should maintain its profit rate at the cost of dislocating Tasmanian industry and trade? Will the Minister vary the provisions of the Australian Coastal Shipping Commission Act to emphasise effective services and not the maintenance of the ANL profit rate? 
asked the Minister for the 
Army, upon notice: 
What is the strength of the Australian Army Intelligence Corps. 
How many members of the Corps have resigned since 1 January 1969, and what were their ranks. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
How many officers have been appointed to the Policy Planning Branch of his Department. 
What are the classifications of these officers. 
What are the functions of the Branch. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
Who were the members of last year's Defence Industries mission to the United States of America. 
How long did the mission spend in the United States. 
With which United States Government agencies did the mission have discussions. 
Which senior Government officers  did the  mission interview. 
Which United States defence contactors did the mission visit. 
Was the mission endorsed by the United States Government. 
How many offset arrangements and subcontracts were negotiated by the mission. 
Has the mission reported to him. 
If so, will he table the report in Parliament so that it can be debated. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
What sub-contracts of defence purchases from the United States have been awarded to Australian companies since 1966. 
What offset arrangements to defence purchases from the United States have been negotiated since 1966. 
asked the Minister for Repatriation, upon notice: 
What vocational counselling services are provided for veterans of the Vietnam war. 
What are the qualifications of the Army counsellors who interview these men. 
Are any trained psychologists used by his Department to advise ex-servicemen about suitable civilian employment. 
What extra vocational counselling and training is provided by his Department for exservicemen injured in the Vietnam war. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister in his capacity as Acting Minister for External Territories. I ask: Was it alleged that New Guinea villagers were coerced by threats of gaol to attend a 'sing-sing' in honour of the Prime Minister at Mendi? Were these allegations investigated? If so, has any disciplinary action been taken? 
Perhaps I should point out to the House that the Opposition would have opposed the motion moved by the Leader of the House  (Mr Snedden)  for the House to sit on Fridays had it not been for the decision made in this House last night in relation to the recommendations of the Standing Orders Committee of the Parliament. In view of the decision taken last night by the House to give effect to the recommendation relating to the sitting days of the Parliament, the Opposition now has no objection to the Minister's proposal. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The Opposition welcomes the setting up of a joint parliamentary committee to look at the operation of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund. This committee derives from an amendment moved by the Opposition in this House on June 9th to the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Bill 1970. It was supported by several Government supporters, including the late  Sir Wilfrid  Kent Hughes, and the honourable members for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  and Isaacs  (Mr Hamer).  The amendment was designed to set up a joint committee to investigate and report upon the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund. This motion provides the machinery for the establishment and operation of the committee. 
When the initial amendment proposing the committee was debated in the House, I pointed to widespread dissatisfaction among members of the Services about the operation and application of the Fund. On the criteria of participant satisfaction there is no doubt that Fund rates are extremely low. it is one of the principal sources of discontent among servicemen. Although some improvements have been made in recent years the scheme is shot through with anomalies and inequities. The areas of criticism indicated by the Opposition have in large measure been incorporated in this motion. The joint committee is empowered to make a wide-ranging inquiry into the existing scheme and how it might be simplified and improved. The work of this committee should result in the evolution of a much simpler and a much fairer pension scheme for servicemen and the Opposition warmly supports it. However, the Opposition feels that now this committee has been established, its functions should be extended to have a look at the whole range of service pay and conditions. Certainly the DFRB Fund is perhaps the main gripe servicemen have about their conditions and entitlements. 
But there are many other sources of dissatisfaction which are being reflected in lower recruiting and re-engagement rates. This was dramatised effectively in the protests on Monday by sailors against pay conditions at Garden Island in Sydney. About 200 sailors held a stop-work meeting and walked off 5 Navy ships to protest at delays in granting flow-on of allowances made more than a year ago to equivalent civilian personnel. These increases were granted on the following day by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  after a lengthy examination by the Conditions of Service Committee of the Defence Department. Such incidents are likely to recur while service members feel they are being treated unfairly in comparison with comparable civilian workers. This was an example of swift Government action to head off severe industrial trouble developing in one of the services. It may not be possible to damp down future flare-ups. 
The fact is that little significant improvement has been made in conditions of service in the armed forces over the past 20 years. Servicemen have shown remarkable patience and forbearance. There are signs that antagonism to existing conditions is growing and that the services could be faced with industrial action and agitation. It has often been claimed that industrial action on conventional lines could never be effective in a disciplined service. In the light of recent events it seems that reliance on traditional concepts of discipline and service dedication is becoming less valid as unrest increases in the services. For a number of reasons the career serviceman is finding his longterm prospects very dismal indeed. It may be possible for such a career serviceman to accept without demur the peculiar penalties and disabilities of service life which affect only himself. But it is increasingly difficult for him to see his family lagging badly behind his civilian counterparts in living standards and educational opportunities. 
Over a whole range of areas the career soldier sees his conditions of service and entitlements deteriorating and his family suffering penalties and inequities. This is the basic reason behind the agitation for a review of the whole range of conditions of service. The Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has pointed to the work of the Defence (Conditions and Service) 
Committee. Certainly there may be improvements made in service pay and conditions arising from the work of this committee. But it has the signal disadvantage that it is an internal committee of the Department of Defence; its functions are prescribed by the Department of Defence and this must restrict its effectiveness. It has not the powers to initiate inquiries into specific problem areas or to make comprehensive assessments of conditions in the three individual services. Further, servicemen feel they are not represented on the committee and they do not have access to its work. 
The time is appropriate for a comprehensive inquiry not only into the DFRB but into the whole range of conditions of service which are under lire at the moment - into pay, moves and re-posting, re-settlement and re-establishment in civilian life, family separation and disruption, housing, education, in short into the whole social environment of the serviceman and his family. These are all sources of serious complaint which should be examined in a new way for little is known of the impact on servicemen of defects in these crucial conditions. An attempt to take a fresh approach to the pay and service conditions of servicemen has been made in the United Kingdom. A standing committee on pay and conditions of the armed forces has been appointed and has made a series of valuable reports on service pay and conditions and the peculiar disabilities associated with service life. Such a committee could be used as a model for securing the changes in pay and benefits that are urgently needed in Australia. Unfortunately, the Defence (Conditions of Service) Committee as it is now constituted does not fill the bill. 
In the years ahead there will be dramatic changes in the character of the armed forces. I believe it is reasonable to assume that the services will be much more representative of the Department as a whole in its origins and education. There will be much greater mobility between the Services and the civilian workforce, with soldiers serving shorter terms before returning to civilian life. This will mean much closer links between the Armed Services and the domestic workforce. There will also be a move towards much greater emphasis on civilian values and forms of organisation in the services. Much of the old rigidity of Service discipline and organisation will be relaxed and Service communities will be less isolated. In the seventies much more of the time of servicemen will be spent in Australia. This will be reflected in less emphasis on combat jobs and a trend towards support and technical functions similar to those found in many areas of civilian life. While a soldier will have to retain his skill as a fighting man, he will be trained in an increasingly varied range of skills which are not purely military.  His  range of skills will be more diversified than those needed for most semi-skilled jobs in industry. There will tend to be a breaking down of the old styles of management and discipline with service life becoming more and more like civilian life. It is against this background that the pay and condtions of servicemen should now be investigated. 
A serviceman of any rank is always at a considerable disadvantage compared to his civilian counterpart where his family is concerned. Whatever compensations are given, the nature of the employment and duty of the soldier will always impose considerable strain on family life. The soldier himself accepts this because he knows it is inevitable and because he expects his employer, the Commonwealth, to make proper and equitable compensation for it. However, his wife and family are not in any way dedicated or obligated to the system. It is natural that they feel a sense of deprivation and injustice when they have tomeet excessive expenses and other inconveniences because conditions of Service life have not been modernised. On the question of pay these injustices usually boil down to the complaint that it always seems to be fixed on the basis of equivalent civilian type work. Even here, the flow-on from higher civilian wages is unbearably slow. No serviceman will ever agree that it is possible to equate his work with that of a civilian. Of course there will be a component 
My point is: Do you not think that, with respect, the Deputy Leader of the Opposition is going well beyond the confines of this kind of debate? 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)The point of order is upheld. I ask the honourable member to confine his remarks to the matter before the House. 
I thank you for your ruling,  Sir, and  I thank the honourable member for raising his point of order. I accept that. What I want to say at this stage is that we welcome the opportunity that has been given to this House to consider the ramifications of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund and the decision of the Government to set up a Committee to investigate the Fund. I wanted to take the opportunity to draw the attention of the House to other matters which I think are equally important as the conditions of servicemen in this country. Unfortunately I have been ruled out of order on this question. Therefore, at this stage I foreshadow an amendment which 1 will move on behalf of the Opposition to give effect to some of the matters that I have just put before the House in relation to the conditions of servicemen, namely education for the children of servicemen and pay and allowances. Surely the Minister for the Navy  (Mr Killen),  who is now sitting at the table, would not disagree when I say to him and to this House that considerable dissatict action has been shown not only by those who serve in his Department on a permanent basis. I quoted the incident of a demonstration by some members of the naval forces which was indeed what one might well describe I believe as a 'mutiny'. This was caused by a dissatisfaction over pay and allowances. What applies to members serving in the Royal Australian Navy would equally apply to those who are serving in the Army and the Royal Australian Air Force. 
It is because of these circumstances that we believe it is necessary to look at the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund. The Government acknowledges that there is dissatisfaction in this area. The Minister who proposed this motion acknowledged that it was because of action taken by members of the Opposition in moving an amendment to the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Bill that was then before the 
House that the Government decided to accept the arguments that had been advanced and to set up a committee to investigate the whole ramifications of the Fund. 
We welcome the opportunity to speak to this motion, which provides for the setting up of a joint select committee to investigate this one area of dissatisfaction that has existed for a long time among members of the armed forces. I commend the Government for at least accepting a recommendation that flowed from the Opposition for the establishment of a committee of this kind. I make it perfectly clear that there are other matters of equal importance that we believe should be investigated at the same time. One cannot stress too often the dissatisfaction of members of the armed Services in respect of the matters to which I have referred. Therefore I take the opportunity on behalf of the Opposition to move the following amendment: 
At the end of paragraph ((.) add: 'and in relation to the whole defence force (i) pay and allowances of all personnel, (ii) provision for the retraining of officers and men, (iii) housing and (iv) educational facilities for the children of service men.' 
I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended which would enable the honourable member for Bass to move an amendment without delay. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)The question is that the motion be agreed to. All those in favour say aye. All those to the contrary say no. 1 think the 'ayes' have it. 
Government supporters - The 'noes' have it. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Shipping and Transport been drawn to a statement inferring that the passenger ship 'Empress of Australia' has been used to ship potentially explosive cargoes? Does his Department appreciate the serious risks involved in carrying explosive compounds on a passenger ship? What action is being taken to ensure that the practice is discontinued? 
The Opposition has raised this matter in order to draw from the Government a statement of its intentions in relation to the war in Indo-China in particular. There are many aspects of the Government's belated scaling down of its Vietnam commitment which must be clarified. Let me state briefly the Labor Party's policy on the commitment, as enunciated by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  during last year's election compaign. This was that a Labor government would, on election, immediately notify the governments of the United States and South Vietnam that all Australian forces would be withdrawn from Vietnam. This withdrawal would then be carried out as swiftly as possible, having regard to the security of Australian troops and the need for a brief transitional period so that alternative arrangements could be made. 
There was no doubt about our policy at that time, lt was clearly understood by all honourable members on this side of the House and, I believe, by the Australian electorate that if the Australian Labor Party was returned as the government all Australian troops in Vietnam would be returned to Australia by the end of June 1970. Under the policy outlined by the Leader of the Opposition there would not be a single Australian serviceman in Vietnam. This policy of swiftly phasing out the Australian commitment was condemned by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  during the election campaign. But the course of events in Vietnam has forced the Prime Minister to accept an incoherent and dilatory version of this policy of disengagement. On 22nd April in this House the Prime Minister made a conventional statement seeking to justify the presence of Australian troops in South Vietnam. He went on to initiate a policy of phased withdrawal - completely opposed to all his previous statements on the need to maintain a viable force in Phuoc Tuy province. The Prime Minister, who had always adhered to the thesis of one out, all out, was forced into the position of a phased withdrawal, although a leisurely and in many ways extremely risky phased withdrawal. According to the right honourable gentleman this would be begun by the withdrawal without replacement of the 8th Battalion. 
Several aspects of the Prime Minister's statement warrant re-examination in the light of what has happened in the intervening period. He said the timing of the Battalion s withdrawal would be determined by the general circumstances in the task force area. This would depend on the progress of Australian projects to assist the greater capability in the South Vietnamese forces. 
The 8th Battalion was posted to Vietnam in November last year. In the normal course of posting to Vietnam the Battalion would have been relieved in 
November this year, after one year's service. The Prime Minister indicated this in his speech on 22nd April. He went on to say that whether the Battalion's departure could be brought forward would depend on general circumstances in Phouc Tuy and the progress of Vietnamisation. It must be emphasised that the Prime Minister posed a clear alternative. He did not say that the 8th Battalion would serve its full 12 months and not be replaced. He clearly implied that the Battalion could be withdrawn before serving its full 12 months. 
This was the last heard from the Prime Minister on the withdrawal of the 8th Battalion. The timing of the 8th Battalion's withdrawal from Vietnam remained cloaked in secrecy until a cryptic statement by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in answer to a question asked by the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  last Thursday. The Minister quoted the Prime Minister's statement that the Battalion would be withdrawn in November or before if circumstances made it possible. He went on to say that the 8th Battalion would be withdrawn in November, culminating in a march through Brisbane on 12th November. This was the first public reference to the withdrawal date by a member of the Government. The Prime Minister had strongly indicated a possibility of pulling out this Battalion before its posting expired. 
However, the 8th Battalion will have served its full term of a year before it is returned to Australia. The 900 men to be withdrawn will have received no dispensation, although it was the Prime Minister who raised the hope that their term of service in the war zone would be cut. The Government has made no attempt to explain or to justify the decision to keep the Battalion in Vietnam for the full term. It was clear in November 1969, at the time of the last general election, when Labor's policy on Vietnam was announced by the Leader of the Opposition, that if Labor won our troops would be withdrawn from Vietnam by the end of June. It was just, as clear from the Prime Minister's statement, since he had specifically referred to the 8th Battalion, that the phased withdrawal into which he had been forced would begin before the expiry date for the withdrawal of the Battalion from Vietnam. Yet the Prime Minister has remained singularly silent on this question in the House; but, as 1 have pointed out. the Minister for Defence, in answering a question put to him last week, pointed out that the 8th Battalion would march through Brisbane on 1 2th November next. 
So the Prime Minister had strongly indicated a possibilty of pulling out the Battalion before its posting expired. However, the 8th Battalion will have served its full time of 1 year before it is returned to Australia. The 900 men to be withdrawn will have received no dispensation, although it was the Prime Minister who raised this hope. The Government has therefore made no attempt to explain or to justify the decision to keep the Battalion in Vietnam for the full term. The only conclusion that can be drawn is that the general situation in the task force area is not satisfactory and that the progress of Vietnamisation is lagging. At any rate the 8lh Battalion has been made to serve out its full 12 months virtually to the day. 
There can be no doubt that hopes of an early return were raised by the Prime Minister; they have since been cruelly dashed by the Minister for Defence. It is regrettable that 900 soldiers and their families in Australia should have been exposed to this sort of psychological and emotional barrage in a year of heavy casualties in the task force area. Certainly this failure to set a firm withdrawal date and the vagueness of the Prime Minister's statement have been felt by the troops in Vietnam. I refer to a report from the Australian Associated Press correspondent in Saigon which appeared in the Melbourne Sun' on 1 0th August under the heading Diggers: When do we leave?' The report stated that it had been widely anticipated by 5,300 men at Nui Dat that an early date for the Battalion's withdrawal would bc set at its fourth battalion parade. Now the Minister for Defence has made the bald statement that it will nol be back before mid-November. This has been done without any explanation of what the general circumstances are in the task force area and what has been the progress of South Vietnamese Army units in Phuoc Tuy province. These were the determining factors of the withdrawal date. The troops qf the 8th Battalion will be kept in Vietnam to the last possible moment. 
In the absence of any explanation from the Minister for Defence it must be concluded that the situation in the task force area is lagging sadly behind the Prime Minister's expectations in April this year. This raises many implications about what the battalions remaining in Vietnam can be expected to achieve balanced against the potential hazards. In April the Prime Minister said that after the initial withdrawal further cutbacks would be made in the next 12 months if pacification and Vietnamisation succeeded as  President  Nixon hoped. This means that in the 12 months from the middle of November the Government will consider phasing some more troops into the overall withdrawal. By the end of 1971, according to the Prime Minister's logic, the Government may have been able to pull out another battalion. The commitment to the end would then remain at around 4,000 combat and support troops remaining in Vietnam in 1972. This is a reasonable projection to make on the basis of the Prime Minister's statement. It is up to the Government to refute it or state explicitly what it intends in Vietnam. 
It is worth recalling that the Prime Minister's decision to cut troop levels was made in April after  President  Nixon announced United States withdrawals of 150,000 in the ensuing 12 months. This would leave around 250,000 men in Vietnam by next April - about 45% of the peak build-up reached in 1968. This target was put back by the subsequent ill advised thrust by the United States into Cambodia but withdrawals have since been resumed with an objective of 100,000 out by May next year. According to present plans the Americans will have at least 50,000 of these men home by the middle of October. The first Australian withdrawal will just be getting under way by this time. 
In the 2 years that America has been slashing its troop level in Vietnam the Australian Task Force and air and naval units have remained intact. The withdrawal of the 8th Battalion will cut the Australian commitment by about 12%. In the same period America will have halved its force. lt is probable that by the end of 1971 all 
American combat forces will have left Vietnam. If the Government persists on its present policy lines a substantial Australian combat component will still be there. It has never been explained what the role of the remaining troops will be in the Task Force area after -the one battalion cutback. Is it intended that these troops should be used to protect the Australian training teams and the jungle warfare school announced by the Prime Minister? Will they be confined to a defensive role at the Nui Dat base? What effective South Vietnamese units will be available to support them if an aggressive role is to be maintained in the province? 
It is no reflection on the professionalism or the heroism of the Australians who have served in the Task Force to question what has been achieved in securing Phuoc Tuy province. The province has been a traditional stronghold of the insurgents since the time of the war between the French and the Viet Minh. In the opinion of one observer, Professor Milton Osborne of Monash University, it is doubtful whether the level of security in the province has changed greatly since 1967 despite the presence of the Task Force. In such a context the presence of the Australians in Phuoc Tuy province becomes increasingly meaningless. This year has been a particularly bloody one with a number of mine disasters and several accidental deaths. Even on the Government's terms it is pointless and wasteful to push the commitment any further. If anything is to be achieved by Australia to redress the mistakes and prodigious waste of the war it has to be along the lines of a political settlement directed towards the rehabilitation of the whole of Indo-China. 
The Government's reluctance to justify or even state its revised objectives in Vietnam contrasts dramatically with the reassessment of the war in the United States. In June the United States Senate voted overwhelmingly to repeal the Tonkin Gulf Resolution of 1964 which was used to justify full scale American intervention. There have also been moves by influential sections of Congress for legislative action to get all the troops out by the middle of 1971. Certainly  President  Nixon still has overriding authority on the timing and scope of American withdrawal. But there is a very real chance that all American troops will be out of Vietnam, at least by the end of next year. 
Unless there is a swift reappraisal by the Government the pace of the American withdrawal may be so swift that the Government will be caught up willy-nilly in a whirl of events beyond its control. This would cost it the last semblance of credibility or any capacity to act with decision and independence. Even on the level of cynical calculation it is the Government's duty to explain to the Parliament and the people what it intends for the Australian Task Force. The events of the past few months have been marked by a callous indifference to the impact of the withdrawal announcement on the men in Vietnam, and in particular on the members ot the 8th Battalion in Vietnam. This must not be repeated with the remaining troops in Vietnam. The Government's intentions must be made perfectly clear to these men. It is too late for vague generalisations about the military situation in the Task Force area or the progress of Vietnamisation. The only objectives must be to get the troops quickly out of Vietnam and stop the needless waste of Australian lives. 
I ask the Minister for Trade and Industry a question. What is the Government's attitude to the Tariff Board's proposal that there should be a systematic review of the Australian tariff? 
-Speaking to the motion, may I say firstly that what the Leader of the House  (Mr Snedden)  had to say about this matter I think conforms to the proposition I put to him. This is particularly the case in relation to the conclusion of the business of the House at midnight. I informed the Leader of the House that I intended to move an amendment to item No. 4 on the notice paper which relates to the sitting hours of the House. I advised him that my amendment would be to the effect that the automatic adjournment of the House should take place at 10.30 p.m. and that the  Speaker  would leave the Chair at 12 midnight. The Opposition believes that this is a very sensible arrangement. If the House were to adjourn at 10.30 p.m. it would mean there would be  H  hours in which members of the Parliament could speak on the motion for the adjournment of the House. Normally the Leader of the House agrees to an adjournment debate on Wednesday night and Thursday night of each week which means, if my amendment is agreed to, that there will be 3 hours for an adjournment debate. Therefore, I indicate to the Leader of the House that I intend to move by way of amendment that there should be an automatic adjournment at 10.30 p.m. and that, as i have already said, the  Speaker  should leave the chair at midnight. The Opposition believes that it is a sensible proposition to bring the adjournment debate to an end no later than midnight. The Minister for Labour and National Service, in his capacity as Leader of the House, has accepted the proposition, because it is embodied in the amendment that we now have before us, but he still adheres to what he has contended on previous occasions, that the adjournment should be moved at 11 p.m. and not 10.30 p.m. as I had originally requested, lt is also quite true, as the Minister has pointed out, that when he moved a similar motion during the last session of the Parliament 1 moved an amendment. At that time I moved that the automatic adjournment motion should be moved at 10.30 p.m. and not 1 1 p.m. 
The Minister is prepared to accept the proposition that the  Speaker  should leave the chair at midnight, which would mean the end of the adjournment debate. The recommendation of the Standing Orders Committee is that the motion for the adjournment of the House should be put to the Parliament at 10.30 p.m. If that recommendation is accepted the requirements of the Opposition will be met. Indeed I had proposed to move an amendment along those lines to the Minister's resolution that the automatic adjournment should be moved at 11 o'clock. In view of the fact that this proposition is still to be considered by the Parliament and honourable members will have the opportunity to make a decision as to whether the automatic adjournment should take place at 10 p.m., 10.30 p.m. or 11 p.m., if the Leader of the House decides to move an amendment to the recommendation of the Standing Orders Committee, the Opposition at this stage is prepared to accept the amended motion of the Minister, that the adjournment should be moved at 11 p.m. and that the  Speaker  should leave the chair at midnight. 
When this new procedure is adopted it will mean that in normal circumstances there will be provision for 1 hour of adjournment debate. In these circumstances I want to indicate to the Parliament and to the Leader of the House that the Opposition does not oppose the amendment in view of the fact that the recommendations of the Standing Orders Committee have yet to be debated and a determination will then be made one way or another. 
I ask the Minister for Defence: How many Royal Australian Air Force pilots have resigned since the recent increases in flying pay were announced? Does the Minister expect more resignations because of dissatisfaction with the meagre nature of the increases? Would the Minister care to elaborate on his statement to the House last week that RAAF pilots incur less responsibility than do civil pilots? Tn particular, did the Minister intend to imply in his answer that RAAF pilots do not have to perform, maintain and police the rules and standards of civil flying? 
 I direct a question to the Minister for Defence. I ask: What stage has been reached in the Royal Australian Air Force's assessment of a replacement for the Mirage III-O aircraft? Has the Minister seen a report in the technical journal 'Flight International' of 18th June which claims that the assessment is concentrating on the Mirage FI? fs this report correct? If not, what other aircraft are being considered by the RAAF? 
I ask the Treasurer: What is the strength of the Commonwealth Actuarial Branch? What legislation and what Commonwealth agencies does the Branch administer and supervise? Is the establishment considered adequate to carry out these functions? If not, what is the Treasurer doing to recruit more actuaries? 
The Budget proposes a defence vote of $l,137m. This is slightly higher than last year's spending. The incidence of overseas spending is about the same as last year with approximately $233m flowing overseas. I do not want to examine in detail the strategic comments of the Treasurer  (Mr Bury).  The Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  made a comprehensive statement on these aspects in March and his remarks were fully canvassed in this House. It is reasonable to assume the Minister wilt make a similar statement either late this session or early next year. In future the defence vote will be susceptible to the impact of the 5-year rolling defence programme. It is too early to judge what effect the new system of planning will have on defence spending and administration. In the past I have expressed some scepticism about the nature of the changes, but the new scheme should be given a chance to prove its effectiveness. The House will have a better opportunity to look at the new concepts of programming and planning in the Department of Defence after the defence report which I understand outlines the organisation in some detail. 
The first significant point to be noted about the defence vote is that it represents a lower share of total Commonwealth spending. The estimate of defence spending in the current financial year is about 14.4 per cent of Commonwealth spending, compared with 15.56 per cent of spending last year. As a percentage of the gross national product defence spending is fairly steady at around 3.7 per cent. Opinions may vary on what is an acceptable level of defence spending, bearing in mind the need to allocate resources over a host of Commonwealth agencies, ft does not accord with repeated statements by successive Treasurers and Ministers for Defence that there would be a steady increase in defence spending in the interests of long-term security. This year's planned spending does not bear this contention out. This defence spending contains a disguised element - the Vietnam war. 
There has never in any Budget been an attempt to assess the impact of Vietnam on the defence budget. The Government has usually given the cost of the Vietnam war as the simple accounting difference between the cost of maintaining the task force and the other units in Vietnam and the cost of keeping them in Australia. On this sort of calculation the cost of the Vietnam war to Australia is usually given at around $40m a year. But obviously there are hidden costs which have never been assessed and attributed to Vietnam. Certainly the defence forces had to be built up and reequipped in the early 1960s. 
The Government had adopted a deliberate policy of letting them run down so resources could be diverted elsewhere. Inevitably with the employment of such a policy the stage is reached where the forces either have to be regenerated or they have to be disbanded altogether. This was the state of atrophy reached in the early 1960s and no responsible government could tolerate, the degree of deterioration which had developed as a deliberate choice of policy. 
Unfortunately the need for rebuilding and re-equipping was distorted by two things: the expedient resort to selective conscription, then the tragic commitment to the Vietnam war. This has meant that resources which should have flowed to reequipment and to improving pay and conditions of service were switched to the national service machinery and to the prosecution of the war. This makes it impossible to sift out from the items of defence spending how much was unavoidable spending on re-equipment and how much was spending generated by the conduct of the war. 
With the course of the war changed dramatically in the past 2 years and with the Government reluctantly acting to liquidate the commitment, there are signs that again the Government will put the squeeze on essential defence spending. This shows up in the estimates for pay and equipment in each of the three Services. There is not the slightest indication in the Budget that significant expenditure is to be incurred on improving military salaries or essential items such as housing. 
The table on the defence services at the end of the Treasurer's Budget Speech is most revealing in this aspect, lt shows that the estimate for spending on :i Vii salaries in the Department of Defence is up by 14 per cent. In the other Service department manned by civilians, the Department of Supply, civil salaries are estimated to rise by around 10 per cent. In the three Service departments, Army, Air and Navy, Service pay and civil salaries are lumped together. Here the total increase for the 3 departments is less than 6 per cent. 
It is reasonable to assume that civil workers in the Service departments would be getting comparable salary increases to their colleagues in the departments of Defence and Supply. Yet the overall increase because of new awards, determi nations and approvals is substnatially less. Quite plainly this difference in relativity derived from the heavy weighting of Service pay and increases here are so negligible or even non-existent that the whole relativity of these departments is dragged far below the increased estimates for the civil departments. This whole question of Service pay compared to comparable civilian  employment  has erupted in the past few weeks. It can only continue to be a serious embarrassment to the Government and a potential threat to the structure of the Services. 
Unless improvements to Service pay and conditions are made quickly, there will be hundreds of officers and enlisted men voting with their feet and returning to civilian employment. This is one of the lethal after-effects of conscription; a Government can ignore Service pay and conditions if it has the national service machinery geared and well-oiled. It is also one of the consequences of the commitment to a bad war and the pointless luxury of stationing Australian troops in Singapore. 
There are other elements of defence spending which show the influence of these distorting elements. Spending on naval construction is down quite sharply from $33m in 1969-70 to $14m in 1970-71. There may be specific reasons for this very great decrease but it is hard to reconcile with the emphasis on expansion in the March speech of the Minister for Defence. 
Also, there is no indication in the Budget of any significant commitment for the Cockburn Sound base. It is not mentioned in either the Treasurer's speech or the attached documents. This seems significant because works projects such as the Royal Australian Navy receiving station at Darwin, the Army Aviation Centre at Oakey and the Learmonth airfield get specific mention in the Treasurer's statement. No doubt the Minister for the Navy  (Mr Killen)  will be able to explain the reason for the drastic reduction in the naval section of the defence vote and certainly the Minister will have the opportunity to  give  some indication as to why other essential defence services, particularly those areas upon which the defence Services are so dependent, will receive consideration as outlined in this Budget but no mention is made at all in relation to Cockburn Sound. If there is any firm intention to develop Cockburn Sound beyond the commitment to a feasibility study for the preliminary causeway development that the Minister referred to in a debate in this House during the last session, surely this should have been outlined in the Budget. 
In his March statement the Minister for Defence referred to the need for a greater maritime capability in the waters around Australia, the Pacific Ocean and the seas of the north. There is no evidence in the Budget of the application of this guideline to specific planning and spending. There is also a marked falling off in spending on arms, armaments and equipment for the Army. The estimated spending for 1970-71 is SI 2.1m below that of the previous year and some $40m below 1968-69. 
The whole emphasis of defence planning has been towards the equipment of one division, again motivated by the Vietnam war and the Malaysia/Singapore commitment. The Army is not being equipped beyond this to the detriment of the Citizen Military Forces. There have been many criticisms of the sort of equipment available to this back-up element of the Army. Taking into account criticisms of insufficient and obsolete equipment, it is hard to reconcile a sharp drop in budgetary provisions. 
Once more the inescapable conclusion remains that this pari of the Services is languishing because of Vietnam. With the major effort of the Regular Army geared to support the Vietnam war and to a lesser extent the Singapore post, only meagre resources of equipment and manpower arc available to the CM"F. In March the Minister for Defence imposed a major emphasis on the role of the CMF stressing that follow-up forces were essential in defence planning was to have credibility and substance. 
Last year's Defence Report states the composition of the Australian Army in the following terms: 
The Army now comprises a substantial Regular Army and Citizen Military Force, welded together to form a Field Force, organised and equipped primarily for operations in South East Asia, and backed by an Australian Support Area structured to support the Army as a whole. 
By any criteria this is an extremely optimistic assessment of what the Army is. In particular, it is hard to see how the CMF has been welded to the Regular Army to form a field force. At toe moment the Government has a substantial component of the Army in Vietnam; it has a battalion in Singapore; the rest of the structure is strained to the utmost in backing up these commitments. Loosely linked with this structure geared for war and overseas posting is a neglected CMF dwindling in numbers, inadequately equipped and uncertain of its place in the overall design and its future role. If the Regular Army has the duties of fighting and training overseas, preparing relief forces overseas, training national servicemen, and servicing the CMF something has to take the crunch. 
Under the present structure the CMF has been the bunny. With the present inadequate structure of the CMF there are further distortations. Its numbers are badly balanced between the eastern States and the west where there are only 3 or 4 battalions. In the eastern States there are remarkable variations in the size of units; ranging from a mere handful of enthusiasts in some depots to units of adequate size in others. This was pointed up by General Brogan of Eastern Command when he opened a new CMF training depot at Gosford a few weeks ago. According to the General the Gosford company had a strength of 35 in a district of some 20,000 people. This lack of strength would be repeated in many other units. Overall numbers have fallen by some 20 per cent in the past few years. Unless this drift can be arrested and numbers lifted it seems pointless to provide new depots on the lines envisaged by the Treasurer in the Budget. The Minister for Defence seemed to recognise the importance of the CMF in his March statement: unfortunately identification of the problem does not constitute a solution. 
The Budget provides for only marginal increases in the total strength of the Forces. Provision is made for an overall increase of around 1.400 with 516 going to the Navy, 817 to the Army and 58 to the Air Force. This seems a rather meagre increase in terms of the recruiting effort. According to the estimates for 1970-71 the recruiting campaign will cost $ 1,836.000. This works out at about SI, 250 for each man added to the total strength. The difficulties of recruiting in the present context must be acknowledged, but it seems that either the targets are too low or the expense is pitched too high. In crude terms a cost benefit ratio of 1,250 to 1 would be regarded as disastrous in any field of commercial endeavour. 
Another source of disappointment with the defence aspects of the Budget is the absence of any intimation that procurement from Australian industry is to be stimulated. The Minister for Defence and his predecessor have made great play over the past few years of new policies to obtain offset and co-production agreements and sub-contracting arrangements for Australia's industry.  Mr Deputy Speaker  , at this stage I ask for leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, prior to the suspension of (he sitting I had begun to discuss the Government's policy in relation to offset agreements and the procurement overseas of defence orders. Another source of disappointment with the defence aspect of the Budget is the absence of any intimation that a procurement from Australian industry is to be stimulated. The Minister for Defence and his predecessor have made great play over the past few years of new policies to obtain offset and co-production agreements and subcontracting arrangements for Australian industry. These new policies have secured immense publicity and a great deal of praise for these gentlemen. However, if we look behind the mass of words at concrete results, the achievement has been very disappointing. 
I questioned the Minister for Defence earlier this year about sub-contracts and offset arrangements negotiated with the United States since 1966. The Minister was able to list 4 sub-contracting arrangements with an approximate total value of $4.6m. With regard to co-production and offset deals the Minister pointed to negotiations over the range of helicopters whose procurement was announced in the March statement. 
This is a distressingly small counterweight to throw into the scales against the mass of defence spending which has flowed to the United States over the past few years. In broad terms it is doubtful whether even a half of 1 per cent of the Governments defence spending in the United States has been offset in any way since 1966. In contrast to previous years, spending on new aircraft for the Royal Australian Air Force rates little attention. The Treasurer referred to the outlay of $l3m in 1970-71 for the lease of 24 Phantom aircraft from the United States. 

 Sir. the dreaded words Fill were not mentioned once in the Budget Speech. However, there are very important aspects of Air Force procurement which should be mentioned and examined in some detail now. These relate, for example, to the replacement of the Mirage 1110 aircraft. It may seem strange to be initiating discussion of this matter at this stage. The last Mirage was delivered to the Air Force early in 1968. By even the most conservative standards they should have a very effective life at least until the end of the 1970s. 
The Minister acknowledged this in answer to a question from me on Friday last. He said it would be about 2 years before any replacement would be recommended to the Government. When this was done emphasis would be put on the need to ensure maximum Australian production. In the meantime detailed assessment was being made of possible replacements. He said that the Mirage FI was one possible replacement under consideration; other aircraft were being developed in the United States. 
This statement of the Minister's is interesting because in the past few months there have been kites flown about the replacement of the Mirage. One Press story in January claimed the Air Force was looking at the FI 5 being developed in the United States and expected to be delivered to the American Air Force by 1975. This has a 'not to be exceeded' ceiling price of $US15.3m. At a quick calculation, replacement of 100 Mirage Ills with 100 F15s would work out at around $1.5 billion which would make even the Fill project look like a modest bit of procurement. Also under development in America is the Navy's FI 4 which is relatively cheaper with a unit price estimated at the moment at $US13.5m. Multiply by 100 and we get an estimate of $1.35 billion for a Mirage replacement. 
These are the only planes under development in the United States which could fill the bill; so the Minister seems to indicate that the F14 and the F15 are under serious consideration as replacements. He did concede he was not quite sure of all the types. The Minister said that the RAAF would be intensifying its evaluation of aircraft which would closely meet Australia's requirements. I would suggest that on even the most preliminary basis the F14 and the FI 5 be excluded from this examination, whether they meet Australia's requirements or not. 
Another story which gave all the appearance of being inspired appeared in the technical journal of 'Flight International' on 18th June of this year. This claimed the RAAF was concentrating its Mirage 111 replacement on the Mirage FI. According to this report the FI had been accepted in principle as Australia's replacement. This was the report on which I based my question to the Minister; it has the appearance of authority and it has not been explicitly denied by the Minister. 
In one very important respect there is a case to be made for deferring the decision of the Mirage replacement as long as possible. Fighter design, which evolved very slowly during the 1960s, seems to be on the verge of some revolutionary advances in the late 1970s. The experience gained from the air wars in Vietnam and the Middle East is being applied in all current aircraft development. In addition there are signs of a technological breakthrough which could make all aircraft in existence more quickly obsolete than is usual even for these quickly obsolescing items of equipment. 
If these technological innovations are realised expensive new fighters would become clumsy white elephants easily outflown by their successors. New areas of aeronautical technology promise a vastly improved performance through the application of new improved aerodynamic design. These regions of technical advance are only just beginning to be investigated and their introduction to Service aircraft could be several years away. However, they do offer major improvements and threaten the effective life of aircraft without them. These factors could form the basis of a case for delaying selection of a fighter replacement until later in the decade when these areas of technology have been more fully evaluated. 
Against this situation must be set the present state and future prospects of the Australian aircraft industry. The Minister stressed that maximum Australian production would be required. The plain fact is that if a decision is delayed for too long Australia will not have an aircraft industry to produce these aeroplanes. This was put in stark terms by the Minister for Supply  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  in the Senate last Wednesday when he outlined the situation at each of the 3 major defence aircraft establishments. This boiled down to the basic conclusion that after the middle of 1972 each of these establishments would be in a pretty desperate plight. The Minister also made the point that the Mirage replacement would not have any impact on the state of the industry for at least 4 years. 
If the survival of the aircraft industry is considered a dominant factor then the Mirage FI can be seen as a logical replacement. There would be many advantages in replacing the Mirage 1110 with the Mirage FI for an aircraft industry already familiar with the contractor and the production line. The difficulty here would be stopping the rundown in the aircraft industry until such a sizeable project could be begun. 
I have raised these alternatives in this debate because one of the most important defence issues in the next few years will be aircraft procurement. At the moment the Air Force has 100 Mirage fighters intended for interception and strike-ground attack roles. The future of the Fill is still very doubtful. At least until 1973 the Air Force will have the Phantom F4Es on a leasehold basis from the United States. It will be a task requiring much careful analysis to bring into focus and define precisely and coherently what aircraft we will need and what their functions will be. This entails an early definition by the Royal Australian Air Force of its requirements for the Mirage replacement and the maximum explanation and public debate of these requirements. The Fill has ensured that never again can the debate over choice of an aircraft be confined to the Cabinet room and the upper echelons of the Royal Australian Air Force and the Department of Defence. For some 6 years we had the situation where Government spokesmen said that the FI 1 1 had to be bought because it was the only plane that met the requirements of the Air Force. When asked to define these requirements the stock reply was that these requirements were embodied in the Fill. 
What is needed now is a precise statement of what aircraft are wanted and what their roles should be, bearing in mind the strong chance that we will never get the Fill. This means that the Mirage replacement will need to be assessed in the light of the presence of the F4E which has the versatility to double in most of the roles of the fighting aircraft. With requirements rigidly defined they could be examined on the basis of cost, advancing technology and the future of the Australian aircraft industry. This is the key issue and it will be analysed and developed in some detail by the Opposition in the months ahead. The debate on the Budget and, one would hope, the debate on the Estimates which will follow will provide opportunities not only to consider in greater detail the Government's defence programme as it relates to the Royal Australian Air Force, the Navy and the Army - the branches of the Services with which I have dealt in some detail today - but also to discuss at greater length the need to establish, as  I  pointed out during the last session of the Parliament, an aircraft industry in Australia. I hope that both the Minister for Defence and the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake- 
Brockman) will take the opportunity during this session to indicate what the Government plans in respect of the establishment of an aircraft industry. 
As the Minister for the Navy has had the opportunity this afternoon to listen to a number of matters that were put to him concerning his own Department, particularly on the question of Cockburn Sound and the reduced expenditure proposed for his Department during this financial year, I hope that he will offer some explanation not only to members of the House but also to the public as a whole of what he proposes this financial year. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Has the Prime Minister received a submission from the Tasmanian Government concerning the proposal to establish a rail link between Launceston and Bell Bay? If so, did the submission contain a request for financial assistance to establish the link? If the Prime Minister has received this submission will he advise me whether it has been considered and whether in point of fact the proposal has been favourably considered? 
Is the Minister for Defence aware that the United States Army has an official known as the SergeantMajor of the Army who acts as an ombudsman to investigate complaints of servicemen about pay and conditions of service? ls the Minister also aware that this official investigates hundreds of complaints each year in acting as an effective link between the men in the field and the defence machinery? Would it be possible to introduce such a post to the Australian Armed Services so grievances can be quickly investigated and redressed? 
The statement by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  contains some useful improvements to the complex structure of service pay and allowances. In particular, it is a valuable reform to tie the scale of pay rates for officers up to the rank of colonel and equivalent ranks to the executive and administrative areas of the Public Service. When there is a general increase in the pay rates of these Public Service classifications, it will automatically now to officers. As the Minister pointed out, the pay rates of the senior echelons of the Services have for some years been relative to salary scales in the Second Division of the Public Service. The improved pay rates and the tying of the rates to the Public Service may have some impact on the rather alarming wastage rate among officers in the Armed Services. 
The Minister referred to the process of continuous review and ajustment in the pay rates of other ranks. He pointed to the broad grouping of these servicemen andwomen into appropriate categories with skills aligned to comparable areas in industry. According to the Minister, pay rates in the Services had been adjusted because of determinations of industrial tribunals and other authorities. What the Minister  seems to be putting  forward is a three-part structure with officers above the rank of colonel relative to the Second Division of the Public Service, all other officers geared to Third Division pay rates, and other ranks relative to comparable groups in industry. This may be a rational structure with the increasing dissatisfaction evident among servicemen of all ranks in recent years when they try to assess their pay and conditions in relation to their civilian peers, lt is too early to predict how effective such an arrangement will be. 
One of the difficulties is that the more the comparison made between the civilian and the. serviceman is pointed up, the plainer it is to the serviceman how unfavourable is his relative status. This has already been a problem in the Navy; it may become an increasingly vexed issue in the other Services. Of course it is much easier simply to tie officers pay scales to the Public Service than to provide an effective yardstick between other ranks and workers in civilian jobs. Obviously where hundreds of awards and determinations apply there can be no simple rule of thumb. But the choice has been made to move in this direction and the Government must face up to the task of formulating acceptable measures of relativity. If this means substantially higher pay scales for the Service groupings then the Government must accept the need to introduce them swiftly if the growing discontent among servicemen is to be damped down. 
The Minister referred to the complexity of allowances payable to members of the Services. He pointed to the review under way of these allowances, and announced as an interim measure an increase of 25c in the Service disability loading. The range of allowances payable to members of the Services is a most formidable one. The task of assessing these allowances and making adjustments will be a lengthy one. F.ach Service has a long string of allowances, some of which apply to every member every day of Service life and others of which may apply most infrequently. During the last session I sought to obtain from the Ministers for the 3 Services a list of the principal allowances and an indication of how they have been varied over the past 20 years. The answers are much too complicated to summarise here but I think 2 definite conclusions can be reached from an analysis of the mass of detail contained in them. 
The first is that the range of allowances for each of the Services is urgently in need of rationalisation. There seem to be many historical anomalies in them. There is no reason why the system of allowances should not be sharply cut down and simplified. I see no reason why a scale of allowances common to the 3 Services should not be introduced. Such a scale could be left sufficiently flexible to allow for exceptional circumstances applying to only one of the Services. The Minister has emphasised the need for such a scale by seizing on the Service disability loading common to all servicemen to give an interim boost to servicemen. The second point I would like to make is that in real terms the value of most of the allowances has not been sustained over the past 20 years. Admittedly, this is a broad generalisation but I believe it can be justified by a close examination of the allowance scales. The whole question of allowances is certain to be a touchy one in the months ahead. An example is the increases in flying pay which provoked an angry response from airmen. 
In summary the measures announced by the Minister represent an improvement. The honourable gentleman seems to be aware that swift action is required to avoid a series of crises in the Armed Services over pay, allowances and conditions of service - all areas where the interests of servicemen have been neglected for far too long. In the first week of the sitting the Opposition moved to extend the terms of reference of the Select Committee on the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund to cover pay and conditions of service. This move was rejected by the Government. We will be taking appropriate action in the next 3 weeks to move a similar motion. The honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  has since given notice - presumably with the consent and blessing of the Minister for Defence and the other Service Ministers - that he will move for the setting up of a joint select committee to report on the pay, conditions and housing of the defence forces. The Minister's statement today is evidence of the need to set up a committee of this nature. I believe there is general agreement on both sides of the House on need to bring these areas under parliamentary scrutiny and I urge the Government to sponsor the setting up of such a joint select committee as swiftly as possible. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr  Giles) adjourned. 
[8.55J - The Leader of the House  (Mr Snedden)  has put a proposition before the House which relates to the recommendations of the Standing Orders Committee. He has properly pointed out that in all of these issues the respective parties have determined that there should be a free vote. Therefore on the matters now before us. which relate to the days and hours of sittings, members will no doubt determine their own attitudes and if they believe amendments should be moved, they will be moved accordingly. Putting my own proposition, as all honourable members are entitled to do in debating the issues before the House, I want to make it quite clear that I support the recommendations of the Standing Orders Committee. The Standing Orders Committee of the Parliament deliberated on these matters over a long period. The Parliament now has before it the unanimous recommendation of the Committee in relation to sitting Jays and the hours of sitting. 
The Leader of the House has indicated that while he is prepared to put this proposition before the Parliament - and he has done so - he has made it perfectly clear that he disagrees on 2 issues. Firstly, he disagrees with the actual commencement time of sittings. The Minister believes that instead of commencing at 2 p.m. on Tuesday and Wednesday as the Standing Orders Committee recommended, the House should commence at 2.30 p.m. Secondly, the Minister said that he believes that in the second week of sitting the House should commence at 2.30 p.m. on Monday instead of 2 p.m. and that on Tuesday it should commence at 2 p.m. instead of at 10 a.m. as proposed by the Committee. T he Leader of the House has indicated that if amendments are moved along these lines he will support them. I say again that the parties have decided that every honourable member should have the opportunity to express his opinion about when the House should meet. The days of the sittings have already been determined but the times at which the House will meet are being discussed now. Honourable members will have an opportunity to express their opinion in this respect. 
I believe that the determination of the Standing Orders Committee that in the first week the House will sit on Tuesday at 2 p.m. and conclude at 10.30 p.m. is a very sensible one. The Leader of the House has suggested that the conclusion time of 10.30 p.m. should be extended until 1 1 p.m. I have very strong views on this point. The point has been made in this House in recent weeks that a move - a determined move and I believe a sensible move - ought to be made to reduce and even to eliminate the late hours at which this House sits. This is one of the reasons why I indicated to the Government only last week that the 
Opposition would move an amendment that when the adjournment was automatically moved at 11 o'clock the  Speaker  should leave the Chair at midnight. The Leader of the House agreed to accept this proposition. Therefore, at that stage we did not pursue the amendment that the Opposition had foreshadowed to the effect that the adjournment would take place at 10.30 and that the  Speaker  would leave the Chair at midnight. We accepted the proposition of the Leader of the House that the motion to adjourn should be moved at 11 o'clock and the  Speaker  leave the Chair at midnight. Most members would believe that we should sit longer hours in the daylight and that the House should adjourn as early as possible at night. 
I do not disagree with that suggestion. I am merely supporting the recommendation of the Standing Orders Committee that the question should be put at 10.30 p.m. and that the House should rise no later than midnight. If the honourable member for Wills moves an amendment that the adjournment should be moved at 10 p.m. I hope there will be a corresponding amendment that the  Speaker  leaves the chair at 11 p.m. This would suit my purposes. I am not prepared to accept the proposition of the Leader of the House that the adjournment should be moved at 11 p.m. or that the recommendation that the adjournment should be moved at 10.30 p.m. be extended beyond 10.30 p.m. Most honourable members believe that we ought to cut down on the hours during which members sit in the Parliament at night. This is a move that has been sought by members for a long time. The recommendation of the Standing Orders Committee is, at least, a move in that direction. That Committee's recommendation is that the House adjourn at 10.30 p.m. 
I want to make my position perfectly clear. I cannot support any amendment that may be moved, or the proposition of the Leader of the House, that the automatic adjournment should take place at 1 1 p.m. The second point I want to make relates to the hours at which the Parliament should commence sitting. I refer to the first week of the sittings. The recommendation of the Standing Orders Committee is that the House meet at 2 p.m. on 
Tuesday and adjourn at 10.30 p.m.; on Wednesday it meet at 2 p.m. and adjourn at 10.30 p.m.; on Thursday it meet at 10 a.m. and adjourn at 10.30 p.m.; and on Friday it meet at 10 a.m. and adjourn at 4 p.m. The Leader of the House has indicated that it is the recommendation of the Standing Orders Committee that in the second week the House would meet on Monday at 2 p.m. and adjourn at 10.30 p.m. and on Tuesday it would meet of 10 a.m. and adjourn at 10.30 p.m. The Leader of the House has suggested that rather than meet at 10 a.m. on Tuesday it should meet at 2 p.m. His reason for making this suggestion is that a number of standing committees normally meet on a Tuesday morning. The Leader of the House should understand that if the recommendations of the Standing Orders Committee are accepted the Parliament will be sitting for 4 days in each week and not 3 days and that in both weeks 2 mornings will be available just as there are under existing arrangements. At present the House meets at 2.30 p.m. on Tuesdays and Wednesdays. If we accept the recommendations of the Standing Orders Committee 2 mornings each week will be available during which parties can have their normal Party meetings and standing committees can meet, so no alteration is necessary. I find it difficult to follow the reasoning of the Leader of the House on this question. Two clear mornings would be available each week under the new arrangements. 
In the first week we would meet at 2 p.m. on the Tuesday so that morning would be available. On the Wednesday we would meet at 2 p.m. and that morning would be available. In the second week we would meet at 2 p.m. on the Monday with that morning available and on the Wednesday we would meet at 2 p.m. and Wednesday morning would be available. In these circumstances the same arrangements would apply under the new Standing Orders as apply now. I support the recommendations of the Standing Orders Committee. If those recommendations are adopted the House will adjourn at a reasonable hour each night and members will not be subjected to late hours as they have been in the past. We will be able to have debates without our discussions continuing into the early hours of the morning. I support the recommendations in relation to sitting days and sitting times as recommended by the Standing Orders Committee. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Air, upon notice: 
What allowances are payable to members of the Royal Australian Air Force. 
In what circumstances is each allowance payable. 
What was the amount of each allowance in: (a) 1945, (b) 1951, (c) 1961 and (d) 1970. 
I ask the Minister for Labour and National Service: How many summonses have been issued in the past week for failure to obey call-up notices? What priorities are being followed in issuing these notices? Have student leaders, in particular members of Students For a Democratic Society, been singled out for discriminatory treatment in issuing the notices? Finally, why has the Government found it necessary to continue the persecution of John  Zarb  by billing him for heavy Commonwealth legal costs? 
My question also is addressed to the Minister for Labour and National Service. Was a young conscientious objector on a hunger strike transferred at the weekend from Long Bay Gaol in Sydney to a psychiatric centre? If so, what is his physical condition and how long will he be confined? Will the Minister remit the remainder of the young man's gaol term in view of his physical and mental suffering? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Labour and National Service. 1 preface my question by reminding the Minister that yesterday during question time I directed a question to him concerning a young conscientious objector who has been committed to the Long Bay gaol, and who, following a hunger strike by him, had been removed to a psychiatric ward in a hospital for treatment. I ask the Minister whether he has further investigated this matter and whether he is now in a position to give me details concerning this case? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Defence. What operations have been conducted in recent months by the Canberra bomber squadron at Phan Ranh in Vietnam? What are the main targets bombed by the squadron and in what provinces are those targets? Has the squadron been used in bombing operations beyond the Cambodian border? 
The Opposition does not oppose the passage of this legislation but naturally, in view of some of the provisions of the Repatriation Bill, the Opposition will make a number of criticisms of the second reading speech of the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  and of the repatriation provisions contained in the Budget. I think it would be correct and fair to state that a great deal of dissatisfaction has been expressed at the Government's attitude towards those pensions to which consideration is normally given each year in the Budget for this country's ex-servicemen who suffer from a war-caused disability. At this stage I do not offer any criticism of the Minister because I make it quite clear that I personally have found him sympathetic to individual cases. If the amounts provided by the Government in the Budget are  insufficientand if theconsideration which  it has given to the compensation plans submitted to it by the Returned Services League fall short of what that organisation sought and of what honourable members on this side of the House believe would be ordinary justice, the Minister, together with those who comprise the Ministry deserves to be criticised. 
I read with a great deal of interest some of the statements made by the Minister when he attended annual meetings of some of the most important organisations in this country. I refer to 2 annual congresses of the RSL, both in New South Wales. I believe that at the annual congress held recently in Queensland the Minister devoted the greater part of his speech not to repatriation matters or to the war compensation that ought to be paid to ex-servicemen who suffer a war-caused disability but rather to what the Minister described as kicking the Communist can. One can appreciate the attitude of the Minister in this respect. I do not doubt his sincerity in these matters. But the plain fact is that if the Government wants those who have the responsibility of governing the RSL in every State and at the Federal level to become less interested in the matters that affect the welfare of exservicemen obviously it has to distract the attention from the paucity of the Government's attitude to the payment of compensation to those who have served this country in 2 world wars and in Korea and who are now serving Australia in Vietnam. This was the attitude adopted by the Minister. 
In view of the Government's attitude to repatriation matters, one would expect that the Minister would be looking for an excuse or for some alternative matter to distract the attention of members of the RSL. Certainly he did not want the RSL to deal with the Government's attitude or, for example, to kick the Government can. That is exactly what should have been done. But the Minister devoted his attention and his remarks to other matters which 1 believe were completely inappropriate, in view of the Government's decision in relation to the matters to which I have referred already and in view of the Government's reluctance to provide a reasonable payment to those who have qualified under the Act through disabilities caused as a result of their service in the interests of this country during wartime. 
Let me pass to the second point I want to make. It is quite obvious that, despite the fact that we are told that there is a very active ex-servicemen's committee of Government members, honourable members who sit on the opposite side are showing a complete lack of interest in the legislation. One need look only at the list of speakers to confirm what I say. Four speakers from the Opposition are listed, but not one member of the Government parties is prepared to stand up and be counted on repatriation matters - not one. I hope that as a result of what 1 say some members on the Government side will accept the challenge to stand up and be counted and to support the Government's attitude on repatriation matters. 
The list of speakers is before me. I issue a challenge to honourable members opposite to stand up and be counted. The plain fact is that 4 members from this side believe that some things ought to be said about the Government's attitude to repatriation matters. No-one from the Government side can find anything to criticise in the Repatriation Bill. This is a disgrace, lt is a complete farce. For this reason, I believe the Government stands condemned. This is the same Government that so many years ago - almost 21 years years ago, in point of fact - said that repatriation was a great and proud responsibility and that it would ensure that pension values were not allowed to deteriorate. I invite all honourable members on the Government side to examine the value of pensions that are being paid to repatriation pensioners as announced by the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  in the Budget and by the Minister in his second reading speech. In every classification or group - the special rate pensioner, the general rate pensioner, the war widow rate, the service pension rate and all other rates - if one relates the pensions to the cost of living in this country or, if I could take the accepted standard, to the minimum wage payable to workers and if one compares the payments that are now being made as a result of the Government's action as expressed in the Minister's second reading speech, one sees that in every case there has been a deterioration in the value. I am not asking honourable members, or those who may be listening to the broadcast of the debate, to accept my word for this or the word of other honourable members on this side of the House. I refer Government supporters to a pamphlet issued by the national executive of the Returned Services League. In 1967 and again in 1970, the RSL found it necessary to produce 500,000 pamphlets to inform the people of this country of the way in which pension values have been allowed to deteriorate under this Govern.ment. There can be no shadow of doubt that this Government made a definite promise to the RSL, to those who had served this country in time of war, and, indeed, to this Parliament that pension values would not be allowed to deteriorate. 
Let me now pass to one or two matters that are contained in the Bill itself. The Bill amends the Schedule to the Repatriation Act to include the increases provided in the Budget. It goes further than the traditional Repatriation Bill after the Budget to make very significant changes to the machinery of administration under the Repatriation Act. These changes are designed to open the way for additional Repatriation Boards to be appointed. This is the only aspect of the Bill of which one can approve as being a reasonable step towards improving the machinery by which an ex-serviceman may appeal to a Repatriation Board to have a disability accepted for pension purposes. But the most significant change is the increase of $2 a week in the special rate pension. This follows the pattern of recent years with the special rate increasing with reasonable frequency. Unfortunately, these increases do little more than maintain the parity of the special rate with minimum weekly earnings. Nothing has been done to restore the real value of the special rate pension to that prevailing in 1950. 
There has been a steady erosion of the real value of the special rate pension in the intervening years. This drift was arrested to some extent in recent budgets but nothing has been done to restore the value of the pension in relative terms. It now seems that once more the real value of the special rate pension is to be allowed to deteriorate. In last year's Budget the special rate pension was increased to $36 a week. This compared with an average minimum wage in the capital cities of $38.90 a week. In rough percentage terms the special rate pension was 92.3 per cent of the average weekly minimum wage. The increase in this year's Budget gives a special rate pension of $38 a week, an increase of $2 a week, as the Minister has pointed out. I may not be correct on this point, but I do not believe that all TPI or special rate pensioners will receive the full $2 a week. I believe that the increase of 50c a week which has been applied to service pensioners, which, pf course, has already been announced in the social services legislation, will mean in effect, because the ceiling limit has not been raised, that a special rate pensioner, if he is in receipt of a part service pension in addition to the special rate pension, cannot receive the full $2 a week. I may be wrong, but this has been done before. We are accustomed to this. 
Of course. It is normal with this Government to announce an increase of $2 a week when in actual fact the increase is not $2 a week. 
The honourable member who interjects was very vocal on repatriation matters a long time ago but he ceased to speak on them in recent years. One cannot blame him for that. The honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  will have the opportunity to stand up and support the Government if he believes that its attitude is correct. Having made this point in relation to what will happen to special rate pensioners and those who are in receipt of a part service pension, I will say that the plain fact is that the people of Australia believe there will be an increase of $2 a week. In actual fact the great majority of them will lose 50c a week of that increase. The Minister may dispute this if he wishes. Even in relation to the small proportion of Australian wage earners who get the minimum weekly wage the special rate pensioner is lagging behind. When the rate is compared with the average weekly earnings of the male wage earner the loss of purchasing power Ls even more striking. In 1950 when average weekly earnings were $21 a week the special rate pension was $14 a week. Now with average weekly earnings at about $73 a week the special rate pension is $38 a week. In effect the special rate pension has increased by 157 per cent in the last 20 years while average weekly earnings have climbed by 247 per cent. Again, let the honourable member for Mallee dispute that. 
The RSL and the TPI ex-servicemen's associations have made the reasonable request that the special rate pension should be lifted to the level of the minimum weekly wage and varied as this wage rate rises in the years ahead. On an estimate supplied by the Minister to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  in May this year, this would involve extra annual spending of about $8.5m. This estimate may have increased in the subsequent months but it does not represent an excessive charge on the Budget. It would mean an increase of less than 20 per cent in the total appropriation for special rate pensioners. Again the Budget has failed to restore the real value of the special rate pension. More alarmingly, it has resumed the downward drift in the real value of the special rate pension compared with minimum weekly earnings. 
The Bill also increases the intermediate rate payable to those who perform only part time work or intermittent work because of war caused injuries. According to the latest report of the Repatriation Commission there are only 1,307 recipients of the intermediate rate pension. This shows the great generosity of this Government which increases the intermediate rate of pension. This is less than 1 per cent of all repatriation pensioners. The intermediate status may be an admirable concept in theory, but it is an extremely difficult one to prove and sustain before the tribunals. To support this contention may I again refer to the small number - out of all those who have a war caused disability there are little more than 1,000 - who are in receipt of the intermediate rate of pension. Is it any wonder that this Government seizes on this particular category to grant a small increase. Undoubtedly there are many general rate pensioners who should be entitled to an intermediate range pension but for some reason or other cannot clinch their case. 
Increases in the intermediate pension can be made with only a negligible impact on total repatriation spending. For this reason the increase of $1.50 a week in the intermediate rate must be kept in perspective. Of course, the increase is welcome to those pensioners who get it, but until the onus of proof is made less stringent the intermediate pension is only of marginal significance in the structure of repatriation pensions. 
The most important defect of the new repatriation measures of the Budget lies with the general rate pensions. Most repatriation pensioners are general rate pensioners assessed at one level of disability or another. The general rate pension is $12 a week. It has been $12 a week since 1964. It has not been changed by this Government. In 1968 the Government introduced a new concept by grafting a special compensation allowance on to the general rate pension. This allowance was designed to assist seriously disabled ex-servicemen having an assessed incapacity ranging from 100 per cent to 75 per cent. Initially this was $3 a week. In last year's Budget it was raised to $5 a week, and in the recent Budget it was raised to $6 a week. This means that pensioners assessed at about 75 per cent incapacity get extra increments ranging from $4.50 to $6 a week. 
According to the latest report, 25,073 pensioners are assessed at 100 per cent incapacity and get the maximum pension of $18 a week, including $6 compensation allowance. This tapers away to 834 pensioners assessed at 75 per cent incapacity and getting $13.50 a week. The value of the general rate pension falls sharply at this cut off point. For example, a pensioner assessed at 70 per cent disability would get $8.40 a week. If he were assessed at 75 per cent disability he would get $13.50 a week. I think that this matter ought be looked at in proper perspective, and because of its importance let me repeat what I said about :t. If a pensioner who is in the category of those receiving part of the 100 per cent war pension were assessed at 75 per cent disability he would get $13.50 a week. That is, for an assessed disability differential of 5 per cent the difference in pension is $5.10 week. On the one hand there is an assessed disability differential of 5 per cent, and on the other hand there is a pension differential of 38 per cent. This shows the injustice of the compensation allowance structure. No-one begrudges the extra money to the disabled ex-servicemen who give it. However, the whole tendency of the compensation allowance grafted arbitrarily on to the general rate pension structure is to distort it, quite unjustly, against those assessed below 75 per cent disability. 
What 1 said a few moments ago about the intermediate rate pensioner applies, I believe, with even greater force to the 100 per cent general rate pensioner. The Minister and the Department know that, although one must not accuse the Department because it merely carries out the policy that is laid down by the Government. 
But the fact remains that not only the Minister and the Department but also Government supporters know that the number of war service pensioners in receipt of a pension below 75 per cent of the general rate pension, that is those who have been accepted as having war caused disabilities, far exceeds the number of war service pensioners who receive a pension above 75 per cent of the general rate pension. The great majority of war service pensioners receive a pension below 75 per cent of the general rate pension, and they have received no increase in their pension since, I think, about 1956. They have been completely ignored by this Government. So once again this shows the attitude of this Government, which is: 'Let us pick out the smallest number. We can give them a small increase. We will ignore the rest.' That is what the Government has done consistently since it introduced the special compensation allowance. 
I know that when the special compensation allowance was introduced the then Minister for Repatriation said it was designed to help those whose level of incapacity was assessed at between 75 per cent and 100 per cent. He said that they were in greater need of financial assistance than those whose incapacity was assessed at below 75 per cent. Would the Minister tell me, this House and the Australian people why a person on a 70 per cent disability pension should be so disregarded? How can a distinction be drawn between a 75 per cent disability pension and a 70 per cent disability pension? Is there this great difference between a person whose disability is assessed at 75 per cent and another person whose disability is assessed at 70 per cent? How do the Ministers and the Government justify this kind of discrimination? 
The Minister knows that those pensioners who are in the 100 per cent disability cate-  gorymaynotalwaysreceivethespecial  compensation allowance because the Government has directed that an ex-serviceman on a 100 per cent incapacity pension, whose disability is said to be defective eyesight or defective hearing, is not entitled to the special compensation allowance on the basis that his defective hearing or defective eyesight can be corrected. Again I say to the Department and to the Minister that it cannot always be proved that defective eyesight can be remedied merely by supplying glasses or that defective hearing can be corrected merely by supplying a hearing aid or administering surgery. The Minister knows this. But in every case this matter is weighted against the ex-serviceman. 
The conclusion which the RSL must have reached, and the conclusion which I certainly have reached, in these matters is that ex-servicemen will receive no sympathy from this Government, despite the fact that each year the National Executive of the RSL meets, in the precincts of Parliament House, the sub-committee of Cabinet which deals with repatriation matters and presents the League's compensation plan to it. Each year the National Executive of the RSL asks that a certain measure of justice be given to ex-servicemen, but just as easily the Government pushes the request aside and gives no consideration at all to the compensation plan presented by the RSL. I invite honourable members to examine the compensation plans which have been presented by the National Executive of the RSL over the last 4 or 5 years. It has asked that a measure of justice should be given to the ex-servicemen of this country, but the requests have been refused. 
One way out of this inequity would be to extend the scale of compensation allowances - and I am referring now to the special compensation allowances paid to pensioners whose disability is assessed at between 100 per cent and 75 per cent - down over the whole range of general rate pensions. This would mean a range of special compensation allowances from $6 at 100 per cent disability to 60c at 10 per cent disability. This is the only way of putting the generate rate pension on a logical and equitable basis. Certainly it would reduce the special compensation allowance to an absurdity as a concept, but it is impossible to justify the payment of the allowance to a 25 per cent range of assessed disability. The special compensation allowance should be scrapped  and general rate pensionsshould be calcu  lated on a rate of $18 a week. Alternatively, the whole structure of repatriation pension payments should be revised. 
On the face of it we have a 3-part pension structure at the moment with the special rate, the intermediate rate and the general rate. In actual fact, the structure is a 4-part one with the general rate, the intermediate rate and 2 sorts of special rate. In the first class of special rate pension are those disabled ex-servicemen assessed at above 75 per cent disability. They get a base pension ranging from $9 to $12 a week plus a special compensation rate ranging from $4.50 to $6. In the second class are those assessed at from 10 per cent to 70 per cent disability. They get a basic pension ranging from $1.20 to $8.40 a week. The overwhelming number of repatriation pensioners falls into this last class. I shall give the figures to illustrate my point. There are 184,212 pensioners in this group out of a grand total of 219,841 repatriation pensioners. These general rate pensioners have not had an increase in pension for more than 5 years. 
The discriminatory approach in the application of the general rate pension has made the whole assessment system into a lucky dip. lt is not a difficult task to classify the totally and permanently incapacitated ex-servicemen, lt should not be a difficult task to classify the intermediate pensioner under the broad general designation laid down by the Repatriation Act. Regrettably, it is difficult to meet the onus of proof in establishing intermediate status. This is one area where the onus of proof could be relaxed and greater flexibility permitted to boards and tribunals to bring more disabled ex-servicemen within the ambit of the more generous intermediate pension provisions. But the real crunch comes with the genera) rate pensioners. Here the impossible task is imposed of assessing degrees of disability in 5 per cent shades of difference. Each 5 per cent shade of difference is worth 60c to the weekly pension. The impossible task of assessing in this way would be made more equitable if the compensation allowance was applied over the whole spectrum. Unfortunately, it is not and a pensioner on a 75 or 80 per cent assessment is immeasurably better off than one on a 70 or 65 per cent assessment. 
The special compensation allowance has been used as a rather crude device to gloss over the basic injustice to the bulk of general rate pensioners. It has served to make an agonisingly complex table of assessments even more intolerable. The request repeatedly made in successive RSL pension plans has been for the raising of the general rate pension to 50 per cent of the minimum wage. This would bring the 100 per cent pension to about $21 a week. lt would be a much fairer result to those on the lower rungs on the basts of a $12 a week 100 per cent pension. Admittedly, it would involve the absorption of the special compensation allowance into the 100 per cent general rate pension, but it would ensure a much more equitable spread of benefits over the whole range of disabled ex-servicemen. 
It is grossly unfair to add a loading to the base pension on the basis of a rather stringent assessment of requirements. This is a completely unwarranted procedure in terms of welfare criteria. Certainly upgrading the general rate pension in this way would mean a sharp increase in outlay. According to the Minister for Repatriation's costing of the RSL's pension plan it would have cost $39. lm in the present financial year to do so. This may well have been too much for the Budget to bear over one year. However, it could have been spread over 2 years with the introduction of a base general rate pension of $18 a week. In the next Budget it could have been raised further to the $21 or so needed to bring it up to 50 per cent of the minimum wage. 
The pension rate for war widows should have been increased to the same level. AH these women get is an increment of 50c to $15.50 a week, which falls some $6 a week below the 50 per cent of the minimum wage sought by the RSL. lt means nothing to the Government that the pension rate for war widows is $6 a week below the amount sought by the RSL. There have been similar meagre increases for war orphans and in Service pensions, the domestic allowances for widows and the recreation transport allowance. 
However, one benefit which could have been increased without any significant charge on the revenue is the funeral benefit, which has remained at 850 for the past 18 years. 
Yes, a means test is applied. The initial aim of this benefit was to remove the possible stigma of a pauper's burial from ex-servicemen. A grant of $50 was sufficient in 1952 to cover minimal funeral costs. However, although the cost structure of burials has risen by more than 200 per cent in the intervening years, the benefit is still the same. The average cost of a funeral of acceptable standard is $196, which means that $146 has to be found above the funeral grant. If relatives cannot find this extra money the RSL or some other ex-servicemens' organisation has to give quite substantial assistance. This imposes unwarranted demands on the welfare services and resources of these devoted organisations. On the question of the funeral allowance, the Government has, as in so many other areas in the field of repatriation, displayed a lack of generosity as well as a lack of courtesy and consideration to those people who have served this country in time of war. The funeral allowance has not been altered for 18 years despite the promises of the Government to which I referred earlier in my speech. How does the Minister justify this kind of attitude? How could his predecessors justify it? The Minister and the Government know that this kind of attitude cannot be justified. Obviously all honourable members on the Government side of the chamber know that it cannot be justified, but they have refused to participate in this debate. 
I revert to the war compensation plan which was submitted to the Government by the national executive of the RSL in April of this year. It is a reasonable plan. I have already dealt with most of it. Obviously the national executive thought that the special rate pension should not be less than the minimum wage, that the general rate pension should be at least SO per cent of the minimum wage, that the war widow's rate should be SO per cent of the minimum wage and that the funeral grant should be increased to at least $150, but its representations have been ignored by the Government. In its war compensation plan of -1970 the national executive of the RSL also requested the Government to set up a committee of inquiry to examine the Repatriation Act, which has not been altered in a major way since 1917, except for the amendments which have been made from time to time by various governments to the schedules and other incidental matters. Except for the committee of inquiry which was set up by a Labor government in 1946, which is 24 years ago, there has been no significant examination of the provisions of the Repatriation Act. 
The Opposition is in agreement with the request of the national executive of the RSL on behalf of its members that a committee should be set up to examine the Repatriation Act and bring it up to date, remove the anomalies which exist at present and suggest improved ways in which to assess pension rates. Such a committee should also examine the question of the onus of proof, the controversial provision which the Government has refused to examine carefully since the last alteration was made in 1946. I refer to the onus of proof in respect to the rights of exservicemen who served this country in the First World War. For many years I have submitted in this Parliament that exservicemen of the First World War should be given free medical, pharmaceutical and hospital treatment. The cost of this treatment is outlined in a reply which was given earlier this year by the Minister for Repatriation. He said that it would cost this country about $4m. which is certainly far less than the cost of one Fill aircraft. This proposal for free treatment for First World War ex-servicemen has been refused consistently by this Government. Every member of the Government has voted against amendments that we have moved for this purpose during second reading debates on repatriation Bills. It is a simple request. It ought to be examined. It is one of the matters that ought to come within the ambit and the terms of reference of a competent committee set up to examine and re-adjust the Repatriation Act. The onus of proof in relation to cancer and the automatic acceptance of cancer as a war-caused disability are matters against which honourable members on the other side have consistently voted. They have voted against the inclusion in the Repatriation Act of provisions in this respect. 
The Opposition supports the submission of the national executive of the Returned Services League that there should be a committee of inquiry to examine the Act. The Opposition view differs in only one respect. The RSL believes that such a committee of inquiry ought to be a nonparliamentary committee. Speaking personally I would accept this proposition. If it were accepted by the Government I believe that the Australia Labor Party as a whole would be happy to agree to an inquiry on that basis. I foreshadow that I shall move an amendment seeking the setting up of a joint select committee of this Parliament to examine the Repatriation Act. The Opposition is of the opinion that as  it  is S3 years since the Act was  first  introduced there is now a need to examine the numerous matters which I have  raised  during my speech in this debate, including not only the basis upon which the pensions are paid but also the basis upon which  the  Repatriation Department makes so many of its decisions. ] take this opportunity to pay  a  tribute to the Repatriation Department. 1 have no criticism to make of the Department or its officers. As I said earlier, they merely carry out the policy of this Government. In my long experience of repatriation matters 1 have found repatriation officers to be most generous and courteous  in  their attitude and approach to repatriation matters  as a  whole. 1 pay  a  tribute to the Minister for the way in which he deals with individual cases. 1 believe that be is sympathetic but he has to administer the policy which  is  forced upon the Parliament and upon the people of this country by the Bill which was introduced only a fortnight ago. The amendment I propose envisages the setting up of  a  joint select committee of the Parliament to inquire into the Repatriation Act and the anomalies which we believe ought to be removed. I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: whilst not opposing the second reading of die Bill, the House is of the opinion that - (.1) the pension rale for the TPI ex-servicemen, the general rate pensioners and war widows should not have been allowed lo decline notwithstanding the proposed increases, in relation to average weekly earnings, and 
a joint select committee should be appointed to inquire into and make recommendations on all aspects of the provisions and operation of the Repatriation Act'. 
Should this amendment be agreed to it would not involve any amendment to the Budget. It would not require any increase in expenditure. The amendment merely supports the contention of those who have responsibility to attend to matters affecting the welfare of servicemen of this country. I submit that all honourable members on the other side should recognise the need for such an inquiry because of the long period since the last full-scale examination was made of the Act. Surely in these circumstances no member on the Government side ought to vote against the amendment which 1 have moved on behalf of the Opposition. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Is the amendment seconded? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Defence and is supplementary to the question asked by the Leader of the Opposition. Does the Minister recall the circumstances which led to a revolt by certain members of the naval forces quite recently? Has he received a report on this matter when members of the Royal Australian Navy expressed their concern and displeasure with the Government over pay rates and conditions of service? I ask the Minister whether there is any parallel between this situation and the one referred to by the Leader of the Opposition. If the Minister has received a report on the case involving personnel from the Royal Australian Navy, is he in a position to inform this House? 
I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition from moving a motion in the following terms: 
That the Director of the Australian News and Information Bureau be called before the bar of the House to determine: 
What instructions were given by the Prime Minister's office on the News and Information Bureau coverage of the Moratorium march; 
Whether a specific instruction was given by a member of the Prime Minister's staff that the Leader of the Opposition be pictured with a Vietcong flag; 
On whose instruction the photograph was deliberately falsified; and to supply for tabling the assignment sheets of the photographer or photographers involved. 
The Opposition believes this to be a matter of the gravest importance. It is a matter which should be clarified immediately because the personal reputation of the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  depends on it. The status and prestige of the Australian News and Information Bureau, which is the official vehicle for publicising and promoting Australia overseas, has been gravely questioned by the coverage of the Moratorium March. By a careless and irresponsible action the Prime Minister has impugned the operation of the Bureau, the tactics it employs in its work- 
I give notice that the Prime Minister no longer possesses the confidence of the House in that he allowed a faked photograph to be tabled in the House. 
 Mr Speaker,  I move: 
That the Prime Minister no longer possesses the confidence of the House in that he allowed  a  faked photograph to be tabled in the House. 
After all the difficulty that we have experienced since the House met at half-past two, the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  has agreed to a debate now because of the course of action adopted by the Opposition in moving that the Prime Minister no longer possesses the confidence of this House. Surely there was no one in the Parliament who could have been impressed with the reply made by the Prime Minister in relation to the motion which I moved only a short time ago for the suspension of the Standing Orders. 

 Mr Speaker, because we are dealing now with a censure motion, a motion which in essence states that the Prime Miniser no longer has the confidence of this House, I think thatI should indicate why I moved the motion in the terms that I moved it originally.I repeat that the original motion for the suspension of the Standing Orders was moved because we believe that the Director of the News and Information 
Bureau should be called before the Bar of the House to determine: 
what instructions were given by the Prime Minister's office on the News and Information Bureau's coverage of the Moratorium march; 
whether  a  specific instruction was given by a member of the Prime Minister's staff that the Leader of the Opposition be pictured with a Vietcong flag; 
an whose instructions the photograph was deliberately falsified; and 
to supply for tabling the assignment sheets of the photographer or photographers involved. 
When the Prime Minister replied to my original motion, he made no attempt to deal with the question of the faked photograph. He made no reference to this matter at all. He admitted that he had issued instructions to the News and Information Bureau to photograph the Moratorium, but this was as far as the right honourable gentleman went. The plain fact is that yesterday the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Nixon),  the responsible Minister, said emphatically that his department had not been given instructions. Well, this means in effect, as I said originally, that either the Prime Minister or the Minister for the Interior was not telling the truth. It appears that it was the Minister for the Interior who was not telling the truth. The Prime Minister admitted that he issued these instructions. Therefore, in essence, the Opposition submits that the Government has used the News and Information Bureau for the political objectives of the Liberal and Country Parties. Further, it has used the Bureau as an associate of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation which has a completely different charter and set of functions. The Prime Minister has destroyed in one stroke the objectivity of Australia's international publicity agency. Until this matter is clarified and responsible principles laid down for the further use of the Bureau it is impossible for the Bureau to be regarded as anything but an adjunct of the Federal Liberal Party secretariat. 
On 18th September, as part of the national Moratorium Campaign, marches were held in all major centres in Australia. A march was held in Canberra on the morning of 18th September. I believe it moved from the Australian National University to Parliament House. When the marchers assembled outside the House the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  left the Parliament and made a brief address to the people, mostly students, assembled on the steps of the House and on the lawns nearby. He then walked back through the crowd, pausing to speak to a number of marchers before returning to the House. In his brief address to the crowd the Leader of the Opposition stressed the need for complete orderliness and co-operation during the Moratorium march in Canberra. At this meeting he did exactly what he had done during the previous Moratorium march in May. This completely legitimate and consistent performance of his duties by the Leader of the Opposition haw been used in a scurrilous attempt to identify him with the presence on the outskirts of the crowd of 2 demonstrators carrying Vietcong Hags. They were stationed immediately outside the window of the parliamentary office of the Minister for the Interior. There were other flags and banners in the crowd, including several Australian flags and a flag of the Government of South Vietnam and the Thieu-Ky regime. 
During question time last Thursday a concerted attempt was made by members of the government to vilify the Leader of the Opposition because of his address to the meeting. It was even suggested by the Minister for the Interior in a distortion of the vilest possible kind that the Leader of the Opposition spoke under the Vietcong flag. This shameful untruth was subsequently picked up and repeated by the Prime Minister in a weekend address to members of his party.  Sir, to  refute this untruth the Leader of the Opposition tabled in this House a picture obtained from a newspaper source which showed there were no Vietcong flags visible in the gathering addressed by the Leader of the Opposition. Subsequently the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  tabled a picture which showed the Leader of the Opposition talking to members of the crowd while an obscured demonstrator carrying a Vietcong flag was passing in the background. As both the pictures were tabled in this House they were available for inspection by honourable members in the office of the  Clerk.  An examination revealed that the picture tabled by the honourable member for La Trobe had been taken by the Australian 
News and Information Bureau. That photograph was released to the Press Gallery by the Prime Ministers press secretary on the same evening. 
With the knowledge that the picture had been taken by the national News and Information Bureau the Leader of the Opposition's office contacted the Bureau seeking that all pictures of the march taken by the Bureau be made available to the Opposition. And how many pictures were taken on this occasion? T understand that no fewer than 71 photos were taken by the News and Information Bureau and the only one that the Prime Minister has had tabled in this House - not by himself, of course, but by one of his stooges whom 1 believe was quite innocent and unaware that the photograph had been doctored and had been falsified - is the one which was tabled by the honourable member for La Trobe. With the knowledge that the picture had been taken by the News and Information Bureau the Leader of the Opposition quite properly sought copies of the photographs. I understand that the  deputy  head of the Bureau referred the request to the Minister for the Interior who gave his approval. Some 60 pictures were then made available by the Bureau to the office of the Leader of the Opposition. On examination these pictures revealed 3 important matters. 
In the first place, the march had been most intensively covered by the News and Information Bureau. It could be fairly said that everyone who took part in the march is photographed at some stage in one of the pictures. The second point is that the Bureau pictures confirm that there were no Vietcong flags within cooee of the Leader of the Opposition while he spoke to the crowd. There are several pictures of the Leader of the Opposition during his address. The pictures show a clergyman; they show students carrying placards: but there is not a Vietcong flag in sight. This refutes on the evidence of Australia's official publicity Bureau that the statement by the Prime Minister and the Minister for the Interior that the Leader of the Opposition spoke under the Vietcong flag was an untruth of the most contemptible kind. The third point refers to the one picture the Government could find as evidence of the presence of a Vietcong flag in the crowd. On examination this one picture showed that the version tabled by the honourable member for La Trobe and distributed by the Prime Minister's office had been very severely tampered with. The photograph supplied by the Bureau shows the Leader of the Opposition standing by the roadway talking to marchers. In the background at least 50 yards away an obscured person is carrying a Vietcong flag. 
The version tabled by the honourable member for La Trobe has been sharply cropped and considerably blown up by darkroom processing. The Leader of the Opposition is magnified: the Vietcong flag is magnified. The perspective is completely destroyed. The Administration Building which can be seen in the background of the original picture cannot be identified in the tabled version. The whole effect is to bring the Vietcong flag much closer to the Leader of the Opposition and to conceal the fact that it is on the other side of the roadway at least 50 yards from him. This was tabled by the honourable member for La Trobe. As I have already said I make no criticism of him for doing this. I. believe he was completely innocent in this respect. I prefer to believe that he was not aware of his responsibility in tabling in this House a picture which sought to cook the evidence. The same assumption cannot be made about the professional ethics of those responsible for doctoring the picture in this way and distributing it to the Press. The confusion about the pictures is evidenced in the Press coverage the next morning. Most papers used the original News and Information Bureau's version. This is to their credit. 
In these photographic reproductions the background is so dark that it is difficult to pick out the flag at all. One newspaper, the Sydney 'Daily Telegraph', had to circle the flag to draw it to the attention of its readers. In another newspaper, the 'West Australian', the picture has been so cropped for publication that ironically the Vietcong flag is not visible at all. 1 understand that another version has been published with a rectangle on the original Bureau's photograph outlining the area to be blown up. This one picture was the only evidence the Government could produce in support of a completely false claim that the Leader of the Opposition spoke under a Vietcong flag. It should be emphasised that it had at its disposal the resources of the News and Information Bureau. Presumably, it had also the not inadequate facilities of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. There were also photographers in the crowd from the Australian Captial Territory Police, who also had a mobile film crew at their disposal. The Minister admitted this and defended the use of Police photographers in this House last week. There were also many Press and television photographers. 
The proceedings outside this House on the morning of the Moratorium were the most intensely filmed by still and movie photographers of any event since the Normandy invasion. Yet the best the Government could dredge out was this not in the least incriminating shot and the Government was afraid to mount its case without resorting to darkroom dishonesty. With all of the photographers at its disposal - the News and Information Bureau, the police in Canberra and Press men - all the Government could produce was one photograph which, as I have already pointed out to the House, had been doctored by the News and Information Bureau to meet the wishes of the Government. The Opposition rightly resented this most improper use of the Bureau to obtain this picture. The Leader of the Opposition made this perfectly clear in a number of strong statements over the weekend. 
Yesterday morning the Minister for the Interior was questioned by a reporter at the Melbourne Airport about the use of the News and Information Bureau. According to this report the Minister denied charges that Bureau staff had been briefed to cover the Moratorium at Canberra on 18th September. He said further, as reported in yesterday's Melbourne Herald': 
The News and Information Bureau has a legitimate right to cover events, whether it be a Moomba or a Moratorium. 
The Bureau operates under its own charter and neither I nor anyone else in the Government tells it what to do, restricts or censors it. 
The report states further that the Minister was answering charges made by the Leader of the Opposition. According to the story, the Leader of the Opposition had claimed that the News and Information Bureau's role was to promote immigration, tourism and trade. It seems this statement was made by the Minister for the Interior to a reporter from the Melbourne 'Herald' at 
Melbourne Airport yesterday morning. 1 understand that the reporter has confirmed that the published story is a fair and accurate report of what the Minister said. In the course of the day it was revealed in Canberra that the Prime Minister had directed the News and Information Bureau to cover the march. This was confirmed by the right honourable gentleman last night on the Australian Broadcasting Commission's programme 'This Day Tonight'. The Prime Minister was asked by interviewer Gerald Stone whether he had requested  the  News and Information Bureau to cover the Moratorium rally with the express purpose of trying to get a picture of the Leader of the Opposition in relation to the Vietcong flag. The Prime Minister answered, and  I  quote from the transcript issued by his office: 
No, I asked the Australian News and Information Bureau or sent a message to them to cover the Moratorium because after all there are a lot of pictures taken from a lot of different sources at these kinds of gatherings and they tend to bc brought forward later as evidence of police brutality or something of that kind, and I think its not a bad thing to have official records of what in fact goes on at them. 
This was the statement made by the Prime Minister last night on the programme This Day Tonight'. It approximates what the Prime Minister said in his reply this afternoon.  Mr Stone  asked whether he considered the News and Information Bureau to be a fit source to be taking this type of picture. The Prime Minister replied: 
Yes. certainly. 
Two comments need to be made on these answers. The Prime Minister claimed he wanted an official record of the gathering in case of later charges of brutality against the police. This, I believe, is utter nonsense. As the right honourable gentleman knows, and as the Minister for the Interior has stated repeatedly in the House, the police has already taken ample care for their protection. They did not need the solicitude of either the Prime Minister or the News and Information Bureau; they had their own cameramen. In any case, if the Prime Minister really feared for the reputation of the police, why did he not order similar pictures to be taken in the main capital cities for the same reason? Did the Prime Minister ring the News and Information Bureau agencies in Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane and give a similar direction? In the absence of evidence to the contrary, I do not believe he did. 
The second point lo be made about this television interview is that the Prime Minister completely shelved the Minister for the Interior. The Minister had claimed that neither be nor anyone else in the Government told the News and Information Bureau what to do or restricted oi censored it. The Prime Minister said in the plainest possible terms that he had directed the Bureau to photograph the Moratorium, and he confirmed it this afternoon. This put the Minister for the Interior in a completely 'hopeless position. The most charitable assumption that can be made is that the honourable gentleman did not know of the Prime Minister's direct intervention in his Department. It seems that neither the Prime Minister's office nor the Bureau had informed him of the direction to the Bureau. In any case, the Minister was forced to put out at Melbourne airport a version of his remarks Which differed sharply from the report which appeared in the Melbourne 'Herald'. In this statement the Minister said he had been asked by a newsman at Melbourne airport whether he had instructed the Bureau to photograph the march. This is the Minister's version of his reply: 

 No. It is not my practice to restrict, inhibit, or censor in any way the activities ot the ANIB. It is quite legitimate for the ANIB to take photographs of the Melbourne Cup or Moomba or the Moratorium. So far as the Moratorium is concerned. ... as I understand it, there was  a  call from the Prime Minister's office to the ANIB asking if a photographer would be present at the march. 
This completely contradicts the report which states that neither he nor anyone else in the Government directed the Bureau. I suppose one has to make one's own assessment of whether to take the word of the Minister or that of the reporter. Certainly, it would not be beyond a Government capable of doctoring a photograph to doctor the spoken word. Beyond the complete destruction of the credibility, confidence and day to day awareness of the Minister for the Interior a much graver issue emerges. This is the propriety of the Prime Minister in instructing the News and Information Bureau to take these photographs. The Prime Minister has accepted responsibility; he sees nothing wrong in this course of action. His explanation that it was done to protect the police is beyond ali credence. It is no part of the function of the Bureau to perform in this way. The only attempt made to justify this direction to the News and Information Bureau was a reference to clause (f) of the Bureau's charter. This clause states that within Australia it is one of the functions of the Bureau lo act as a common service agency for the supply of specialised publicity and information services to departments and instrumentalities requiring them. This is the statement the Prime Minister used this afternoon. He seized on this as a legitimate reason for using the Bureau as an agency of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. 
I challenge anyone in the Government to explain how the Prime Minister's action came within the ambit of this provision? Quite clearly it does not permit the taking of photographs to protect the police in demonstrations, even if this were the legitimate motive of the Government. The Opposition is gravely disturbed by these events; the Government's official publicity agency has been used against the Australian Labor Party and we resent it. We have become used to public servants writing speeches and submissions for the Australian Country Party. This intrusion of the News and Information Bureau into party politics cannot be countenanced. This is why we want this matter completely aired; we want the head of the Bureau to come before this House so that these matters can be probed. We want to know what instructions were given to the Bureau by the Prime Minister's office. In particular we want to know whether the Bureau was instructed specifically to get a photograph of the Leader of the Opposition and a Vietcong flag. Until this is clarified the Opposition believes that this instruction was given by the Prime Minister. Until it is shown otherwise we believe that a photograph taken by the News and Information Bureau was deliberately distorted and doctored in the Prime Minister's office. Let the Prime Minister deny the charge. It was then tabled in the House and distributed to the Press. Until these matters are clarified and the grave charges repudiated, the Government, by its action, has besmirched the reputation of an agency which has given honourable service to this country. It is the duty of the Government to facilitate the 
Bureau in clearing its reputation. Further, it is the duty of the Bureau to show that the entire responsibility for this abominable sequence of events must rest squarely, as I believe it does, on the Government. This is why I moved on behalf of the Opposition that the head of the News and Information Bureau be brought to the Bar of this House so that a full exposure could be made of the whole squalid business of the Moratorium pictures. What the Prime Minister said in reply this afternoon certainly does not satisfy honourable members on this side of the House. 
The Prime Minister has not been able to set aside the accusations that have been levelled at the Government and at the Prime Minister in particular that the Prime Minister sought to use for his own purposes an agency- of this country which has rendered very valuable service, according to its statute, in providing for the dissemination of news and information in Australia and abroad. He wanted to be able to put the Leader of the Opposition in an incriminating position. He. wanted to be able to use this agency against him and there is no excuse for a Prime Minister, first, to be able to use a Commonwealth agency in this way and, secondly, to use that agency for a political purpose to suit the motives of the Liberal and Country Parties - to use it to gain political advantage. Surely there can be no crime worse than the one which has been perpetrated by the Prime Minister on this occasion - not only to use the agency for this purpose but then to stoop to the unprecedented practice of doctoring a picture which the Prime Minister believed could be used for political purposes. 
T have outlined to the House the reasons why, in the first instance, I attempted to move for the suspension of standing orders. The Prime Minister could have accepted that motion. He was not prepared to do so. I was, therefore, forced into the position where a censure motion had to be moved against the Prime Minister. We believe that he no longer possesses the confidence of this House and T submit the motion to the House for its approval. 
I give notice that at the next sitting I shall move: 
That regulation 2 of the amendments of the National Service Regulations as contained in Statutory Rules 1970 No. 116 and made under the National Service Act 1951-1968 be disallowed. 
Will the Minister for the Army either confirm or deny that the amount of iron and steel scrap mentioned in the question addressed to the Minister for Trade and Industry could alternatively provide sufficient material for about 300,000 recoilless rifles or about 175,000 80mm mortars of the type manufactured in mainland Ullina and used by Vietcong forces? If the Minister cannot answer this question, will he cause an investigation to be made and report to the House? Further will he, in the light of his special responsibilities, make representations to the Minister for Trade and Industry to halt the exports? 
I want to refer to salary rates for professional engineers, research scientists and scientists working in the Commonwealth Public Service. This matter was raised as one of definite public importance earlier this year by the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron).  Unfortunately the debate was curtailed after one  speaker  from each side and it was not possible for the House to took at the important issues involved in any detail. Honourable members will recall the famous engineers case of 1961 which set guidelines for many other professional groups in the 1960s. This case established national minimum salaries for professional engineers and also laid down minimum professional academic standards and the duties of various classes of engineers in the Commonwealth Public Service, ft was a notable recognition by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission of the value to Australia's economic and technological growth of the engineering profession. Unfortunately in the subsequent 9 years members of this key professional group have declined in relative status and remuneration. 
In December last year after a lengthy hearing a revaluation case on engineers' pay and conditions was completed. The decisions reached in this case were extemely peculiar. Although 2 members of the Bench recommended substantially increased salaries, a decision was adopted which virtually rubber-stamped a determination by the Commonwealth Public Service Board. In effect the Commonwealth Public Service Board determined the new wage rates and because of the composition of the Bench hearing the claim, this determination was approved. The net result of the protracted hearing was that the great Volume of economic and professional  evidence put by the engineers was largely overlooked. A decision was introduced which completely failed to maintain the relativity of professional engineers. 
The presiding judge in the Commonwealth Public Service case,  Mr Justice  Wright, said the revised rates determined by the Public Service Board did not do full justice to professional engineers.  Mr Commissioner  Portus said the increases put forward by the Public Service Board were inadequate to preserve the standard of the diplomate, graudate and experienced engineer relative to non-professional employees. 
The overwhelming impact of this decision fell on professional engineers in the Public Service. About two-thirds of Australia's professional engineers are public servants. These highly trained and skilled men cannot negotiate over-award salaries. Over the past 9 years these key personnel have seen the advances made by the 1961 case gradually whittled away. In particular the wage standards of engineers relative to the salaries of clerical workers in the Commonwealth Public Service have declined considerably. For example, in 1961 after the engineers' case a base grade engineer got $4,400 a year at the top of the salary range. A clerical officer on a comparable salary range got $4,660 at the top of that particular grade. 
At the moment, a base grade engineer gets $5,118 at the top of his salary range. This is an increase of about 16 per cent since 1961. By comparison, the equivalent clerical officer, without promotion to a higher grade, gets a maximum of $6,997. This is an increase of about 50 per cent since 1961. Quite clearly a Commonwealth Public Service engineer has lost ground sharply compared with his fellow clerical worker. In real terms the purchasing power of his salary which was much the same as a clerical officer in 1961, is now some 34 per cent below that of the clerical officer. This is a gauge of how Commonwealth Public Service engineers have fallen behind other public servants in their salary claims. 
Following the failure to obtain anything like wage justice from the Arbitration Commission's split decision of 3rd December last year, a new claim was made directly on the Board on 6th May this year. This claim was rejected by the Board in a statement on 18th June. In this statement the Board made the concession that it saw salary anomalies but did not believe them to be sufficiently great to warrant correction. The Board made the further claim that its rates remained competitive with salary rates in private industry. 
With support of the great majority of its engineer members the Professional officers Association of the Commonwealth Public Service recommended a course of industrial action which was begun on 6th July. The main prong of this action was an overtime ban with the proviso that this should not affect work required for the maintenance of essential services where safety and life are involved. Engineers were also advised to resist pressures to lower their professional standards in coping with increasing work loads, even if this resulted in delays and inconveniences to major departmental projects and services. Further, they were advised not to assume responsibility beyond their delegated authority, and not to give engineering orders or directives to subordinate staff who were getting higher salaries. Finally, in view of the shortage of professional engineers the industrial programme stipulated that they refrain from undertaking projects and tasks that could not be adequately engineered. 
With this forceful programme of industrial action under way, the engineers' associations resumed negotiations with the Board. On 18th September, the Professional Officers' Association decided to stop the industrial action it had initiated so that a pay review could be made by the Board. The Association told the Board and its members by circular that the review of salaries should be completed within 6 weeks. This is the situation that exists at the moment; serious industrial action has been terminated so that the Board may have another look at engineers' salary rates. The situation ls an explosive one because the effectiveness of 4 important Commonwealth Departments - the Department of Civil Aviation, the Department of Supply, the Department of Works, and the Postmaster-General's Department - is at stake. These Departments must suffer if there is any substantial loss of engineers; their operations must also be seriously impaired if failure to restore parity to engineers' salaries provokes industrial action along the lines I have indicated. 
A further cause for alarm at the sharp drop in salaries and status of these men is the key role of professional engineers in the modern technological society. In September last year I raised this matter with the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton).  I put it on that occasion to the right honourable gentleman that of all developed countries, Australia had the lowest rate of engineers to population. I emphasised the importance of making the profession more attractive to university graduates. The Prime Minister disputed the claim that Australia was critically short of trained engineers. He said further that the Government has paid attention to the training of engineers, technologists and technicians through the setting up of colleges of advanced education. In the Prime Minister's view, this would provide enough engineers for Australia's technological development. I believe the evidence refutes the Prime Minister on all these counts. 
According to an article published in the journal 'The Professional Engineer' in August 1969, Australia fell considerably behind other developed countries in the number of engineers qualifying each year. The Professional Engineer' said that using 1963 as a base year, 118 engineers were qualifying each year in Australia for each one million of population. Comparable figures for other countries were: France 132, Germany 335, Japan 297, Sweden 243, United Kingdom 2O0, United States 183, and Russia 737. The survey concluded that Australia had the lowest engineering work force of any developed industrial country for which data could be obtained. This, I submit, is hardly a proud record. 
I turn now to the plight of research scientists in the Commonwealth Public Service. Nearly all research scientists in this area are in the Department of Supply, the Atomic Engergy Commission and the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. For some years it has been necessary to have a Doctor of Philosophy degree and other professional experience for employment in the Public Service as a research scientist. The salary claims of these key workers paralleled the experience of the engineers; they were given a salary increase of 11 per cent to 15 per cent by the Board in 1969 and after a long hearing these rates were confirmed by the  Deputy  Public Service Arbitrator. Chiefs of Division in the CSIRO and the AEC were given an 18 per cent increase in 1969 by the Board, and a further marginal increase in February this year by the  Deputy  Arbitrator. The right of appeal was exercised in these cases and the decision was given by a bench of 3 on 4th September. This gave no increases to most research scientists; increases of from 1 to 8 per cent were given to top level research scientists and chiefs of division. 
A similar position exists with Commonwealth Public Service scientists who basically require a Bachelor of Science degree for employment. They work in a wide range of departments and agencies, including the Department of Supply, the Department of National Development, and the Bureau of Meteorology. They were given a salary increase of 7i per cent by the Board in April last year - a very much smaller increase than that given 6 months later to the engineers and research scientists. A claim was lodged for the scientists, culminating in a decision handed down by the Arbitrator on last Friday. This gave increases ranging from 3) per cent to 71 per cent. In association with the  Ti  per cent increase last year, scientists were put on much the same footing as engineers with increases in the 11 per cent to 15 per cent range. This has brought another major professional grouping in the Commonwealth Public Service into a state of serious industrial unrest. 
The decision has fallen with a particularly savage crunch on geoscientists employed in the Bureau of Mineral Resources. These men are in great demand because of the mining boom. Representations were made on the special significance of geoscientists within the scientists case because of the much higher salaries in private industry. The Arbitrator in his judgment recognised the special circumstances of geoscientists and said that the Public Service Board might find it necessary to give further attention to their salary rates. However, this is certain to be too late. Earlier this year a group of more than 40 geoscientists from the Bureau of Mineral Resources advertised their availability for outside positions. They received an average of 3 specific offers each and a number of major mining companies expressed interest in the whole group. Some of these men resigned; others decided to wait and see whether the scientists case gave them a greater measure of wage justice. The hopes of these men have been sadly dashed; it seems now that there will be a wave of further resignations from the Bureau's already depleted strength. 
It seems that in all these cases the Board has acted quite ruthlessly in holding salary rates within a narrow band ranging from 11 to 15 per cent, with some of the higher posts getting a little more. This conscious policy of depressing relative salary rates for these key personnel can only harm recruitment at a time when a shortage of engineers and scientists is emerging. Certainly, it must force a reconsideration by all members of these professional groups of their future with the Commonwealth Public Service. Beyond this, it may even force a reappraisal of their future prospects within Australia. Putting the straightjacket on salaries in this way must have damaging consequences for the Commonwealth Public Service. It is a matter of urgency that salary rates for professional engineers, research scientists and scientists be revised and restored to levels comparable with those applying in 1961. 
Let me say in conclusion that, as I pointed out a few minutes ago, this matter was the subject of an urgency debate earlier this year. On that occasion the responsible Minister - the Minister far Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden)  - gagged the debate after only one Opposition  speaker  had spoken. J. hope that when the Minister replies to this debate he will have a little more to say on the subject. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Thursday, 1 October 1970 
I want to make some comments, within the context of this Estimates debate, on regional development in Tasmania. In May 1943  Mr Chifley,  who was then Minister for Post-war Reconstruction as well as Treasurer, made an interesting forecast on the future of regional development in Australia. He said that the war had given an immense boost to the prospects of planned and sustained regional development of the country districts of Australia. This was due to the policy of decentralisation of munitions production which had involved a capital expenditure of S22m in 35 regional areas. The setting up of munitions factories as strategic points had drawn in the necessary labour power from the local and surrounding towns. This meant that many country regions throughout Australia were being sustained and, in some cases, even developed in time of war.  Mr 
Chifley went on to make the following pertinent comment: 
If this can be achieved under the stress of war, a great deal more can be done by an orderly policy of decentralisation in the post-war period. 
It is a matter of very great regret that this recognition of the range and possibility of regional planning was allowed to dissipate in the postwar period. Instead of regional planning at the Commonwealth level, decentralisation policies at the State level were substituted. It is no disrepect to the dedicated efforts of State governments of all political complexions to say that these efforts were unproductive. Only in the past 2 or 3 years have we been getting the sort of regional surveys and blueprints for regional planning which can bring fruitful results. 
I refer to the study of Tasmania made by the Hunter Valley Research Foundation called 'Tasmania in the Seventies'. This study was commissioned by the State Government of Tasmania and the Federation of Tasmanian Chambers of Commerce; it was published a month or so ago. It is a very competent piece of work reflecting the experience gained by the Hunter Valley Research Foundation in similar studies in New South Wales. I do not think it breaks a lot of new ground. Anyone who has spent any time at all in government, administrative or commercial work in Tasmania will be familiar with the bulk of the material contained in the survey and with the conclusions and recommendations flowing from them made by the Foundation. They are unexceptionable and completely sane and logical. 
The great virtue of the study is that it collects in coherent form a mass of information about Tasmania, a detailed assessment of the growth problems facing the island, and a series of suggestions on how to handle them. This is a survey on the whole of Tasmania; there are other surveys being made of individual regions such as the Tamar Valley. These will add to our knowledge of growth problems facing these regions and give some inkling of solutions to potential problems. But the whole value of these surveys will be negated unless some framework can be found to fit them into a national scheme for regional development. 
I have used Tasmania as an example; any other State or any other region within  a 
State could be used to point up the argument for formulating regional development schemes linking Commonwealth. State and local government agencies. Unless this can be done there will be no sustained or consistent development in great tracts of this country. Pockets of neglected and economic stagnation will develop as resources are allocated unfairly or inefficiently. The need for Commonwealth initiatives in regional development has been stressed repeatedly by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  at every forum he can command. There has been no more persistent advocate of regional development and decentralisation policies in the political history of this country. lt is a matter for the deepest regret that the Government has not matched this advocacy, that the opportunities for generating regional growth have been frittered away. Already the danger signals are apparent in parts of Tasmania. The recent rise of some 1.24- per cent in shipping freights has had a heavy impact on a State completely dependent on sea transport. This matter will be discussed further by honourable members during the debate on the estimates for the Department of Shipping and Transport, and 1 have no wish to go into it in any detail. 
There are pressing rural problems in Tasmania and these will be intensified when Britain enters the Common Market. There are industrial problems dramatised in the shift of some major industries back to mainland States. There are demographic problems illustrated by the loss of overseas immigrants and members of the 15 to 25 years age group to other States. The outward migration from Tasmania averaged about 1, 100 a year in the period  from  1961 to 1966. concentrated mainly in the two broad groupings I have mentioned. 
New developments, such as the Savage River mining venture. have not brought much direct flowback into the State. As the Hunter Valley survey points out, the removal of minerals, the cutting down of forests, the building of factories, the disposal of effluents, and general urban growth are all matters which have raised sharp conflicts in Tasmanian development. They emphasise the need for physical planning on a regional level. 
This is a necessarily over-simplified account of Tasmania's problems today. No doubt they are shared by many other natural regions of Australia. But in Tasmania they are intensified by physical isolation and the almost exclusive reliance on sea transport bringing in its wake the problems of what one writer has strikingly called the 'tyranny of distance.' 
Against this background 1 draw attention to one aspect of regional development in Tasmania which I understand is before the Government at this moment. This is the provision of a railway line through the Tamar Valley from Launceston to Bell Bay. This is not a new project; it has been mooted for many years, ft has been part of Labor's Federal election campaign for the past 3 elections. A pledge to build the rail link was included by the former leader of the Labor Party, the right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell),  in the 1963 and 1 966 electoral platforms of the Labor Party. During last year's campaign the present Leader of the Opposition undertook that the next Labor Government would build the railway. 
The need lor the railway goes back beyond this decade. In 1950 a joint committee of the Tasmanian Parliament recommended that the link be built and that Commonwealth assistance be sought to build it. A limiting factor at this stage was that it was thought advisable to wail until port and industrial development at Bell Bay had reached a stage where substantial bulk traffic by rail to and from Bell Bay was economically feasible. In the subsequent years State Governments were not successful in obtaining funds for the rail link from the Commonwealth. This may have been due to lingering doubts about the economic validity of the project. These doubts would certainly have been dispelled by the potential of the wood chip industry in the Tamar Valley. 
The Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  who sits at the tabic has some knowledge of the wood chip industry and the great potential that the wood chip industry has for Tasmania as a whole, lt can be said quite fairly that the Minister has shown a great deal of interest in this matter. He would,  I  am sure, appreciate the great value of this new industry to the economic development of Tasmania, ft would most certainly help to overcome gome of the problems that have arisen as a result of increases in freight rates and other difficulties experienced by Tasmania in recent years, some of which I have referred to. 
But the case for the railway has been further reinforced by the need to plug the transport structure of northern Tasmania into a container network based on the port of Bell Bay. Unless this is done the whole pattern of transport development and its links with containerisation will be sharply distorted in favour of the South of the State. There have been significant developments in the case for the rail link in the past few months. According to the preliminary results of the study by the Pak-Poy company of Tasmania's transport problems, the establishment of the proposed wood chip industries would justify the rail link apart from the important arguments for the future development of the north and north east and the port of Bell Bay. 
The Tasmanian Government is pushing the project, admittedly with a much more sympathetic ear from the Commonwealth Government than was ever accorded to the previour Labor Government in the 15 years to May last year. The State's Commissioner for Transport,  Mr Webb,  has made a feasibility study estimating the total cost of the new link, improvements to existing tracks, provision of new rolling stock and equipment, and the building of a new freight yard in Launceston at around $14.6m. The cost of the Bell Bay link alone has been estimated at $3,275,000. Ten years ago it could have been provided for just over Sim. This shows the magnitude of the opportunity that has been missed over the years. 
There is an excellent case to provide at least the cost of the rail link by way of a non-repayable grant. An immense volume of Commonwealth money has been poured into rail projects in all States of the Commonwealth in the past few years. This spending on important rail links is not begrudged, but surely there is scope for a grant to Tasmania which has got nothing for rail development from the Commonwealth. Now  Sir Henry  Bolte wants the Commonwealth to take over Victoria's State railways; he has also lobbied intensively for an amount reported as $80m to develop underground railways in Melbourne. In this context a grant of $3m to 
Tasmania for the Bell Bay rail link is an extremely modest one. The situation at the moment seems to be that the Tasmanian Premier,  Mr Bethune,  says a comprehensive case for the rail link had been sent to the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton).  According to Press reports,  Mr Bethune  was so confident of a successful outcome to his submission that he had stipulated 30th June 1972 as the target date for completion of the rail link. The Prime Minister does not seem so sure about the future of the railway. When I questioned him about the Tasmanian Government's submission on 2nd September, he said he had not seen such a submission and he doubted if one had been received by his Department. 
However, with a Senate election imminent it is possible the submission will get a much quicker passage to the Prime Minister's 'in' tray. There is no objection to this grant being offered as part of the Government's electoral programme; this is a legitimate tactic and, as I pointed out earlier, the Labor Party has been committed to the project in the last 3 election campaigns. But it would be regrettable if the grant was flung to Tasmania as some sort of a sop for the recent stiff increase in shipping freight rates. The rail link is an economically feasible one; it has always been feasible but the case for it has been reinforced by the potential for the woodchip industry in the Tamar Valley. It is most necessary if any benefit is to flow to the north and north east of Tasmania with the development of containerisation. The provision of the link by the Commonwealth should be regarded as a genuine contribution to regional development; it should be seen in the perspective of stimulating and sustaining regional growth in this important area of Tasmania. This would be a much more appropriate response than merely making the grant for short-term electoral purposes or as a palliative for a very unpopular freight increase. 
May I say in conclusion that both the Minister for National Development, and the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Sinclair)  are not unaware of the problems. Certainly they are both aware of the very generous gifts that have been given to other States of the Commonwealth for the provision of water supplies, for the standardisation of the rail guage throughout Australia and for additional rail links in 
South Australia. All these matters have been considered on the basis of what is fair and reasonable to provide for the future development of the State. 1- hope that the Minister for National Development, who surely is not unaware of the Hunter Valley report, will give further consideration to the matters which I have raised. 
-I ask the Acting Minister for External Affairs whether an agreement has been reached between the United States of America and Australia to provide an Omega navigation facility in Australia. If so, what are the terms of the agreement and will it be tabled in the House? Would the cost to Australia of setting up such a facility be around $4m to $5m with an annual operating cost to Australia of $US300,000?Has a site for the facility been selected in the north west of Tasmania on the River Forth near Mount Pelion west and extending into the sea between Devonport and Ulverstone? If so, has preliminary construction work begun on this site? Will the navigation site be controlled from a master transmission station in Hawaii? Finally, is it possible with the Omega system to obtain extremely accurate navigation fixes for nuclear submarines capable of firing Polaris and Poseidon missiles? 
asked the Minister for 
Defence, upon notice: 
When did  Sir Robert  Thompson visit Australia. 
Who sponsored his visit 
What was the cost of his visit to the Commonwealth. 
What discussions did  Sir Robert  have with members of the Government. 
How many public meetings did  Sir Robert  address in Australia. 
1 ask the Minister for Defence a question. Is Brigadier Henderson correct in his assessment that life will be much tougher for the Australian task force in Vietnam once the 8th Battalion is withdrawn? Will the withdrawal mean changes in military operations and tactical dispositions in Phuoc Tuy province, as Brigadier Henderson has indicated? What additional South Vietnamese units will be available to assist the task force once the 8th Battalion leaves? What is the state of training of these units? In view of the publicly expressed doubts of the task force commander about its future role and effectiveness, is there any purpose in persisting with this commitment? Will the task force now be less effective, as hinted by the Brigadier? 
The Opposition has moved this motion to draw attention to aspects of the National Service Act which urgently need modification and clarification. I refer to the conscientious objection provisions of the Act contained in sections 29a, 29b, 29c and 29d. Some of the Regulations under the Act are also relevant to this discussion. These provisions in toto contain some notable anomalies. 
According to section 29a a person whose conscientious beliefs do not allow him to engage in any form of military service is exempt from service as long as he holds these beliefs. A sub-section provides for exemption from combatant duties for those whose military objections do not allow them to engage in military service of a combatant nature. That is, they are excused from duties whose intrinsic nature is inseparable from the conduct of war. I intend to have a closer look at how these duties are defined later in my remarks. 
This section also provides that a conscientious belief is a conscientious belief whether it has a religious basis or not. Section 29b and 29c outline the legal procedures for determining the objection and the process of appeal. Finally, section 29d provides that the burden of proof in a conscientious objection claim rests on the person making the claim. This is the basis of the law on conscientious objection; it has remained substantially unchanged since 1953. 
The original Act of 1951 in substance took over the National Security (Conscientious Objection) Regulations of 1942 which covered objection during World War II. These wartime regulations provided for a conscientious belief that did not allow the person to perform combatant naval, military or Air Force service. The provision that conscientious objection was to any form of military service was incorporated into the Act in 1953. These provisions did not become an issue in the National Service scheme of the 1950's. Most objectors to that universal scheme of national service came from traditional, pacifist groups such as the Society of Friends, ft was also possible to accommodate non-combatants Within the framework of that scheme; there are many jobs around a peacetime military camp not related to the bearing of arms. 
The real test of these provisions came with the Government's commitment of national servicemen to the Vietnam war in 1966. In the subsequent 4 years the conscientious objection provisions have been shown to be completely inadequate. This has resulted from the extremely stringent interpretation placed on the provisions by the higher courts. I do not believe that higher judicial authority is to blame for this. Because of the way the legislation is framed the judges probably have no option but to interpret it in a stringent way. But the result has been to close the exemption granted under the act to scores of genuine conscientious objectors. 
One side of the coin is the Act's provision that a conscientious objector is exempt from service as long as he holds his conscientious beliefs. The other is that he cannot get this exemption if his belief is confined to the Vietnam war. The Act gives an exemption with one hand and takes it away with the other. The crucial point at issue is the legal interpretation of the words 'any form of service". Because this has been held to exclude an objection based only on a particular war, it is worth having a quick look at the attitudes of the courts to these provisions. 
The first interpretation of any weight was given by  Mr Justice  Windeyer in the case of William White which honourable gentlemen, will recall as a controversial issue in the 1966 election campaign.  Mr Justice  Windeyer defined any form of military service in the following way: 
Service in any capacity, at any time, anywhere, in any arm, corps or unit. 
He said, further, that it seemed to him that the requirement for total exemption was a conscientious and complete pacificism. The judge also pointed to the severity of the Australian law, saying that elsewhere and under other Acts claims for exemption had been upheld because of a conscientious objection to participation only in a war then in progress. Under such provisions it is obvious that an objection based on Vietnam could be sustained'. As  Mr Justice  Windeyer pointed out, such an objection was permissible in the United Kingdom during World War II. Although the Windeyer definition of conscientious objection under the Act did not have the force of precedent, it had immense influence on the interpretation of the Act. Quite obviously magistrates in the lower courts hearing conscientious objection cases would be swayed by legal interpretation from this source, even though it were obiter dicta. However, there were isolated instances of magistrates applying their own discretion to the Act and interpreting it to allow objection to Vietnam. 
The most notable case was Monaghan's case in June 1967 when a young man was exempted because the magistrate found he had a conscientious belief with respect to serving in the military forces at the present time. Unfortunately, the logic of this interpretation did not have a great deal of influence on his fellow magistrates hearing these cases; the great majority preferred to abide by the dicta of  Mr Justice  Windeyer. 
Loopholes of this nature were finally closed in Thompson's case before the High Court in 1968. Here the Chief Justice,  Sir Garfield  Barwick, interpreted the language of the provisions to mean that the conscientious belief must be all embracing in relation to soldiering, including soldiering in any capacity in the defence, or in aid of the defence, of this country in any circumstances.  Sir Garfield  said further: 
It must be, in my opinion, an objection based on the intrinsic quality of military service and not upon particular targets, purposes or causes, to which it is or is likely to be directed. 
According to the Chief Justice, the section required the conviction, viewed as of the present, to be unlimited in relation to time. In other words, to qualify for exemption, a conscientious objection had to be to all military service at any time and in any circumstances, even in the country's defence in the direst circumstances. This was the majority opinion accepted by the High Court and which is, of course, binding on all magistrates hearing conscientious objection cases. 
It should be noted, however, there was a minority opinion from  Mr Justice  Menzies that tended to the view that an objection could be sustained even if it were only to a war being waged at the moment. The judge made the valid point that it was to the obligation to serve here and now that the Act subjected those to whom it applied. Consequently, it was from that service that section 29a of the Act exempted those who came within its terms. In  Mr Justice  Menzies' view a conscientious belief against serving in any war now being waged would suffice for exemption. Such an interpretation did not give exemption because of objection to a particular war. Because Vietnam is the only war in which Australia is engaged at this moment, it would have the same effect. This interpretation goes much of the way towards removing the worst features of .the administration of this part of the legislation. Unfortunately, the majority interpretation which has binding force of law is couched in the most comprehensive terms. Only an objection to all wars at all times and in all circumstances can win the day in the courts. 
Such an interpretation has remarkable implications. Under it, a magistrate could sincerely believe that a young man objects to all wars at all times and in all circumstances. To test this, he could put to the man a hypothetical question on the folowing lines: 'Would your beliefs prevent you from bearing arms if at some future time Australia is invaded and your family is directly threatened?' To sustain his objection the young man would have to answer: Yes'. If he had a genuine doubt that at some time, possibly SO years in the future, a situation could arise where he might engage in military duties, his objection would fail. This is a perfectly feasible projection of what can arise with the allencompassing definition of 'any form of military service' laid down by the High Court. Under the Act there is a specific commitment to undertake national service at a particular time, a time when this country may or may not be at war. Under the Court's interpretation there is an obligation on a young man to predict the beliefs and convictions of a lifetime if he is to be exempted as a conscientious objector. Quite obviously, a young man of 20 cannot say with certainty what his beliefs will be at 30 or 40 or 50. Yet under the present law he must do so and avow that these beliefs will not change. 
Something of the absurdity of the present status of the law is implicit in the finding by  Mr Justice  Smithers in the Brian Ross case. This young man was recently released from prison after the judge found he was a conscientious objector under changes in the National Service Regulations which are still before the Parliament. The judge found that while Ross's beliefs related to the Vietnam war, they went further and forbade participation in all wars or any form of military service. According to the judge, Ross's beliefs were indefinite in point of time and circumstance. He said that Ross was unable to assert positively that it was impossible that in some indefinable and unpredictable circumstance his beliefs might permit him to render military service.  Mr Justice  Smithers, goes on to say at page 4 of his report: 
I find it difficult to understand that a rational person having such an aversion resting upon personal inner convictions as distinguished from religious convictions could honestly deny that his beliefs might change should circumstances change in some unpredictable but important respects. 
The Judge is making the obvious point that beliefs may change radically over time; that no-one can say today what he will believe in 10 years time. Yet this is what conscientious objectors have to do under the present wording of the Act and its interpretation by the courts. The Australian Labor Party has said repeatedly and consistently that the definition of conscientious objection is too vague and should be given greater breadth and precision. As interpreted by the Courts and with the onus of proof on the claimant, the present administration of the conscientious objection is excessively severe. There can be no doubt that in almost all cases those who apply for conscientious objector status are men of principle. A genuine draft dodger would not go through the legal process of convincing the court of a non-existent conscientious objection. Such a person would make a simple assessment of his chances under the Act and take to his heels. Some hundreds have cleared the country in this way during the last 4 years; there are also some 100 evaders of the Act within Australia. Quite shameful attempts have been made by supporters of the Government, particularly the Treasurer,  (Mr Bury)  to link evaders with genuine conscientious objectors. Obviously a young man will not go through the most difficult and agonising legal test of all - the public exposure and test of conscience - unless he is motivated by his most deeply held beliefs. 
This Government and the American Government have been most obdurate in clinging to stringent interpretations of conscientious objection. In the United States of America there are signs of a much more flexible policy; a sub-committee of the United States Senate Judiciary Committee headed by  Senator Edward  Kennedy has proposed a definition of conscientious objection to include selective objection to a particular war. In the opinion of this committee national and clearer standards should be adopted. Where the American definition of conscientious objection has been much too narrowly based, with the main emphasis on religious objection, the Australian definition has been much too vaguely worded. This has thrown responsibility on to the courts, which have interpreted it in the way outlined by  Sir Garfield  Barwick. This is a perfectly proper way for the courts to act; f make no criticism of that. But with the Vietnam war moving towards the fina) stages the 
Government should remove this burden from the courts and amend the Act. It should make the concession it has refused stubbornly to make - to extend conscientious objection to cover a particular war. 
I believe that for the Government to adopt this attitude is completely- wrong and unjustified. For example a man might object to the use of napalm or the practice of classing civilian occupied territory as freefire zones. A deeply held antipathy to such a course of military operation could be the only basis for conscientious objection. Obviously, under the present law an application for exemption would not have any chance of succeeding no matter how deep and fervently held the objection. An objection of this sort can form and colour the whole nature of a conscientious objection to a particular war. 
I ask the Prime Minister whether he has seen, a statement that the Department of Shipping and Transport has reported favourably on a $l5m scheme to build a Bell Bay rail link in Tasmania. If he is aware of the statement and the report, can he say whether the matter has been considered by Cabinet and, if. it has, what decision was reached? 
My question is directed  to the Minister for External Affairs. The right honourable gentleman will recall that  Mr Dzu,  the runner up in the 1967 presidential elections in South Vietnam, was sentenced to 5 years imprisonment in July 1968 for alleged treasonable offences. He will recall also that the charges against  Mr Dzu  were based on his advocacy of an end to the bombing of North Vietnam and negotiations with the National Liberation Front. I ask the right honourable gentleman: Does he agree that  Mr Dzu's  proposals have been vindicated by the course of the war in the past 2 years? Is there any reason why  Mr Dzu  should still be in prison for advocating courses of action which have been accepted by the United States Government? I further ask the Minister: Will he make representations to the Government of South Vietnam for  Mr Dzu's  immediate release? 
I preface my question which is directed to the Minister for Trade and Industry by saying that he will recall telling us 18 months ago during the container shipping debate that he wanted to see the Government right in the middle of this business so that when an argument occurred as to what should be a fair freight we would know as much about it as would any other shipping operator in the world. I ask him whether the Government partnership in the overseas container consortia has convinced him that the recent freight increases are indeed fair, and if not, what effect the Government partnership has had in obviating or moderating such freight increases. 
The Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said in the opening sentence of his statement that the House is aware that for some time he has been very concerned to ensure that there is a detached and comprehensive review of some of the more fundamental aspects and financial conditions of service of the armed forces. The House is aware of no such thing. Certainly the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  is unaware of the Minister's determination to have such an inquiry. He gave notice as recently as 12th August that he would move that a select committee of this Parliament be appointed to inquire into and report upon the pay, conditions and housing of the defence forces. Earlier in this session a select committee to review the defence forces retirement benefits scheme was set up. On behalf of the Opposition I sought to widen the terms of reference of this committee to cover Service pay and conditions. This was rejected by the Government, although it provided an excellent test of the Minister's sincerity in wanting to have a comprehensive review of pay and conditions in the Services. 
The Minister's concern for such a review was not evident to the Returned Services League earlier this year when it pressed him to set up such an independent review. Honourable members will recall that the Minister for Defence begged the RSL to defer the matter for 3 months; in other words, to get the heat off him. Doubtless he hoped that a number of short term variations in pay and allowances would stifle the very serious criticism of his administration developing in the Services. The RSL reluctantly agreed to defer the matter. Some changes were made in pay and allowances. These did not deter servicemen from expressing their resentment at years of neglect of their pay and conditions. The Minister burned his fingers very severely in his intemperate and unwarranted comments of flying pay allowances. He had to resort to some sort of public relations compaign wandering around the messes and barracks of Canberra making atonement. 
In the past the Minister has always dismissed complaints about pay and conditions by reference to the Defence (Conditions of Service) Committee. According to the Minister this Committee would provide a cure-all for all complaints and conditions. He neglected the basic fact that any substantive result from this Committee would take years of work. He also neglected the fact that this Committee simply was not trusted by servicemen who believed they were not adequately represented on it. I make no criticism of the members of this Committee; undoubtedly they have done much devoted and dedicated work. But this Committee has the signal disadvantage that it is an internal committee of the Department of Defence; its functions are prescribed by the Department of Defence and this must limit its effectiveness. It has not the power to initiate inquiries or to make comprehensive assessments of conditions in the 3 armed services. 
This is why the Opposition moved for the setting up of a select committee of this Parliament to look at the whole range of service pay and conditions. What we had in mind was a comprehensive inquiry into the whole social enviroment of the serviceman and his family; into pay; moves and reposting, re-settlement and reestablishment in civil life, family separation and disruption, housing and education. I submit that the committee of inquiry envisaged by the Minister is no substitute for such an inquiry by a select committee. The basic flaws of the committee recommended by the Minister are firstly, that its terms of reference are not properly based, secondly, the inquiry will be conducted in secrecy, and thirdly, as an ad hoc committee it cannot be regarded as machinery for keeping service pay and conditions under constant review. 
The Minister has summarised the terms of reference in the opening paragraphs of his statement. I restate this summary rather than the fuller account of the terms given later in his speech. The first task of the proposed committee is to study the duties and responsibilities of officers and to recommend appropriate salary rates. The second is to review the working of the group system for skilled other ranks. The third is to examine the demands and exigencies of Service life as they affect servicemen and their families in order to see whether any revision in financial recognition is warranted. 
The Minister goes to some pains to emphasise that the terms of reference are flexible; that the committee can wander down whatever avenues of inquiry it likes. However, it is a pretty safe bet that the committee will not stray too far from the lines indicated by the Minister. This will confine the committee's lines of investigation in the main to a work value study of what servicemen do. Supplementing this would be a sociological examination of the day-to-day life of the serviceman and his wife and children with a view to making cash compensation. Despite the Minister's insistence that the terms of reference would not be frozen, it is likely that the committee would draw up its duty sheet on the lines I have indicated. 
No-one disputes the value of this kind of analysis. It would turn up as a mass of invaluable data about the peculiar nature of Service life. But it seems too wrong to me to link this sort of work value and sociological study with specific recommendations for improved pay, allowances and conditions. This sort of work could best be done in the form of pilot studies by universities, research foundations or industrial consultants. It is a matter for great regret that this work has not been done before but it should not be done in association with an inquiry into pay and conditions. It cannot be stressed too strongly that this is a very urgent matter. 
In the past few weeks we have seen the unique spectacle of what amounts to industrial action by groups of servicemen. I refrain from using the term 'mutiny' to decribe what happened at Garden Island and at Williamtown air base. This terminology has been denied by responsible Ministers but by any standard of Service discipline these actions bordered on mutiny. There have been no comparable incidents in the Army but there has been a heavy rate of resignations, particularly among officers. This is the highly dangerous situation in which the Minister proposes this committee to remedy these problems. 
He has abandoned his reliance on the Defence (Conditions of Service) Committee. Now he proposes a committee which will undertake major in-depth studies of the Australian Services. It is in effect a Vernon report on the Army, Navy and Air Force. On the most optimistic assessment this committee would not be able to undertake the survey outlined by the Minister and recommend specific remedial measures in less than a year. From  18  months to 2 years is not improbable. Given the present inflammatory mood of the Services this is much too long to wait for effective action, even if other improvements flow from the Defence (Conditions of Service) Committee. 
In essence, this committee will be working on long-term solutions which will take a long time to prepare. This is not the way to solve extremely pressing problems which require action now. I suppose one solution would be to grant an across the board increase on the lines of the 25c increase in allowances the Minister announced last month. This would be regarded as an interim step until the committee reported and its recommendations could be implemented. 
It is impossible to believe that in the absence of such immediate benefits, the Services will be mollified by the promise of this committee. Furthermore, it will have no impact on the problems of manning and recruiting manifest in all services but principally in the Army. These difficulties must intensify if a solution is deferred until this committee reports and the practical results of its investigation start to be felt through the Services. This would take at least two years. It should be remembered that what servicemen say about their jobs is one of the major influences on recruiting. What they are saying at the moment would not induce many to the colours. 
The second criticism I listed earlier was the hearing of evidence in camera. I think this is a serious mistake. The Minister's reason for this is that servicemen and those assisting the committee would be inhibited by the public nature of the proceedings in giving information or explaining themselves to the committee. I would say that the chances of any witnesses from the Services being reticent or inhibited on the subjects of pay and conditions in the present climate are nil. If the Minister for Defence has any lingering doubts about this he should study again the letters columns of the 'Canberra Times' in recent months. I am sure they have already provided him with considerable material for quiet meditation. 
If this committee is appointed, something on these lines will happen. The committee will start its hearings in a blaze of publicity and then go promptly into camera. It will hear evidence over the next  6  months or so but because the proceedings are not public it will quickly pass into the limbo of the forgotten. Ultimately the committee will produce a report which may or may not produce decisive action. In such an atmosphere of secrecy and uncertainty how can such a committee serve as a dampener on discontent and unrest in the Services? How can servicemen be expected to wait patiently for what may be illusory improvements when they do not have a jot of information about what is going on in the committee hearings? 
The third criticism I made was that this committee is conceived as a one hit exercise. It does not establish any sort of precedent or any sort of machinery for a continuing review of Service pay and conditions. Even if the report of this committee is an excellent one and it overcomes many of the existing difficulties, how can we be sure the improvements it makes will be consolidated and sustained? 
An off the cuff committee of this sort compares most unfavourably with the Standing Reference on the Pay of the Armed Forces established in the United Kingdom. This committee has linked annual reviews of salaries and conditions with recommendations for improvements and studies of Service jobs and Service life. 
Admittedly, this Committee has worked within the broad guidelines of a prices and incomes policy, a framework which is lacking in Australia. But it is the sort of model that should be considered by the Government. In summary, the Opposition does not think the approach adopted by the Minister is the correct one. 
He has made a tacit admission that the Defence (Conditions of Service) Committee is not up to the job of restoring equity and sanity to pay and allowances. But he has failed to put forward any remedies for short term improvement which will satisfy the Services until more sweeping and comprehensive reforms can be adopted. Undoubtedly, a committee of this sort would do much valuable work in assessing job values in the Services and the peculiar strains and stresses of Service life. 
This is work that needs to be done; it should have been attempted years ago. But the Opposition does not see why the Services should have to wait for these surveys to be made before pay and allowances can be increased or conditions improved. The approach favoured by the Opposition is the appointment of a select committee of this Parliament to examine pay and conditions. This could be done more quickly than the independent committee; with the Parliamentary recess coming up it would be possible to get a series of recommendations for short-term improvements within a few months. There is enough evidence available to assess pay and conditions and recommend changes which could be brought in quickly and effectively. With the public hearings of a select parliamentary committee, servicemen would be assured that their problems were getting the urgent attention of this Parliament. There would be palpable evidence that pay, allowances and conditions were under scrutiny and that changes would be made. I believe this is most important for the morale of the Services in the light of the present serious crisis in recruitment and manning. By all means let us have the sort of analysis the Minister envisages in his terms of reference. We must have this sort of information if future policies are to be correctly based and the errors of the past avoided. But this work could best be done by other agencies such as a university department of sociology or a firm of industrial consultants. This side of the investigation should be divorced completely from the immediate problem, which is how to stop serious unrest and dissatisfaction, in some cases bordering on mutiny, in the armed Services. 
Therefore, against this background I submit on behalf of the Opposition that because substantial improvements are needed and needed quickly, Service pay and conditions should be put under the immedi ate scrutiny of this Parliament. I move, as an amendment: 
That all words after That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: 'this House is of opinion that, instead of the proposed committee, a joint select committee of both Houses be appointed to inquire into and report upon the Australian Defence forces in relation to (i) pay and allowances of all personnel, (ii&gt; provision for the retraining of officers and men, (iii) housing and (iv) educational facilities for .the children of servicemen'. 
I ask the Minister for Defence: What is the economic justification for the establishment of a tri-Service academy? Do the 3 armed Services approve the establishment of such an academy? Can the honourable gentleman say when work will begin on the foundation of the academy? When does he expect the first students to be enrolled in the academy? Finally, will the Minister table the report of the committee of investigation into the triService academy so that honourable members can assess its merits? 
This debate comes at a most fertile time in the evolution of Australia's defence forces. There is a plenitude of themes topical at the moment - themes of future procurement programmes, the organisation of the armed services, the deployment of our armed forces, Service pay and conditions. Within the amended time scale of the Estimates debate it is not possible to develop any of these themes at length. I intend to concentrate on some general comments about the future character and composition of the armed forces. The Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  made some comments on these issues in answer to a question in the House last Thursday. These comments were widely reported in the Press: they were even lampooned by some columnists. While it is impossible to separate the ludicrous from what the Minister said, they should be regarded as a serious statement of principle from a senior Government spokesman. I do not know how far these comments should be taken as projecting official Government policy. 
The Minister's statement had a highly personal, even idiosyncratic flavour. What lie put to the House were obviously very deeply held personal views. Although I find them rather alarming I do not dispute that the Minister had thought these attitudes out for himself and was putting them in a completely sincere way. What he said referred to the move by the United States of America and  President  Nixon to an allvolunteer Army. This followed a campaign pledge by  President  Nixon in the 1968 
Presidential election to move the United States armed forces towards an allvolunteer Army and abolish the draft. After his election he appointed the Gates Commission to investigate the feasibility of an allvolunteer Army. The Gates Commission reported favourably on the viability of an all-volunteer Army. The  President  has accepted these recommendations and has now announced that the draft machinery will be allowed to run down while the move is made to an all-volunteer Army. I agree with 1 point made by the Minister: There has been widespread misinterpretation of this move as abolishing the draft. The Minister correctly pointed out that the draft will be retained in a skeletal form while the United States Government attempts the transformation to an allvolunteer Army. 1 cannot agree with the rest of the Minister's comments about the differences between the United States and Australia which prevent a move to an all-volunteer Army in this country. One argument used by the Minister was the relative incidence of unemployment between Australia and the United States with consequent effects on recruiting. This argument was expressed in very crude terms but as it goes beyond purely defence concepts, it is outside a debate on defence estimates. The Minister went further and claimed that American recruits received some hundreds of dollars more in absolute terms than recruits inducted into the Australian Army. 
I have not the comparative figures but in hard money terms I have no reason to disagree with the Minister. 1 thank the Minister for the correction. He has made the comment that in actual fact it is less. I accept his interjection. The point that should be made here is that Australian and American pay rates cannot be compared in these terms. On real terms there is little doubt that the American recruit and indeed every member of the United States armed forces is better off than his Australian counterpart. There is a very much greater range of amenities and privileges available to American soldiers. 
The shopping privileges for United Stales soldiers and their families at  post  exchanges  and commissariats are much more extensive than those provided by the canteen system in Australia. United States servicemen can shop much more cheaply within the military system than Australian military men. There is also a much broader range of amenities available from Service clubs in the United States than from comparable messes at Australian Army bases. These are factors which largely discount any pay differential between American and Australian soldiers. The whole range of facilities in both military systems should be taken into account when making a comparison of the sort put to the House by the Minister. 
The Minister went on to criticise the Labor Party on the grounds that it sought to buy defence; that is, to provide defence by paying better salaries and providing better conditions so that Service ranks could be filled. This was his argument against an all-volunteer Army for Australia; that it would have to be bought, [n other words, it would be a mercenary Army. By any sort of reasoning the Ministers theoretical framework is a. rather peculiar one. lt is also completely contradictory; he says that an all-volunteer Army would put excessive reliance on the highly developed patriotism of a small part of the population. 
In the same breath the Minister says that the only people who would flock to the colours if pay and conditions were improved would be the poorly educated and under-privileged, induced only by money. He cannot have it both ways; in fact, towards the end of his statement he seemed to recognise this and transferred as much of the emphasis as possible to this mercenary argument. In essence, what he said was the higher the pay rates and the better the conditions the lower the calibre of the recruit. 
What the Minister was putting to the House was the cold cash argument that buying defence absolved the privilege, the better educated and the wealthy from defending the country. By default this burden was transferred to the under-privileged, the poorly-educated and the indigent who could not get a job in civilian life and had to snap up the relatively high pay rates in the Services. The logical end result of the Minister's argument was that the calibre of the recruit diminished as pay rates in creased. This seems to me a remarkably shameful reflection on the motivation and dedication of the armed forces. 
The Minister overlooks several basic facts.  1  do not know how he can reconcile his mercenary arguments with the fact that much of the officer cadres of the Australian forces come from traditional military families. These men come from fairly affluent families; they could not bc described as under-privileged or lacking in education. They train as officers for the Services because they adhere to service traditions; they are not activated by sordid money considerations. 
The Minister also overlooks the fact that a majority of servicemen join up for one simple reason - they like the life. These arc the people who find a sense of vocation in Service life and enjoy its day to day existence. Certainly these people are not unaware of their pay and conditions relative to civilian jobs, nor should they be. But they are men, both officers and other ranks, capable of finding job satisfaction and fulfilment in the Services. 
There is the other angle that young men often use the Services as a vehicle for job training. This is perfectly correct. Why should not a young man do a trade course in-one of the Services for a few years before returning to civilian life? As I have said before in this House, there will be a much greater interchange between Service and civilian roles in the next 10 years. 
Again this sort of vocational training, invariably allied with worthy patriotic motives, is completely beyond the very narrow cash basis attributed by the Minister to Army life. He went on to say that the wealthy, the privileged and the better educated must pull their weight in the defence of Australia. How has the Government assured that these social groups do not avoid their defence duties? It has adopted a scheme of conscripting one in six or seven 20-year old Australians. 
With such a system of random selection, the Minister seems to be saying: You must on the laws of chance pick up a wealthy man or a university graduate or a son of one of the privileged families. This is the Minister's idea of equity; that the dice of the conscription ballot may occasionally fall against the privileged, the educated and the wealthy. According to the Minister,  this is much better than substantially increasing Service pay and improving conditions because this would only attract the dregs of Australian society to the colours. 
In the light of this extraordinary statement, members of Australia's armed services should be under no illusions about the Minister's attitude in relation to these matters. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Order! There is no substance in the point of order. 
 The implication is inescapable that his opinion of the Services and the value of Service life is a pretty low one. There has been much debate in the House during this session on service pay and conditions. I want to make some suggestions on what might be termed the industrial side of this debate. In the past few weeks there have been examples of industrial protest against grievances in the Navy and the Royal Australian Air Force. These have been tactfully handled by senior officers in these Services; the men involved also have heaved with restraint once their initial protest was made. The point is that there should be some machinery for conveying genuine grievances regarding pay and conditions to the senior ranks of the Services and to the Service departments. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Has the Prime Minister seen a recommendation from - the Queensland Central Council of the Australian Country Party urging the diversion of Federal money to local government authorities through a State-sponsored local government grants commission? if so. does he see any merit in such a framework for channelling Commonwealth funds to local government authorities for urgent public works? Have any local government authorities made direct approaches to the Commonwealth for financial assistance? Finally, what has the Government done about these requests? 
 I ask the Minister for Defence: How far has the withdrawal of the Eighth Battalion from Vietnam progressed? Have any elements of the battalion yet returned to Australia? What is the present disposition of the battalion in Phuoc Tuy province? How many casualties has the battalion suffered in the past month? Finally, when will the withdrawal be completed? 
I ask the Minister for Shipping and Transport: Has he noted the criticism of the shipping conference system contained in the annual report of the Australian National Line? Has he noted the claim by the  Chairman  that the conferences are hamstringing Australian efforts in international shipping? I further ask the Minister: What can be done to eliminate the unfair practices such as overtonnaging a trade and refusing a reasonable share, as listed in  Sir John  Williams' report? Further, the Minister will have noted that the report discloses a loss of $210,612 for coastal trading operations in 1969-70. Can the Minister say how much of this loss was borne by the Darwin trade, the north Queensland trade, the Tasmanian trade and the bulk cargo trade? 
There are just one or two things that I want to say on the Estimates for the Department of Social Services and the Repatriation Department which are being considered together on this occasion. It is rather unusual, of course, that one should rise towards the end of a debate prior to the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  and the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  winding up the debate, but it is also most noticeable that the last 3 or 4 speakers in this debate have been honourable members from this side of the House. As in the case of the debate on the Repatriation Bill Government members have refused to speak, and one can hardly blame them. The same position applied in relation to the Social Services Bill. The plain fact is that the people of this country and, I think, honourable members who sit on the Government side, are aware of the dissatisfaction that exists in the community in relation to the Government's attitude to both social services and repatriation. 
I cannot deal with all of the matters that I would like to cover in the short time that is available to me tonight. I have already indicated to both of the Ministers that I will cut the time that is normally available to me in order to allow them to speak. The plain fact is that there arc people in this country who want to express their dissatisfaction with this Government in relation to both the Department of Social Services and the Repatriation Department. One can hardly blame them. I read with a a great deal of interest the reply given by the Minister for Repatriation to those on this side of the House who spoke in relation to repatriation matters. Frankly, he said very little. He could not justify the Government's inaction and the fact that it had completely ignored the representations that had been made to it by those who are responsible for the welfare of exservicemen in this country. Both the Minister for 
Social Services and the Minister for Repatriation sit together at the table waiting to give answers. Let the Minister for Social Services stand up and repeat what he has said in this House on many occasions in relation to those who must depend upon this Government for a measure of generosity in order to enable them to be able to meet the ordinary and normal commitments of everyday life. 
How often did we hear the Minister for Social Services, when he sat on the back bench, referring to the iniquitous means test, as he often described it, and how it ought to be abolished. I want to hear the Minister tonight talk about the means test and what he believes ought to be done about it. I want to hear him talk about what be believes ought to be done in relation to the inadequate pensions that are today being paid to age, invalid, widow and repatriation pensioners, and particularly to serve pensioners, and how they can exist on the miserable amount that they receive from this Government. I think it is time that a responsible Minister - one who spoke with, I believe, some sincerity when he sat on the back bench, on the abolition of the means test and the inadequacy of the income received by pensioners - spoke in his reply about the miserable 50c increase that he gave to the pensioners in this Budget and which has led to the kind of representations that every honourable member in this Parliament, whether he sits on the Opposition side or the Government side, has received from the various organisations which are concerned about the welfare of these people. Let the Minister explain some of the anomalies that now exist in relation to the social services legislation. 
I regret that time does not permit me to deal with this at great length but let me give one example to the Minister for Social Services who greatly commended the merged means test when it was introduced into this Parliament. What the people in this country who depend upon the amount they receive from this Government in age pension or some other pension require more than anything else is a medical entitlement card. When the Government introduced the merged means test it spoke in glowing terms of the numbers who would corns' under the social services legislation and who would receive at least a portion of the pension as a result of the Government's attitude and the Government legislation. But the plain fact is that the thing they wanted more than anything else was the medical entitlement card, and the Minister for Social Services knows that all of those people who came into the pension scheme as a result of the merged means test are denied the benefit of the medical entitlement card. The same applies to those who are in receipt of a part service pension under the Repatriation Act. They too are excluded under the merged means test. 
I invite the Minister for Social Services to challenge me when I say that if a person who is successful in receiving a part age pension has a certain income in addition to the amount received from the Department of Social Services he is excluded from receiving a medical entitlement card, although if the position is reversed he receives the medical entitlement card. How anomalous is this situation? These are matters that ought to be looked at, as the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  suggested, and corrected as a result of an investigation by a competent committee which can examine not only the social services and repatriation legislation but would be in a position to report to this Parliament on the poverty that exists in Australia. Surely the Minister for Social Services must be aware of these circumstances. Surely he must have had brought to his attention during the period in which he has been the responsible Minister some of the anomalous circumstances which apply in relation to those people who are in receipt of a pension under the social services legislation. But now that the honourable member has been promoted to the front bench he is no longer interested in the abolition of the means test or in the introduction of a national superannuation scheme. He accepted a 50c increase for pensioners without any opposition at all. Indeed, not only did he accept it, he stood up in this House and justified it. 
Honourable members on this side of the House can appreciate the plight of people throughout Australia who have to live in those circumstances. We are prepared to make representations on behalf of the pensioners of this country to a government which is not at all sympathetic and which has, throughout the whole period of its office, been prepared to grant a miserable increase in an election year but never at other times. I invite the Minister to challenge me on this proposition. Let him look at the records and he will find that whenever this Government has granted an increase, small though it may have been, it has always been in an election year. I regret that I have not the opportunity to reply at length to the Minister for Repatriation. I do not make a personal attack upon him, but the plain fact is that all the representations made to his Department by a very responsible organisation in this country, which speaks for the exservicemen of Australia, were completely ignored by the Minister and by the Government. 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General and is supplementary to the question asked by the Leader of the Opposition concerning the bomb explosion at the Yugoslav Consulate in Melbourne last night. What investigations has the Government made of the activities of extremist national groups within Australia? Do these investigations support the view that these incidents are the work of extreme right wing national groups? Will he make a statement to this House in order to inform honourable members what the Government is doing to curb this sort of terrorism, which must result in serious loss of life if it persists? 
I address a further question to the Attorney-General relative to the matter raised by the Leader of the Opposition and me. Is the Attorney-General aware that it has been said on good authority that there is in the Melbourne Yugoslav Consulate another unexploded bomb which is expected to explode within the next half hour and that this bomb is considered by bomb disposal experts to be too dangerous to touch? Will the Attorney-General agree that the situation is now serious enough to warrant a full statement? 

 - Mr Speaker, I claim to have been misrepresented. I refer to a statement which appeared in today's Sydney Morning Herald'. It deals with a matter which concerns the Minister for the Army  (Mr Peacock).  The statement is a full report on this matter. It refers to a resolution and amendment moved in the Labor Party Caucus, and goes on to state: 

 Mr Barnard then left the caucus meeting and told  Mr Peacock  of the Labor Party's attitude. He advised him not to take the matter too seriously. 
I want to inform the House that this resolution and the amendment were moved at the conclusion of the meeting of the Labor Party caucus. Immediately at the end of the meeting members of the Caucus moved across Kings Hall so that they could have their photograph taken outside Parliament House. I moved with the rest of the members of Caucus. I did not  move sway  from them. I certainly did not inform the Minister for the Army of the resolution, as implied in this Press statement. 
I had anticipated that the House would oppose the suspension of the 11 o'clock rule which is covered by standing order No. 103. As a result of what has been said by the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)  one or two things ought to be said in relation to this matter. Iri a sense, they should be taken together. The honourable member raised a very important point about what the House intends to do after the Senate election. I would have been opposing, and will oppose, on behalf of the Opposition, the suspension of the 11 o'clock rule, for very obvious reasons. The Leader of the House  (Mr Snedden)  indicated the programme for next week. The House will sit on Monday and will adjourn, one would think, early on Tuesday. It will rise on Friday or in the very early hours of Saturday morning, if the Government and the Leader of the House anticipate that the business that is before the Parliament can be completed.  The plain fact is that the business before the House cannot be completed in that time. One has only to look at the notice paper to see clearly that it would not be possible for members of this Parliament to deal with all the matters on the notice paper unless we sit late at night every night next week. 1 do not anticipate that the Leader of the House will keep the House in session into the early hours of the morning every day next week, but if we are to be able to complete the business this would be necessary. Therefore, I think it is relevant to deal with one or two of the issues that are involved when we consider the notice paper and the Government's decision to raise the House at the end of next week. In fairness to the Leader of the House 1 should say that he did indicate that if the business was not concluded by the end of next week Parliament would sit the following week until the business had been completed. 1 submit to the House that if we were to deal with all of the matters that are on the notice paper this Parliament would have to sit well into December, even excluding the period that will be occupied by honourable members campaigning in the Senate election. To illustrate what I mean in this respect -et me indicate that the Government has now resolved that we will complete the business on the notice paper - I refer to the notice paper for Thursday, 22nd October - and that we will complete the Bills listed on the notice paper down to No. 19, the Education Research Bill. 
This means that there are 19 Bills to be dealt with next week. I put it to the Minister - indeed, I put it to the nation and to this Parliament - that it would not be possible for honourable members in this House to be able to deal sensibly and responsibly with 19 Bills in the short time that is available to them next week, even if one takes account of the fact that there will be late sitting nights. We will be dealing with 19 Bills, a number of them containing controversial issues, upon which there is some difference of opinion between the Government and the Opposition about how these Bills ought to be determined, whether they should be amended or whether they should be approved by the 
Parliament. Some of them concern controversial issues which will almost certainly bring about a debate in this Parliament. The only way that the Government can deal with 19 Bills, even having late sitting nights, will be for it to apply the guillotine. The most serious aspect of this is that while we may complete 19 Bills - obviously, these are the Bills that the Government has determined are important, that ought to be completed and passed through this House before it rises at the end of next week- the plain fact is that there are 12 Bills which will not be dealt with. The 12 Bills that will not be dealt with during this session are the same Bills as. were on the notice paper during the first session of Parliament this year. f refer honourable members to the Immigration (Education) Bill to which my colleague the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  referred during the first session of the Parliament in 1970. He made a number of requests to the Leader of the House in an endeavour to ascertain when the Bill would be brought on. 1 repeat, that was in the first session of the Parliament early in 1970. This House will go into recess at the end of next week or probably the middle of the following week, if one can accept the proposition of the Minister. This Bill will remain on the notice paper until 1971. It is clear that here is a Bill which will have been on the notice paper for almost 12 months when this Parliament resumes. I refer honourable members to the Australian War Memorial Bill, the Sugar Agreement Bill, the Mapping Surveys Bill and the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill. Is there anyone in this House who is going to suggest that the latter Bill is not a matter that ought to be discussed in the Federal Parliament? This Bill was on the notice paper in the first session of the Parliament this year. It has remained on the notice paper for the whole of this session and it is one of the 12 Bills that the Government will place back on the notice paper in 1971. Of course, we have no assurance that even in 1971 we will be able to deal with the Bill. 
L turn now to another very important aspect, which reinforces what I am putting to the House, which is the need for this Parliament to sit much longer than the period indicated by the Leader of the House. Surely he does not suggest that it is necessary for honourable members to sit into the late hours of the night in order to conclude the business. The Senate election will be held on 21st November. If we take the 9 days in November and then go into December - surely it is reasonable to argue that the eai earlierst date on which the Parliament should rise is 4th December - this means that there is a clear month in which the Parliament would be able to deal not only with the 19 Bills that we will be expected to discuss next week but also with the 12 Bills which I have pointed out to the House remain on the notice paper and will otherwise be there when we came back in 1971. 
I turn to one other aspect to indicate just how important it is for this House to sit longer than the Government has determined. I refer honourable members again to today's notice paper. For the information of the Minister, 465 questions that have not been answered still remain on the notice paper. Will these 465 questions be answered next week or will honourable members be receiving answers to their questions in December, after the Senate election, or early in the New Year? 
I pose this question to the House: Who is the greatest offender in relation to the 465 questions on notice which remain to be answered? The greatest offender in this respect is the Minister for Labour and National Service - the Leader of the House - the Minister who wants to close down the Parliament. Of the 465 questions on notice remaining to be answered, 121 are directed to the Minister for Labour and National Service. These questions are the responsibility of the Minister. 
One could continue to point out how the Government intends to treat this Parliament and how irresponsible its attitude is when it determines that it will conclude the business of the House by the end of next week. I have referred to the number of questions on notice which are the responsibility of the Minister for Labour and National Service to answer and which remain to be answered. But he is not the only one. The Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  has 35 questions on notice to answer. Thirty-seven questions on notice directed to the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  remain unanswered. The Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has 34 questions on notice to which he has not replied. Altogether, I repeat that more than 400 questions on notice remain unanswered. 
Finally, 1 turn to the Notice Paper becauseI submit that the question is not merely the business that this Government ought to bring forward or the question of the determination by the Government of the business that ought to be concluded before the House rises. 1 submit that the Opposition has some responsibility in these matters. It is entitled to have on the Notice Paper the matters that it has in the form of matters for discussion under the heading of 'General Business'. Surely we could expect that the Government would treat these notices of motion more seriously than it has. I gave notice of I motion in 1969; it is on the Notice Paper in 1970. I will have to put it back on the Notice Paper in 1971. I think the same situation applies as far as my colleague, the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson),  is concerned. He has a notice of motion listed which is not likely to be dealt with by the Parliament. Yet, these are important issues not only to honourable members who sit on this side of the House. They are important issues that ought to be dealt with before the Senate election is embarked upon. Most of these motions relate to issues which obviously will be matters for discussion during the course of the Senate election. 
Let me conclude on this note: I say that it is completely irresponsible first for this Government to determine that there should be late sitting hours next week merely to conclude consideration of 19 Bills which, in normal circumstances, would take probably 2 weeks at least with which to deal. Twelve Bills will be left on the Notice Paper. All those Bills were there at the beginning of 1970. More than 400 questions on notice remain to be answered. Important matters have been placed on the notice paper by honourable members on this side of the House. No opportunity will be given to the honourable members to debate these issues. I think that the Minister ought to reconsider both of the motions that he has proposed - that is, the motion that he has moved in relation to sitting days and the motion that he will move in respect of the suspension of the11 o'clock rule. 
If the Government has determined that the Parliament should adjourn for the holding of the Senate election - nobody would deny that this must be done - it is within the power of thegovernment to call Parliament together after 21st November. The membership of the House of Representatives and, indeed, the Senate will not be altered as a result of the Senate election. Those who are elected to the Senate as a result of the forthcoming election will not take their places in the Senate until 1st July 1971. The membership of the House of Representatives will not be altered. No alteration will occur immediately in the composition of the Senate. Surely, in these circumstances, there is no logical reason why this Government should not be prepared to call the Parliament together again after 21st November. This would mean that we could deal, I believe rationally and sensibly, as I have already indicated, with the Bills that will remain on the notice paper. I therefore urge not only those members on this side ofthe House but also those members on the Government side who believe that today insufficient opportunities are available to debate the legislation that is on the notice paper - legislation that concerns the people of this country - to support my stand. For these reasons we will be opposing both motions. 
Motion (by  Mr  Giles) put: 
That the question be now put. 
The Department of Shipping and Transport ostensibly directs transport policy in this country. In actual fact there are very severe restrictions on the role of the Department in this policy area. There are several departments where the administrative arrangements are allotted in an extremely haphazard and illogical way. I do not want to go into issues already covered by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  who is the Labor Party's spokesman for shipping and transport. What I want to have a look at are some of the implications of the recent report from the Australian National Line tabled in the House earlier this week. 
The report is a very interesting one. It contains many areas of criticism of Government policy, some overt and some implied. At the start of his review the  Chairman  of the ANL,  Sir John  Williams, re-states the theme he has outlined in previous reports - that the line is required to operate under very rigid restrictions. The Australian Coastal Shipping Commission Act imposes responsibilities on the line which are difficult to reconcile. I refer to section 18 of the Act. This requires the Commission to operate its services in such a way as to secure revenue to meet all its spending properly chargeable to revenue. Further, it has to operate in such a way as to pay a reasonable dividend to the Commonwealth. Subject to these provisos the Commission is charged to conduct its shipping services as efficiently as possible and to make these services available at the lowest possible rates. 

 Sir John Williams makes the obvious point that it is impossible to reconcile these objectives in the day-to-day administration of the Line. These difficulties are intensified when the Line has to bear the heavy costs of entry to overseas trade. Under these strains something has to be sacrificed. In 1969-70 the dividend payable to the Commonwealth has been waived. In the previous year it amounted to $1,028,791, a payment which the  Chairman  describes as 'a sufficiently poor result'. By comparison with previous years this dividend had certainly shrunk away. Now it has disappeared altogether and an overall loss of $ 1.43m has been incurred. This is composed of losses of $1,964,000 from overseas trading and some $210,000 from coastal operations. Offsetting these losses to some extent is a sum of $737,196 for non-operating income and surplus on sale of assets. 
The decision to re-enter overseas trade has produced heavy losses. This raises the question of whether the Line should bear from revenue the burden of the overseas ventures. If these costs had been met by the Commonwealth the ANL would have made a profit of around $527,000. This would still have been much below the previous year's dividend payment, but in the light of the ANL's considerable reserves it is fairly satisfactory. Instead a freight increase of 12.5 per cent has been imposed. 

 Sir John Williams refers to criticism of these rises, in particular from Tasmania. According to  Sir John,  the basis of this criticism is that because Tasmania is an island State sea transport to and from the mainland should be subsidised. After bringing this issue up, the ANL  chairman  dismisses it as beyond his province. He turns it over to the Government. Theoretically,  Sir John  is correct in this approach. Subsidies are political decisions. However, he should have approached the peculiar problems of Tasmania in a much more constructive and tolerant way. It is no use dismissing this problem as a mere political decision on whether or not to grant a Commonwealth subsidy. 
The ANL does have a debt to Tasmania and it is a debt which the  Chairman  of the Australian National Line should have acknowledged. It is difficult to put forward precise arguments in this area because the information on revenue and profits just is not available. The Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Sinclair)  has been rather vague and unsatisfactory in his statements on this issue. He has denied that the Tasmanian operations of the Line have in the past subsidised less profitable operations elsewhere on the coast. But he has not denied that until 1968 the Tasmanian operations of the Line have been profitable. 
As I understand the Minister he has said in public statements in Tasmania that in the past 2 or 3 years the Tasmanian operations have not been profitable. It must be recognised that the passenger traffic to Tasmania has not been profitable; the freight operations have. 
Freight carriage has subsidised the passenger operations; there are strong grounds for believing that freight operations to Tasmania have been profitable enough to meet shortfalls on other trades. The Minister has claimed it is not possible to break down the profitability of the component parts of the coastal trade, showing a profit or a loss for the North Queensland trade or the bulk cargo or the Tasmanian trade. It is true that there are accounting difficulties in such a task. However, in the 1968-69 report, the  Chairman  referred to losses of $740,000 on the Darwin trade. Despite the difficulties of apportioning costs and revenues on the coastal trade, it could be determined that the Darwin trade lost $740,000 in 1968-69. There is no estimate of losses for the Darwin trade in the 1969-70 report but again the  Chairman  refers to heavy losses in that sector. I refuse to believe that the ANL is not able to break down with a fair degree of precision, the profitability of its coastal operations. If it can be done for the Darwin trade why can it not be done for the Tasmanian trade? 
The overall loss on the coastal trade was $210,612; let us assume the losses of the Darwin trade were at least $740,000. Obviously some sectors of the coastal trade are profitable; otherwise losses for 1969-70 would have been much higher than $210,612. It may be that these offsets came from the North Queensland trade or the bulk carrier trade or some other coastal trade. These offsetting profits could also have come from the Tasmanian trade. The reticence of the Government on this matter can only be understood on the assumption that Tasmanian freight carriage has been profitable over the years. The Minister has denied Tasmanian freight operations are subsidising operations elsewhere; Tasmanian shippers and merchants have claimed that Tasmanian operations are in effect providing such a subsidy. Without the evidence of costs and revenues it is not possible to establish the truth of these conflicting claims. What is certain is that Tasmanians feel their freight rates are making an undue contribution to the re-entry of the ANL to the overseas trade and to unprofitable trading elsewhere on the coast. In this most unsatisfactory situation there is every prospect of further freight increases. 
The 12.5 per cent increase will be reflected in the ANL accounts for 1970-71. Based on the latest year's revenue figures, this would bring in extra revenue of about $5.7m. Further losses can be expected from the overseas trade and sections of the coastal trade, there will be more cost increase. This will bring renewed pressures for freight increases, probably in the 10 per cent to 20 per cent range. Such increases would have a dreadful impact on the whole internal cost structure of Tasmania. This is a matter of national transport policy because Tasmania is completely dependent on shipping for its role in the national economy. It cannot be dismissed as easily as  Sir John  Williams dismisses it as a matter of the Government granting or withholding subsidy. What is needed is an assessment of all the operations of the line with a complete breakdown of revenues and costs. I think such an analysis would disclose the contribution of Tasmania to the ANL's profitability in the past 10 years. It would also reinforce Tasmania's case for more sympathetic treatment over freight rate increases. 
Tasmania is also confronted with difficulties in linking to the container shipping network. At the moment the only way of getting containers from Tasmania to the container port in Melbourne is in unused cargo space on conventional shipping. If ANL vessels or other conventional shipping vessels have excess space they can take containers from Tasmania to Melbourne; if their space is taken by conventional cargo, containers have to wait. This hardly constitutes a feeder service for Tasmania on the lines repeatedly promised by the Minister for Trade and Industry and the Minister for Shipping and Transport. There are also serious problems for Tasmania in the future of the trade with Japan. The North Bound Shipping Conference has not provided a direct service from Tasmania to Japan since September. While there has been an agreement on uniform freight rates and their application to feeder services with the Australia to Europe conference, there has been no agreement on the Australia to Japan trade. This means that shippers from Tasmania to Japan have to pay the costs of shipment to Melbourne; they are sustaining their own feeder service. Obviously Tasmanian exports cannot be competitive under such a system. I have tried to indicate some of the main problem areas in shipping policy with particular emphasis on Tasmania which is completely dependent on sea transport. The full implications of policy decisions made by the Government in the past 3 years are only just beginning to emerge. 
I address a question to the Minister for Defence. Is the 3rd Battalion, stationed at Woodside, South Australia, the next battalion to be posted to Vietnam? ls Lieutenant-Colonel F. P. Scott the Commanding Officer of the 3rd Battalion? Did Lieutenant-Colonel Scott recently ask all members of the battalion, and national servicemen in particular, whether they were willing to serve in Vietnam? Did between 60 and 80 of the men indicate unwillingness to serve in Vietnam? Have  these men been transferred to noncombatant roles in the unit and will not now be going to Vietnam? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members oi the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The bumble Petition of the undersigned members of the Country Women's Association in Tasmania respectfully sheweth: 
That we view with great indignation the fact that cosmetics and grooming aids are the only consumer expendables on which the 25 per cent sales tax is levied and draw your attention to the injustice of the high rates of sales tax on cosmetics and toiletries; 
That we fail to understand why dog powder should be tax free whilst baby powder, cream, talc, hand lotion and face powder are taxed; 
That the 25 per cent tax was imposed in 1956 as a luxury tax in a Supplementary Budget and that a review of this matter is now overdue. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Government will impose a small tax on dog powder and non-essential cosmetics and abolish taxation on items which are essential for babies, elderly folk and geriatric patients. And your Petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education and Science. It is supplementary to the question asked by the Leader of the Opposition. I ask the Minister: Has he been consulted by the Prime Minister about the establishment of  kindergarten-cum-childminding  centres? Will the institutions that are envisaged in fact be pre-school centres or  childminding  centres? Are they to be staffed by qualified pre-school teachers? Is he aware that 240,000 children will have priority for admission within the terms suggested by the Prime Minister? How does the Minister propose to provide teachers for this great influx, representing 4 times the present enrolment of the entire Australian pre-school system? Finally, can he assure me that there will be no reduction in the standards of our pre-school education which at present enjoy international recognition? 
I want to join those honourable members who have spoken in support of the construction of a Commonwealth office block in Hobart and which has been recommended by the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works. The recommendation of that Committee has been presented to this House by the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp).  I want to say quite frankly that the decision of the Committee to embark upon the first stage of the Commonwealth office block in Hobart is long overdue. In Hobart far too many Commonwealth departments are located in various buildings for which abnormally high rental charges are made. 
I want to make some reference to the situation as it exists in other parts of Tasmania. It must be acknowledged that the great bulk of the population in Tasmania is, of course, north of Hobart. One recognises that not only in Tasmania but also in other States the Commonwealth prefers to have Commonwealth offices situated in the capital city. But what T said in relation to rental charges for Commonwealth departments located in private buildings in Hobart applies equally to the city of Launceston. Representations have been made over many years by myself and other honourable members in this House for the erection of a Commonwealth office block in the city of Launceston. On one occasion I sought information from the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Nixon)  as to the amount of the annual rental paid for accommodation of Commonwealth departments in the city of Launceston. I have not the figures with me now but I can assure the House that the amount is quite staggering. There is obviously a very good reason why the Government should seriously consider, when all the stages of the 
Commonwealth office block in Hobart have been completed, whether an immediate investigation should be undertaken into the need to establish a similar block of offices in the city of Launceston. 
Having made those very brief remarks I want to say once again that I support the construction of this block in Hobart. I congratulate the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for having made a very wise decision to embark upon this project which should have been commenced many years ago. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I want to speak to the States Grants (Special Assistance) Bill 1970. This annual piece of legislation has a habit of making history. In 1968 when this Bill was put to the House, it marked the end of Western Australia's dependence on the Grants Commission. At the time it seemed Tasmania would be the only remaining claimant State for special assistance from the Commonwealth. Now South Australia has elected to make a partial return to the shelter of the Grants Commission umbrella. In 1968 in debating this legislation I raised the question of whether it was worth retaining the Grants Commission structure for one claimant State. I suggested then that the whole framework of Federal, State and local government relations should be revised with some new machinery incorporated for assistance to Tasmania. The framework of CommonwealthState financial relations remains intact; there have b.en no significant changes. It seems there is still a role for the Grants Commission; that no matter how much the States try to shake off the status of mendicant statehood there are still advantages in seeking its assistance. 
This has happened to South Australia, which withdrew from the special grants system in 1959-60. Now on the basis of a deterioration in relative financial status, South Australia has applied for a special grant. 1 have not been able to look at the submission of the South Australian Government. It was considered by the Grants Commission in August and forms the subject of a one page supplement in the report of the Grants Commission for 1970. On the basis of these hearings the Commission recommended an advance grant of $5m; it will in the next year apply its usual procedures of assessment and revision to determine the extent of special assistance to South Australia. In the absence of analysis, the recommendation of the Grants Commission as enacted in this Bill seems a reasonable course. My South Australian colleagues will be able to comment on the adequacy of this assistance with much greater knowledge than I have. 
From the national standpoint, the significant thing about the grant to South Australia is that it shatters the pattern of Commonwealth-State financial relationships which seemed to be emerging. Initially, special assistance of this kind was granted to what were then termed the three marginal States of Western Australia, Tasmania and South Australia. This sort of assistance was evolved during the 1930's with the creation and operation of the Grants Commission. The objective was to put all States in a position of fiscal equality. This applied particularly to the States of lesser population and smaller scope for taxation revenue. The system was designed to provide in these disadvantaged States levels of public utilities and services comparable to those of the wealthier States. It produced a close relationship between the Commonwealth, the Grants Commission and the State governments in allocation of resources to those States. It also meant a substantial degree of supervision of State spending and budgeting by the Commonwealth. This is revealed in successive reports of the Commonwealth Grants Commission which have shown how budget results of the mendicant States have been adjusted by payment of grants. 
Using the criteria that administration in the claimant States should reach an acceptable level, and that their budgeting should be satisfactory, a close surveillance was kept on public finance in these 3 States. This undoubtedly contributed to the effectiveness of Government in the claimant States. The whole process added up to a notable experiment in fiscal federalism - one which was in many ways extremely successful and in advance of practice in other systems of federal government. In many ways the peculiarly Australian structure of general revenue grants, special grants, specific purpose grants, the uniform taxation structure and the creation and operation of the Loan Council and Commonwealth Grants Commission was revolutionary. The United States is still struggling to achieve an equivalent mix of federal forces in a federal system, and a satisfactory basis for revenue sharing. This should be recognised whenever the vexed problems of financial relations between the 3 tiers of government in Australia come before the House. With regard to the system of special assistance, it seemed a pinnacle of success had been reached when Western Australia asserted its independence from the Grants Commission. Now South Australia has chosen to relinquish its independence of the Commission and apply for assistance on the basis that its relative financial status has deteriorated. This opens the way for Western Australian to seek similar assistance if its financial hopes from the Loan Council are disappointed. This would be a legitimate use of the existing structure and it seems there will be a role for the Commonwealth Grants Commission to perform for some years to come. 
The Grants Commission and the special assistance machinery are only one facet of the whole apparatus which governs CommonwealthState relations in this country. 
This structure is obviously far from the promised land; it is under pressure at the moment. It is a situation which should be approached with tolerance; it should not be beyond the bounds of statesmanship to devise an effective solution. In the main, federalism has served Australia well. In many ways its practice in this country has been more satisfactory than in other federations. However, the basic problem of increasing federal revenues as opposed to static or dwindling State revenues has to be faced. In the past few years, the vitality of the Federal structure has been sapped by the unrelenting pressures of public policy at all levels of government. As any change in the constitutional structure of Australia is beyond credibility, the only solution is to restore and revitalise the existing system, lt must be conceded that the Commonwealth government cannot carry out important parts of its responsibilities without effective State and local administration. State and local government perform essential functions and try to satisfy the reasonable aspirations of Australians for improvements in the environment in which they live. For this reason, it is unfortunate that a malaise is becoming more and more apparent at local and State government levels. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
 Before the suspension of the sitting I was dealing with the State governments and local government authorities. It is impossible to put a 'made in Canberra' label on all the products of a good life. It should be pointed out that State and local governments may often be humdrum and dull but they are at the heart of national life. To millions of Australians they spell the difference between a decent life and a squalid life. This is why every element of the inter-governmental machinery is so important and why it must be ceaselessly analysed and improved where necessary. 
The whole range of Commonwealth, State and local government financial relationships is beyond this Bill. Allowing for the re-entry of South Australia to the special assistance area, the main emphasis of this bill and of the Commonwealth Grants Commission Report falls on Tasmania. For this reason the report of the Commission for 1970 is much more detailed than previous reports on the Tasmanian economy and the Tasmanian fiscal structure. It seems the Commissioners have taken the view that their primary responsibility now is to Tasmania. This, of course, was before the change of government in South Australia and the change in attitude on the part of the South Australian Government to special assistance under the structure of the Grants Commission. 
The Commission seems, however, to have some inkling that its expertise and its techniques would be required in the future for States other than Tasmania. In its 1968 report the Commission discussed changing the basis of its budget standard from the budgetary experience of New South Wales and Victoria to a budgetary standard based on the weighted average of the nonclaimant States. This would have meant that future assistance to Tasmania would have depended on a budgetary standard based on the 5 other States, including the 2 States which were formerly claimant States, Western Australia and South Australia. The Commission wisely decided not to adopt the new standard before I he year of review 1970-71. This was a wise decision; if this pattern had been adopted and applied the whole pattern of special assistance to Tasmania could have been distorted because of the South Australian decision to resume claimant status. It seems that with real prospects that South Australia will continue to seek special assistance and the possibility that Western Australia may also resort to the Grants Commission, the Grants Commission acted perceptively. 
The report of the Grants Commission also devotes considerable space to negotiations late last year with the Tasmanian State Government over the problem of assessing special assistance to Tasmania. The Tasmanian Government argued that the Commission should make its recommendations on a broad and unsophisticated view of Tasmania's financial needs. It argued further that the Commission's existing methods failed to measure properly Tasmania's relative financial needs. The essence of its contention was that the Commission should rely more on observation and broad judgment rather than on statistical comparison. Admittedly, this was put forward by a State Liberal Government which prefers to deal in the broad rather than the specific. It even has serious problems in fulfilling the specifics of its electoral programmes. This is evident in  Mr Bethune's  admission that he has not honoured his electoral promises to independent schools and the very justified criticisms made of him by spokesmen for these schools. In any case the Grants Commission rightly rejected this spurious argument. 
The time for such primitive ruleofthumb economics has long passed. If the Premier intends to rely on economic thinking of the sort he put to the Grants Commission there is every reason for extreme disquiet about the future of Tasmania. It is reasonable to assume from this sort of approach that  Mr Bethune  as Treasurer will formulate his Budget on the basis of observation and broad judgment. There is no place for this sort of cave-man economics in present fiscal policy. This has been rightly recognised by the Giants Commission; I feel they dealt much too respectfully with the submissions put to it by the Tasmanian State Government. 
The Commission made the obvious point that it was difficult to see how it could avoid detailed statistical aud other investigations, particularly in a situation where Tasmania often pressed for changes in the Commission's methods and where its own submissions often included detailed statistical material. This puts in a nutshell the case against the absurdity of the Bethune Government's submissions on abolition of sophisticated techniques of measurement in the fields of revenue and expenditure. The plain fact is that these techniques are a very real part of modern government; they are becoming increasingly important; more and more they are the conventional weapons of the fiscal armoury of every government. They are perhaps more important to Tasmania than to any other Australian State. 
I do not intend to examine the wealth of new material on the Tasmanian economy put forward in the Grants Commission report for 1970. It is an extremely rewarding and valuable document. I do want to develop, however, some of the inferences of the report in the light of the recent study of Tasmania made by the Hunter Valley Research Foundation. This is a body devoted to regional studies in Australia; it cut its teeth on the Hunter Rivery Valley region of New South Wales before embarking on a full scale study of Tasmania. The report does not contain many insights or information new to those who have been associated with public policy. It does draw together into coherent form a great mass of detail about Tasmania. Most of the specific recommendations of the foundation are unexceptionable and even well-worn. However, it is revealing on Tasmanian finances and Tasmania's investment needs. These are subjects which relate back to the recommendations of the Commonwealth Grants Commission. 
The basic point which can be drawn from both reports, the Grants Commission and the Research Foundation, is that Tasmania's fiscal administration is extremely circumscribed. This stems from the degree of control the Commonwealth, through the special assistance machinery, has over the State budget. The budgets of all Australian States are extremely restrictive in terms of projections forward. Indeed this also applies to the Commonwealth Government although the Treasurer on occasions has made vague references to programme budgeting. The Department of Defence also operates ostensibly on the basis of programming and budgeting forward defence expenditure over 5 years; the results of this system hardly support the claims made for it by the Minister. However, no government budget is as tightly constrained as the Tasmanian Budget. This has had advantages in the past; no-one could deny the benefits that have accrued to Tasmania from the grants system. What can be questioned is the effectiveness of this process in the years ahead. 
The research study on Tasmania in the seventies rightly points out that the mechanism of the Grants Commission merely compensates Tasmania for deficiencies arising from its relatively small size by comparison with the other States. Because of this mechanism it is difficult for the State to formulate a long term financial policy. If it is conceded that Tasmania will remain for many years a claimant State, and bearing in mind the tight control the Grants Commission has on the State budget, this is a problem which requires a joint solution embracing the Grants Commission and the Government of Tasmania. Obviously Tasmanian growth depends on the maintenance of comparative advantage of its industries in the internal Australian market and in the export trade. This comparative advantage is being ever more rapidly whittled away. Whatever cost advantages industry based in Tasmania once had because of cheaper power and other concessions have largely disappeared. There has been little movement of new industry from mainland States to Tasmania; a reverse flow is more and more apparent as a number of prominent industries transfer back to the mainland. Increases in shipping freights can only intensify this trend. 
The whole tenor of the report of the Hunter River Valley Foundation is that Tasmania's economic growth depends on the maintenance of comparative advantage for its industries and the promotion of a high rate of investment. On present indications the State is losing out on both counts. Comparative advantage is dribbling away. There is a marked shortfall in public and private investment. This is the sort of situation which cries out for long-term financial planning. Whatever the merits of the present structure it is not providing this long-term planning. 
A particularly valuable feature of the foundation report is its estimates of what it terms a gross regional product for Tasmania. This is an attempt to estimate total spending on goods and services in Tasmania in the same way that the gross national product is estimated nationally. These estimates reveal a remarkable fluctuation in Tasmanian growth. Between 1963-64 and 1964-65 the estimated gross regional product, or GRP, increased by 10 per cent; between 1964-65 and 1965-66 by 5 per cent; between 1965-66 and 1966-67 by 10 per cent; and between 1966-67 and 1967-68 by 3.5 per cent. Part of the reason for these extreme fluctuations in growth is the susceptibility of the Tasmanian economy to natural disasters such as flood and fire. But this erratic pattern of growth reinforces the need for careful future planning and projection of the State Budget. In 1967-68, the last year for which the foundation gives an estimate, Tasmania's gross regional product was $659. 
On this basis the foundation estimated that the State needed a flow of investment from Government and private enterprise amounting to more than $l80m for an adequate regional growth rate to be sustained. The report did not attempt to give an estimate of the present level of investment in Tasmania. I can understand the extreme difficulties confronting anyone making such an estimate, but it is a pity we cannot get even a rough idea of the level of investment in Tasmania. There are grounds for believing that this level of investment is considerably below the figure of 180m deemed adequate for 1967-68. In the present year an adequate level of investment for Tasmania would be more of the order of $200m. I would be surprised if the present level of investment for the State was much more than half this figure. 
On all the evidence that can be gathered from Grants Commission reports and other sources, the conclusion is inescapable that there is a serious shortfall of investment in Tasmania. This adds to the urgency of providing adequate machinery for future budgetary planning for the State. To draw together the threads of what I have been saying, the contribution made by the Grants Commission to Tasmanian growth over the past 30 years is beyond question. However, the future growth of the State is subject to very serious pressures. These have been dealt with at length in the House on a number of occasions by myself and my colleagues from Tasmania. I believe this makes imperative the adoption of a more flexible instrument of fiscal planning for Tasmania under the guidance of the Grants Commission. For this reason the Grants Commission should be used to develop a system of budgeting which would allow development objectives to be evaluated and incorporated into a budget framework projected up to five years ahead. 
I believe the Government should allow the Grants Commission in association with the Tasmania Government to evolve a set of proposals which would put financial policy for that State on a long-term basis In particular, such a system of long-term planning should be based on a system of programme budgeting with revenue and expenditure flows projected up to 5 years ahead 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Solomon)  adjourned. 
As the Leader of the House  (Mr Snedden)  has pointed out, there has been some discussion about the matters on the notice paper. Some have been there since the beginning of the year. I agreed that, to relieve the workload of the Hansard staff and of the employees of the Government Printing Office, who are involved in producing the notice paper each day, some of these statements could be removed from the notice paper. We agreed that the matter referred to by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  be deleted on the basis that it was covered by a Bill. If the honourable member believes, and assures the House, that an undertaking was given by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  that this matter would be further discussed in the House 1 would suggest to the Leader of the House  (Mr Snedden)  that this Order of the Day might remain on the notice paper. 
asked  the  Minister for  the 
Navy, upon notice: 
How many 
officers, and 
men have been reposted within Australia in each of the past 5 years. 
How many 
families, and 
children have been involved in these repostings in each of the past 5 years. 
What has been the cost of 
furniture removals 
vehicle removals, and 
furniture storage for the same years. 
What disturbance allowance is paid to those re posted. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Labour and National Service. He will be aware that the Professional Officers Association decided to suspend industrial action to enable a new salary review to be undertaken by the Public Service Board in conjunction with the Professional Officers Association, the Association of Professional Engineers. Australia and the Association of Architects, Engineers, Surveyors and Draftsmen of Aus  tralia according to the conditions provided in a joint statemment of 14 September 1970.I ask the Minister: Is he in a position to advise me whether the review has been completed and when it will be made available to the associations concerned? Further, is he aware of the need for an early decision and determination of the claim for pay increases for professional engineers? 
Did the Minister for National Development in association with the Minister for Supply issue a Press statement on seismic observations at Alice Springs on 16 October? Did the statement contain the significant information that the United States geological and geophysical project at Alice Springs undertook studies of a classified nature? Is this the first admission by the Government that classified work is undertaken at the Alice Springs project, usually described as a weather station? Was there an agreement between the Australian and United States Governments when this station was established and was it published in the 'Australian Treaty' series? Is the Press release I referred to the first official description of the station as a joint Australia-United States project? Is it not a fact that United States Air Force Detachment 421 operates the station without any Australian participation other than construction, installation and some mapping and survey work? Finally, I ask the Minister: Does any Australian Government agency actually participate in or receive significant information about any classified work of the United States Air Force? 
As my colleague the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  has made clear, the Australian Labor Party opposes this 
Bill. This is the second Bill of this sort this year. Both have been introduced in strikingly similar circumstances. The first Loan (Defence) Bill was debated in this House at a very advanced hour on 12th June. I think the honourable member for Melbourne Ports spoke on the Bill some time after 2 a.m. He expressed the Labor Party's opposition to the Bill but because of the lateness of the hour and the need to finish legislation he did not carry it to a division. Now, in the closing hours of this session there is a similar Bill before the House. I do not suggest there is anything sinister in the timing of these 2 Bills; it may be coincidence. But both these Bills have involved immense amounts of money. But for the vigilance of the honourable member for Melbourne Ports when the first Bill was introduced in June, some very important features of this sort of legislation would have been missed. 
In essence these Loan (Defence) Bills derive from the logistic arrangements between Australia and the United States of America. Under this logistic arrangement with the United States Government, Australia has been able to make credit arrangements for the purchasing of equipment for the Services from the United States. According to the 1970 Defence Report, credits totalling $A549m have been negotiated since 1965. A total of $360.8 17m had been spent against these credits to 30th June 1970. At this date a balance of about Si 89m remained for future purchases, but it was estimated $77. 63m would be spent in 1970-71. The servicing of these credit arrangements had absorbed $32. 762m in interest payments with a further interest payment of $ 16.340m planned for 1970-71. The size of this interest payment for 1970- 71 emphasises the burden of servicing these credit arrangements; it is half the total of the interest payments in the previous 3 years. To 30th June 1970 a total of $140.360m in principal had been repaid. This is the broad background to the credit arrangements with the United States. 
I refer to the first Loan (Defence) Bill introduced in June this year. This proposed that a sum of $100m be borrowed from the United States. When this was put to the House, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports criticised the necessity for such a loan and made the point that defence purchases should be paid for as they are made. In other words, they should not be made against a previous credit arrangement at a particular rate of interest. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports criticised the absence of any quotation of an interest rate in this Bill. He made the point that it was absurd to borrow such a large amount of money on terms that were not even set down. I turn now to the second Loan (Defence) Bill introduced by the Treasurer on Wednesday night. This traces through the history of the amount borrowed in the first Loan (Defence) Bill. The final arrangement was for $US89m. Orders approximately equal to the amount of that credit had been placed in the United States by about the end of June. 
The timing is interesting because the report of the Auditor-General refers to this borrowing and makes the point that interest was payable at 7i per cent per annum. According to the Auditor-General's report there were no amounts advanced under this agreement during 1969-70, that is until 30 June this year. It seems that about late June-early July there was a spate of approaches against this credit. This was not reflected in the last report of the AuditorGeneral. There is no indication in thu Treasurer's second reading speech of what this $US89m was spent on. The obvious implication is that it was used to finance the purchases announced in the Minister for Defence's statement to this House early in March. This $US89m was disposed of very quickly because now this Bill has been put forward seeking the approval of the Parliament for spending another $US125m on defence equipment from the United States. 
This is to carry an interest rate of 7.375 per cent -  I  per cent more than the interest rate for the loan under the first Bill. The interest rates for loans under these credit arrangements have risen quite sharply in the past few years. According to the Auditor-General's report for 1969-70, the total dealings under the initial Loan (Defence) Act of 1966 were $US407.808m. Of this sum $US310m has been negotiated at 4i per cent, $US19.97m at 54 per cent and $U77.2m at 4 per cent. This year we have negotiated $US89m at 7.125 per cent. Now the Government wants approval for another $US125m at 7.375 per cent. This indicates the hurden higher interest rates will put on servicing these borrowings in the years ahead. This is a major reason in the Opposition's attitude to this Bill. 
In 2 Loan Bills this year we will spend some $US214m to be repaid at interest rates exceeding 7 per cent. We have not been told what this spending is for, although it would be possible to get some rough idea from looking at defence estimates and the reports of the Auditor-General. There are many alarming features of this whole arrangement with the United States. There are many aspects of it which have never been explained. The information contained in the Minister's second reading speech is completely inadequate to assess the scope of these credit arrangements and what their burden will be on the Budget in the years, ahead. 
There is another peculiar aspect to this whole credit structure with the United States. In 1969 a Loan (Defence) Bill was passed by this House providing for an amount of $US75m to assist in financing the purchase of the Fill aircraft. The Treasurer pointed out in his second reading speech that no drawings have been made against that loan. According to the 1969-70 report of the Auditor-General this was to be repayable over 7 years with interest at 6 per cent per annum. No amounts had been advanced under this agreement although commitment fees of one-half of 1 per cent per annum had been paid totalling $336,840 in 1969-70. In 1968-69 a similar fee of $247,388 had been paid. This loan was supposed to be contributed to the cost of 24 Fill aircraft, spares and associated equipment and services. It is impossible on the evidence available to find out why this loan was negotiated. Why has it not been used to finance the Fill deal? Certainly Australia is still paying and paying heavily for the Fill despite the present uncertainty and technical predicaments of the aircraft. According to the latest Auditor-General's report, progressive spending on the plane to 30th June 1970, amounted to just over S200m out of the estimated total cost of $US30Om 
In 1968 spending totalling SI 6.656m had been incurred: made up of $10.71 lm Chargeable to Division 702 and $5.944m to the Loan Fund. This is much the same breakdown as in 1968-69 when spending of $80.85m was incurred on the plane. In neither year was any of this spending financed from the borrowing authorised by the 1968 Bill and specifically earmarked for the Fill. The Treasurer may be able to explain this. In the absence of such explanation it seems incredible that this credit should not be put to use, particularly as some $580,000 has been paid in commitment fees. If this $US75m is not needed for the Fill why has it not been switched over to other defence buying? If it is needed for the Fill, then why has it not been applied to Fill spending? Why has the Fill purchase been financed from other sources? Above all, with this big credit available at an interest rate of 6 per cent, why has it been found necessary to negotiate further credit arrangements at substantially higher interest rates? Why should this credit lie idle and build up commitment payments? Obviously, if this $US75m was applied to the Fill, the aircraft purchase at present estimated costs would be substantially paid for. 
These are very important matters with serious consequences on overseas payments and defence arrangements in the years ahead. They deserve much more detailed explanation than ever given to this House or contained in annual Defence Reports or Auditor-General Reports. If the present Loan Bill is passed the Government will have total unused credits of $200m to play with. It got rid pretty quickly of the $89m approved in the last Loan Bill. What has been bought with this money and what will be bought with the credit sought in this loan? There must be grave dangers with such a volume outstanding for defence purchases from the United States of supply creating its own demand. If the credits are available there will be strong pressures to spend it. Indeed there is virtually an obligation commitment because the arrangements just build up commitment fees which have to be paid, if the credits lie fallow. This is not conducive to prudent defence planning and procurement. 
I agree completely with the attitude of the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean):  We should not finance our defence purchases in this way. We should treat defence purchases as an expendable item for which we should not incur debt or borrow overseas. We should pay for our defence as we go and with enphasis on satisfactory delivery and terms of payment. With the existing credit arrangements we do not know what we are buying and we cannot find out the cost of individual items because of the variation in interest rates under the deal. 
The whole approach to defence procurement under this sort of arrangement is completely wrong. The Opposition will no longer sanction defence spending in this way. The vagueness of these arrangements is an open invitation to irresponsible and incompetent defence spending. 
Under an arrangement of this sort Australia has paid out $200m on a plane which has not been delivered, will not be delivered for at least 18 months, and may never be delivered. There can be no trust in the effective use of credit arrangements by a government which has made disastrous mistakes in defence purchases from the United States. This is why we are questioning the whole structure of these arrangements, the purchases to be made under them, and the future fiscal consequences of them. The Treasurer said that $US450m arranged under the initial Act of 1966 had been absorbed by the end of 1969. An additional $89m has been spent in the last few months. 
There is $US75m outstanding; now the Government wants another $US125m. This all adds up to $US739m for procurement of defence equipment from the United States. 
What has the Government been able to obtain from the United States to offset this huge outlay? Earlier this year I asked the Minister for Defence what subcontracts had gone to Australian companies from our defence purchases in the United States since 1966 when the credit arrangement started. The Minister said it was not possible to give precise information because some Australian companies had negotiated directly with United States companies. He was able to point to 4 sub-contracts which he described as major. The total value of these sub-contracts was $4.24m. The Minister said further that important negotiations were in progress on sub-contracting, offsets and co-production arrangements for a number of important purchases. These included the 12 medium lift helicop ters, 42 utility helicopters, 11 helicopter gunships, and 84 light observation helicopters. We have heard nothing more about the success or otherwise of these negotiations. 
In total, the offset obtained for this vast spending in the terms of the credit arrangements is pitifully small. Certainly, this is a very complex and difficult question but the Minister and his predecessor have put very strong public emphasis on this whole question of defence procurement and offset policy. It can justly be said against the background of their repeated expositions of policy that nothing of significance has been achieved. On any assessment of the figures the Government has managed to offset less than one-half of one per cent of the money poured into United States defence purchases. The Opposition is most unhappy with the implications of this Bill; the House has been most inadequately informed of its consequences. In particular, arrangements of this sort put defence procurement completely beyond any sort ot effective surveillance of this House. There are many questions arising from this legislation that must be answered. 
The Government has a responsibility, in view of its programme of borrowing generally for the purchase of equipment, largely from the United States of America, to explain to the House how this money is to be expended and the value that Australia is receiving in terms of defence procurement, having regard to the fluctuating rates of interest to which I have referred and the enormous cost to the Australian taxpayer, particularly when one looks at the purchase of the Fill aircraft. I think it would be wrong to end my speech on a Bill of this nature without again referring to the enormity of the tragedy of the Government's venture into the purchase of an aircraft such as the Fill, for which we have now paid more than $200m and for which we are still meeting interest payments although we have not yet received one of the aircraft. There is not one responsible Minister who can inform the House when the Fill will be available and whether it will ever be used by the Royal Australian Air Force. These are some of the reasons why the Opposition believes that a Bill of this nature deserves a far greater explanation and a more concise and objective explanation from the Minister for Defence, particularly when the Bill involves this kind of borrowing and having in mind the unhappy situation which has applied in this country in relation to the procurement of defence equipment overseas by this Government. For these and the other reasons 1 have already enunciated the Opposition has no alternative but to oppose this Bill. 
This report provides the first outline of what the Government intends for the naval support facility at Cockburn Sound. Ministers have been very wary in the past over conveying other than the most cursory information about the proposed base. We now know from this report that it is planned to establish a facility for the berthing and logistic support of ships and submarines. According to the report the facility could be in operation in 1975.  Major Befitting  and docking facilities are not planned in the initial stages. This is much more information than has ever been given to this House by the Government. in his election policy speech last year the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  did say that naval facilities would be installed over a period. The only elaboration he has made since was at a Press conference in Brisbane last year and I quote from the Australian' of 20th October 1969, which reports the Prime Minister as having said that the base would have an initial capacity for 3 submarines and 4 frigates in 6 or 7 years' time. He was quoted further as saying that he had no doubt that as Australia grew, the facilities would be expanded. He said also that there was no possibility of having a significant twoocean capacity within 10 years, though Australia would have one eventually. This is the only account I have been able to find of what the Prime Minister envisages for Cockburn Sound. 
The Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Minister for the Navy  (Mr Killen)  have been less than enlightening. In his defence statement on 10th March the Minister for Defence stressed the need for a greater maritime capability in the waters around Australia. He said that the whole range of requirements of naval dockyards was under review and with the withdrawal of the Royal Navy from the Indian Ocean, some shifts of resources from the eastern States was necessary. On 14th May in this House the late  Sir Wilfrid  Kent Hughes moved a motion calling for urgent priority to be given Cockburn Sound on the defence programme. In his response the Minister for the Navy said only that there was a design study then being made on the causeway. This study produced the report now before the House. 
There was no reference to the project in the Budget although other construction work for the defence Services was outlined. It is a very great pity that a comprehensive statement on Cockburn Sound has not been made to the House by either the Minister for Defence or the Minister for the Navy. At the very least, the feasibility study made by Maunsell and Partners and given to the Government on 18th April 1968, should have been tabled in the House. Nor has the House had the benefit of the interdepartmental study of Australian dockyard facilities. 
In the absence of all this information it has been impossible to make an informed assessment of the project or to debate it. Now, on the last day of the sitting, the House is given a report which sets out for the first time some of the specifics of the Government's proposals for Cockburn Sound. Undoubtedly, this has been done with an eye to the Senate elections. I do not complain of this; it is a legitimate political tactic to use such a report in this way. What is wrong is that the House will not be able to debate this issue with the benefit of the first concrete set of proposals and background information that has been given to it on Cockburn Sound. This concerns members of the Opposition. 
Apart from the defence aspects of the issue there are environmental aspects which are important. The House will note that 2 Opposition members of the Public Works Committee, the honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Fulton)  and the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson),  drew attention to the impairment of the environment and moved an amendment that was defeated. There is very little reference to this side of the issue in the report, although I understand a considerable amount of scientific evidence was given to the Committee. I know that several members of the Opposition are concerned about the impact on the environment of the proposals and they should have been able to discuss these matters in the House. As it turns out, a full-scale debate on Cockburn Sound will not be possible before the next session. 
There was little need for Australia to think of an Indian Ocean capability in the years of the great British bases in Singapore, Ceylon and the Middle Bast. Those days are gone forever and it is now a matter of urgency that the two-ocean capability of our defence forces be given teeth. Certainly the development of Cockburn Sound solely as a naval base seems beyond Australia's resources. Of course the Navy has not the capacity to use a major base in the west at anything like full capacity. This is why the Australian Labor Party's policy, as outlined by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  has centred on development of general maritime facilities at Cockburn Sound. 
For some years the Western Australian Government has been interested in using Cockburn Sound to relieve the pressure on 
Fremantle inner harbour. There is scope for a development scheme initiated by the Commonwealth and supported by the State covering the provision of naval, maritime and commercial facilities at Cockburn Sound. The Navy's part in the development could be concentrated on providing a support role for a modest Indian Ocean capability. This is the way the Opposition has seen the Cockburn Sound development over the years. 
In summary, it is regrettable that the first account of the Cockburn Sound project should have to be conveyed to the House by way of the Public Works Committee. It is even more regrettable that a full-scale debate on all aspects of the project has not been held and now cannot be held before March next year. With these serious reservations, the Opposition welcomes the report and the valuable information it contains. 
asked the Minister for the Army, upon notice: 
How many (a) officers and (b) men have been reposted within Australia in each of the past 5 years. 
How many (a) families and (b) children have been involved in these repostings in each of the past 5 years. 
What has been the cost of (a) furniture removals, (b) vehicle removals and (c) furniture storage for the same years. 
What disturbance allowance is paid to those reposted. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Air, upon notice: 
How many (a) officers and (b) men have been reposted within Australia in each of the past 5 years. 
How many (a) families and (b) children have been involved in these repostings in each of the past 5 years. 
What has been the cost of (a) furniture removals, (b) vehicle removals and (c) furniture storage for the same years. 
What disturbance allowance is paid to those reposted. 
asked the Minister for the 
Army, upon notice: 
What is the total number of cooks in the Army. 
How many of these are civilians. 
What is the award wage for a civilian cook employed by the Army. 
What is the wage received by an enlisted cook in the Army. 
What overtime is worked by civilian cooks. 
What are the overtime rates of pay tor civilian cooks. 
What overtime is worked by enlisted cooks. 
What are the overtime rates of pay forthese men. 
Did the Minister for Defence say in answer to a question from  Senator Keeffe  on 21st October last year that he was not aware .of a problem involving sales of Australian military equipment on the blackmarket in South Vietnam? Is it true, as reported by the Australian Broadcasting  Commission on 19th January of this year, that a number of Australian soldiers serving in Vietnam were charged and punished for black market offences in Saigon? If so, is the Minister now able to inform the House of the extent of blackmarketing of Australian goods and military equipment in South Vietnam? 
asked the Minister-in- 
Charge of Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
How many government schools are there in Australia where the pupils are all Aboriginal children. 
In which Stale or Territory is each of these schools. 
How distant is each from the nearest government school. 
Do any Aboriginal settlements have two government schools, one for. Aboriginal children and one for children of white workers. 
If so, why does his Office tolerate this form of discrimination. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Defence. Did the Austraiian Broadcasting Commission's correspondent in Saigon report late last week that all military civic action projects in Phuoc Tuy province were to be completed as soon as possible and all work in the fields of medicine, education and social services were to be stopped because the Vietnamese people are now capable of helping themselves; but that special large scale projects under the Australian Government's direct programme of economic aid would not be affected? Did the Minister imply in a statement on Friday that this report was inaccurate when he said that such an instruction would be contrary to Government policy? Did he make a further statement last night which confirmed that such an instruction had been issued by the commander of the Australian Task Force in Vietnam? When the Minister said that the guidelines laid down by MajorGeneral Fraser had been in part misunderstood did he mean that they had been completely misunderstood by himself? What are these guidelines and how will they be applied? 
Has the Minister for the Army received complaints about cuts in deliveries of mail to servicemen in Vietnam? Have mail deliveries to Vietnam been reduced from 7 days' a week to 4 days a week? If cuts have been made, can the Minister tell the House why they were necessary? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Defence. Has the independent market survey of sales prospects for Project N been completed? Has the final analysis to substantiate performance claims made for the aircraft been completed? If so, can the Minister indicate to the House the potential commercial market for the aircraft? Can he assure the House that there is a definite Australian military requirement for Project N? 
The Opposition has proposed this discussion of a matter of public importance to allow the Government to clarify its future policies towards its commitment of Australian troops to Vietnam and to the rehabilitation of Indo-China. I should like to begin by making some general comments about the military situation in Indo-China. Much has been made of the progress in South Vietnam since the operations in Cambodia last year. From my own observations there have been significant advances in the stability and security of the three and four corps areas of South Vietnam - that is, the Mekong delta area and the provinces surrounding Saigon. The South Vietnamese Government claims to be on top in these regions and I believe it to be a fair claim. It must be borne in mind, though, that this improvement has been achieved by the sacrifice of Cambodia. 
The Cambodian coup and military operations last year have certainly moved North Vietnamese units away from the border regions where they had supply bases with easy access to South Vietnam. 
At the same time these operations have dispersed Communist forces over the whole of Cambodia. An exceptionally vicious and tragic war is being fought in Cambodia with a rather uneasy alliance between the Cambodian Army and units of the South Vietnamese Army. 
What has been the net result of the extension of the war to Cambodia? It has produced some gains in South Vietnam at the cost of bitter warfare in Cambodia, the only country in Indo-China which had been spared. If we look at the whole of Indo-China, there has been no net gain. Weighing the relative stability in the bottom half of South Vietnam against the chaos and carnage in Cambodia perhaps there has even been a net loss. Elsewhere in Indo-China there has been the remarkable confrontation of the last few weeks in Laos. It is easy to be wise in retrospect but on all evidence available at the moment this seems to have been a grave military mistake. Even on the simplest military terms it seemed unwise to commit an already over-extended army to a major offensive in difficult country. Admittedly the information available at the moment is scanty and inconclusive, but putting the best possible face on it for the South Vietnamese Army, it has fallen far short of its objectives. 
The best that has been claimed for the operations by United States Army spokesmen is that it has disrupted traffic along the Ho Chi Minh trail, a rather spurious claim. At the worst, the ARVN Army could have suffered a major disaster. Whatever else the operation proves, it shows beyond doubt that the mainforce North Vietnamese Army is still a very formidable opponent. Operating from its own territory with interior lines of communication it has again proved its effectiveness. It also refutes the claim that morale has been crumbling in North Vietnam. Quite obviously the North Vietnamese Army and civil population are capable of sustaining a major military effort. Why the United States and the South Vietnamese should have invited a direct confrontation with this powerful army on its own ground at this time is beyond my comprehension. With elections due later this year surely it would have been the better tactic to take a defensive stance on the borders of Vietnam white continuing consolidation of its inter nal gains. Instead the ARVN Army is heavily committed in Laos and Cambodia as well as continuing operations against the Vietcong in South Vietnam. 
The so-called process of Vietnamisation has produced a major war in Indo-China. It has destroyed the neutrality of Cambodia; further it has seriously threatened the balance which has persisted in Laos since 1962. All possible combinations between the left, the centre and the right have been tried in Laos. Whatever the shortcomings of the present system it has been reasonably effective. Destruction of this precarious balance would only intensify the problems of getting any sort of solution in IndoChina in the next 5 years. The plain fact is that if the South Vietnamese Government is not capable of standing by itself now it will never have that capacity. This is a conflict which massive ' intervention by external forces has failed to resolve. It can be solved only by direct political, negotiation and confrontation between the contending Vietnamese factions. It is the responsibility of the Vietnamese to achieve their own consensus; no one else cun do it for them. 
It is in this context that the commitment by the Government of Australian troops to South Vietnam should be examined. Late last year one battalion was withdrawn ostensibly in line with policy, of .Vietnamisation which the . Government took over wholesale from the United States. Vietnamisation may have had some, value as a glib verbal cloak for an American, process of withdrawal. It is completely meaningless to explain what the Australian Government is doing at the moment. The Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has described the objective of the . Australian Government in this way: 
. to establish circumstances in which the people of South Vietnam can work.. out their own future without interference, without aggression and without fear. 
What he seems to mean is that it is the objective of the Australian Task Force to establish these circumstances in Phuoc Thuy province. The Australian' presence there has no influence whatsoever in the other thirty or so provinces of South Vietnam. It is a useful exercise to have a look at the disposition of Australian' units in Vietnam at the moment. In the' : past few weeks in Phuoc Thuy province the 3rd 
Battalion has replaced the 7th Battalion; the 4th Battalion is due to replace the 2nd Battalion in May. On the face of it the Government is committed to stay in South Vietnam until May 1972: that is when the 4th Battalion finishes its 12- month term of duty. 
There have been rumours that cuts will be made in Australian troop levels. The tenor of these rumours is that the Royal Australian Ah Force Canberra squadron and other support units will be withdrawn. This would leave the Task Force at Nui Dat substantially intact at its 2-ba.ttalion level. 1 suppose the projected withdrawal of the Canberra squadron would have been dictated by the difficulty in finding a suitable role for it with the run-down in military activity within South Vietnam. From reports in the past few days it seems the Canberra squadron has been used extensively in the 1 Corps area because of the scope of United States air operations in Laos. If these reports are correct it seems that with the bulk of American air power committed to Laos, the Canberra squadron has been committed to routine operations in the corps area. This development could pose problems for the Government in making cuts in its troop levels. It may have been possible a few weeks ago to withdraw the bombers without any problems. Now with a major campaign in progress the Americans and South Vietnamese are calling on every ounce of airpower. This points up the dilemma of the Government's commitment. Quite clearly it wants to make cuts in troop levels but under the terms of its commitment there may be no logical way of doing this. 
The other aspect of the operations in Laos which may affect the future of the Government's commitment lies in the possibility that if the South Vietnamese get into serious trouble America may have to commit ground troops. This would deal a blow to the process of American withdrawal and Vietnamisation. a blow that would be transmitted through the whole military structure. Ultimately it would be felt by the Australian Task Force's process of Vietnamisation in miniature in Phuoc Thuy. Again any substantial success by the North Vietnamese could have serious repercussions for the Government's policy of withdrawal in step with Vietnamisation. 
The level of military activity in South Vietnam has been low in recent months. As I pointed out earlier this is in part due to the improved effort of. the South Vietnamese Government in the countryside. There are other contributing elements, including the need of the Viet Cong to regroup and re-organise. Undoubtedly there is also a degree of accommodation at the local level between the contending Vietnamese forces. Although the Viet Cong have been weakened, it would be a mistake to assume they have Been destroyed or made impotent. They are still a. viable force. 
It would seem logical that any substantial degree of success by . the North Vietnamese in Laos would be accompanied by a renewal of Viet Cong activity throughout South Vietnam. If this happens 'flag' forces such as the Australian Task Force would be in a vulnerable position. The Viet Cong would be prepared to take risks and accept severe casualties to give a bloody nose to a force whose, presence was mainly symbolic and political. Obviously the Australian Task Force, is weakened in Phuoc Thuy because 1 battalion has been taken out. It is just as obvious that a considerable Communist presence is in the province. Five years of military effort has failed to root the Vietcong out of the sanctuary of the Long Hai hills. If the Communists in Phuoc Thuy want to mount a major effort against the Task Force they have the capacity to do it. This raises the possibility of further savage combat in the region with heavy losses by the Task Force in the next few months. lt does not seem that this contraction of military responsibility is ' commensurate with the pull-out of 1 battalion. On one hand the Army command' can extend the diminished force over the, province and try and fulfill a full military and civil aid role, (f it does this it accepts the risks I have indicated. The other alternative is to withdraw into an enclave at the Nui Dat base, acting completely on the defensive and concentrating on training South Vietnamese Officers at the Jungle Training School. This could be justified on the basis that Vietnamese units had in substance taken over the rest of the province. But it would open the way for the Vietcong to take the offensive in other parts pf the province. Neither possibility makes much sense in the light of the Government's picture of a placid Vietnamisation with Australian troops enjoying a peaceful rundown as the Vietcong withers away. 
Behind this facade 1 am convinced the Government recognises the urgency of getting out quickly. There is every chance that all Australian troops will be out of Vietnam by the end of the year. But the Government is doing itself and the electorate a serious disservice by maintaining the fiction that it will stay until Vietnamisation bursts into final flower. Theoretically it is committed to maintaining a substantial Australian presence at least until May of next year. It cannot defer any longer its obligation to explain its future intentions for the Task Force and ancillary Australian units in Vietnam. There is nothing more the Australian Army can do in Vietnam. Despite lack of funds it will leave an excellent and enduring civil aid contribution, an effort that should be continued and extended by civilian agencies. 
Whatever the final political wash-up in Vietnam, there will be a residual humanitarian duty on this country to provide succour and rehabilitation. The Minister for Defence has chosen to tie the civil aid programme in with the whole process of military Vietnamisation. I have not the time to look at the inconsistencies and flaws in this approach. The point should be made that once the military goes, a very real gap in civic assistance will remain and it must be filled by other agencies. In summary, the Government is running very grave risks with a policy of stringing out the commitment. Even on the political terms pushed by the Government a continued Australian presence is futile and irrelevant. Our troops must be extricated as quickly as possible. The Minister has the clear duty on behalf of the Government to scrap the soft soap and outline to the House why it is maintaining the commitment and how it is to be ended. 
The Minister has been singularly silent on this matter. He has made some tragic mistakes in his statement on civil aid and the civic construction work which has been pursued in South Vietnam. The Minister did not deny last week that the Australian Broadcasting Commission's correspondent in Saigon had transmitted to this country a statement which had been made by those in Saigon who have the clear responsibility for making this kind of statement. We now have the situation where the Government is about to replace one battalion in Vietnam with another. It will relieve a further battalion in May of this year. One can only accept the political implication that it is the clear intention of this Government to maintain an Australian presence in Vietnam until May 1972. I conclude by saying that the Opposition believes and the great majority of the people of Australia believe that it is time the Australian troops in Vietnam were returned to this country. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Corbett)Order! The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition's time has expired. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  has claimed that it is impossible to move a motion of no confidence in a Government which has been the Government for only two or thre  days. If he had made the changes in the Ministry which he foreshadowed late last week, and then abandoned for some inexplicable reason, there might have been some point to this argument. Instead, the discredited Ministry of the former regime is virtually intact. We have a new Prime Minister and a new Minister for Defence  (Mr Gorton);  there is no Minister for Foreign Affairs. The only departure from the Ministry has been the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  As the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  has pointed out, the learn is the same, lt is the team that has lost the confidence of the Parliament and of the electorate. This is why the Opposition has no compunction about pressing this no confidence motion - the most potent tactic available to it under the forms of the House. 
From the very first moments of its existence this so-called new Government has fumbled as badly as did its undistinguished predecessor. It was not possible for the new-look Prime Minister to introduce new administrative arrangements without a public wrangle with the Governor-General. Some aspects of these arrangements warrant brief comment. In the previous Government there were  27  departments of state but only  26  Ministers. The Prime Minister had under his direct control the Prime Minister's Department and the Department of the Cabinet Office. This flowed from the splitting up of the traditional Prime Minister's Department,  ostensibly because the former Prime Minister wanted to set up his own think tank under  Sir Lenox  Hewitt. This think tank was never greatly in evidence during the following  3  years, but  Sir Lenox  was - in fact, too much in evidence for the new Prime Minister. 
In order to get rid of an embarrassment and an unwanted but very senior public servant, the Prime Minister has resorted to the same shoddy tactic as adopted by his predecessor, that is, to play around with the administrative arrangements of the Prime Minister's Department. He has upgraded the status of the Cabinet Office which was floated off into the backwaters under  Mr Gorton.  In the process he has hived off all the ancillary functions of the Prime Minister's Department into a new department presumably to be headed by  Sir Lenox  Hewitt. For some extraordinary reason this new department is to be known as the Department of the Vice-President of the Executive Council. At the moment the Vice-President of the Executive Council is the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme);  the Secretary of the Executive Council is a senior member of the Prime Minister's Department. The Executive Council takes up only a fraction of the working time of both these gentlemen; it is only a formality, a rubber stamp. Yet a full scale Department has been set up bearing the name of the Department of the Vice-President of the Executive Council. 
Presumably the functions of the Executive Council will still be handled in the same way by the Governor-General, by the Postmaster-General and by  Mr Grigg  of the Prime Minister's Department. A constitutional procedure which takes up only a minute part of the working day of each of these  3  gentlemen has been used to justify another department of state. This may be an ingenous political move, but it is incredibly bad and wasteful administration. To give even a semblance of logic to this absurd process, this Department should have been given to the Postmaster-General to administer as Vice-President of the Executive Council. Alternatively the Prime Minister should have appointed himself Vice-President of the Executive Council. It does not seem that either of these courses will be adopted. A look at the functions of the new Department shows no justification for its existence as a separate entity. There is not one of the 17 units which could not be allocated to an existing department. For example, the National Library, Archives, Commonwealth Literary Fund, the Art Advisory Board, National Gallery, the Council of Performing Arts and the National Radiation Advisory Committee could go to the Department of Education and Science. The Council of Aboriginal Affairs and the Institute of Aboriginal Studies could go to the Minister-in-Charge of Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Wentworth).  There is not a function of the new Department which could not be allocated in this way. This collection of miscellaneous functions has grown in the Prime Minister's Department by an accretion of ad hoc decisions by the last  3  Prime Ministers. Certainly the Prime Minister's Department has become unwieldy, but it is not a solution to lump these ill assorted functions together under the guise of a new department justified by the need to service the Executive Council. There is already one rag-bag department in the Ministry, the Department of the Interior. The Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  is required to administer among other things Canberra, the Electoral Office, War Graves, the National Film Board, the Commonwealth Brickworks and the Northern Territory. 
It is very poor government indeed that we should now have 2 departments which lump together the odds and ends which for historical reasons have not been assigned to appropriate departments. The re-allocation of the administrative arrangements into a logical and coherent formula is one of the first acts expected of a new government. Instead the new broom Prime Minister has augmented the waste and inefficiency inherent in the structure which has evolved under 20 years of coalition government. The crisis which has shattered the Government in the past 10 days stemmed in large measure from interpretation and implementation of defence policy. If a starting point had to be found for the Government's present predicament it would have to be the controversy over the civil aid programme in Vietnam which broke out 3 weeks ago. This generated the series of Press stories which ended in the confrontation in this House between the former Prime Minister and the former Minister for Defence. It is not possible to assess accurately degrees of praise or blame in this dispute between the former Minister and the Army in Vietnam. 
The honourable member for Wannon left no doubt he believes the Army tried to deceive him or confront him with an accomplished fact. If this is true, then quite obviously the Army acted very wrongly. But it is not clear from the confusing and contradictory information given to the House and circulating in the Press that this is the case. In the House last Tuesday both  Mr Gorton  and the former Minister for Defence included in their speeches statements of their philosophies on relations between the Executive and the Department of Defence. The statement by the former Minister for Defence was a conventional account of the existing structure of the defence departments; it was much the same as the descriptions appearing in annual defence reports and statements the Minister had made to the House. 

 Mr Gorton did not dispute this account but he gave it a rather different emphasis. He pointed up the difficulties faced by an armed Service involved in a war and subject to traditional discipline. Both  Mr Gorton  and  Mr Malcolm  Fraser stressed the supremacy of the Executive in all relations with the armed services. This is a principle so basic and so obvious that it should not need reiteration in this House. But the essence of the former Prime Minister's statement was that the Army should not be made into a whipping boy over Vietnam; that it should not be assumed by definition that blame in any controversy resided with the Army. I believe the former Prime Minister put his finger on the nub of the dispute, that senior officers of the Army felt their Service was being painted in unfair and misleading terms by  Mr Malcolm  Fraser. It was felt the ex-Minister had used the technique of the background briefing to put his case in the knowledge that the Army could not reply to the subsequent 'informed' accounts of Government - Army relations which appeared.  Mr Gorton  did not say this in so many words but he implied it very strongly. In this way he drew attention to the difficul ties facing Australian units remaining in Vietnam. In particular the Task Force at Nui Dat has been put in an intolerable position. 
The former Minister for Defence was due to go to Vietnam 8 days ago to plan the future of his Government's commitment to Vietnam. According to the Press statement announcing his visit,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser was to have spent 6 days in Vietnam. Now his successor is to leave on Thursday for a visit of 4 days. This delay in getting to Vietnam is one of the tragic results of the melee of the past few days. It can mean only further delays in putting together some sort of timetable for getting Australian troops out of Vietnam. Further, it could have a most damaging effect on Australian soldi,  s  doing their duty in Vietnam but desperately anxious to get out. Future policies on the Vietnam commitment and withdrawal have been completely disrupted by the events of the past 10 days. Initially it was announced that  Mr Malcolm  Fraser would go to Vietnam from 8th March to 13th March. This would give him an effective stay in Vietnam of 4 days. From my experience it is not possible to get even a rough idea of what is happening in Vietnam in less than a week. A fair programme would include visits to all Australian units, to each of the 4 corps areas and a full programme of interviews with government and opposition leaders in Saigon. It would be possible on the basis of such a programme to make some assessment of the status of Australian units in Vietnam and the conduct of the war. 

 Mr Malcolm Frasers schedule would have permitted a barely adequate examination of the Australian commitment, allowing 2 days for travel. The new Minister's schedule makes a complete mockery of the visit originally outlined for  Mr Malcolm  Fraser. According to the announcement he will leave on Thursday for a 4-day mission. I assume he will go to Vietnam by commercial airline; the new Prime Minister is not likely to forget how he got to the Singapore Prime Minister's Conference. This means that the Minister for Defence is unlikely to get to Saigon before late Friday morning. If he wants to get back to Australia on Monday he will have to leave Saigon on Sunday afternoon. This gives him at the most 2 clear days in Vietnam. 
One day will be occupied in visiting the Task Force at Nui Dat; the other will be absorbed in interviews and briefings in Saigon, lt is incomprehensible that an adequate assessment could be made of the process of Vietnamisation or of the morale and security of Australian units in such a short visit. The Minister will not visit the Air Force at Phan Ranh, the naval helicopter unit, the guided missile destroyer HMAS 'Perth' which is operating off the coast or the Army and Navy units at Da Nang. Nor will he be able to visit any of the 4 corps areas. This is of vital importance because the new Minister's acquaintance with Vietnam is not extensive. He made a 3-day visit to Saigon and to the Task Force in 1968 as part of a 12-day Asian tour; it seems he has modelled his latest mission on this. 
The briefness of the Minister's visit to Vietnam indicates two possibilities. The first is that he knows in advance what the Government is going to do and his visit is only a bit of window dressing or a public relations exercise. If this is the case, the Government should announce immediately what units are expected to be withdrawn and when. It amounts to extreme mental torture of all Australian soldiers in Vietnam to deliberately withhold this information if definite guidelines for withdrawal have been prescribed. Anyone listening to the speech of the Prime Minister this afternoon would naturally gain the impression that this thought has already occurred to the Government and that decisions have been made. Therefore we say to the House that the Government has a responsibility to make its intentions known to the people of Australia. 
The second possibility is that the Minister is afraid to be out of the country for any length of time, even on such an important mission. The House will be in recess for the whole of next week. There is no reason why the Minister for Defence should not stay in Vietnam until the House resumes.  His  anxiety to get back seems to indicate that in the present climate of flashing knives he cannot afford to stay out of Canberra. It is a matter for great regret that the Minister for Defence cannot make a proper assessment of his Government's Vietnam commitment, particularly as he lacks first hand experience of the course of the war. One of the most significant devel opments in Vietnam in the past 2 years has been the remarkable malaise which has afflicted American units there. I do not suggest that the morale of Australian troops has declined to the extent apparent in the American Army. There has been no widespread recourse to drugs or the ghastly practice known as 'fragging', one of the legacies of the Vietnam War which has now given a word to the English language. 
Obviously the strains and uncertainties of its present role in the war are being felt in the Australian Task Force, and being felt severely. This was reflected in a recent court martial in which a young soldier was charged with the murder of 2 sergeants. Another court martial is in progress at the moment involving allegations of assault by an officer against a soldier. According to authoritative Press reports from the Task Force further courts martial are pending involving serious breaches of discipline and growing friction between officers and soldiers. There are all the signs that the Army in Vietnam has lost faith in the job it was given by this Government and that it wants to get out. Why should Australian troops in Vietnam not feel frustrated and restive when the futures of other flag forces have been determined? The Thais have announced in the last few days that they will pull out their remaining units starting in June and ending in December. The units from the Philippines have been gone for some time. 
The South Korean role is a mercenary one, but at least South Korea's soldiers know exactly what their future is and precisely when they can expect to go home. The American units have a general idea of how the withdrawal schedule affects them. Only in the Australian units is all uncertainty and doubt, and yet they are expected to do their duty and take further casualties. The present indeterminate status of Australian units can only strengthen existing tensions and eat away morale. The Army cannot be blamed for concluding that it has been used quite blatantly for immediate political ends in the past 5 years. The longer it stays in Vietnam the greater the chances of serious damage to its long term effectiveness. In summary, the Government's Vietnam policy is riddled with contradictions. The exposure of these contradictions sparked the row which culminated in the extraordinary events of last week. In a broader sense, the malaise afflicting the Vietnam commitment extends through the whole defence structure. 
The new Minister is the third Minister for Defence in 3 years. In the same period there have been 3 Ministers for the Army, 3 Ministers for the Navy and 3 Ministers for Air. There is every chance that this sorry record of chopping and changing will be augmented when changes in the Ministry are announced later this week. What chance have the Services to thrive or settle into a stable relationship with the overriding Department of Defence in such an atmosphere of violent change? The advent of the new Minister even jeopardises the transformation of the Defence Department which  Sir Allen  Fairhall.  Sir Henry  Bland and the former Minister worked so laboriously to - achieve. Nothing has been said in this debate this afternoon by the Prime Minister or the  Deputy  Prime Minister that would expel the doubts that exist in the minds of the people of this nation. The predicament of the defence structure is the predicament of all levels of administration under this dishevelled Government which has lost the confidence of the Parliament and the confidence of the electorate. If the new Prime Minister is prepared to come forward with a policy as he and the  Deputy  Prime Minister have done this afternoon then at least he ought to seek justification for his actions and his policy before the people of this country. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Defence. I preface it by reminding the right honourable gentleman that there is considerable concern in the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation Pty Ltd about possible retrenchments as the present programme draws to an end. I ask the. right honourable gentleman: Wilt he bring forward the light observation helicopter programme to prevent these heavy retrenchments from the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation? 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister and is supplementary to the question which I asked yesterday of the Minister for Defence and in which I suggested bringing forward the helicopter programme. The Prime Minister is aware, becauseI know that he has spoken to them, that there is in Canberra today a deputation of workers and union officials associated with the aircraft industry in Victoria. These people are deeply concerned about the future of this great industry. I ask the right honourable gentleman: Will he arrange an early conference with his Minister for Supply, Minister for Defence and Minister for Labour and National Service, who are involved in fhe future of this industry, with a view to establishing stability in its operations, bearing in mind Australia's needs, defence and civil, and halting the imminent dismissals in the industry? 
I ask the Prime Minister whether negotiations with the United States Government on the provision of an Omega navigation facility in Australia have been concluded. If so, will the Prime Minister confirm that a site for the facility has been selected on the Forth River in the north-west of Tasmania? When will details of the agreement with the United States Government be announced and will the agreement be tabled in this House? When will construction work on the Omega site begin? 
The Opposition supports this Bill. In his second reading speech the Minister for the Navy  (Mr Killen)  gave an admirable historical survey of the background to this piece of legislation. Unfortunately he gave the House very little else. He did make the excuse that he had no prepared speechbut that it all came out of, as he termed it, the hollow of his head.  His  speech lacked the detail which should have been made available to the House in order that it can properly consider this Bill. I do not offer this as criticism of the Minister because, although he spoke out of the hollow of his head on that occasion, he spoke with his usual fluency and indicated that he had an extremely good background knowledge of the history of sea cadets in the Royal Australian Navy. May I take the opportunity at this stage to say quite frankly that, even though he has not had the opportunity to introduce : great number of Bills on behalf of the Department of the Navy, the Minister is competently administering the Department. What  I  said earlier was not offered in any sense as criticism of the Minister.  1  have known him to be at all times most courteous, reliable and certainly quite generous in replying to queries of honourable members. The honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross)  has placed a question on the notice paper seeking the information which the Minister should have given to the House in his second reading speech. 
Briefly the position is that an organisation known as the Australian Sea Cadet Corps has existed for more than  40  years under what could be described as the leadership of the Navy League, which is a voluntary body. The Corps was formed to create and foster interest in naval and maritime life. Although it was sponsored by an organisation which is dedicated to the Navy, its activities were not confined exclusively to the Navy. For this reason a liaison was established with the Australian National Line in the functioning of the Sea Cadet Corps. The intention was to stimulate the interest of youth in the whole range of maritime activity. This was a worthy objective in a country such as Australia, which has a traditional reliance on maritime commerce. 
The sea cadet organisation which was sponsored by the Navy League was given recognition in principle, as the Minister pointed out, by the Naval Board in  1949.  In  1952  the Naval Defence Act was amended so that the Board could give direct assistance to the Sea Cadet Corps. Regulations were made in  1954  to enable the Board to give this assistance. This meant that the Navy could give a certain measure of practical assistance to the Sea Cadet Corps. This assistance comprised the appointment of officers and instructors, training and administrative assistance, the provision of uniforms, stores and equipment and the payment of a capitation fee. The Navy League remained responsible for accommodation and facilities not provided by the Navy, such as recreational equipment. lt also remained responsible for the day to day administration of the Corps. 
I have on a number of occasions in the past offered criticisms in this House of this aspect of the administration of the Sea Cadet Corps. This Bill will give expression to my belief that the Sea Cadet Corps should be placed on the same basis as the Army and Air Force cadet corps. I have expressed this opinion in the House on a number of occasions. These changes took some of the burden off the Navy League, but they did not provide the central administration for the Corps. The administration was left to the State divisions of the Navy League, which made national coordination difficult. There were also difficulties for the League in providing suitable accommodation and facilities for the units which comprise the Corps. Capital spending on accommodation was a heavy burden on the League's resources. Without simple direction the Sea Cadet Corps was not a corps in the sense of being an organised body, lt was organised on State lines, which tended to restrict the outlook of individual units to State borders. The Navy League and the Navy recognised that the basic weakness of the structure was the division of responsibility between them. The amendments before the House are designed to remove this division of responsibility and to transfer sole authority for administration of the Sea Cadet Corps to the Naval Board. The Navy also takes over responsibility for accommodation. This also means that the taxpayer assumes the full responsibility for maintaining the existence of sea cadets. The Minister did not give an estimate of the extra charge on the Budget of this transfer of authority. There is no information in the appropriations on the annual cost of the Sea Cadet Corps to the Navy. The only figures I have been able to find are sadly out of date. According to these figures the Navy spent about  $100,000  in  1964-65  on approximately  2,500  sea cadets - about  $40  a head. The Navy League contribution amounted to  $28  a head, giving total spending of  $68  a head- about  $170,000  a year in ali. The Minister said that the present strength of the Cadet Corps was about  2,000.  Allowing for increased costs I doubt that the annual cost to the Treasury would be more than $170,000 a year; it may be even less. Perhaps the Minister could outline financial details when he winds up the debate. Whatever the total cost, it seems to me to be reasonable and acceptable. 
The Minister pointed out that the sea cadet structure in Australia is mainly comprised of open units, that is, units which are open to all volunteers and are not confined to members of a school or other institution. There has been some criticism of the Army cadet system in recent years because too much of the assistance provided by the Commonwealth flows to wealthier schools which can maintain big units. The traditional system where even a small secondary school could sustain a modest cadet unit seems to have disappeared, perhaps because of basic changes in the education structure of the States in recent years. 
I should like to make one or two observations on the Army Cadet system relative to the larger schools and the smaller schools. I am one of those members in this House - I have no doubt that the opinions I express are shared by most honourable members - who believe that the Army Cadet Corps and the Air Force Cadet Corps in Australia have provided a useful, indeed an important, nucleus of young men for the permanent Army, the Air Force or the Navy. I think it is from this source that the country has always been able to attract those who accept the leadership responsibilities so necessary in the various Services. This certainly applies to the Royal Military College, Duntroon. It would be interesting to analyse the figures available to ascertain bow many of those who have successfully undertaken courses at Duntroon or at one of the other training colleges for either of the other Services initially came from the Army Cadet Corps, the Air Force Cadet Corps or the Navy Cadet Corps. I think the number would be considerable. 
The Opposition believes that ultimately we must attract in this country a completely voluntary system of defence forces. It believes also that this can be attained. For this reason, the cadet corps, whether of the Navy, the Army or the Air Force, is of great importance. The numbers in these corps should not be allowed to diminish; indeed, they should be encouraged. Therefore, if there is some difficulty in providing cadet corps in the smaller schools of the State school system which lack the facilities that are automatically available in some of the larger private schools, I think that the situation should be remedied. I put this forward as a reasonable suggestion to both the Minister for the Navy  (Mr Killen)  and the Minister for the Army  (Mr Peacock). 
I return to the matter before the House. The criticism of the Army cadet system to which I have referred cannot be levelled at the Sea Cadet Corps. The Minister said there were 3 schools with Royal Australian Naval Reserve cadet units. These units numbered 116 or 120 cadets, compared with the 1,900 or so cadets in the Australian Sea Cadet Corps. There are more than 30 open units, and 3 closed units. The information I have is not up to date but I understand the 3 school units are at the Macquarie High School in Sydney, the Geelong Grammar School, and the Brisbane Church of England Grammar School. If this information is not up to date, I hope the Minister will correct it. If correct, it would not indicate to me an excessive allocation of resources to wealthier schools at the expense of open units which all young men with an interest in maritime life can join. 
One aspect of this legislation which should be clarified is the future role of the Navy League in the work of the Sea Cadet Corps. I understand this is the subject of discussion between the Minister and the League at the moment. It is appropriate that a voluntary body which has put such a huge effort in both cash and labour into forming and administering sea cadet units should be assured of a significant role in the continued operation of the Corps, even though the primary burden has been transferred to the Naval Board. It has been suggested that the League could still be able to provide amenities additional to those supplied by the Navy. I hope that the Minister looks at this side of the shift of responsibility and writes into the regulations a significant and clearly defined role for the Navy League which has made a remarkable contribution to naval and maritime education in this country. 
I have learned from discussions that I have had with people who are associated with the Navy League that the Minister himself has had discussions with them. He therefore, as he said in his second reading speech, is in a position to know and appreciate the magnificent contribution that this organisation has made  -  I have mentioned this already to the House - on a completely voluntary basis over a very long period. Indeed one can say without fear of contradiction that had it not been for the Navy League and its activities, and the voluntary work that it has done over a lengthy period, it is very doubtful whether the Navy Sea Cadet Corps would still be in existence. Certainly the Government has moved from time to time, as I have indicated to the House, to make some improvements in the structure of the organisation, but I think even since 1954 when the last major amendments were made to the Act the greater responsibility has fallen upon the Navy League. I appeal to the Minister to give every consideration to the points that I have made in respect to the future of the Navy League to ensure that its activities are not only accepted as a responsibility at Government level but indeed are encouraged by the Government. 
1 ask the Minister for Defence whether his Department's submission on the establishment of a 'tri-Service academy has been redrafted as directed by Cabinet last October? If so, when will revised plans for the college be approved? Is the Minister now satisfied that abolition of the present system of individual Service colleges is justified? Can he give the House any estimate of savings involved in integrating the 3 colleges? Will the delay in approving the proposal mean that the academy will not be ready to take officer cadets from all 3 Services until 1975 or later? 
by leave- First of all, on behalf of the Opposition, I extend congratulations or commiserations, whichever is in order, to the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz).  I can assure the Minister for National Development that I will try to work, as he suggests, in very close co-operation with him as the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and the one on this side of the House having the responsibility for duties such as those for which the Minister has responsibilities on behalf of the Government. I hope that the same very close relationship will exist between the Minister and me as existed between me and his predecessor, the present Treasurer  (Mr, Snedden),  with whom I worked for a very. long time and with whom I was very closely associated in conducting the business of the House.  I  agree that the conduct of the business  of  the House depends to a very large extent upon the degree of co-operation between the Leader of the House and the Deputy Leader of the Opposition. 
I certainly welcome the assurance that the Minister has given that he will give very close consideration to the matters raised by honourable members on this side and that all members will be given the fullest opportunity to debate the matters that come before the Parliament: Of course, the Minister was referring particularly to private members and in this respect one can assume that there will be full opportunity to debate all the matters that come before the House. I am now referring more specifically to debates on Bills. I hope that there will be no curtailment of members' activities in respect of debating legislation introduced by the Government. We assume that the new Leader of the House will not be moving the guillotine as often as his predecessor did, and that if there arc members on this side of the House who wish to debate a Bill the Minister will always agree that the maximum time should be allowed for debate. May 1 say also that we on this side of the House believe that debating time should not be curtailed and that it would be far better and that far greater advantage would accrue to all members if the length of sittings were extended instead of having members' activities curtailed as they are at present. Finally, I again congratulate the Minister. I appreciate that he has made a very concise statement to the Parliament on the way in which he intends to conduct the business of the House on behalf of the Government. I am sure I can work with him on the same basis, and, I hope, with the same degree of competence as I was able to work with his predecessor, the present Treasurer. 
by leave- I merely wanted to point out to the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  that as a matter of courtesy a Minister normally makes a copy of the second reading speech available to the member on this side of the House who is to move the adjournment of the debate. This was not done by the Minister. I wanted to make it perfectly clear that in these circumstances it is difficult for me to have to wait until tomorrow to read Hansard before I am in a position to recommend to honourable members on this side of the House what ought to be done. Hansard is not available until tomorrow morning. I want to indicate to the Minister, in all fairness to him, that if he attempts on some future occasion to introduce a Bill into this House without obeying the normal rules of courtesy that apply leave will be refused. 
Yes. 

 Mr HOLTEN (Indi- Minister for Repatriation) - by leave - The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  was quite correct when he said that 1 did not give him a copy of the second reading speech. I can assure him that it was purely an oversight. It was not meant to be a reflection on the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in any way. The position was that I just did not have a duplicate copy of the speech with me. I can assure the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition of 2 things. Firstly, if he had explained to me in the first place the subject about which he wanted to make the statement, of course I would have granted him leave. Secondly, I can assure him that he will not have to wait until tomorrow morning when Hansard is available to get a copy of the second reading speech. I now hand it to him. I apologise to him and indicate that if the usual forms for the presentation of a second reading speech by a Minister were not observed, the reason is that I overlooked them. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Barnard)  adjourned. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
How many F111C aircraft were accepted by the Australian Government? 
How many of these aircraft were returned on loan to the United States Air Force? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Labour and National Service. I ask: Has the Minister received further representations from the Australian Council of Churches and other interested bodies to amend the National Service Act to provide for an alternative form of service? If so, have these requests been considered? Will the Minister inform the House under what circumstances an alternative form of service will be approved and what form it will take? 
Has the Minister for Defence seen reports of Communist guerilla activity, including the blowing up of a railway line only 7 miles east of Butterworth Air Base? Has the Australian infantry company deployed at Butterworth taken part in counter-insurgency operations against these guerillas? What security forces are available for the protection of Butterworth Air Base, its Australian Air Force personnel and Australia's $60m investment in aircraft at the base? 
Has the Prime Minister received a request from the Tasmanian Premier for assistance to provide the Bell Bay rail link? Have feasibility studies on the project been completed? If so, did they confirm the viability of the rail link? Is the Prime Minister aware of the importance of providing this railway with the development of new wood chip industries in the north of Tasmania? 
It is distasteful to revert to events of recent weeks which in the minds of most participants would best be buried forever, but here are some unresolved issues in the recent cataclysm in the Government which warrant the attention of the House. These issues are to be found in statements made by the present Minister for Defence  (Mr Gorton)  and his predecessor, the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  relating to ministerial control of the armed forces. These issues can be boiled down to 2 specific points. The first is the authority of the Government over the armed forces; the second is the morale and effectiveness of the armed forces in this context of ministerial control. 
I do not want to traverse again the whole ground of the wide-ranging wrangle between the Minister for Defence and the honourable member for Wannon. Their arguments can best be summarised in the following way: In his memorable denunciation of his former Prime Minister on 9th March the honourable member for Wannon outlined his conception of the duty and responsibilities of the Minister for Defence. He said: 
I assert that any Minister for Defence who seeks to do his duty will have to seek to move people from old views and from views that may not embrace the total defence concept. 
He also made the point that loyalty to a service did not require the uncritical and universal support of its activities. The honourable member for Wannon said correctly that that would be a denial of parliamentary authority. From these statements it can be concluded that the honourable member for Wannon was making 2 broad allegations against his then Prime Minister. The first was that  Mr Gorton  was encumbered by old views and outmoded concepts, and that his viewpoint did not embrace a total defence concept but instead reflected biased attitudes towards individual services. The second allegation was that the former Prime Minister had given uncritical and universal support to one Service, in this case the Army. In simple terms he alleged the former Prime Minister had backed the generals against his overriding authority as Minister for Defence. 
Before looking more closely at the confrontation between  Mr Gorton, Mr Malcolm 
Fraser and the generals, it is worthwhile to recall another incident which gave a dramatic illustration of how these two gentlemen conceived their roles in formulating and carrying out defence policy. This was the proposal to establish a joint cadet college for the three armed Services. A submission was presented by the honourable member for Wannon to Cabinet in October last )'ear putting the Defence Department's case for joining the Army, Navy and Air Force officer cadet colleges in a single college. There is general consensus in the Press reports that this submission was pretty badly mauled by  Mr Gorton.  The reports agreed also on his lines of criticism: The submission had been badly costed; it did not justify the abolition of the present system of individual colleges; it did not explain why the Navy and the Air Force had dropped their former opposition to the tri-Service college. He implied that these departments had been leaned on by the Defence Department to accept the joint academy. Undoubtedly this was a throw-back to the former Prime Minister's days as Minister for the Navy. 
During question time on Tuesday this week the Minister for Defence confirmed his objections to  Mr Malcolm  Fraser's submission when he said the Government had required more detailed information and a good deal more facts before it could agree to the proposal. He threw no light whatever on the future of a tri-Service academy at Duntroon. In this incident can be seen the seeds of the remarkable events which shook the Government and the whole defence structure earlier this month. We find  Mr Malcolm  Fraser putting forward a total defence concept with the full support of the three defence Ministers and the Service chiefs. On the other side of the table we have  Mr Gorton  reverting to the old single Service concepts and harking back to his balmy days as Minister for the Navy in a simpler and more innocent world. 
In his speech of 9th March the honourable member for Wannon at considerable length delineated his conception of the chain of command linking down from the Defence Department through the Service departments to the Army, Navy and Air Force. This was based on a statement made by  Sir Robert  Menzies to the Parliament 13 years ago and a subsequent confidential directive on how the Department of Defence was to assure a clear and commanding authority over the three Service Departments and the Department of Supply, interpreting these statements by  Sir Robert  Menzies, the honourable member for Wannon stressed the co-ordination of policy and the chain of command down from himself through the structure. In his view  Mr Gorton  had breached this chain of command by allowing direct appeals from the individual Services to the Prime Minister, detouring around the Minister for Defence. In short he alleged that the Prime Minister had broken a chain of command, a chain of command handed down from the fountainhead of  Sir Robert  Menzies. 
I suppose the honourable member for Wannon's insistence on the divine right of the chain of command has its ironical side. There are many legendary stories indicating that the honourable gentleman as Minister for the Army had no compunction about making direct contact lower down the structure when it suited him. There is one hoary old story that circulates around the messes that he even rang a sergeant of the guard directly at one Army post to get information he wanted. This is the sort of approach described as a refreshing elimination of red tape when one does it as a junior Minister but as a breach in the principle of the chain of command when done to one by a superior. Time changes all perspectives. "It would be an impossible task to trace through the history of relations between the Department of Defence and the individual Services in the past few years. 
Broadly I believe what has happened is that increasing civilian control has had to be imposed on reluctant Services. This has been accepted although not without some frictions by the Navy and the Air Force. However, it has produced extraordinary strains between the Army and the Department of Defence, strains which culminated in the upheavals of early March. A major contributory factor in this extraordinary catharsis was the role of the Army in Vietnam. 
In the 1950s the Army bore the brunt of the rundown in defence spending which slumped from 5 per cent of the gross national product to around 2 per cent. Then in the 1960s the Army was again the victim of rapid rearming. With little time for thorough preparation the burden of a most demanding war was imposed upon it. At the same time it had to find the resources for a commitment to Malaysia-Singapore and continue its training and maintenance role in Australia. In the peak years it had to service Vietnam with 3 battalions a year out of a total of 9 battalions. Whatever one's opinions of the commitments undertaken it must be said that the Army has responded magnificently to the demands imposed upon it. The point is that with existing resources it should not have been asked to expend itself in achieving the virtually impossible. At the same time as the Army was over-extended in this way it began to feel the full impact of a new defence structure and the demands of a new, thrusting and politically ambitious Minister for Defence. Throw in the increasing awareness on the part of the Army that it had been exploited most blatantly for narrow political ends and we can piece together some sort of explanation of the seemingly inexplicable events of recent weeks. 
One example of the strains between the Government and the Army was indicated by the honourable member for Wannon - the location of major Army establishments. He referred to the setting up of a new task force base at Townsville against Army insistence on the need to concentrate and consolidate. Now the Government wants to set up another task force base in the west and the honourable member for Wannon implied that the Army was deliberately stalling in supplying the necessary data. Here there is a clear case of the Army wanting to reorganise on functional lines. The Minister for the Army has appointed the Hassett Committee to look at the present cumbersome administration on State boundaries and to recommend a more rational and economic organisation. Against this the Government seems determined to allocate task forces for political purposes on parochial lines opposed to the basic principles on which the Hassett Committee is working. Quite clearly the Army is on the right course in this issue. 
Another example of the sort of relations existing between the former Minister and the Army was the squabble over the guard of honour in February. This would have been a trivial and even ludricous incident if it had not illustrated the very grave breakdown of relations between the then Minister for Defence and the Army. When it was revealed that $7,000 had been spent on providing a guard of honour the then Minister for Defence made a statement accusing the Army of stupidity and extravagance in the light of the current economic situation. It is common knowledge that his public attack on the Army was made without consultation with his colleague the Minister for the Army and or before any investigation of what had happened. In any case, the ultimate responsibility for ceremonial of this sort lies not with the Army but with the Department of the Prime Minister; it can hardly be described as an Army blunder'. If the Army is told to supply a guard of honour for such an occasion, presumably it does this in the most effective way it can. 
So much for the chain of command. The third and most significant example of tensions between the former Minister for Defence and the Army came with the controversy over civil aid in. Vietnam. This in turn led to the sequence, of Press reports which produced the crisis in the Government. Two points can. be made about this whole episode. The first is that the honourable member for Wannon used a technique of background briefing individual journalists to propagate strong criticisms of the Army. This was made clear in the famous 'Bulletin' article of 6th March which was headed 'The Australian Army's "revolt" in Vietnam'. The article was unsigned, but it was made clear in a subsequent television programme by  Mr David  McNicoll of . the Consolidated Press group that the information contained in it had come from a background briefing by the honourable member for Wannon. 
This article made the following claims: That the Task Force had. on a number of occasions gone its own way, that it had given rather misleading accounts of its activities on occasions, that it had failed to consult Ministers about major changes of policy, that it had tried to close down the civil aid programme in Vietnam as quickly as possible, and that it had operated out of its own assigned area in' Vietnam without permission or consultation. In this and in similar briefings it seems that the honourable member for Wannon sought to convey the impression that the Army was trying to free itself from civilian control, that it was not responsive to Cabinet policies or Cabinet direction, and that it was not to be trusted. The upshot of this campaign, which was conducted by the technique of background briefing, was the violent reaction of General Daly and the recriminations against the honourable member for Wannon which he directed to the then Prime Minister who responded with what the honourable member for Wannon called an asurance of unequivocal and absolute support. 
The second point to be made concerns the attitudes of the former Prime Minister to the Department of Defence and the individual Services. I will not refer to this cat and mouse political game carried on with the honourable member for Wannon. There are much more important issues involved. In his answer to the honourable member for Wannon on 9th March the former Prime Minister emphasised the reciprocal duty of governments to stop denigration or criticism of the Army without proper basis. In a clear reference to his widely published interview with General Daly he stressed the duty of the Government to protect the whole of the Army against undeserved criticism. There are 2 very important principles involved in this whole confrontation. The first is the absolute supremacy of civilian authority over the Army. Navy and Air Force without deliberate provocation of individual Services operating under extreme stresses in a misbegotten war. The honourable member for Wannon showed commendable drive and verve in carrying through the reorganisation of the Department of Defence. Unfortunately his qualities did not extend to the sort of tact and skills in human relations which could have consolidated major reforms without alienating the armed Services, and in particular the Army. 
At the other pole is the argument stressed by the present Minister for Defence, and that is the need for Government loyalty to the Services and the assurance that they will not be embroiled in the manoeuvres of ambitious politicians. When moving a want of confidence motion in the Government on March 15th. the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  said that the Army and the whole question of authority over the Army had been made a question of personal and partisan one-upmanship. 
The Minister for Repatriation may be able to dispute these figures. I hope that he will have some explanation to offer to the Parliament. The Minister knows that if the Government wanted the totally and permanently incapacitated ex-serviceman to receive an increase of $2 a fortnight the ceiling limit would have to be raised. I come back to the point I made a few moments ago that the rates of ex-service pensions are tied to the social service provisions of this country and that while the social service provision remains the maximum a married couple can get, in addition to the income that they can earn to supplement their pension, service pensions, TPI pensions and intermediate rate pensions are tied to the same scale. The Minister knows that this is the position. I could go on and point out the anomalies contained in  the repatriation legislation. 
The Government has failed to honour the promise that it made in 1949 to the ex-servicemen of this country. In every class of compensation for which this Government is responsible the rates have been allowed to decline. According to the last report of the Repatriation Commission there were 23,135 special rate pensioners. These pensioners will receive an increase of $1 a week if they are single and their income is supplenmented by a service pension or. $1.50 a fortnight if they are married and their incomes are supplemented by their service pension. The intermediate rate was introduced by this Government a few years ago to provide an income for those who were able to work only intermittently as a result of war caused disabilities. A total of 1,307 ex-servicemen are now in receipt of the intermediate rate. There are more than 190,000 war pensioners in this country but only 1,307 have qualified for this rate. How much would it cost this Government if there were an increase of 50c a week for the intermediate rate pensioner? It would involve the Government in an additional expenditure of $653 a year. What a magnanimous gesture on the part of the Government. 
I turn to the general rate pension, commonly known as the 100 per cent rate pension. There is no increase in this at all. Indeed, there has been no increase in the 100 per cent general rate pension since 1964, 7 years ago. I know the Minister will argue that the special compensation allowance was provided for those who were on the 100 per cent down to 75 per cent rate of pension. But again one ought to look at the figures to see how much logic the Government applies to the situation. I have just pointed out to the House that there are 195,399 general rate pensioners of whom 35,629 receive the 100 per cent rate down to 75 per cent. There is no increase for them under the terms of this legislation. But there are 159,770 pensioners below 75 per cent. The bulk of the war' pensioners are in this category. Therefore, it is simple for the Government, in fact, very easy for the Government, in terms of cost to apply an increase to those who constitute the smallest category of repatriation pensioners. I do not want to deal with the situation at any great length. The Minister knows I have raised this matter in the Parliament before. 
One has great difficulty in distinguishing the degree of disability, or the difference in the application of disability, between those who are on 75 per cent and those who are on 70 per cent pension. Where is the difference? How is it distinguished? The Minister knows that this compensation allowance was introduced for the sole purpose of providing a small increase for the smallest category of war pensioners. In every class of repatriation pensions there has been a decline in standards. This is not merely my own point of view. It has already been expressed in the 1971 war pension plan of the Returned Services League national executive. The League suggests that the Government, as I have already indicated, should at least provide a measure of generosity to those who have served, this country in time of war. Let me give the figures. According to the RSL submission, if the special rate of pension was equal to the minimum wage now applicable in this country it would be $46.40 a week. It Ls $39 a week or $7 a week less than the amount requested by the national executive of the RSL. In 1950, the year upon which the RSL based its plan, the special rate of pension was in excess of the minimum wage in this country. This category has been allowed to decline. 
For the 100 per cent general rate, the national executive of the RSL is asking for 50 per cent of the minimum wage, which would be $23.20 a week. The 100 per cent general rate is now $.12 a week, SI 1.20 less than it should be. War widows receive $16 a week. This is the amount that this Government pays to a widow who lost her husband in the service of this country. It is $7.20 below the 50 per cent of the minimum wage sought by the national executive of the RSL. The Minister may argue that it, includes a domestic allowance of $8 a week, but we are concerned with the base rate for the war widow, which is $16 a week. No Minister who has any concern for those who have been placed in this category as a result of service to this country should allow them to receive an income which is less than 50 per cent of the minimum wage payable to workers in Australia.' 
A further request made by the national executive of the Returned Services League - not a difficult, request to fulfil in view of the declining numbers involved - was that all returned servicemen from the First World War should be given free medical and hospital treatment. The Minister has the figures relating to this and knows that the cost has been worked out consistently to be slightly more than $lm a year. The number of ex-servicemen in this category is declining. What does the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  think about the request from the national executive of the RSL for free medical and hospital services for these men? The basis of an amendment moved on a number of occasions by honourable members on this side of the chamber has been that returned servicemen from the First World War and the Boer War should have free medical and hospital services. The Minister has the figures readily available and knows that very few people are involved. The request is that disabilities suffered by these men should be treated in all circumstances, whether they are war caused or not. 
The final submission made by the subcommittee of the RSL was that the funeral allowance should be raised from S50 to $200. In 1970 the RSL asked that the funeral allowance be raised to SI 50. In view of the increased costs involved I think this is a legitimate request. For how long has a funeral allowance of S50 been paid by this Government? For 18 years this rate has continued: there has been no increase in the allowance. The Government does not recognise that there have been tremendous increases in costs. These are matters which the Minister should answer. I have dealt with most categories of pension. I conclude by pointing out that the Opposition welcomes- 
I direct my question to the Minister for Defence. Has the right honourable gentleman seen reports that the United States Air Force is considering the development of an electronics warfare version of the Fill aircraft to be known as the EF111? Would this indicate to the Minister that the Fill is vulnerable to conventional anti-aircraft weapons and needs extra electronics cover? Would Australia need this sort of aircraft if the Fill procurement proceeds? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Air, upon notice: 
ls the Minister able to say what amount of Australia's payments for the Fill aircraft has been credited lo the research and development appropriation of the United States Air Force. 
I ask the Minister for Shipping and Transport: How many Australian shipping companies have indicated that they will install Omega navigation receivers in their ships? Which of the major shipping conferences servicing the Australian trade intend to install the receiver? Will Omega receivers be installed in Australian National Line vessels? What personnel from the Department of Shipping and Transport will be needed to man an Omega transmitting station? 
I ask the Minister for Shipping and Transport what action he has taken to ensure the resumption of shipping services to Tasmania. In view of Tasmania's complete dependence on shipping and the retrenchments now taking place in industry, I ask the Minister to treat this matter with urgency. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. What is the right honourable gentleman's understanding of how the consultative clause of the new five-power defence agreement for South East Asia will work? Has the Prime Minister any information on the cost of stationing an Australian battalion in Singapore compared with the previous post at Terendak? Has the Government of Singapore indicated that it wants use of bases by Australian forces in Singapore to he on a leasehold basis extending over at least 5 years? 
-1 move: 
That  Mr Speaker  no longer has the confidence of the House. 
This is only the 6th motion of want of confidence in the  Speaker  of this House to be moved in 50 years. Accordingly it is a most serious and significant recourse for this parliamentary Opposition to take. The last occasion on which a no confidence motion in the  Speaker  of this House was moved was on 10th May 1955. The then  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, the right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell),  moved a motion of no confidence in  Mr  Speaker  Cameron. A motion of censure bad been moved against  Mr Speaker  Cameron on 20th April 1950 by the late  Mr Chifley  as Leader of the Opposition. During the term of office of the last Labor Government 2 motions of no confidence were moved in  Mr Speaker  Rosevear and one in  Mr  Deputy Speaker  Clark.  Sir, it  is significant that through the turbulent political years of the 1920s, the depression of the 1930s and most of World War II it was never necessary to move a motion of this sort. 
In the 50-year period from 1921 to 1971 the first motion of no confidence in the  Speaker  was moved on 28th September 1944. In the lengthy term of office of  Mr Speaker  Cameron - undoubtedly an immensely controversial occupant of the Chair - only 2 motions of no confidence were moved. In the whole period of office of  Mr Speaker  McLeay from 1956 to 1966 not a single motion of no-confidence was moved. This gives some measure of the seriousness of this motion, and the unbearable unfairness and persistent provocations that have moved the Opposition to protest in this way. 

 Mr Speaker, you were elected to your exalted office on 21st February 1967. No doubt you will recall your speech of acceptance to this House. You expressed consciousness of the great honour bestowed by the House in electing you to the ancient, distinguished and historic office. You said further, and I quote: 
The position of Speaker has, since its inception in the British Parliament some 600 years ago, attained a dignity and respect which are unique. 
With the help of the honourable members and with their understanding and tolerance I shall endeavour to uphold the high standards required of the Chair. 
I suggest with all respect  Mr Speaker  that you have failed abjectly in fulfilling the lofty standards you set yourself. On that occasion you appealed for the understanding and tolerance of the Opposition. I am convinced that this understanding and tolerance was accorded to you in full measure, indeed to a degree beyond that ever given any other  Speaker  in this House. 1 refer briefly to an unpleasant and widely-publicised incident involving you,  Mr Speaker,  which occurred in January 1968. This incident has never been raised by the Opposition in this House apart from passing reference by one Or two honourable members. At the time,  Sir, you  made public explanations and denials in the Press. Because we respected your honesty and decency as a person these explanations and assurances were accepted without question by the Opposition. We regarded it as improper to try and exploit this matter for political purposes in the House in view of your public disavowals. I am sure you were grateful at a time of extreme stress for yourself and your family of the Opposition's impartiality. In view of the fairness and responsibility of the Opposition at this time, I believe it cannot be said you were not given the understanding and tolerance you sought from the Opposition. In the whole period of the 26th Parliament from 1966 to 1969 this relationship of trust and respect was sustained. 
Admittedly there were tensions because of the normal rough and tumble of Parliamentary proceedings, but in the main harmonious relations existed between you,  Mr Speaker,  and the Opposition. This atmosphere of mutual co-operation and tolerance has been dissipated completely by you in the IS months of the present Parliament. In this period you have thrown away any pretence of dispassion and judicial calm in your supervision of the proceedings of this House. We submit that you have acted most capriciously in interpreting Standing orders to the marked political advantage of the Government. In particular the Opposition submits you have allowed yourself to be made an instrument for the blatant manipulation of this chamber to the advantage of the Government. It has not escaped the notice of this side of the House that there is a consistent system of tick-tacking' going on between yourself, the Prime Minister and senior members of the front bench. We believe there has been a consistent pattern of vindictive victimisation of members of the Opposition and that you,  Mr Speaker,  have connived in a partisan way in this campaign. 
I want to look briefly at the events of yesterday which precipitated this motion. Yesterday's question time was an example of what has become commonplace in this Parliament. This is the use of the forms of Parliament for what the late Prime Minister Harold Holt called 'kicking the Communist can'. In essence, it is the manipulation of question time for a specific issue. This gets away from the purpose of question time as a forum for information. I suppose it is a valid enough political tactic, but it has to be remembered that if question time is to be used in this way a rowdy political atmosphere can be expected. It is a politically provocative tactic, and where there is provocation one must expect spirited response. 
In this rather crude atmosphere of political give and take there is room for flexibility by the  Speaker  in his control of this House. If the Government wants to 'turn on' in this House in a flagrantly partisan, political issue it must do so without the active connivance of the  Speaker.  Yesterday a series of questions was asked by Government back benchers about the People's Republic of China and its relations with this country. They were provocative questions and they were answered in a frankly provocative way by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon).  During one of these answers the Prime Minister referred to the former Leader of the Opposition,  Dr Evatt.  The honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  interpreted this reference - quite correctly in my opinion, and quite correctly in the opinion of honourable members on this side of the House - as a reflection on  Dr Evatt.  He raised a point of order and put his objection in fair and measured terms. You,  Mr Speaker,  ruled that there was no substance in the point of order. 
The honourable member for Reid repeated his claim that there was a reflection on  Dr Evatt  but you reiterated that there was no substance in the point of order. The honourable member for Reid then said in a rather emotional way that he would challenge the Prime Minister if he cast any further reflection on  Dr Evatt. Mr Speaker  then directed the honourable member for Reid to contain himself, and he replied: 'I will contain myself.' This can be interpreted only as a recognition by the honourable member for Reid of the authority of the Chair and his intention to abide by the ruling. In this heated and provocative atmosphere  Mr Speaker  then took the extraordinary step of warning the honourable member for Reid, despite his statement that he would contain himself and abide by the rejection of his point of order. I submit , that this was piling provocation upon provocation. 
The Prime Minister continued his answer, and there was some cross-talk about the pronunciation of the name of the Chinese Premier. In this confusion there was a call to the Prime Minister to stop clowning. It seems that this call came from the Opposition back benches. Unfortunately this remark is not recorded in Hansard. The honourable member for Reid then made the jocular call to the Prime Minister: 'Is your name Popov the clown?' This is the sort of jocular comment which, if made by any of the acknowledged cap and bells members on either side of the House, would have been treated as a matter of levity. All honourable members in this House know, with all due respect to the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope),  that on numerous occasions that honourable member has been able to relieve the tension in this House by some jocular comment. The same applies to honourable members on the other side of the House. On many of these occasions,  Mr Speaker,  you have joined in what has been the general acceptance and the laughter that has emanated in this chamber. 
Parliament thrives on this sort of topical reference. It would be a great pity if these carefully timed interjections were excluded from proceedings of the House. Unfortunately,  Mr Speaker,  you chose to name the honourable member for Reid for the very light hearted nature of his interjection, in spite of his earlier promise to contain him self and in spite of bis fulfilment of that promise. I submit, with respect, that this action was completely outside the scope of the Standing Orders. The relevant standing order is No. 303 which reads as follows: 
If any member has: 
persistently and wilfully obstructed the business of the House; or 
been guilty of disorderly conduct; or 
used objectionable words, which he has refused to withdraw; or 
persistently and wilfully refused to conform to any standing order; or 
persistently and wilfully disregarded the authority of the Chair - he may be named by the  Speaker,  or, if any of the above-named offences has been committed by a member in committee, by the  Chairman. 
Where is the justification in this provision for the action taken against the honourable member for Reid? There was no sense of persistent and wilful obstruction by the honourable member; he said he would contain himself and he did contain himself. He was not guilty of disorderly conduct, nor. did he use objectionable terms; his interjection was phrased in the gentlest and most humorous of terms. He did not persistently and wilfully refuse to conform to any standing order. He did not persistently and wilfully disregard the authority of the Chair; it is on the Hansard record that he submitted to the authority of the Chair. Yet he was named and subsequently suspended from the service of the House. 
It is to be said to the credit of the honourable member for Reid that when I rose in my place to give notice of this motion the honourable member expressed to me the hope that I would not be rising to apologise for him. I believe that be accepted, as we all did, that he had been most unfairly and unjustly treated as a result of an interjection that was made only in the spirit in which many members in this Parliament interject on occasions. The action of the  Speaker  in naming the honourable member for Reid can only be construed as a vindictive and arbitrary use of the powers of the  Speaker.  It revealed a complete lack of a sense of humour and a complete lack of a sense of proportion. This has been part of a continuing pattern of pin-pricking and provocation against the Opposition from the Chair; obviously the screws are being tightened. 
An analysis of incidents in this House reveals an alarming growth of bias against the Opposition.  Mr Speaker's  first year in the chair was 1967. In that year he named only one honourable member, the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope)  from this side of the House. In 1968 the  Speaker  named 3 members - the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Jeff Bate)  from the Government ranks, the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  from the Opposition, and the former member for Darebin,  Mr Courtnay,  also from the Opposition. In 1969 the honourable member for Reid was named. In the term of the 26th Parliament from 1967 to 1969, 5 members were named, 4 from the Opposition and 1 from the Government. In the preceding Parliament  Mr Speaker  McLeay named 10 members, 7 from the Opposition and 3 from the Government. 
The present Speaker's first term of office can be judged most favourable in terms of fairness and impartiality against his predecessor, In the present Parliament there has been a marked growth in the application of the Speaker's disciplinary powers against this side of the House. In 1970 4 members were named - the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant),  the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  and the honourable member for Sydney. All were members of the Opposition of some standing and length of service. In the few weeks of this session, 2 members of the Opposition have been named - the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  and the honourable member for Reid. This Parliament has gone a little over a third of its term, yet more Opposition members have been named than in the whole of the previous Parliament; the comparative figures are 6 against 4. 
The same pattern shows through in the growth of motions of dissent from the rulings of the  Speaker. 
In 1967, the Speaker's first year of office, there were 2 motions of dissent. In 1968 there were 3 and in 1969 there were 2. In the 3 years of the last Parliament there were 7 motions of dissent from your ruling,  Mr Speaker.  In the first year of the present Parliament, 1970, there were 6 motions of dissent moved by the Opposition. Every ruling you gave except one was dissented from by the Opposition, a most extraordinary record for an officer of the Parliament who should be non-partisan and unbiased. The most shameful example was your ruling that a censure motion could be amended to delete the original censure proposal and substitute another censure proposal. This ruling flew in the face of all precedent; further it negated the long accepted convention of ministerial responsibility. How can a Minister be called to account to a Parliament if the motion censuring him can be deflected to an entirely different issue? 
The broad areas of complaint the Opposition relies on to support this motion are these: In the discharge of your duties,  Mr Speaker,  you have revealed serious partiality in favour of Government members and have displayed bias against members of the Opposition; you have been arbitrary and unjust in many of your decisions; you have failed to interpret or apply correctly the Standing Orders of the House; you have abused the great constitutional convention of ministerial responsibility by permitting amendments to no confidence and censure motions contrary to the intention of these motions. I would like to cite in conclusion one authority on the conception of the role of the  Speaker. 
This is the Hansard Society of London, which in relation to the office of Speaker gives the following opinion: 
It has been well remarked that such an office does not require brilliant or rare qualities so much as common qualities in a rare degree. lt needs a practical man with a sound instinct for justice who does his task honestly, firmly and  good-humouredly. 
The Opposition may once have attributed these qualities to the present Speaker; its respect for him has been rudely dashed. He is arbitrary, capricious, inconsistent and undeniably partisan. Everyone in this House is a political partisan; there is nothing wrong with that. But in the Speaker's chair, which is a chair of justice, partisanship must be controlled. 
In moving this motion, all that I have put on behalf of the Opposition is that there has been a clear indication during the course of this year particularly and during the 2 sessions in 1970 that an attempt has been made by the  Speaker,  whether in collaboration with the new Prime Minister and other members on the Government side, to apply pressure unfairly whenever the opportunity presents itself in this House. I have demonstrated with chapter and verse this afternoon that this has been the persistent attitude of the  Speaker.  It is for this reason that on behalf of the Opposition I have been compelled, reluctantly I must confess, to move a motion of no confidence in the  Speaker.  I have already indicated to the House that it is many years since a similar motion was deemed to be necessary and indeed had to be moved. But I believe that as the result of what was after all a deliberate attempt on the part of the Prime Minister and those who supported him during question time yesterday afternoon to disrupt this House this motion is necessary.I ask that it be supported. 
 I did not realise that the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  had completed bis speech. 
As a matter of fact,' I was waiting for the honourable member for Angas to come back to the subject matter of the Bill. It was completely fallacious for the honourable member for Angas to argue that this Bill is one that will protect the rights, of minorities. The honourable member knows that that is not correct. The plain fact is that this Bill is aimed against the rights of people in this country to dissent. Much of the difficulty that has been experienced in this country in recent years is due entirely to the policies of the present Government. I venture to suggest that nothing in recent times has caused more public dissension than the Government's policy on national service. Whenever there have been demonstrations of protest against the' national service scheme the Government has sought to use whatever powers have been available to it to curtail or eliminate such demonstrations and similar activity. 
Indeed, it must be conceded that this Bill arises out of an incident last year which involved the former Attorney-General, the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Hughes).  That incident itself was a form of demonstration against national service and involved the  right of young people to express their opposition to government policy, a right which should be accorded to all people in any democratic country. We are now discussing a Bill which really has nothing at all to do with the matters referred to by the honourable member for Angas. He spoke of the State of New South Wales arid the State of Victoria and what may in his opinion be the position of the Australian Labor Party, but all his remarks along those lines were entirely irrelevant to the Bill. Of course, the honourable member for Angas completely ignored what is happening in Queensland. Perhaps I may be permitted to digress for a moment to remind him that there is at this moment a contest between the Liberal Party and the Country Party in that State to see which party is to arrange the biggest gerrymander ever in Queensland. The honourable member completely ignores that situation. Now I come back to the Bill. 
This legislation comes about 8 months after the dissipation of the particular political climate it was intended to serve. It dates back to July-August last year when there was a concerted attempt by this Government and the State Governments to generate a law and order confrontation. The purpose of this confrontation was political exploitation of issues of dissent for the Senate elections and for State general elections and State by-elections. There was also speculation that it was intended as the vehicle for a snap election, an election which, fortunately for the Government, never materialised. We are getting another burst of this sort of phoney kite flying at the moment; again it is likely to fall on barren ground in electoral terms. In retrospect, it is difficult to see what all the fuss was about when this legislation was mooted. The issue never took off as a vote winner at either level of Government. 
Eight months ago this legislation was bruited as a tough new law designed to protect Commonwealth property and employees and members of Parliament from demonstrators. Despite its many objectionable features this law is hardly that. It achieves little in either clarifying the law or tightening it up. What it does achieve has no relevance in the major centres of population where most demonstrations occur. What it does is to put another objectionable statute on the books, a statute that in all likelihood will be enforced but rarely, if at all. Its most objectionable feature is that it does nothing to indicate clearly what the rights to lawful assembly are in this country. Rather it further constricts rights to protest and obscures just what is allowed and what is not in the public streets. 
In his second reading speech the former Attorney-General stressed his objectives for the legislation. He said it was drafted to clarify, to simplify and to mitigate the severity of the laws concerning assemblies of persons in areas of Commonwealth legislative responsibility. On the issue of clarification this legislation will accomplish nothing. The law on public assembly in Australia is covered by a maze of law at all levels of Government and regulation. There are Police Offences Acts, traffic regulations, municipal regulations, the Commonwealth Crimes Act, and the archaic common law provisions referred to by the former Minister. How will this Bill serve to simplify and clarify this great mass of law and mould it into an intelligible code which could be applied consistently and justly in every State of the Commonwealth? The Minister knows this it just will not do so. There has been no attempt to approach this particular aspect of the law in concert with the States to try to get some co-ordinate regulation of public assemblies. This dispels the claim that any clarification or simplification of the law has occurred. 
The former Minister made much of the removal of the provisions of the Riot Acts of 1411 and 1414 and 1714 from the statute books of the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. This is hardly a sweeping reform as these ancient provisions still remain on the statute books in most States. The former Attorney-General said that these obsolete provisions had been repealed in the United Kingdom by the Criminal Law Act of 1967. I hope he did not mean to imply that what this Bill achieves is anything like as significant as the United Kingdom reforms. The other point made by the former Attorney-General about mitigating the severity of penalties does not bear close examination. It is true that antiquated penalties ranging from 3 to 21 years have been removed by the Bill, at least in areas of Commonwealth legislative responsibility. But these penalties have never been invoked; it is extremely unlikely that they would ever be invoked. The penalties provided by the Bill should not be compared with the lengthy gaol sentences deriving from an earlier and much more primitive social and legal environment. The obvious basis of comparison is with the penalties for the usual offences of obstruction, offensive behaviour and the like which apply to public demonstrations. 
When this comparison is made, it will be found the penalties provided in this Bill are quite stringent. 
In one important aspect the penalties of this Bill do not in any way mitigate the severity of the traditional statutes; they increase the severity of penalties. This Bill imposes significantly higher penalties for these offences than existing penalties under State legislation. It is hard to substantiate the claim that this Bill in any way mitigates penalties for offences against the right to lawful assembly. At the very best the former Minister applied a double standard in assessing penalties relative to the old statutes and to other relevant legislation. The legislation falls down on both counts of clarifying the law and making it less onerous. The former Minister put the crux of the legislation in the following terms: 'Of making an effort to achieve a synthesis of freedom and order'. This is a most worthy objective; again the legislation falls down sadly in achieving it. A lot of lip service has been paid to the concepts of free speech and the right to dissent. This usually takes the form of sanctimonious expression on the lines that there is a right and proper way to exercise these inalienable rights. But the components of this right and proper way to express these rights are never defined. All that comes out in the courts is a process of negatives. This is not the right way to express dissent', 'That is not the right way to express it'. A lead is never given on what is the right- way to express these rights. This has been exemplified on countless occasions in political demonstrations in every part of the Commonwealth in the past few years. What is permissible in one city is not permissible in another; a form of behaviour is tolerated on one day and not on the next. There is no way of knowing what is reasonable conduct for a demonstrator; all is confusion and vexation. 
In this Bill the onus of proof is thrown on an officer of the law as low ranking as a sergeant of police. An unlawful assembly is confined to as few as 3 people. This further complicates the problems inherent in defining reasonable conduct in a demonstration. It becomes an impossible task for the organisers of any demonstration to advise participants on reasonable conduct in a public demonstration, lt is impossible for a lawyer to advise a client on how a demonstration can be mounted in a public place within the confines of the law. Nor is it possible for a person seeking to act within the law to get any guidance from the text of this Bill on how he should behave. The arbitrary and discretionary right remains with any person enforcing the law to interfere with dissent and interpret it as obstruction or offensive behaviour. 
The Bill provides no protection whatsoever for the genuine protester or demonstrator it is ostensibly designed to protect, as we were given to understand by the former Attorney-General. In this context the whole sanctimonious clap-trap about the protection of the basic right to dissent is exposed as a sham. A' genuine dissenter or demonstrator has this so-called inalienable right only as long as an officer of the law interprets his conduct as giving him (his right.  His  rights are not prescribed; they are discretionary and this discretion is defined in only the crudest and vaguest of terms. Reasonable conduct is to be judged initially on the discretion of the individual police officer and ultimately by the courts. Unreasonable' conduct is determined only after a protester has been arrested, put in a police wagon, taken to a police station, charged, fingerprinted, gaoled, bailed out, remanded and then ultimately judged by the courts. 
There is no way in which a person can before the event make his own assessment of what he can do in a demonstration under the law and adjust his conduct accordingly. This makes nonsense of the claim made by the former AttorneyGeneral that the Bill is designed to synthesise freedom and order. The principal duty of this legislation should be to put some sort of definition on what is universally conceded to be a basic right. If the Government wanted to provide a positive example to all levels of law and regulation in this country, it could have given a positive statement of what it regards as the right to assemble in public for protest. For example, in the areas of Commonwealth legislative responsibility, it could have listed places where protest could be made publicly without liability for penalty. It could have listed times such as Saturdays or Sunday afternoons or off-peak hours when streets or other public places could be used for protest without liability for obstruction. It could have listed public buildings where peaceful protest could be made at certain hours. 
These are measures which could have been undertaken to give substance to the claim by the Government that the Bill would give a meaningful form to basic rights. As the law is at present interpreted it is possible for streets to be blocked off for hours to commemorate Captain Cook's landing or the Pope's visit. It is not obstruction for people to cram the streets to express their approbation on these occasions. They do it with the full sanction of the law, and quite rightly so. But if they want the same privilege to protest against the treatment of Aboriginals or Vietnam or racist sporting policies there is no way in which they can do so peaceably without exposure to penalty. 
This sort of public assembly is put beyond the protection of the law. The whole weight of the law comes down on one side of the scales; it is all penalty and no protection. Under the law as it stands . demonstrations with a political motivation can be broken up by mass police action on the grounds of obstruction; other public assemblies of a social, cultural or religious character get the positive sanction of the law. If a positive acknowledgment were made of the validity of public protest and the rights and duties of public dissenters were written into the law, then most of the problems associated with public demonstration in Australia would be eliminated. 
Another aspect of this legislation is the severity meted out to the form of public dissent known as the 'sit-in'. This is a comparatively recent tactic outside the bounds of the traditional common law offences and the offences of obstruction and offensive behaviour. Undoubtedly this sort of protest is subject to abuse; in essence, however, it is a form of passive protest. There have been examples in the past few days of the use of a passive presence on Government property to register protest. The curbs against this sort of protest in the Bill before the House do not seem warranted by the history of this sort of demonstration in Australia. 
More importantly, these demonstrations, if conducted in a reasonable manner, deserve recognition. It has been one of the most effective forms of protest in the history of dissent. Much of the ground won by Negroes in segregated areas of the 
United States was won by the courageous but peaceful use of this technique. In Australia, it has been directed against the premises of the Department of Labour and National Service. They have not been sit-ins designed to destroy property or insult or harrass Commonwealth staff. There are legitimate grounds for allowing this form of protest, with it stated clearly in the law what is reasonable conduct and what is not. Restriction on places where reasonable protest can be made has the effect of isolating a government completely from criticism of any form. 
In summary, this Bill is not a significant addition to the law. It would have fulfilled a signal service if it had formulated the objects stated for it by the former AttorneyGeneral who introduced it to the House. One remembers very well the statement made by the former Attorney-General who referred, with what I think was a degree of sincerity, to some of the problems which he personally believed and which undoubtedly the Government believed were associated with the question of the right of dissent in this country. If one studies the Bil] and if one has listened to the debate which has taken place in this House, unfortunately it is quite clear that the Bill fails to achieve the objectives which it was said to have. The issues of political protest and the right to dissent have been dormant in the past few months. This situation is unlikely to continue with controversial tours by sporting teams selected on a racist basis about to visit Australia. Who can tell the circumstances under which these visits will be made if, in fact, they are made? With the possibility of future confrontation, the Government had a golden opportunity to clear the air and define exactly the sort of conduct at public assemblies of protest it deemed reasonable and within the law. I believe it is a matter for regret that this opportunity has again been muffed by the Government. 
asked the Minister for 
Repatriation, upon notice: 
How many ex-servicemen were in receipt of the Special Rate pension at the end of February 1971. 
How many of these ex-servicemen are in receipt of a part service pension. 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Navy. Has a major realignment been made of the catapult system on HMAS 'Melbourne'? If so, why was this work necessary and what did it cost? 
 Mr Speaker,  the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Bury)  made bis statement on foreign affairs to this House just over a fortnight ago. It was a sound enough statement; it set down with commendable economy the Government's attitudes to 4 questions of current interest and importance to Australia. These were Indo-China, China, the Middle East and Pakistan. The Minister also tabled a lengthy document on foreign affairs. This had its points of interest, but it contained little in the way of new insights or new policies over the broad span of foreign policy. 1 do not intend to concentrate on Indo-China in this debate tonight; it is both a long standing and a long term issue. Opposition attitudes have always been made plain and they will be emphasised again in the months ahead. The Minister's comments on the Middle East were sound enough; the Opposition finds itself in much the same position as the Government of waiting on events before determining future policy. 
The conflict in Pakistan is a particularly tragic one; the Opposition has reservations about the Government's attitudes on this issue. The Foreign Minister said in his statement that the war in East Pakistan was an internal matter and the responsibility for resolving it was Pakistan's alone. The Government's attitude does not seem to have changed in the intervening 2 weeks, judged by the answer by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  to the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  during question time today. .However, the geographical nature of East Pakistan makes it difficult to confine this dispute within the boundaries of the state of Pakistan. It is at the apex of a particularly explosive part of Asia; there are real dangers that the fighting in East Pakistan could spill over into India and Burma. This raises broader questions of the intervention of Russia and China into this arena. The possibilities for future trouble in this area are immense. For this reason it is disappointing that the Government has not given a more positive lead on the need for international mediation in East Pakistan. After all, the United Nations Security Council, with the backing of Russia and the United States, managed to settle the war between India and Pakistan in 1965. There may have been some reason for standing aloof while the lives of 
Australian nationals were endangered in East Pakistan. Once this was resolved it was the duty of Australia as a major nation in the region and a treaty partner of Pakistan to initiate some form of practical international action to limit the war. This conflict has the potential to turn this crucial region into a cockpit of great power rivalries that would make Vietnam look like a mere sideshow. For this reason  it is a major disappointment that the Government has been both reticent and negative on the implications of this murderous war. 
Having made these comments on Pakistan, I intend to concentrate on what I see as the major foreign policy issue confronting Australia. This is our relations with the 3 powers that will dominate world foreign policy in the years ahead. These are the United States, Soviet Russia and the People's Republic of China. In the past 10 days there have been quite remarkable changes in the balance of relations between these 3 great powers. A sudden and dramatic display of friendship to Americans by the People's Republic of China has evoked an almost hysterical response from  -President  Nixon and his Government. It is too early to say that this is a thaw on the model of the historic thaw that ended the Stalin era of Soviet Russian foreign policy in the 1950s. The Chinese entertained some American sportsmen and journalists. Nice words were said by the Chinese Prime Minister, Chou En-lai, about future relations between the two countries. This produced a remarkable response from the United States. 
Since February  President  Nixon had courteously referred to this great nation as the 'People's Republic of China', unlike the Australian Prime Minister who persists in all the old euphemisms such as continental China. The United States agreed to relax the embargo on trade with the People's Republic which had existed since 1950.  President  Nixon announced his readiness to grant visas to visitors from China and expressed his interest in visiting the People's Republic. It was revealed also that the  President  had instructed American oil companies that they should not exploit offshore concessions granted by South Korea and Taiwan and to which Peking had been laying claim. It is worth comparing this reaction to the few minor gestures made by the People's Republic of China. 
It should be noted that American businessmen were not invited to the Canton Spring Trade Fair which has been held in the past week or so. Nor has there been any hint of a resumption of the ambassadorial talks between the United States and the People's Republic initiated in Warsaw and suspended more than a year ago. According to slogans displayed at the Canton Trade Fair the official attitude remains that the Americans are aggressors and in the Chinese phraseology 'running dogs'. Nor has there been any sign of a softening by the People's Republic of China on Vietnam. In the week before the first American visit to China the Chinese Press was full of what it saw as the victory in Laos of North Vietnam over the Saigon Government. The official attitude of the Peking Government' is that the South Vitnamese Government is still a bellicose and imperialist clique. Undoubtedly China still regards the United States and Australia as ignoble aggressors in Vietnam. Chou Enlai, who has been in the forefront of the present conciliatory . attitude to America, has told the North Vietnamese that China would not shirk from the greatest national sacrifices to help them to defeat the imperialists. Nor is there any hint that China will disengage from fostering international revolutionary activity, in particular people's wars of liberation in Africa, Asia and Latin America. 
The People's Republic of China may be changing its tactics; it has not changed its basic objectives. This emphasises the almost euphoric nature of the reception given by the United States to Chinese gestures of friendship. In return for a few meagre concessions China has received an overwhelmingly favourable response from its most powerful adversary. It is a measure of the fascination of this huge and powerful nation that even the slightest sign that the barriers are starting to crumble produces such a response. This change in attitude could be interpreted as an appeal by the Chinese over the heads of the American  President  and his Government to the war-weary majority in the United States. It may be an attempt to project an image of moderation to the millions of Americans sickened by the Vietnam war and anxious for an end to it. The response of America shows just how disillusioned both the right and the left of the political spectrum have become with the war, particularly with the impact of the Calley trial. This explains much of the pathetically eager response of America to the first faint overtures from the power which has reviled and rejected it for so long. 
Beyond relations between the United States and the People's Republic of China lies the equally crucial issue of relations between Russia and China. There has been no significant improvement in relations between these 2 great Communist powers in recent years. It comes as a shock to any visitor to Moscow to learn that these 2 powers as recently as last December had given significant consideration to negotiation' of a non-agression pact. The SinoRussian border dispute remains unresolved. Furthermore, the People's Republic of China boycotted the 24th Congress of the Communist Party of Russia held in Moscow earlier this month. This Congress, which is the supreme body of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, saw the return of  Mr Breznhev  as Party Secretary and  Mr Breznhev  is a resolute opponent of any concessions on the border dispute. Despite the very great differences between the Soviet Union and China, it would be unwise to hope for any real rapprochement between China and America against Russia. In Chinese terms the United States is an Imperialist country; the Soviet Union is Social Imperialist. 
There will always be pinpricking, such as the 24th Congress resolution which decisively rejected the 'slanderous inventions' of Chinese propaganda on the policy of the Russian Communist Party and the Soviet state. But the general trend of policy by the 2 Communist powers will be towards 'normalisation of relations' and neighbourliness and friendship'. The tone of resolutions adopted at the 24th Congress was that Russia and China should work towards the long-term key interests of both countries and those of world socialism. This presents a bleak prospect for the future of the United States Government in Vietnam. The United States is pulling out rapidly in Vietnam and this is apparent to the Chinese Government, which has referred to the vicious scheme of Vietnamisation. At the same time there has been no falling off in the level of Russian and Chinese help to North Vietnam. The only inhibition on this assistance has been the very serious division between Russia and China in recent years. Any reduction in these divisions and tensions will certainly be reflected in increased aid to North Vietnam. This is an increasingly grim prospect for the United States and for the Australian Government. 
To summarise these points, foreign policy in the next few years is certain to be determined by the balances between the  3  great powers - China, Russia and the United States. Any rapprochement between Russia and China will present grave policy problems to the United States. It will be a very delicately-balanced triangle with constant manoeuvring and subtle shifts in the balance of power. Regrettably, the machinery of Australia's foreign policy, lacks the sophistication to secure the maximum benefits for this country from this fluctuating power structure. 
We are over-committed to the United States. Our whole structure of policy making and response is geared to this one great power. There is no machinery at all for government-to-government relations between Australia and the People's Republic of China. The institutional framework for relations between this country and the Soviet Union is remarkably primitive. The Soviet Union does not lack interest in Australia but quite clearly it regards it as an anomaly - a country which cannot be accommodated in its geographical region. For this reason Australia is lumped in with the United Kingdom and South Africa in the Foreign Affairs. Department of the Soviet Government. It is not treated as part of the South East Asian division or the Far Eastern division but as a remnant of the old British Empire. This puts Australia in a very difficult position to assert its foreign policy to the Soviet Union in a regional context. 
At the present time the United States is over-extended in Asia and is substantially cutting its presence. Russia which has had only a token presence is sharply increasing its influence in the region. The People's 
Republic of China is poised to assert itself much more positively in a region where it sees itself as unchallenged leader. The rivalries between these three powers will be projected much more intensively into our region. This will present dangers to Australian foreign policy. It will also open opportunities for diplomatic initiatives and trade gains. 
Nothing is more certain than that Russia will become increasingly active in the Indian Ocean and Pacific Ocean and that China will follow its lead. At the same time the Americans will be breaking their necks to get their troops off the Asian mainland and transform their role to diplomacy and trade. We must accept this rapidly changing world and try to exploit it as best we can. 
In asking a question of the Minister for the Army I refer the Minister to a grenade incident at Singleton earlier this week when a soldier was killed and 5 others injured. Has the Minister investigated this incident? If so has it been established bow the grenade was detonated? What safety procedures were adopted during this practice throwing of grenades? 1 finally ask: Will these procedures be revised as a result of this incident? 
Does the Minister for Trade and Industry know how many Australian businessmen attended the Canton Trade Fair and what industries they represented? Did officers of the Department of Trade and Industry attend the Fair? Would it be possible for Trade Commissioner services to be extended to the People's Republic of China? When did the last trade mission from the People's Republic of China visit Australia? 
-by leave - It is disturbing that there should be a further eruption of the stupid and futile initiation practices. If the facts are as reported in this morning's Press, the incident at HMAS 'Leeuwin' seems to be a most serious one. It has much greater connotations of direct physical brutality than any revealed in the investigations of bastardisation at Duntroon. The Opposition is grateful for the assurances of the Minister for the Navy  (Dr Mackay)  that this incident will be swiftly investigated. However, the Duntroon incidents and the subsequent report by the Fox Committee showed that an isolated incident of this nature could be only the tip of the iceberg. For this reason I hope that the Minister's investigations will be much more comprehensive than the mere detection and punishment of those responsible for this incident. It could be indicative of basic greater defects in the system of recruit training at HMAS 'Leeuwin'. If the Minister finds any evidence that this is so, I hope he will appoint a committee of inquiry to look at training at the establishment along the lines of Fox Committee inquiry into the Royal Military College. 
I acknowledge, as the Minister has said, that he has acted swiftly in relation to this matter. There was a Press statement this morning and the Minister has made a statement to the House this afternoon. He has stated also that he intends to visit the establishment during the winter recess. This should give the Minister an opportunity to talk to those who are responsible for the training carried out there. One would expect that if the Minister does find indications that this kind of practice is being committed at HMAS 'Leeuwin' he will make an early statement on the matter. I suggest that if it is of a serious nature, as one would expect from the statement made in this morning's Press, a committee of inquiry be set up to further investigate it. I know that the Minister appreciates that if these incidents are not of a relatively minor nature and if they are not infrequent, they will ultimately have some effect on the recruitment programme for the Royal Australian Navy. 
The Opposition opposes the motion for the suspension of the 11 o'clock rule. The Leader of the House  (Mr Swartz)  began his statement by commenting on what he described as something that was traditional in this House, that this motion should be moved towards the end of a session. It is common knowledge that the House will complete its sittings towards the end of next week. I understand that it will conclude on Thursday of next week. This means that about 6 sitting days are left for the Parliament to conclude its business. The Opposition opposes the suspension of the 11 o'clock rule. After this motion is carried, as I expect it will be because Government members will undoubtedly support it as they have supported similar motion in the past, the Government will be in a position to introduce new business into this House after 11 o'clock p.m. It can have only one result. That will be that this House will, as on other occasions, indulge in late sittings. 
Honourable members will be called upon to debate new business and new Bills after 11 o'clock. We had one experience last week when, as I recall, Parliament sat until about 3.20 a.m. No one can seriously suggest that the business of this Parliament can be dealt with effectively under these circumstances. The Government knows that this is the position. While honourable members opposite may argue just as consistently that it has been traditional for the 
Opposition to oppose the suspension of the 11 o'clock rule, I believe that the Opposition does so for very good and cogent reasons. First, one has only to look at the business that is now before the Parliament. It might be advisable for me to provide some of the statistics. The Minister for National Development and Leader of the House said that more business, more Bills, are to be introduced. If this is the position it means that the 29 Bills that are now on the notice paper will be increased in number. So, before Thursday of next week this Parliament will be expected to debate, under the extraordinary circumstances that the Government wants to prevail, the 29 Bills that are already on the notice paper in addition to those that the Minister has foreshadowed this afternoon will be introduced. 
Let us look at some of those 29 Bills. If the Government were able to argue successfully that the Bills that we were debating would not involve any great difference of opinion between the Government and the Opposition, that they were Bills upon which there would be a general consensus and agreement, then the Opposition might be able to support the Government's motion for the suspension of the 11 o'clock rule. Let us look at some of the Bills we will be expected to debate this week and next week. First there is order of day No. 8 under Government Business, the Customs Tariff Bill 1971, on which the debate is to be resumed. Everyone in this Parliament knows that the tariff is a controversial subject in this country today. It is a matter upon which there is not a general consensus between members who sit on this side of the House and honourable members opposite. It is expected that there will be a difference of opinion upon some of these matters and that the Opposition will want to state its attitude. 
Order of the day No. 11 is the Export Payments Insurance Corporation Bill 1971. Order of the day No. 13, the States Grants (Housing Assistance) Bill 1971, is a matter of very great importance to the Opposition. Yet if this House is to conclude its business by Thursday of next week obviously honourable members not only on this side of the House but also on the Government side will not have the opportunity to deal with these issues effectively. 
Order of the day No. 18 is the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill 1971. Surely the Government does not expect that measures of such profound importance should be guillotined through this House. If the House is to rise according to the schedule laid down by the Government, obviously honourable members on this side of the House will not have the opportunity fully to debate this measure. It can be debated only under circumstances that will be applied by the Government. I refer to the application of the guillotine. 
Order of the day No. 24 is the Continental Shelf (Living Natural Resources) Bill 1971 which again is a matter of very great importance. Order of the day No. 25 is the Commonwealth Electoral Bill 1971. Surely everyone in this Parliament appreciates the importance of that Bill and the opinions that honourable members on both sides of the House will want to express. I have referred to only a small number of the 29 Bills that are on the notice paper. Every one of them is of major importance. Yet we are told by the Government that it wishes us to suspend the 11 o'clock rule. This can have only one result and that is that the Parliament will be debating these measures in the early hours of the morning. I know that in the past honourable members have had certain things to say about the result of debating legislation in the early hours of the morning. There is no need for me to repeat that argument at this stage. 
As the honourable member who has interjected says, it is a disgrace. It has been pointed out in the past that the purpose of the Government in having the 11 o'clock rule suspended in the dying stages of a sessional period is merely to enable it to bring in new legislation after 11 o'clock. I have referred only to the 29 Billa. As I have pointed out to the House, the Minister foreshadowed that additional legislation will be introduced. No-one on this side of the House knows what kind of legislation is to be introduced, whether it will be controversial or otherwise or whether it will require honourable members on both sides of the House to debate it at great length or otherwise. If some of the 29 Bills on the notice paper are to be left there, surely the Minister should be in a position to say so. 
But he has indicated that the business will be dealt with. 
Let me turn now to the questions that remain unanswered on the notice paper. There still remain to be answered 596 questions. What a disgraceful state of affairs for the Government. Yet by the end of next week this Parliament will rise. What does the Government intend to do about these matters? The logical answer to all of these problems is, as the Minister knows, for the Parliament to continue. The Minister, in what is probably the shortest statement that I have heard in this Parliament, did not give any indication why the Parliament is to rise at the end of next week. What is the reason for this? Surely there must be some very good reason why the Government wants to adjourn the Parliament at the end of next week. If one studies the records over the last 2 or 3 years it will be found that this Parliament is sitting less and less each year. This Government does not believe in the administration of the country by the Parliament; it believes in Executive administration. 
I see the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  shaking his head, but no one more than the Minister for Repatriation would want to see the parliamentary sessional period end. He is one of the most vulnerable Ministers in this Parliament and there are many others like him. The Government wants this sitting of Parliament to end. It wants to be able to make its decisions outside Parliament I do not want to reiterate the arguments that I have used in this Parliament before about important statements being made outside the Parliament. That is exactly what happens. When the parliamentary sittings conclude Ministers make their statements and there are no opportunities for honourable members to debate them. I think that if this matter were put to the people of this country they would agree that the Commonwealth Parliament sits less or certainly no longer than any of the State legislatures, and it could not be argued that the Commonwealth does not have more responsibility. It has more legislation to deal with than do the State Parliaments. 
I have pointed out that there are 29 Bills listed on the notice paper, and more are to be introduced. In addition 596 questions on notice remain unanswered. There are ministerial statements still on the notice paper, and honourable members on this side of the House will not have the. opportunity to deal with these ministerial statements, some of which they have initiated. There are 6 statements of very great importance and covering a wide range of matters. The Government completely dismisses them out of hand. In addition to the ministerial statements, honourable members on this side of the House, under the traditional rules and rights of this Parliament, will continue to introduce matters of public importance, and so they should. Yet these will have to be included with all the other matters to be debated in the short sitting period that remains. What does the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  think about this? He is the  Deputy  Government Whip. The honourable member for Angas will not rise in  his  place and defend the point of view of the Opposition on this matter. Like other Government supporters, he will be happy to see the Parliament rise. Where are those members on the Government side who argue consistently in this Parliament that honourable members do not have sufficient time and are not given the opportunity to debate issues that ought to be debated in the Parliament, not outside it? 
Still on the notice paper are 2 reports from parliamentary committees. These are matters of very great importance. One is the report of the Joint Select Committee on the New and Permanent Parliament House. This issue remains unresolved. The Government has not yet determined where the new Parliament House will be built, and there is a great deal of division in this Parliament about where it ought to be located. Again no opportunity is given for discussion of the matter during this session. We will soon rise and the issue will remain unresolved. The report of the Standing Orders Committee dated 10th June 1970 was presented and the debate was adjourned on 21st August 1970. The debate on the report of the New and Permanent Parliament House Committee was adjourned in about August 1970, 8 months ago. These matters are still unresolved. The Government will proceed with its plan to adjourn the Parliament on Thursday of next week. Eight tariff proposals dating back to 22nd May 1970, nearly 12 months ago, are still on the notice paper. Are these issues not important? Finally, I turn to the question of general business to show how much business there is on the notice paper and the Government's lack of courtesy, its complete contempt for members on this side of the House, its contempt for the traditions of Parliament, and its contempt for those who want to take part in these debates, those who have initiated legislation and those who have initiated motions in this Parliament. Under general business there are 6 outstanding notices of motion. If one looks at the  notice paper  it will be found that some of these notices of motion have been there for nearly 12 months. They will never be debated. I conclude by saying that there is no reason why this Parliament should not sit beyond the end of the first week in May. The actual date of rising is to be 6th May. Unless the Government can provide some legitimate and reasonable excuse for adjourning the Parliament on that day, I believe the Opposition is carrying out its responsibility to the people of this country by protesting in the only way we can protest when the Government introduces a motion of this nature to suspend the 11 o'clock rule. Suspension of the rule means that the Government will call upon members to debate legislation in the early hours of the morning and that the Government will be able to initiate new legislation after 11 o'clock to which members will then be called upon to speak in the early hours of the morning. That is no way to treat this Parliament. It is certainly no way to treat the people of Australia. 
asked the Minister for. 
Defence, upon notice: 
Has the Committee appointed under  Sir William  Refsbauge to examine integration of the medical services of the Armed Forces completed its investigations. 
If so, will he make its findings available to the Parliament. 
If not, when will this report be available. 
Who are the other members of the committee. 
asked the Minister for 
Defence, upon notice: 
What stage has been reached in the application of the COBOL programming language to the development of EDP Systems in bis Department, 
asked the Minister for 
Defence, upon notice: 
Who are the members of the Defence Legal' Services Committee of Review. 
What are the terms of reference of the Committee. 
When is the Committee expected to report. 
asked the Minister for the Navy, upon notice: 
What is the average age of Naval personnel, including officers. 
I  ask the Minister for Labour and National Service a question supplementary to those asked by the honourable member for Denison and others in connection with the serious situation in shipping services to Tasmania. Does the Minister appreciate that Tasmania is completely dependent upon shipping for transport and for the flow of goods between that State and the mainland? Will the Minister seriously consider making at some future date - an early . date,  I  would hope - a statement in the House that would indicate what the Government proposes to do in order to prevent a recurrence of this problem in Tasmania and that an opportunity will be afforded to honourable members to debate this matter? 
by leave- This is the third statement made by the Minister for the Navy  (Dr Mackay)  on two rather brutal incidents at HMAS 'Leeuwin'. The first made yesterday afternoon was on injuries suffered by Junior Recruit Connolly. The second made, late last night dealt with injuries received by Leading Junior Recruit .1. D. Russell. In each case the Minister substantially confirmed allegations which had appeared in the Press. The main point of difference was on whether  these were isolated incidents or parts of a consistent pattern of bastardisation or initiation rituals. -The Minister was rather more confident on this issue last night than he is today. He said last night: 
It would appear that neither could be described as associated with initiation or so-called bastardisation activities. Both would seem to be the result of fights between the boys concerned which came about for different reasons. 
Today he has taken the serious step of appointing a judge to investigate the allegation that he took some pains to quash in the House last night. It does not seem to have been resolved to the satisfaction of the Minister that these incidents had no link with bastardisation or initiation practices. The first point that needs to be made is that both these incidents involved rather more brutality than did those revealed in the investigations of bastardisation at Duntroon. The Duntroon practices were mainly of a pin-pricking nature such as the performance of absurd or tedious tasks. There were other practices which involved a degree of physical discomfort such as performance of an excessive number of push-ups. But certainly no practices were disclosed which would have had the end result of putting a youth into hospital for 1 1 days. 
Both incidents at 'Leeuwin' involved physical conflict sufficient to cause injury and mental distress. Another serious element of these incidents is that recruits entering 'Leeuwin' are rather younger than are cadets enrolling at Duntroon for the first time. This emphasises the extreme seriousness of the incidents at 'Leeuwin', particularly if there is any evidence to associate them with a persistent pattern of bastardisation. The degree of injury inthe first incident was not great but its impact was augmented by considerable mental distress. 
The degree of injury in the second incident was extremely grave. Again there was mental distress culminating in a nervous disorder which needed treatment in a repatriation hospital. These incidents reveal the need for a very close look at practices of control and supervision at 'Leeuwin'. 
The Minister has appointed Judge Rapke to investigate these allegations. I feel it unfortunate that a person who has had close association with the Navy should have been selected for this task. I say this without any intention of disparaging the Judge who I am sure is a competent person, both in civil and naval jurisdictions. A full scale committee of inquiry was appointed under an independent supreme court judge to investigate the Duntroon incidents. Its terms of reference were much more extensive than those given to Judge Rapke, although the incidents were not as serious. It would have been a wiser course for the Minister to have appointed a committee of inquiry on these lines, or at least to have appointed an independent tribunal. Any suggestion of a hasty inquiry with implications of a white-wash will not be acceptable to the Opposition. The circumstances have changed since yesterday The Minister made a statement yesterday about only one incident. Last night he made a further statement, and the whole circumstances have changed. It is clear that the implications are much more serious than they were believed to be yesterday when the Minister made his first statement. It is obvious from the Minister's demeanour and his anxiety to keep the Parliament informed on these investigations that he treats them with the utmost seriousness. I urge him to widen the investigation on the lines I have indicated and eliminate from it even the slightest hnt of Service partisan ship. In conclusion I want to quote irons the Fox report into the Duntroon Military College which states at page  9: 
We are emphatic that conduct which has come to be called 'bastardisation' must be banned. It is senseless and degrading; it is not countenanced elsewhere in the Army and there is no place for it in the Royal Military College. 
I submit that the same comments apply in equal measure to recruit training in the Royal Australian Navy. We on this side of the House acknowledge that the Minister, as I said yesterday when I replied to his first statement on this matter, did act properly in this matter but I believe that the matter is now of a nature that is serious enough to warrant not merely an inquiry by a single judge but an inquiry by a full and representative committee of inquiry. 
I ask the Prime Minister a question. What arrangements have been made for international scrutiny of the conduct of the presidential elections in South Vietnam? Has Australia been invited to participate in international observation teams as it did in 1967? If not, will the Prime Minister consider sending independent observation teams from this country to assess the conduct of the elections? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Air, upon notice: 
What is the average age of Air Force personnel including officers. 
asked the Minister for 
Defence, upon notice: 
Who are the members of the interdepartmental committee on offset orders to major overseas procurement. 
What are the functions of the committee. 
How often has it met. 
I preface ray question which is directed to the Minister for Labour and National Service by reminding him that towards the end of last week I personally requested him to support a submission I had made for a compulsory conference of representatives of the Federated Marine Stewards and Pantrymen's Association, the Australian Council of Trade Unions and ship owners. The Minister will remember that I was informed that the ship owners intended to stand firm and that such a conference was not possible I now ask the Minister whether he is in a position to make a further statement on this situation and whether the conference I sought towards the end of last week is not now taking place. 
I ask the Minister for Shipping and Transport a question. Were higher freight rates for Australian National Line vessels discussed at the Minister's meeting last week with the Australian Coastal Shipping Commission? If so, what is the nature of the increases sought and how can they be justified? Was the Minister serious in his suggestion that the Government might be forced to 'disband' all ANL passenger ships running to Tasmania? On more mature reflection, does he not agree with  Mr Lyons  that this would be a disaster for Tasmania? 
The Opposition opposes this motion for the suspension of Standing Orders. In a sense it is a continuation of the debate that we had last week when the Government, because it had decided that the House should adjourn on Thursday of this week, decided to move for the suspension of the 11 o'clock rule. I pointed out then to the Government that as a result of its attitude insufficient time would be granted to honourable members to debate the measures set out in the motion that we are now considering. Of course, what I said on that occasion has now been proved to be correct. The plain fact is that the Government has not sufficient time in which to deal with the legislation. Therefore, it proposes that a restriction will be imposed on the opportunity for honourable members to debate the legislation in this House. The Leader of the House  (Mr Swartz)  may smile and shake his head- 
The honourable member for Sydney said that he heard it rattle. Frankly, I did not hear it myself. The Leader of the House has now indicated that certain Bills on the notice paper will be debated within a limited period. He has referred to some of the Bills on the notice paper. Some Bills will remain on the notice paper. The Leader of the House has referred to no fewer than 12 or 13 Bills, and another 5 Bills are to be introduced. It is in these circumstances that this Government is moving to restrict the opportunities for debate in this Parliament. 
Let me turn to the first Bill to which the Leader of the House referred - the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill 1971. It is my recollection that this Bill was first introduced into this Parliament in 1970. 
On 19th March 1970. The Government has reintroduced the Bill again this year. Is there any more important legislation before this Parliament than the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill 1971? At least 4 members of the Opposition want to speak on this legislation. The Government has talked about a confrontation outside over industrial matters, yet it is prepared to allow honourable members on this side of the House no more than 2 hours in which to debate this legislation. The Government knows that the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  who has devoted a great deal of time to preparing amendments to this legislation, would need at least 30 minutes in which to speak. Indeed, the Government has agreed to give him an extention of time, which would allow him a maximum of 45 minutes within which to speak in the second reading debate. That will leave a quarter of an hour for other honourable members to contribute to the second reading debate on this legislation which is of great significance and importance to people who work in industry in Australia. Although honourable members opposite have talked about the industrial difficulties which confront this country, they are proposing to allow honourable members in this House no longer than 1 hour in which to contribute to the second reading debate on this significant and important legislation. The Government's attitude is a complete farce. It is a disgrace to the Parliament and to the Government, and it ought to be dealt with in the way in which honourable members on this side of the House believe that a motion which restricts the opportunities of debate should be dealt with. 1 come to the time limit for the remaining stages of the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill 1971. The Leader of the House has indicated that 1 hour is to be allocated for the remaining stages of the Bill. That means, in effect, that if the honourable member for Hindmarsh, who proposes to move a certain number of amendments to this legislation, exercises his right to speak on every amendment, he will not possibly be able to deal with all of them. If the honourable member for Hindmarsh deals with 2 amendments and is allotted 10 minutes within which to deal with each amendment, that will make 20 minutes, leaving only 40 minutes for honourable members to deal with the remaining stages of the Bill. This shows the hopeless situation in which honourable members on this side of the House will be placed in relation to this legislation. As I said last week - I do not want to repeat all that I said in that debate - the plain fact is that this House should be continuing in session. It is not good enough merely for the Government to decide that this House will adjourn on Thursday of this week and that because there is remaining on the notice paper legislation that has to be dealt with, the Government will determine how much time will be available to honourable members to debate that legislation. 
One could deal with each of the Bills to which the Leader of the House has referred. Let me turn to the Papua and New Guinea Bill 1971. Last week we listened to the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Barnes)  not only introduce a Bill into this House but also make a statement of some significance and of some importance to honourable members and particularly to the indigenous people of Papua New Guinea. Everyone knows that Papua New Guinea has been a subject of some contention. Some disagreement and some differences of attitude have been expressed by honourable members on both sides of the House. Despite the fact that the Opposition extended to the Minister for External Territories the courtesy of speaking for an unlimited time in order to make his statement, we are expected to deal with the Bill and the statement in the form of a cognate debate. According to the Leader of the House, 30 minutes is to be allotted for the second reading stage of the Papua and New Guinea Bill 1971. 
 I am talking about the Bill. A period of 30 minutes is to be allotted for the second reading stage of the Bill. The honourable member who leads for the Opposition will have 30 minutes within which to deal with the Bill. That means that no other honourable member will be able to speak in the second reading debate on the Bill. Then we find that for the remaining stages of the Bill - there is to be no Committee stage - a period of 5 minutes is to be allotted. 
The Minister has indicated that he is being a little more generous than I indicated. But the plain fact is that he cannot deny that, even if an additional 30 minutes is to be added to the time that has been allotted for consideration of the Bill, there would still be insufficient time to enable honourable mem bers to deal with the statement. I point out for the benefit of the Leader of the House and of honourable members opposite that 7 honourable members on this side of the House want to speak on the Papua and New Guinea Bill or at least on the statement. We will be lucky if 3 honourable members are able to make a contribution to the debate. 
So one could go through all the measures to which the guillotine will be applied. I come next to the Superannuation Bill 1970. One hour is to be allowed for the second reading stage of this Bill and  hours is to be allowed for the remaining stages. But there are 7 honourable members on this side of the House who want to speak on that Bill. One can only assume that honourable members on the Government side do not intend to speak to this legislation. According to the Leader of the House 2 hours will be allotted for the second reading stages of the Wool Industry Bill 1971 and 30 minutes for the remaining stages. At least 5 or 6 members of the Opposition want to speak on this measure. And what about members of the Country Party? Is this not a matter about which they have expressed some concern? If all members of the Country Party spoke on this Bill they would have no more than 10 minutes each and all members of the Opposition would be excluded. 
It can be seen that this motion deserves to be rejected. One would expect that sufficient members on the Government side would be prepared to stand up and be counted in relation to this motion. Already we have had an example of what the Government is prepared to do. It has been applying the gag consistently and preventing Opposition members from speaking. We have already dealt with the Ministers of State Bill 1971. Honourable members will concede that this was an extremely important matter for the Parliament to consider but the Leader of the House and the Deputy Whip on the Government side have gagged Opposition members. I gave notice to the Leader of the House this morning - and I state this for the record - that the Opposition will not grant leave to enable Ministers to make statements if this motion is carried. We think that that is a fair and reasonable approach and I have indicated to the Leader of the House that this will be the attitude of the Opposition. 
I have not referred to all the Bills that are listed in the motion. I have referred to one or two of them but I am sure that honourable member will realise, from an examination of the motion, that there is insufficient time allotted to enable honourable members to debate legislation as. it should be debated- in the Parliament. This procedure is being forced upon us in the same way as the Government moved to set aside the 1 1 o'clock rule, simply because the Government believes that the Parliament should rise on Thursday of- this week. When the Government moved for the abolition of the 11 o'clock rule last week I asked what reasons could be advanced by the Government for so moving but no answer was given by the Leader of the House. Indeed, so far as I can remember, no member from the Government side - spoke against that motion. Is any honourable member opposite prepared to stand up today and deny that there is insufficient debating time between now and Thursday in which to deal with all the legislation mentioned in the motion? 
Quite apart from the measure to which I have referred already, the Government still has 5 Bills to bring into the Parliament. The Leader of the House knows the titles of those Bills. I know some of the titles and undoubtedly honourable members will want to debate those Bills. One of those Bills is a States Grants Bill. Surely Opposition members who are vitally interested in such an important measure should be given the opportunity to be able to express their opinions. The Opposition does not oppose this motion frivolously. The motion involves an important principle and the Opposition is adopting a proper attitude. As I have already said, one would expect that some Government supporters would be prepared to stand up and be counted when their rights and the rights of the Parliament are being set aside in such a cavalier fashion by the Government and by the Leader of the House. In conclusion perhaps I should say that one should not blame the Leader of the House. He is merely the spokesman for the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon).  The Prime Minister has determined when the House will rise. He has determined how much speaking time will be available to honourable members. On behalf of the Opposition I indicate that we oppose this motion because we believe it is unjust in that it restricts the rights and opportunities of honourable members to debate legislation which should be fully considered. 
 I second the motion moved by the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster).  I believe the honourable member certainly has demonstrated that, for a number of reasons, he has capacity and is well able to put his case. This evening, the honourable member has continued his speech supporting the motion he moved earlier this afternoon. If carried, his motion would provide for the suspension of Standing Orders to allow a debate on the question of continuing the sittings of this Parliament for another 2 weeks. I believe the honourable member for Sturt gave all the valid and sensible reasons why the motion should be carried. Undoubtedly honourable members on the Government side must be most unhappy about the situation that has developed in this House not only today but over the last 2 or 3 weeks. I think there has been growing apprehension. No-one who had the opportunity this afternoon to listen to the honourable members for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  and Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  could have failed to be impressed by their points of view. At least they had the courage to stand up and speak on behalf of Government members. 
How many more Government members are prepared to stand up in this Parliament in the way in which the honourable members for Moreton and Bradfield stood up this afternoon, when they gave chapter and verse of the problems that honourable members in this Parliament now face as a result of the Government's decision only, a week ago to suspend the 11 o'clock rule? This was the first clear indication given by the Government to honourable members that it had made a firm decision or, to put it in its true perspective, that the Prime Minister had decided to curtail the activities of this Parliament. I know that it can be argued, probably successfully, that towards the end of a session honourable members have always taken the opportunity - indeed they have been forced to take it - to protest at the Government's attitude in curtailing the business of the House, thus restricting the rights and opportunities of honourable members to speak. When one looks at what has happened over the past 2 weeks, it would be ludicrous if it were not pitiful. I think that is the only way in which the Government's attitude can be expressed. 
As I have already said, members on both sides of the House have clearly stated this afternoon that it is impossible for the Parliament to deal seriously and sensibly with all the legislation that still remains on the notice paper, even though the Government has decided that some Bills will remain on the notice paper. I do not want to repeat what I said this afternoon in a previous debate to the effect that some of the legislation we are now dealing with has been on the notice paper since March 1970 and we are still dealing with it. One further point that I believe would confirm the Opposition's argument that the sittings of the Parliament should be extended in the terms of the motion outlined to the House by the honourable member for Sturt relates to general business. I do not think any honourable member has taken the opportunity to refer to this matter this afternoon. However, 5 notices of general business have been given and are on the notice paper. I gave notice of one such matter on 4th March 1970. Notice of the second item was given on 20th August 1970; notice of the third item was given on 14th May 1970; notice of the fourth item was also given on 14th May 1970; and notice of the fifth item was given on 30th March 1971. All of these notices relate to matters of very great importance. They are matters of public importance, but the Opposition will not have an opportunity to debate any of them. Like questions on notice, these matters will remain unanswered when this House rises on Thursday night. 
I believe that Government supporters appreciate the fact that a very serious mistake has been made and. that there is an obligation on those who have' the responsibility for making these decisions to ensure that honourable members have an opportunity to debate intelligently, logically and under proper circumstances the business before this House. Nobody can suggest, as the honourable member for Moreton pointed out this afternoon, that this Government is acting in a proper and responsible manner in curtailing the business of this House. The plain fact is that the Government intends that this House should adjourn on Thursday night and it will rise until 17th August - a recess of nearly 4 months. It has been pointed out quite properly that what the Government accepts as its responsibility is government by the Executive, not government by the Parliament. This Government does not believe in giving an opportunity to honourable members to debate under proper circumstances legislation which is of great importance to all honourable members. 
Earlier this afternoon I had an opportunity to refer to a statement which had been circulated by the Leader of the House  (Mr Swartz).  I reiterate what I said during that debate. I do not blame the Leader of the House himself; after all, he is only an instrument. He is carrying out the instructions of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon).  who is obviously stalling for time. It is quite evident from what one is able to discern from the speeches of honourable members opposite that there is a great deal of ill feeling between members of the Australian Country Party and. the Liberal Party. There is not general agreementon these matters. I believe it ought to be noted for the sake of the record that not one member of the. Country Party rose this afternoon and protested in any way at all at the Government's action, first of all. in moving for the suspension of the II o'clock rule last week, secondly in moving to apply the guillotine today and, thirdly, in making the decision some weeks ago to adjourn this House on Thursday night, irrespective of what opportunities are given to honourable members to debate matters. . 
This is the situation which we face. I believe that it has been proved conclusively by the general contributions to the debates over the last 2 or 3 weeks, and more particularly this afternoon, that there is a need for this House to continue in session. No honourable member,' particularly the Prime Minister himself, has been able to give a valid or responsible reason why this House should adjourn on Thursday night. Why does not the Prime Minister indicate to this House that in his opinion there is no need to give honourable members the opportunity to discuss the important provisions of the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill which is to come before this House? The Prime Minister has been most vocal outside this Parliament in condemning members of trade unions and honourable members on this side of the House because, in his opinion, they have had the temerity to speak out for those whom they represent. 
No more comprehensive legislation has been introduced into this House during the current parliamentary session than the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill which we will be expected to debate probably in the dying hours of this session. A period of 2 hours is to be allowed to the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  and other honourable members to take part in the second reading debate and in the debate on. the remaining stages of the Bill. What opportunity will there be for honourable members on this side of the House to contribute to that debate? One can understand Government members not wanting to participate in this debate. They are not interested in these matters. They are more concerned about making statements outside the Parliament - irresponsible statements, such as the one made by the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  to which the honourable member for Sturt referred in his very capable address earlier this evening. He pointed out that the Minister for Shipping and Transport had had the temerity to make the statement outside this Parliament that the Australian National Line ought to be sold. The state-, ment was aimed at the people of Tasmania who depend completely upon shipping services. These are the kinds of statements that are made outside the Parliament. Surely an opportunity ought to be given to honourable members to deal with these matters in the place where they should be discussed. When the Parliament goes into recess the usual number of statements will be made by Ministers, by members of the Cabinet or of the Ministry as a whole. They . will express outside the Parliament attitudes which involve policy matters and honourable members and the Parliament generally will not have an opportunity at all to deal with these matters. 
The plain fact is that this Government has adopted a dictatorial attitude towards the proceedings of this House. All that I can say in conclusion, in supporting the motion proposed by the honourable member for Sturt and which I hope will be carried, is that the Government has adopted a dictatorial attitude. It is quite obvious from those honourable members who have spoken in this debate that they are not satisfied with the proceedings of this House and that they believe full opportunity ought to be given to honourable members to deal with the legislation which still remains on the notice paper. It can be dealt with effectively and in a responsible way only if this House continues to sit for another fortnight. The amount of legislation that still remains on the notice paper is quite obvious from an examination of the notice paper and of the statement which was circulated by the Leader of the House this afternoon. That statement has been described as an irresponsible statement. It is an irresponsible statement 
At the commencement of my speech I said that while I have been a member of this Parliament there have been occasions towards the end of parliamentary sessions when the guillotine has been used, but it has never been used in the way in which it is being used by the Government on this occasion. The Government seeks to restrict the opportunity of honourable members to debate no fewer than 17 Bills. I believe, as the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  has so often said in this House, that the rights of honourable members are being denied to them by the Government. The Government treats Opposition members with- complete- 
When the AttorneyGeneral interjected, I was about to say that the Government has been completely autocratic in its attitude. It has complete contempt for honourable members not only on this side of the House but on its own side pf the House. We say, having seen the statement which has been circulated, that the Government's attitude is a disgrace to this Parliament, to the Cabinet and to the nation. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
What has been done in the past 2 years to implement the principle of single management of service equipment and stores. 
Has the attention of the Prime Minister been drawn to statements by 2 Government members supporting the Opposition's claim that the Parliament should sit for another 2 weeks? Did the schedule of autumn sittings promulgated by the former Prime Minister show that the House would sit until at least 20th May? In view of the obvious dissatisfaction of members of the Government and the impossibility of adequately considering important legislation before the House rises tomorrow night, will the right honourable gentleman revert to his predecessor's schedule of sitting days? 
It is almost a year to the day since the Fill aircraft was the subject of debate in this House. This seems remarkable in retrospect. In the preceding years there was incessant debate on all aspects of this controversial programme. The debate may have been cooled by the measures announced in May last year by the former Minister for Defence,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser. These were embodied in the so-called Laird-Fraser minute of 14th April 1970. In essence this provided for a lengthy delay in procurement of the aircraft. According to the former Minister, the aircraft fell substantially short of Royal Australian Air Force technical requirements and would have to be submitted to an exhaustive process of testing. When those tests were completed the aircraft would be submitted to a process known as 'Inspection and Repair as Necessary', usually abbreviated to IRAN. Only when those processes had been resolved to the satisfaction of RAAF scientific and technical advisers would delivery be taken of the aircraft. 
The  former  Minister outlined a number, of options open to the Government which I do not intend to repeat in this debate. They added up to the overall conclusion that Australia could opt out of the deal if tests were not satisfactory, though at quite a substantial cost. As a consequence 24 F4 aircraft were obtained from the United States Air Force on an interim basis. The time scale put to the House by the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  was an interesting one. He said that at the earliest it would be the end of this year before Australia could make a reasonably confident estimate that the Fl 11C would meet requirements. However the IRAN programme would not begin before July 1972. This would involve a process of dis-assembly, detailed inspection and testing, and then reconditioning and refurbishing. The Minister did not put a time limit on those procedures but he said that Australia would be without strike aircraft for more than 3 years. On this basis it would have been at least the middle of 1973 before the planes were operational with the RAAF. 
Earlier this year the former Minister revised this estimate and said that the Fill could not be operational before some time in 1974. According to an article published in the technical journal 'Aircraft' in February this year, the honourable gentleman is quoted as saying that the IRAN programme would not begin before the end of 1972. This would mean that the RAAF F111C aircraft, if accepted, would not be fully operational before some time in 1 974. The honourable member for Wannon then relinquished his portfolio and was succeeded by the present Minister for Defence  (Mr Gorton).  The present status of the Fill relative to Australia is, as I understand it, as follows: We will not know until at least the end of the year whether the plane fulfils RAAF requirements. It may be rather longer before anything definite emerges. Even if the Fill comes through the extensive series of tests in a satisfactory way, it will not be operational before 1974. This was the situation when the Minister for Defence went to Washington a week or so ago. It was raised in the Press during the Minister's visit that he would be seeking to speed up the decision on the future of the Fill aircraft. 
 According to a report in the 'Age' on 21st April the RAAF was unhappy with a number of aspects of the test programme and wanted it to be accelerated. If the Minister did indeed raise this issue with the United States Government he has not made public any of the results of the discussions. The right honourable gentleman may be able to refer to these aspects in his reply this afternoon. On the evidence available there does not seem to have been any marked progress in overcoming the technical difficulties experienced by the' Fill. The plane is still plagued with serious metallurgical difficulties. These were referred to by the Chief of the Air Staff,  Sir Colin  Hannah, in a recent address at the Academy of Science. According to  Sir Colin,  metallurgical problems of the Fill remained to be overcome, and until they were overcome they could not be accepted by the RAAF. 
The most recent accident involving an Fill in the United States has raised additional technical complications. It seems that in that accident the escape system which has been accounted one of the most satisfactory features of the plane failed to work. According to Press reports, a metal door enclosing a parachute failed to blow off when the pilots ejected the bail-out capsule. The capsule fell to the ground with the crewmen trapped inside it. In previous crashes when the bail-out capsule had been activated, the system had worked correctly. At the moment the plane is grounded for the sixth time in 3 years - a much too familiar pattern. Undoubtedly, this latest crash has implications for the Australian programme. It should be possible for the Minister in his reply to give the House some assessment of this latest accident, how the RAAF technical and scientific advisers see its importance, and what impact it will have on the F111C testing programme. 
In a broader context there are other questions raised by the state of the F111C programme which should be answered. The first is the question of a replacement aircraft if the deal is scrapped at the end of this year or during 1972. Until recently, it seemed the logical replacement would be the Phantom F4E aircraft which had been obtained as an interim aircraft. The whole tone of the statement by the former Minister for Defence on the FI 1 1 to this House in May last year was that the Phantom would replace the F111C if the deal were cancelled. Now the possibility of replacement with a non-American aircraft has been raised. It would have been unthinkable at this time last year that anything but an American replacement for the F111C would have been considered. Now the former Minister for Defence has raised the possibility that a European aircraft might replace the Fill. Admittedly this option may have been implied in his statement to the House last year. But it represents such a radical change in . the Government's attitude to procurement from the United States that it was easy to overlook. 
 I quote again from 'Aircraft' magazine of February this year the Minister's assessment of alternative aircraft. The Minister is quoted as follows: 
 It has almost passed unnoticed that Australia is not restricted to the procurement of United States aircraft in the event that the  F111C  proves unsatisfactory for the RAAF. - If a better aircraft became available from another country, Australia would not be inhibited in any way from acquiring it under the terms of the buy-back arrangements negotiated with the United States last April. 
If this implication has passed largely unnoticed, it is largely the fault of the Government and of the former Minister. This raises the possibility that the multi-role combat aircraft now being jointly developed by the United Kingdom, West Germany and Italy could be considered as a replacement. It has been reported that a joint British-German mission is to come to Australia in July to put a submission to the RAAF about this plane, the Panavia 200. The Panavia is the biggest multination aerospace project at present under development in Europe. It is being developed by the Fiat Co. of Italy, the Messerschmidt Co. of West Germany and the 
British Aircraft Corporation. Little has been revealed of the Panavia's performance but on what has been disclosed it seems to be an extremely versatile aircraft priced at a relatively low cost. Certainly it is substantially cheaper than the F111C, and on the facts available its performance seems in many ways comparable. 
The honourable member for Wannon has hinted that an aircraft of this sort could be seriously evaluated and considered by the RAAF. If this is so, there is a responsibility on the part of the Government to outline how such an aircraft could be financed in terms of the buy-back arrangements with the United States. According to the figures supplied by the former Minister in May last year, it would cost $US414m to obtain a fleet of Phantoms equivalent to the 24 F111C's. This would entail .procurement of 40 F4E's, 8 reconnaissance planes and 8 tankers. To this basic cost df $US414m would have to be added the loss involved in scrapping the Fill. According to the former Minister, Australia could expect to get back under the buy-back arrangements somewhere between $US130 and $US150m. Based om a total, cost of $US300m this means a loss of the order of. $US150m to $US170m. Under this sort of buy back arrangement, and assuming that better terms could not be negotiated, the total cost of scrapping the F111C and replacing it with Phantoms would be at least $US564m. This is spending of an order that takes the breath away; it seems impossible to contemplate at the moment. Spending of similar magnitude would be involved in cancelling the F111C and waiting for the F111F which is still being developed. 
If serious consideration is to be given to a non-European aircraft such as the Panavia 200 then the Government should be able to outline to the House what planes would be needed and what they would cost, assuming the buy back arrangements could be invoked. It was possible for the former Minister to indicate to the House the cost of possible American alternatives under the . buy back arrangements. If new alternatives have emerged and are being given serious consideration, then similar estimates should be made and supplied to the Parliament. There are other important aspects of the possible replacement of the F111C by the multi-role combat aircraft which should be amplified by the Government. It raises the possibility of a much more substantial share for the Australian aircraft industry in procurement of a replacement. European aircraft manufacturers seem much more willing than American companies to permit local manufacture under licence. Certainly, it was impossible for the F111C to be built in Australia. If, however, it were to be replaced by a cheaper and relatively simpler aircraft, then the prospect of substantial local content arises.  This  is particularly significant in the light Of further retrenchments announced this week by the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation. 
These are aspects of the F111C crisis which should not be glossed over by the Government. It is likely that there will be further reassessment of the relevance of such an aircraft to Australia's defences in the years ahead. The RAAF is unlikely to have as much independence in determining its aircraft and weapons systems in the years ahead. There will be increasing pressure from the other Services for much needed items of military equipment, particularly from the Navy. This is likely to produce much closer co-operation between the three Services and much greater interdependence in the hardware they require. These trends are evident at the moment and they will intensify. If the RAAF has to tie in more closely with the Navy and the Army in its procurement policies, the F111C would prove increasingly irrelevant to our defence posture. 
In summary, the Opposition has raised this matter this afternoon to allow the Government to clarify the present status of the F111C before this sitting ends. The Minister for Defence has had recent contact with United States Secretary Laird and the higher echelons of the Pentagon. It is a great pity that the Minister will not have the opportunity before the Parliament rises tomorrow to discuss some of the important matters that are relevant to the defence situation of Australia as a result of his visit overseas. The Opposition invites him to give the House the benefit of these discussions on the F111C and update the comprehensive statement made by the former Minister in May last year. There were many features of this statement that were not acceptable to the Opposition but in its way it was a frank and enlightening document. However, many aspects of this statement have been supplanted by events. 
The present Minister has the knowledge to outline to the House the present state of the testing programme and the anticipated schedule for delivery of this belated aircraft. If other alternatives are being considered then the Minister has the additional responsibility of telling the Parliament how they are to be financed and what participation can be secured for the Australian aircraft industry. 
 I second the motion moved by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson).  In a sense, this debate is a continuation of the debate that we had in this House only yesterday. 1 think that every honourable member can recall the events and the discussion which took place in that debate. The Government has made its attitude quite clear. In relation to the States Grants (Rural Reconstruction) Bill the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  must accept full responsibility for the decision which has been forced on both Government and Opposition members. The Australian people and those who have the responsibility to express their opinion - I refer to the Press media - have clearly stated that they cannot condone the Government's attitude. 
Today when the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  was questioned on this matter he ran for cover. He knew that under the original agreement this House was to sit for another  2  weeks. Yet the Minister for Primary Industry, throughout the whole of the speech of the honourable member for Dawson, made inane interjections. I think that the honourable member for Dawson has completely stated the position. The States Grants (Rural Reconstruction) Bill affects a very large section of the Australian community. Whilst I personally have never made any claim in this Parliament to be an expert on primary industry, the plain fact is that I can appreciate, as can all honourable members, that this Bill affects a great proportion of the Australian people who, to a very large extent, depend upon the initiative and enterprise of this Government while it remains in power. Is there any honourable member opposite who denies that a crisis exists in primary industries today? Yet, as the honourable member for Dawson has stated, every member of the Australian Country Party refused to participate in the debate yesterday. They refused to stand and be counted and to express their opposition to a limitation of the opportunity of honourable members to debate this Bill. 
The Government has allotted - again the Minister for Primary Industry, one would expect, would accept some responsibility for this -  4  hours for the second reading debate and  5  minutes for the debate on the remaining stages of the States Grants (Rural Reconstruction) Bill. I venture to suggest that if every member of the Country Party wanted to speak on this extremely important measure he would not be able to speak for more than  15  minutes. I think it ought to be clearly understood by this House - no doubt it is understood by the Minister for Primary Industry - that shortly we will be debating proposals which did not originate in this Parliament only  2  or  3  days ago. As I understand the position, this question of co-operation between the Commonwealth and the States has been under discussion for  2  or  3  years. We are to consider legislation which will affect many farmers engaged in primary industry in Australia, but the Government has decided that the debate will be limited to 4 hours. I endorse the challenge issued by the honourable member for Dawson to members of the Country Party to stand up and speak on these matters. They are completely disinterested. When those whom they claim to represent in this Parliament are affected in this way, members of the Country Party make no protest. The Minister for Primary Industry is the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party. Surely one would expect that he would be able to endorse the opinions that have been expressed by members of his own Party on other occasions. It is not good enough for members of the Country Party merely to state their opinions outside the House. We want to hear them speak up either for or against this Bill in this Parliament. 
This is an extremely important piece of legislation. The honourable member for Dawson has moved for the suspension of Standing Orders to enable the time limit on this debate to be removed, that is, that the guillotine which the Government has predetermined should apply no longer in relation to this Bill. I believe that all honourable members, and particularly honourable members on this side of the House, are agreed on the importance of the legislation. For this reason one would expect that those who sit on the Country Party benches, in particular, would be prepared to support this motion to ensure that there is reasonable and adequate time for honourable members to debate the legislation. 
asked the Minister for the Navy, upon notice: 
Has the study on the requirement for naval dockyards been completed? 
If so, when will the report be made public? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Supply, upon notice: 
What (a) major purchases of equipment and (b) contractual arrangements for the performance of services for each of the Service Departments have been negotiated by the Commonwealth Contract Board in each of the past 5 years. 
What (a) major purchases and (b) contractual arrangements for the performance of services have been negotiated by the Board for other Commonwealth departments in each of the past 5 years. 
What major items of surplus Commonwealth property have been disposed of by the Board in each of the past S years. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of the Mordialloc Parkdale Branch of the Combined Pensioners Association respectfully showeth: 
That pensioners who live in houses they own are in a less advantaged position than pensioners who receive Commonwealth financial assistance for rented premises, because of maintenance and other expenses pensioners who own properties have to face. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Government will either grant municipal councils a subsidy for rebate of rates to pensioners or grant an allowance of $78.00 fiat rate per annum for the payment of municipal and water rates to pensioners who live in houses they own. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I ask a question of the Minister for Defence. I refer the right honourable gentleman to his statement in the House yesterday that he did not discuss the Fill aircraft with the United States Government during his visit to Washington. Before he left was he given a. briefing by the Royal Australian Air Force on the state of the Fill project in the expectation that he would raise it with the United States defence officials? Is a top level delegation to visit the United States in the next few days to discuss the Fill? If so, is this delegation to do the job which the Minister neglected to do? 
I oppose the motion for the suspension of standing order 399. It is perfectly obvious to honourable members that the Government's intention is to continue with the treatment it has given to honourable members during the last 3 days. Initially it applied the guillotine and in a few moments the Parliament will be presented with a document by the Leader of the House  (Mr Swartz)  to amend the present guillotine times. Even less time will be available for honourable members to debate legislation. However, that aspect can be dealt with when the Minister submits that proposal. The Government is now moving to deny to honourable members a right that they have always enjoyed under the Standing Orders, namely, the right to move for the suspension of Standing Orders. Clearly the Government is determined that the Opposition will have no say in the way that legislation is presented and the times that will be allocated for debate on that legislation. Indeed, Opposition members will have no opportunity to express their disapproval while legislation is being debated. 
In the whole of my experience in this Parliament, which extends back to 1954, I cannot remember a precedent for this motion. If I am wrong, no doubt the Leader of the House will be able to produce evidence to show that I am wrong. To restate the position, I point out that the Government is seeking to do 2 things: Firstly, to limit further the time for debate and, secondly, to prevent Opposition members from moving for the suspension of Standing Orders. I am sure that it cannot be argued successfully that at any time during yesterday's proceedings Opposition members moved for the suspension of Standing Orders in an irresponsible manner. On every occasion that Opposition members sought the suspension of Standing Orders it was to voice their dissatisfaction with the Government's handling of the business of the Parliament. An examination of Press reports will substantiate my claim. I do not think that there is a newspaper in Australia which would condone the Government's activities, particularly the activities of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  in relation to what has been happening here. 
At question time today the Prime Minister adopted an air of complete superiority. What happened yesterday was all right, so far as the Prime Minister was concerned. He was home in bed. At the same time the Minister for Defence  (Mr Gorton)  was absent from the Parliament. Opposition members were obliged to debate legislation until 6.30 a.m. today. This is a responsibility that should be accepted by all members. I make it clear to the Government that Opposition members are determined to express their opinions on all matters. We have not altered our position and we seek an extension of the sittings by a further 2 weeks. It is clear that there will be a repetition of what happened yesterday when the Parliament sat through the early hours of the morning until 6.30 a.m. Noone could seriously suggest that this is the way a responsible Parliament should act in a so-called democratic institution. Yet the Leader of the House is not entirely responsible for this. I believe the person to whom one should point as being responsible for this is the Prime Minister. As I said a few moments ago he indicated quite clearly, as he did during question time yesterday, that he has no intention of extending the sittings of the Parliament. That is a dictatorial attitude. 
All that I want to say in conclusion in relation to this matter is that there has been no precedent for a move such as this initiated by the Leader of the House. If there has been a precedent I would ask the Minister to give some indication of when a resolution of this nature was last moved in this Parliament. This motion restricts the rights and opportunities of honourable members on this side of the House. It is contrary to the privileges that one would expect to be accorded to all honourable members in this Parliament but it is particularly aimed at members of the Opposition. This is a further reason why this Government should be censured. It deserves to be censured for its attitude in handling the business and for condoning the cessation of this session some time today. 
I hesitated to rise, because I was expecting that the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  would be leading in the debate at this stage. After all, this amendment is aimed at the Prime Minister; it is not against the Government. The amendment states: 
That the Prime Minister tacks the confidence of the House in that he has broken undertakings to keep the public informed of what the Government is doing and has been responsible for suppressing debate in the House on what the Government is doing. 
This is a motion of no confidence in the Prime Minister, not in the Government, yet the Prime Minister hesitates to join in the debate. Surely he will stand up and defend himself in this debate and not merely sit back and listen to the case made out so convincingly by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  before the luncheon adjournment who quoted chapter and verse not only of the opinions expressed in this Parliament over the last 2 or 3 days but also of the opinions that have been expressed so convincingly by the Press of this country. Surely the Prime Minister is now prepared to stand up and answer these charges. 
What must the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  and the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  be thinking about the Prime Minister's attitude in this respect? He refused to acknowledge their arguments in this Parliament in support of the Opposition's contention that the Parliament ought to continue for a further 2 weeks. The Prime Minister dismissed their arguments in the callous way that he dismissed the honourable member for Moreton from the Ministry. What about the Minister for Defence  (Mr Gorton)?  Surely he must regret that he made his decision of some weeks ago. He has returned to this country and has found that in the short period of only a few weeks the Prime Minister has led the Parliament into the situation we are now facing. I know that the Government is not prepared to give the honourable member for Bradfield and the honourable member for Moreton an opportunity to speak in this debate, although it must be said - and I think one can say it with great respect - that the honourable member for Moreton has at least had the courage to say in this Parliament what he thinks about the Prime  umm-  R-899 
Minister. There are a great many other honourable members on that side of the House who would like to be in the same position. 
The Leader of the Opposition had to move this motion today because the Government was not satisfied with dishonouring a promise or agreement that was made by the Leader of the House some weeks ago- indeed it was made at the beginning of the session, before the present Prime Minister occupied that position. I want to inform honourable members that ever since 1 have had the responsibility of working on these matters with leaders of the Government in the House, at the commencement of a session, together with the Leader of the Opposition, I have always been given a detailed programme of the session. I can say that, while the former Leader of the House generally indicated that the programme was subject to alteration, never in my experience has the time forecast been reduced. Certainly in some cases the Parliament has sat for longer than the timetable provided by the Leader of the House initially indicated. The credibility of the Prime Minister has to be questioned on this issue, because he denied in this House yesterday, when, asked questions by the Leader of the Opposition and by me, that he had any knowledge that there had been a previous agreement and that a previous timetable had been issued that would have taken this Parliament up to 20th May. He sits back in his seat now, having caused all this chaos, . which could have been avoided. What must honourable members on his own side of the House think of him in these circumstances? 
Despite the problems that we had yesterday, the guillotine was applied as a result of a statement issued by the Leader of the House  (Mr Swartz),  who was of course obviously acting on the instructions of the Prime Minister. In opposing the guillotine at that stage, I believe members on this side of the House acted quite properly. Because of the problems that the Government experienced last night as a result of its attitude in curtailing the debate, the Government has applied another guillotine this morning, and the Leader of the Opposition has referred to it. What he said ought to be restated to indicate the complete and utter contempt which the Prime Minister has not only for members on his own side but indeed for the Parliament as a whole. For example, let me take the Wool Industry Bill. Under the guillotine set out in the statement given to the House yesterday by the Leader of the House, 2 hours 32 minutes was to be devoted to this Bill; under the new arrangement, that time will be reduced to 1 hour 30 minutes. For the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill and the 4 other associated compensation measures, under the old agreement the time allowed was 2 hours 26 minutes; it is now 1 hour 30 minutes, approximately half the time. How can honourable members on this side of the House be expected to debate matters of such great importance, involving all of the industrial problems that the Government has referred to in recent weeks, in the 1 hour 30 minutes that will be available? Next, . I come to the Income Tax Assessment Bill, the time for which has been reduced from 1 hour 40 minutes to 1 hour. The time for the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Bill (No. 2) and the Superannuation Bill was previously 3 hours and '6 minutes; it has now been reduced to 1 hour, one-third of the time previously available. 
It is obvious that, as a result of what has happened in the House this morning, it will not be possible for the Government even to adhere to the new times. Surely the Prime Minister ought to be able to see that his attitude is opposed by honourable members on his own side of. the House as well as by honourable members on this side. It is certainly also opposed by the thinking people outside the Parliament, who will utterly reject the contemptuous attitude of the Government on this issue. I want to say that the Government has reduced the legislative processes of this Parliament to a complete shambles; precedents have been established that will remain a shameful blot on the legislative record of this Parliament. It can fairly be said that this has been the blackest week ever in the history of the Australian Parliament. The framework for this session was clearly established late last year. As I have clearly indicated, a programme was circulated to all members pointing out that the House would sit at least until 20th May. It was a deliberate choice of the Government to cut back the sitting by 2 weeks, at the same time flooding parlia mentary channels with important new Bills. 
Notice of the motion to guillotine the Bills was given on Tuesday. The times set out in the motion indicate that we have at least another 13 hours of debate on those Bills. Three other Bills were introduced into this House early this morning. These are important measures which warrant  careful consideration. Let me deal with one of them - the States Grants Bill 1971. One can excuse the Victorian members of the Australian Country Party because I do not think that they ever read anything that comes into this House unless it suits them; but when one looks at the States Grants Bill 1971 I think one should ask Government supporters from Victoria: What is their attitude to the Government's decision to reduce the amount of the grant to Victoria by the amount of payroll tax which Victoria will not pay to the Commonwealth Government? 
Pending a High Court judgment. This legislation probably will be debated in the early hours of tomorrow morning, and I doubt very. much whether any honourable member for Victoria will rise in his place and refer to the injustice which is being meted out to his State in this regard. The Prime Minister sits back quite complacently, but there is no complacency in his Party: His ' Party knows that he has failed dismally on this question of when the House should rise. 
If he had been man enough, he would have admitted 3 days ago that it would be impossible for this House to deal with all of the legislation it has before it effectively and in the way in which the Australian people expect the legislation to be considered. But he ignores all of the criticisms that have been levelled at him not only by honourable members in this Parliament but also, as I have already indicated to the House, by those who are in a position to judge this Government. In this instance it is a criticism not so much of the Government, but of the Prime Minister. As the Leader of the Opposition pointed out this morning, even those newspapers which, one would concede, played a major part in changing the Prime Ministership of this country have criticised the attitude and action of the Prime Minister on this issue. 
No-one would suggest that the Leader of the Opposition, who has moved this amendment, did not make out a case that ought to be supported not only by members of this House but by the whole Parliament. As I have already indicated, the amendment is aimed at the Prime Minister himself, but he will not speak in the debate. I can anticipate what will happen: When I have resumed my seat after my time has expired, the Leader of the House, no doubt, will reply and the gag will be applied again. It would be an extremely interesting mathematical exercise to see how often the gag has been applied in this House in the last week and, unfortunately, because I regret to have to say it, how often it has been applied by the new Leader of the House and by his first assistant, the  Deputy  Whip of the Liberal Party. If one rooks at the records one will see immediately that the gag has been applied by both of those honourable gentlemen probably on many more occasions than it was applied by the previous Leader of the House who, of course, was quite notorious for applying the gag. 
We on this side of the House will expect the Prime Minister to stand up and give a full explanation of this matter not only to the Parliament but also to the nation. He must have read the signs that the people are dissatisfied about this House concluding its business tonight - probably in the very early hours of tomorrow morning. We debated legislation in this chamber until 6.30 this morning while, as has been pointed out, the Prime Minister was relaxing at home.. Honourable members were expected to debate legislation until after 6 o'clock this morning. The same thing will happen tomorrow morning. It is clearly impossible for this House, by tomorrow morning, to deal effectively with the legislation that remains on the notice paper. We believe that the amendment which has been moved expresses the complete disapproval, not only of honourable members in this House but also of the nation, of the actions of the Prime Minister, of his complete disregard for the forms of this House and for the rights of members of this Parliament and, as I have already indicated, of the completely contemptuous attitude which he has adopted towards the legislation that is on the notice paper. 
asked the Minister repre  senting the Minister for Air, upon notice: 
How many Aborigines are in the Air Force. 
How many are (a) officers and (b) noncommissioned officers. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. Was he correctly reported as threatening the former Minister for Defence: 'If you won't cut the defence vote I'll get someone who will'? Did the Brisbane 'Telegraph' report on 3rd June that consideration would soon be given to reducing the size of the Army? Did the 'Sydney Morning Herald* report on 30th July that Australian troops would be out of Vietnam by Christmas and did the Melbourne 'Sun' report on 4th August that national service would be cut by 6 months? Can he say whether these disclosures were inspired as part of a systematic campaign to exact acceptance of a cut in the defence vote which the former Minister regarded as contrary to the national interest? If so, will he say from which members of his Ministry the leaks originated and what action has been taken against them? 
1 address a further question to the Prime Minister. Does he recall bis predecessor announcing in ' reply to my question on 28th August 1968 that negotiations on Australian participation in overseas shipping were to be initiated by the former Minister for Trade and Industry? Does he recall that this announcement was anticipated by  Mr Alan  Reid in the Daily Telegraph' of the same date7 Can he say from which Minister  Mr Reid  received exhaustive details of the decision on this matter' taken by Cabinet only a'- day earlier? Does be feel that  Mr Reid's  debt for this and other favours has now been paid in full? 
I ask the Prime Minister a question. When did he first become aware of the contents of the article written by the right honourable member for Higgins for the 'Sunday Australian' of 8th August? How soon did he come to the conclusion that the article breached the basic principles of Cabinet solidarity and unity? Is it a fact that he did not get in touch with his colleague, who was still his deputy, until the following Thursday? Why did he take so long to act in defence of the principle of Cabinet solidarity and unity? 
i ask a question of the Prime Minister. Can he recollect any statement by either the first Minister tor Defence, whom he appointed, or the first Minister for Foreign Affairs, whom he appointed, which did not represent the policy of his Government? If he can recollect any such statement, will he identify it? 
Had the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  been speak ing. to a Budget debate one could have understood the tenor of his speech, but the Prime Minister completely ignored the motion moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  Therefore, one should take the opportunity to repeal the motion to remind the Prime Minister and honourable members on the Government side of the House what it involves. The motion was in these terms: 
That, in the opinion of this House, the Prime Minister's methods and motives in removing his Ministers and his subservience to outside influence have destroyed trust in his Government at home and abroad. 
The Prime Minister made no attempt to answer the charge that he had removed from office a former Prime Minister and former Minister for Defence, as well as a former Minister for Foreign Affairs. The Prime Minister made no attempt to justify his actions. 
It should be remembered that the former Prime Minister, who was also the former Minister for Defence - I refer to the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  - had a mandate from the people to govern this country. The present Prime Minister has no such mandate. Therefore, it is understandable that he ignored completely the charges that had been made by the Leader of the Opposition. 
The Government has not stumbled into a constitutional crisis on the floor of the House. All the difficulties which now confront it are the product of a  3-month  recess, one of the longest in the history of the Australian Parliament. The Government cannot claim to have had more than its legitimate share of the plain bad luck which often bedevils all political parties. Its troubles are not even in the strictest sense party troubles; that is, they do not flow from internal turmoil within either the Liberal Party or the Country Party. The present Government crisis has been produced by one simple fact - the disintegration of Cabinet government in this country. Quite obviously the traditional Westminster pattern of Cabinet government with all the conventions that have been built into the system by centuries of practice is not functioning. There are  2  reasons for this tragic disintegration of a Cabinet which under  Sir Robert  Menzies was monolithic. The first is that senior members of the Cabinet have not trusted each other and have worked actively to destroy each other. The second is that key portfolios in the Cabinet have been dealt round in the' past  5  months like a series of poker hands, thereby destroying all sense of stability and continuity of policy. 
The convulsions in the Cabinet in the past few weeks have been transmitted through the rest of the Ministry, through both Government parties, through the Public Service and now through the electorate. This bitter internal fighting within the Cabinet has exacted a bitter toll of a Government which is clearly at the end of its human resources. A Cabinet which is incapable of operating as a confederation of equals hammering out consensus policies is incapable of governing. The motion for the suspension of Standing Orders, which was accepted by the Prime Minister, is intended to put these matters before the House for its deliberation and its decision. 
There have been various labels put on the operation of the Federal Cabinet in the past few months. The most apt and certainly the most colorful of them is the description by the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Bury),  the former Minister for Foreign Affairs, who likened Cabinet to a leaking sieve. It is not possible to state exactly when this process of decay began within this Cabinet. Certainly the seeds had been sown by the end of  1967.  In his early months as Prime Minister the present right honourable member for Higgins,  Mr Gorton,  seemed to arrest this drift and capture the loyalty of his Cabinet. However as his term proceeded the process of erosion continued and gradually mounted. Towards the end of his tenure the leaks had accumulated into a deluge which has persisted in the  5  months the present Prime Minister has been in office. 
There is little point in going through the leaks which the right honourable member for Higgins has documented, and, it seems, will continue to document since his elevation from the floor of this House to the Press Gallery. The right honourable gentleman and former Prime Minister has made it perfectly plain that he was betrayed by members of his Cabinet. Ironically this had the effect of procuring his own dismissal from Cabinet with the rather grim satisfaction of making his point in the strongest possible terms. The pity of the right honourable gentleman's dismissal is that he was doing a reasonable job as Minister for Defence, a portfolio ideally suited to his experience and administrative capacity. Certainly during his brief time at Russell Hill there was none of the rancour and turbulence between the defence administration and the Services which marred the closing months of the term of the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser) as Defence Minister. 
The right honourable member for Higgins' handling of the Kerr Committee's report will benefit many thousands of servicemen, although it seems important recommendations have also been shelved, lt has even been reported that the Prime Minister privately paid tribute to the way the right honourable member for Higgins was shaping in defence. But because of a political feud unparalleled in Australian political history, the right honourable member for Higgins had to go despite his acknowledged competence. This means there have been three Ministers for Defence within 5 months. It is no reflection on the present Minister to say that this unjustified reshuffling puts impossible demands on the whole defence structure. A process of reconstruction and reform of the defence structure was initiated 3 years ago by  Sir Allen  Fairhall who was then Minister in tandem with  Sir Henry  Bland who was then permanent head of the Department. This was continued by the honourable member for Wannon and presumably the member for Higgins when they occupied the defence office. Now this major reorganisation is to proceed under the new Minister. 
The other important unfinished business in this Department is the reforms flowing from the recommendations of the Kerr Committee. This Committee into service pay and conditions was appointed by the honourable member for Wannon as Defence Minister. Some of the recommendations of the Committee's interim report were accepted by the right honourable member for Higgins and are contained in the Budget. Now this whole process of improving pay and conditions has been thrown into jeopardy by the appointment of a new Minister. How can there be any stability and sense of security in such an important and sensitive area as the armed Services when this sort of ministerial hurly-burly is in train? The Kerr Committee was initiated by one Minister who should have been permitted to oversee it and supervise the introduction of its recommended reforms. At the very least his successor should have been given full scope to do this important job. Instead a third Minister comes fresh to this sensitive area at a most crucial time. Who is to say that there will not be a fourth within a couple of months? The new Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  resigned once before after a difference with his then Prime Minister. There is no gainsaying that he will not do it again. The effect of these rapid changes must be to confuse the processes of reform in the defence administration and in the pay and conditions of servicemen. It will do nothing to stop the haemorrhage of officers and skilled men from the armed Services. 
Another vital issue of policy affected by this constant chopping and changing is the timing of Australian withdrawal from Vietnam. This has been one of the most virulent issues in the protracted controversy about leaks from Cabinet. It was revealed in a 'Sydney Morning Herald' story on 30th July and never denied that the remaining two battalions would be out by Christmas. This brought forward by 4 months the expected and accepted date for liquidation of the Australian commitment. This was a blatant and quite deliberate leak; the motivation can only be guessed at. However it is common knowledge that the Prime Minister was holding this decision up his sleeve for a big grandstanding performance in this Parliament. He thought that withdrawal from Vietnam by Christmas would be a possible vote-winner. It points up the cynical calibre of this Government that it could win votes on committing troops to Vietnam and then hope to win votes by withdrawing them. In any case the Prime Minister had the ground sliced neatly from under his feet by the early release of what he assumed was a tightly kept Cabinet secret. The personal frustration this leak seems to have produced in the Prime Minister may well have hastened his aspirations to do away with his Defence Minister. 
The Prime Minister already felt that the right honourable member for Higgins had pre-empted his ground by early release of the Kerr Committee report. There had also been persistent reports that the term of national service would be cut back from 2 years to 18 months. Undoubtedly these reports are true; undoubtedly they were leaked. This built in the Prime Minister's mind the belief that the right honourable member for Higgins was white-anting him and precipitated the remarkable events of last week. It is impossible not to feel sorry for the former Prime Minister and Minister for Defence for his slip of the pen. The pretext on which his dismissal was based was an extremely flimsy one. It took the Prime Minister 5 days of constant telephoning to drum up the appropriate editorial climate for his action. Despite simulated outrage of. much of the Press and members of the Liberal Party, it is common knowledge that as late as Wednesday afternoon, the Prime Minister still had not summoned the fortitude to sack the Minister for Defence. It was a case of letting 'I dare not wait upon I would'. He desperately wanted to get rid of the Minister for Defence but he did not think enough of his own Party would back him. He was scared the backlash would be too strong. It was not until he got back to the familiar atmosphere of Sydney among his influential cronies that his resolve stiffened sufficiently for him to do the deed. 
This whole course of events is symptomatic of the malaise in the Liberal Party - the lack of trust which exists in the Cabinet to the point of blind hatred. It is proof also of the outside influences which dominate this Prime Minister, that act on him like a drug. Until he gets the nod from his great and powerful friends, the Prime Minister is incapable of action. 
When he wants support he cannot even go to his own colleagues, to his own Party, he has to go to outsiders. 
I have tried to trace through something of the impact of this lack of trust and the pervading presence of outside influence on Cabinet on one important sector of public policy, that is the defence of this country and the welfare of members of the forces. The same malise has afflicted the conduct of foreign affairs. The former Minister for Foreign Affairs, the member for Wentworth is just as tragic a victim of this lack of trust in the Cabinet as the right honourable member for Higgins. In some ways the member for Wentworth has b:en treated even more venemously. During the recess the member for Wentworth came under severe criticism for his handling of East Pakistan relief and China policy. This criticism may have been justified or not; the point is that the member for Wentworth had no chance of defending himself. If he had remained as Minister he would have been questioned by the Opposition in this House. This would, have allowed him to defend his actions. Alternatively he could have emulated the right honourable member for Higgins and defended himself in the Press. He decided not to do this. 
This left him a defenceless victim of the indiscriminate wrath of the Prime Minister. Furthermore his dismissal was prematurely leaked presumably by one of his former colleagues in Cabinet. It has been reported that this leak took the form of an anonymous letter to a radio programme. This is the sort of example of lack of trust which is destroying the Cabinet, destroying the Government and destroying the once great Liberal Party. 
The effect on the conduct of public policy has been immeasurable. I have listed the impact on defence and foreign affairs. Other important portfolios have been severely damaged by this Cabinet disintegration. The portfolios of AttorneyGeneral, Health and Education and Science have each had three Ministers in 5 months. 
by leave - The statement of the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  outlines pay increases for other ranks of the armed forces. It supplements the preliminary statement of the Kerr Committee which was released by the Minister's predecessor on 11th June. The estimates contained in that statement have been revised because of higher pay rates in relevant sections of the Public Service. In effect, what the Minister has done is to revise and clarify certain aspects of the initial report of the Kerr Committee in the light of the supplementary report made by the Committee. This had meant an increase in the cost of the changes recommended by the Kerr Committee and adopted by the Government. 
The whole area of pay increases for the Services is an immeasurably complex one, and I have not had the time to study the comparative pay rates in detail. What is important is that the Government has accepted the recommendation and has introduced them promptly. This is commendable because the Government had to be goaded into appointing the Kerr Committee. It took a considerable amount of pressure from sections of this Parliament to force the Government's hand. Belatedly, the Government realised the extent of Service unrest over pay and conditions and has acted to improve them and remove anomalies. At first sight, the reforms in the pay structures seem to be good ones. Undoubtedly, there will be anomalies with the introduction of these broad pay groupings. However, the great majority of other ranks will benefit. It is also gratifying that recognition has been given to simplifying the complex and unwieldy structure of allowances for all 3 Services. I hope that further substantial reforms will be made in this structure. It is encouraging that the Kerr Committee is to proceed with an intensive work value study of Service jobs. 
There has been some confusion on this point which has been removed by the Minister. 
This work value study is immensely important for the whole status and remuneration of Australian servicemen and women. I have seen some of the submissions presented to the Kerr Committee on this matter and the mass of evidence available will enable the Committee to assess for the first time the value of Service jobs relative to citizen employment. It is just and appropriate that the increased pay rates recommended by the Kerr Committee will be extended to members of the civilian forces. The Kerr Committee has made an encouraging start to the massive task it has undertaken. It is to be hoped that the Committee's recommendations will be brought quickly before the Government and transmitted to the thousands of servicemen and women who will benefit by better pay and conditions. These brief comments are a response to a quick reading of. the Minister's statement. The Opposition welcomes these reforms and hopes that the House will be able to debate them in greater detail later in the session. 
May 1 also say in conclusion that I join with the Minister in congratulating the Kerr Committee. The Minister may recall my initial objection, if I may use that term, to the appointment of a committee because I thought it would have been better had a select committee of the Parliament been appointed. I point out, however, that I did not direct my objection to the Kerr Committee specifically. The Committee which was appointed under the chairmanship of  Mr Justice  Kerr acted promptly, I think efficiently, and certainly very comprehensively in relation to the matters it was asked to investigate. Therefore, I join with the Minister in expressing on behalf of the Opposition our appreciation to the Committee of the very valuable contribution it made towards preventing what, if it had been allowed to continue, would have amounted to continued unrest in relation to pay and conditions in the 3 Services. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
What defence purchases have been negotiated by the Chief Purchasing Officer of his Depart- . ment in (a) London and (b) Washington in each of the past 5 years. - 
The former Minister for Defence  (Mr Gorton)  supplied the following answer: 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
What purchases of defence equipment have been made from (a) France, (b) Italy and (c) Sweden in each of the past 5 years. 
The former Minister for Defence  (Mr Gorton)  supplied the following answer: 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
What offset orders have been obtained to the procurement of additional Oberon class submarines from the United Kingdom? 
What offset orders have been obtained to the procurement of (a) twelve medium lift helicopters, (b) forty-two utility helicopters and (c) eleven helicopter gunships? 
The former Minister for Defence  (Mr Gorton)  supplied the following answer: 
Oberon class submarines. Reciprocal purchasing arrangements have been discussed with the United Kingdom Ministry of Defence (Navy) and prospective tenderers. Tenders are currently under consideration by the Department of Supply and offset orders will be negotiated as appropriate. 
(a) Twelve medium lift helicopters. The placement of a firm order for these helicopters has been deferred pending further consideration. Until a decision has been reached on this matter negotiations for offset orders cannot be concluded. 
The value of offset orders to date placed- with 
Australian industry by the Boeing Company cover: 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
What Australian firms have been assisted to study the possibility of producing transportable radio relay terminals for ' the Army as indicated on page 2 of the Defence Report 1970; 
Have contracts been awarded to any of these firms for production of these items? 
The former Minister for Defence  (Mr Gorton)  supplied the following answer: 
On 3rd March 1970, contracts totalling $29,500 were awarded to the following firms to undertake feasibility studies for the local production of AN/ MRC 127 transportable radio relay terminals for the Department of the Army. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Has a contract been placed for the design and supply of the Submarine Command Team Trainer? 
If so, what is the contracting firm and what are its overseas associates? 
What is involved in the contract and what will it cost? 
The former Minister for Defence  (Mr Gorton)  supplied the following answer: 
Yes. A contract for the design and supply of the Submarine Command Team Trainer was placed on 8th February 1971. 
Ferranti U.K. is the prime contractor; EMI (Electronics) Salisbury South Australia is a major sub-contractor. 
The contract involves the design, manufacture installation in Australia and commissioning of the equipment. It will simulate the control area of a submarine and will provide facilities to train submarine crews. A similar trainer, built by Ferranti for the Royal Navy, is in operation. The value of the contract is $2,484,000. The value of the work that will be done by EMI (Electronics) in Australia is $699,000. 
asked  the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Has the preparatory work for the study of Service communications been completed? 
If so, has work begun on the substantive study and, if it has, when will it be completed? 
The former Minister for Defence  (Mr Gorton)  supplied the following answer: 
Yes. 
The present substantive study is proceeding. In view of its size and complexity, and the necessity to predict long term needs, the study may require twelve to eighteen months to complete. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Who is making the study of rotary and fixed-wing piston-engined flying training for the three Services? 
When will the report be completed? 
Will the report be made public? 
The former Minister for Defence  (Mr Gorton)  supplied the following answer: 
The study is being carried out by a working party chaired by Defence and with representatives from each Service. 
Reports on both aspects of the study are close to completion for consideration at a higher level in the Defence Department. 
No. 
asked the Minister for 
Defence, upon notice: 
Who is making the long-term study of naval and air power referred to on page 11 of the Defence Report 1970? 
When will the report be completed. 
The former Minister for Defence  (Mr Gorton)  supplied the following answer: 
The Study is being conducted under the overall control of the Department of Defence. A Study Group to direct the work has been set up comprising representatives of Defence Department, the three Service departments and the Department of Supply. 
This is a major study involving complex strategic, operational and technological factors and will extend over a considerable period. 
asked the Minister for 
Defence, upon notice: 
Has ammunition been purchased for the Australian Services from manufacturers in Singapore? 
If so, what ammunition was purchased, and why was it not purchased from Australian sources? 
The former Minister for Defence  (Mr Gorton)  supplied the following answer: 
Yes. 
The ammunition purchased was cartridge 5.56mm. It was not procured from Australian sources because the relatively small requirement to date has not justified expenditure on the installation of local capacity. The Singapore source was investigated, and selected after the calling of competitive overseas tenders. In addition, procurement from Singapore has been a, useful reciprocal purchase, in view of the defence orders placed on Australia by that country. 
asked the Minister for 
Defence, upon notice: 
What items of Australian defence procurement have been made available for New Zealand bidding since the Defence Supply Co-operation Arrangement was negotiated with New Zealand. 
What items of New Zealand defence procurement have been made available for Australian bidding since the agreement was negotiated? 
What progress has been made since the agreement was negotiated in the co-ordination between Australia and New Zealand of (a) planning, (b) standardization of equipment, (c) training and (d) operational procedures? 
The former Minister for Defence  (Mr Gorton)  supplied the following answer: 
A wide range of items required by the Australian Services have been made available for New Zealand bidding. Tender invitations have been in line with New Zealand's production capability and have included such items as machinery and components, footwear, textiles, clothing, boats, crockery and ration packs. 
Tenders for New Zealand defence requirements are issued by New Zealand authorities on commercial basis direct to Australian firms and details of tenders issued prior to November 1970 are not available. It is known, however, that some significant New Zealand defence purchases have been made locally as a result of Australian tendering, e.g. Land Rover vehicles and automatic signal switching equipment. In November 1970, arrangements were made for the Australian Trade Commissioner in New Zealand to forward copies of -tender documents for defence requirements to the Department of Trade and Industry. Since then tender documents for polyester material have been received. 
(a) In the field of defence production Australia is giving New Zealand every assistance to develop its own capacity for self-reliance. Mutual co-operation in this area is being actively investigated. 
Standardization of defence equipment is a continuing process. It had been proceeding effectively for a considerable period prior to the conclusion of the Defence Supply Co-operation Arrangement and will be progressively developed in the future. Many items are in common use now, such as the 7.62mm rifle and ammunition and C1 30 Hercules and P3B Orion Aircraft. 
There, are longstanding arrangements under which the Australian Services assist in the training of New Zealand Service personnel, including officer training at the RAN College, Jervis Bay, The Royal Military College, Duntroon and the Officer Cadet School, 
Portsea. New Zealand students attend the Joint Services Wing of the Australian Services Staff College, the  Army and Air Force Staff Colleges and other regular short term courses. In 1970, 74 New Zealanders attended training courses in Australia. The number of personnel by service were as follows: 
asked, the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Who are the members of the Committee making the study of the development of the Armed Forces of the Territory of Papua New Guinea? 
When will the report be completed? 
Will the report be made public? 
The former Minister for Defence  (Mr Gorton)  supplied the following answer: 
The study is being undertaken by representatives of the Department of Defence; Foreign Affairs; External Territories; Navy, Army and Air at the direction of the Defence Committee. 
A number of reports has already been submitted. Study of the matter is proceeding on a continuing basis. 
No, but the Parliament will be kept informed on developments affecting forces in Papua New Guinea. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth - Whereas - 
the Commonwealth Parliament has acted to remove some inadequacies in the Australian Education system. 
a major inadequacy at present in Australian education is the lack of equal education opportunity for all. 
200,000 students from Universities, Colleges of Advanced Education and other Tertiary Institutions, and their parents suffer severe penalty from inadequacies in the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936-1968. 
Australia cannot afford to hinder the education of these 200,000 Australians. 
Your petitioners request that your honourable House make legal provision for - 
The allowance of personal education expenses as a deduction from income for tax purposes. 
Removal of the present age limit in respect of the deduction for education expenses and the maintenance allowance for students. 
Increase in . the amount of deduction allowable for tertiary education expenses. 
Exemption of non-bonded scholarships, for part-time students from income tax. 
Increase in the maintenance allowance for students. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I ask a question supplementary to the one which was directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In view of the Minister's obvious interest and the interest of other members in this chamber, will he use his good offices with the United States Government to enable the Pentagon papers to be tabled in this Parliament, par ticularly that portion which is relevant to the written request from the South Vietnamese Government. 
There is little novelty in the 2 announcements made tonight by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon).  The end of the Vietnam task force commitment and the cut in national service have been amply and capably leaked through the Cabinet sieve in recent weeks. These are part of a grab-bag of policies which the Prime Minister seems to have improvised during the recess with an eye to an early election. They have been hastily assembled without any regard to political consistency or morality. In 1966 the Government campaigned and won an election on committing troops to the Vietnam war. It expects to win votes 5 years later by withdrawing these troops. The Prime Minister may feel he is doing a  'President  Nixon' by getting Australia out of Vietnam. He ignores the fact that  President  Nixon did not get America into Vietnam and the change of regime in the United States has given validity to the about face 

 President Nixon has achieved in America's foreign policy. The present Prime Minister lacks this justification; his statements over the past 5 years paint him as the most fervently committed of the Liberal-Country Party hawks. Now he clearly thinks that by getting the task force out before Christmas he will perform a mystical act which will wash the blood from the chariot wheels of his Government. History will expose the hypocrisy of his action. 1 do not want to spend any time tonight looking at the record of the Government and how blatantly it has used Vietnam for its own narrow political ends. One could quote for days from the statements of the Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Higgins $Mr Gorton), the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Bury)  and other members of the Government. The whole course of the commitment was put in excellent capsule form by Brigadier Ted Serong who lead the first Australian Army training team to Vietnam. Brigadier Serong told the National Press Club on 4th February this year that Australian troops could now be withdrawn in safety from Vietnam. He said: 
Australia went to South Vietnam as a political gesture, lt has stayed in the country as a political gesture and it will withdraw at a rate which is also a political gesture. 
Tonight the Prime Minister has announced the final political gesture. It is not a gesture to the United States or the South Vietnamese Government. It is a political gesture to the Australian people. The Prime Minister has sought to wring a few drops of political capital by ending the infamy of this commitment. 
It does not matter in what language the present political, military and economic picture in South Vietnam is dressed. The objectives of military victory which lured the United States of America and Australia into the war have not been achieved. Undoubtedly the Vietcong has been weakened in South Vietnam but its infrastructure has not been rooted out. On even the most conservative estimates there are still at least 62,000 active Vietcong cadres in South Vietnam. The Vietcong is still strong enough to collect taxes, recruit troops, and cut practically any road in the country, at least temporarily. Its level of activity has been curtailed but it retains its ability to strike sudden and devastating blows. Nor is there any sign that the military strength of North Vietnam has been impaired by years of protracted warfare. This was demonstrated in the operations in Laos earlier this year when main force North Vietnamese units severely mauled a South Vietnamese expeditionary force backed by United States firepower. 
Beyond Vietnam the Communists control large areas of Cambodia and Laos. Racial tensions between the Indo Chinese peoples have prevented effective cooperation against the Khmer Rouge in Cambodia. There are signs that Cambodian Government troops dislike and distrust their South Vietnamese allies as much as they do the Communists guerillas they fight. Once the American and other supporting troops depart it should be possible for the South Vietnamese Government and. forces to handle internal . security and to contain the Vietcong. But it is most unlikely that the South Vietnamese would be able to stand up to an all-out assault from North Vietnam in association with the Vietcong. Even with strong American air and logistics backing, South Vietnamese would be very hard pressed to beat off such an offensive. Whatever the wash-up in South Vietnam, the wars in Cambodia and Laos would continue with the balance increasingly in favour of the Communists. No one knows this better than the new Minister, for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn),  despite what he may have been told to the contrary in his recent visit to that country. In such an atmosphere it is humbug to suggest that the Government is withdrawing in triumph because the job has been done and the war won. 
The withdrawal announced by the Prime Minister is predicated on the basis that Phuoc Tuy province has been secured. In the popular terminology it has been Viet.namised The South Vietnamese provincial and regional forces are strong enough to counter the few hundred North Vietnamese and Vietcong still in the province. According to Government logic this gives the green light for the 2 battalions and other units still in Phuoc Tuy to be withdrawn. After 6 years of commitment, the spending of more than S200m and the loss of some 460 men killed and 2,200 wounded the war is almost over for Australian servicemen. It is no reflection on the zeal or dedication of these soldiers to say that in relative cost-benefit terms to Australia the war has been an unparalleled disaster. Australia is not a jot the more secure because of the expending of blood and money in Vietnam. If anything the country is less secure because the course of the war has destroyed the balance in IndoChina. It has destroyed the neutrality in Laos and Cambodia and turned them into miniature Vietnams. This has ensured years of bloodshed in Cambodia and Laos even if an effective political solution could be devised for Vietnam. 
In this broad context the Australian commitment to Vietnam has just over 4 months to run. It will be 4 months filled with many dangers. The reaction of North Vietnam and the Vietcong to the rapid run-down of United States forces is impossible to predict. The existing complexities of the war within South Vietnam will be complicated by the presidential election which is already disrupting political life in that country. There are 2 major dangers confronting Australian troops remaining in Vietnam in this twilight period. The first is the possibility of a sudden isolated offensive by Communist forces. There is no doubt that the Vietcong could muster sufficient strength for such a strike against a flag force. This would add further to the toll of lives lost needlessly and in vain. 
The Communists might well decide to continue their existing policy of lying low while the American strength runs down. It is most improbable they will do anything to halt the pace of American withdrawal. However, if it is decided that the process of withdrawal has gone beyond the point of no return - that it cannot be reversed beyond the political deadline of June next year - the Vietcong could try to bloody a few noses before the end. This would have immense propaganda advantages for the Communists in the renewed political and military struggle for South Vietnam once withdrawal is completed. 
There is also the possibility that the North Vietnamese will stage a major attack across the demilitarised zone as American strength winds down. This would increase the chances of a revival of Vietcong activity in Phuoc Tuy province, and makes it vital that Australian troops be got out as quickly as possible. There can be no more lip service to the principle of Vietnamisation; if the South Vietnamese cannot handle the relatively passive province of Phuoc Tuy now, their chances of controlling the whole country are hopeless. 
Now that the Government has finally taken the decision to get out, it should apply all its resources to getting out immediately. The longer our troops stay in South Vietnam the more vulnerable they become. At such a crucial time even a period of 4 months is an eternity. Grave risks have already been taken because of the protracted nature of the withdrawal. It will be recalled that when a policy of phased withdrawal was first put forward by the Labor Party in the 1969 election campaign it was intended that withdrawal would be completed within 6 months. By the. time the battalions leave it will be a year since withdrawal began. 
In the last few months there has been a rapid run-down in support for the infantry battalions. Tanks, RAAF bomber and transport units and some engineers have been pulled out. This means that a reduced infantry element remains with reduced close support at a time when the available amount of American support is contracting sharply. With fewer American combat troops in South Vietnam it becomes easier for North Vietnamese regulars to infiltrate and move around South Vietnam. This increases the threat of a sudden attack against the Australians in Phuoc Tuy and every day the commitment lasts this danger mounts. I do not suggest that the Task Force could be over-run but it could be the victim of a Tet offensive style operation with the Communists accepting heavy losses for propaganda purposes. Instead of being a quiet backwater of the war, Phuoc Tuy could become a tempting target if the North Vietnamese and Vietcong decide American withdrawal is irreversible, and the Australian flag force would be exposed. 
I have pointed to the physical dangers inherent in prolonging the commitment even by a day. Another grave problem is the less tangible threat to the morale of Australian troops during this frustrating run-down period. This is illustrated in the morale and psychological problems imposed on the American command structure with the unsatisfactory outcome of the war and the certainty of its end. These severe tensions have found outlets in drug taking and the breakdown of the command structure. The morale of Australian soldiers in Vietnam has borne up superbly under the rigors and frustrations of the war. But the deterioration of American morale and command structure must have some impact on our soldiers as the futility of their sacrifices becomes manifest. This sort of influence is a fact of life in such an atmosphere; there are dangers that the prevailing malaise of the Americans will affect Australian troops. Again these are dangers that increase with the extension of the commitment because of exposure to American despondency and the growing indifference of most Australians to the war. This period when the war seems of diminishing importance both to the soldiers in a combat role in Vietnam and for the Australian people who formerly supported the war will be a critical one for the Australian army. The dangers of transmission of morale problems through the Services after Vietnam represent another reason for the immediate withdrawal of all remaining troops. 
Looking beyond the withdrawal from Vietnam, the Prime Minister's statement raises questions of the future pattern of Australian defence planning through the I970's and into the 1980's. Defence planning and the whole military effort in the past decade have been geared to the Vietnam commitment. From the build-up in defence procurement in the, early 1960's to the reintroduction of national service and the dispatch of troops in the mid 1 960's all defence planning has been geared to an active combat role in Asia. Vietnam has distorted the evolution of our defences and diverted it into sterile channels. During the 6 years of the commitment strategic assessments and analyses of the role and organisation of the Services have been suspended. In the homely words of  Sir Frederick  Scherger, a former Chief of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, it was not the time for changing horses while Australian troops were in Vietnam. This re-assessment and re-organisation to give more coherent and balanced defence policies can no longer be deferred on the grounds of preoccupation with Vietnam. The Army will be most affected by the end of the commitment because of its involvement in the day-to-day conduct of the war. 
Its planning, organisation and trainingindeed the whole rationale for its existence - have been directed to maintaining the commitment to Vietnam. It is not unfair to say that the military's concept of its own role in the past few years has been confined to the training, equipping and dispatching of task forces to serve in South East Asia. One aspect of this reappraisal has been incorporated in the Prime Minister's statement - the curtailment of national service from 2 years to 18 months. National service was introduced for Vietnam on the basis that the conscript would be trained for a year and serve a year's combat duty in Vietnam. With Vietnam over it is difficult to follow the Government's logic on the length of the term of service. On its own terms surely the proper approach would have be;n to cut the term of service back to a year because the year's combat duty in Vietnam had been eliminated. Instead, future conscripts under this Government will have to serve another 6 months after their year of training is completed. This seems a peculiar compromise which warrants further explanation to the Parliament. 
In conclusion 1 would like to refer briefly to a statement made by the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  just after he was appointed Defence Minister late in December 1969. In his first statement on the war the honourable gentleman said that the job of the Task Force still required many years to complete and that although they would ultimately be withdrawn, withdrawal would occur Mater rather than sooner'. Plainly the Government then envisaged a commitment extending into the late 1970's. Tonight's statement by the Prime Minister points up the ironies of this tragic commitment and emphasises how easily political gestures can rebound on those who make them. 
 I move: 
That the Bil* be now read a  second  time.  Mr Speaker,  this is a Bill designed to amend the National Service Act and remove from  it  certain features which the 
Opposition finds most objectionable. This is the second time I have put this Bill to the House. 
The first occasion was on 27th February 1969 when I introduced the Bill and it was briefly debated. On that occasion the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Bury)  who was then Minister for Labour and National Service led for the Government. The debate subsequently lapsed and was never revived by the Government. The Opposition restored it to the notice paper as an item of general business. 
In the  2i  years since this Bill was introduced there have been some changes in the structure of national service. However, the basic anomalies and injustices which moved the Opposition to introduce the Bill still remain in the principal Act. For this reason we consider its re-introduction justified and urge the Government to give it sympathetic consideration. At the outset let me state the attitude of the Opposition to the national service legislation. In simple terms the Opposition is opposed as a matter of principle to the National Service Act. Our policy has been stated frequently in this Parliament; it has been reaffirmed repeatedly by Federal Conferences of the Labor Party. The Party is committed to the repeal of this legislation when it wins office. This means it will abolish the callup and the selective ballot system and take appropriate measures to build strong forces by forming a volunteer army. These are the basic policies of the Labor Party. 
However,  Sir, we  are realistic about what we can do to change the national service legislation as an Opposition. Quite obviously the legislation cannot be overturned by action in this House; this Bill is not designed to achieve this. What the Bill is designed to do is soften some of the unjust features of the legislation, particularly with regard to conscientious objection to national service. Before 1 outline in detail the provisions of this Bill, I would like to make some general comments about national service. The timing of this debate is most appropriate because last night the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  announced the first substantial change in the national service scheme since its inception in 1964. This was the reduction in the term of national service from 2 years to 18 months. The right honourable gentleman did not elaborate on the reasons for this decision but quite plainly it was a corollary of the Vietnam withdrawal. The effect of the reduction to 18 months will be to reduce the total strength of the full-time army by 4,000. Presumably, it will increase the citizen and reserve forces by the same number. 
The Prime Minister made the rather peculiar statement that this would not affect the present organisation of the Army into 9 battalions although it would put some battalions on a reduced basis. This seems to be a sleight of hand trick with numbers and paper battalions which needs further explanation to the House. The reduction of the term of service to 18 months seems to be a rather feeble compromise between the political requirements of the Government, the demands of the Army and the actual requirements of the Department of Defence. There is evidence to suggest that the Department of Defence believes 1 year is adequate for national service. 
In July this year no less an authority than the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  who, for a brief but unforgettable period was Minister for Defence, made this point. He said, and I trust I quote the honourable gentleman correctly: 
If national service were reduced from 2 years to one, and the number doubled, then there would be some greater equality of burden than there is now. 
The argument of the Army has always been that 2 years were needed because it took 1 year to train a soldier thoroughly. On this basis the conscript spent 1 year in training and 1 year in Vietnam. With Vietnam over the Government could not be expected to find in the twinkling of an eye another war for these yoting men in their second year. It could send them to Malaysia-Singapore for a year or it could commit them to a year of inactive service within Australia. With the rotation of battalions to Malaysia-Singapore only a minority could do a year's service there. 
Quite obviously a year of service within Australia after a year of initial training would produce strains and frustrations. The obvious solution for the Government, given its commitment to selective national service, would have been on the lines suggested by the honourable member for Wannon - to cut national service from 2 years to 1 year and double the call-up. It is disputable whether there was ever any real need to call up men for longer than 12 months, even on the Government's own terms. A soldier can be fully trained in 6 months and after that can give excellent service for another 6 months not only in Australia but in an operational theatre. It is nonsense to suggest that effective service cannot be given in a period shortened to 1 year. 
An example is the work done by engineer units in Borneo which went to this theatre between 1964 and 1966 for a 6 months tour of duty on construction work. The only reason for the Government's insistence on 2 years was its objective to keep 3 battalions in Vietnam. Now that the commitment is nearing its end, it has switched to a call-up of 18 months which is illogical, and will satisfy no-one. 
The other broad matter I want to refer to is the rationale of the Government's system of national service. Undoubtedly national service has been the second most decisive factor at both political and social levels in Australia in the past 6 or 7 years. The first, of course, is the Vietnam commitment which the Government is in the process of liquidating. A most objectionable feature of the national service system was its introduction without any attempt to fill the ranks by voluntary means. There has never been any attempt to justify the imposition of enforced recruitment in the terms of economic logic. 
The Government has not tried to justify the resort to conscription at the expense of a volunteer army except to say in vague terms that pay increases in 1963 had failed to stimulate recruiting. The Prime Minister could still repeat this spurious claim in his speech last night at a time when the Kerr Committee was overhauling the whole structure of service pay and conditions. The Government has never attempted to analyse the prospects for switching back to an all-volunteer system. It has made no attempt to survey future manpower requirements of the Australian workforce and relate them to potential strengths of the armed services in the 1970s and 1980s. 
The Government does not seem even remotely interested in having these issues tested on the lines of the Gates Commission appointed by  President  Nixon to plan an end to the draft and a move to an allvolunteer army in the United States. It has assumed in an arbitrary and clumsy fashion that national service is still necessary with Vietnam over but it is not as necessary as during Vietnam. In real terms next year national service will be 6 months less necessary than it is at the moment. In effect the national service currency will be devalued by 25 per cent. None of the evaluation in cost benefit terms of conscription relative to an all volunteer army has been done by the Government. It has disclaimed any interest in analysing the problem in these terms. There has been a lot of valuable work done by mathematical economists in assessing the relative costs and benefits of the 2 systems. Their conclusions support the claim that filling the ranks by conscription is as costly as it is unjust. Certainly the Government will come under increasing pressure, both in this House and outside, to justify its retention of conscription at a time when Australian forces are not committed in military operations. I turn now to discuss some of the features of the Bill before the House. The first part of the Bill to which I draw attention is proposed section 29a which is intended to provide an alternative civilian service to military service. Briefly the section provides that a person called up under the Act may elect to perform such an alternative service. A person who elects to serve in any one of the armed Services in this way may be issued with a certificate certifying that he is entitled to render that alternative service. The remainder of the section is concerned with machinery matters to implement this proposal and bring it into line with the principal Act. 
The principle of alternative service which this Act seeks to introduce is an extremely vexed one and I want to look at it in some detail. A proposal to amend the Act in this way was first put by the Opposition in this House and in the Senate when extensive amendments to the National Service Act were enacted in May 1968. According to my recollection, the amendment on alternative service was drafted by the late  Senator Cohen,  Q.C., who was then  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in the Senate. It was rejected by the Government, ostensibly on the ground that it could be construed as manpower control which would be unconstitutional, or as an infringement of 
International Labour Organisation conventions. The honourable member for Wentworth, who was then Minister for Labour and National Service, put these arguments quite strongly. These objections seem to have been based on the Slavery Convention of 1930 whose signatories, including Australia, undertook to suppress the use of force, or compulsory labour in all its forms within the shortest possible period. However, a later convention of 1957 made it clear that the term 'forced or compulsory labour' did not include any work or service exacted in virtue of a compulsory military service, laws for work of a purely military character or work which is part of a normal civilian occupation. The normal occupation in this category is that of a citizen. Further doubts were cast on this argument by the incorporation of alternative civilian service in the draft laws of many countries, including the United States, Britain, Sweden, West Germany, Denmark and France. 
Last year the Government modified this tack and Cabinet devoted considerable attention to studying the introduction of an acceptable and viable civilian alternative. Unfortunately, the Government decided that it was beyond its ability to find an alternative that was both just and practicable. There were reports that opposition from influential sections of the back bench had forced the Government to shelve the scheme after it had been widely publicised. It seems the former Minister for Labour and National Service, the present Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  kept in the back of his head some hopes of reviving the proposals. He said on 11th February this year that the Government had never closed its mind to an alternative which satisfied several criteria. These included justice for those undertaking the military service, the relevant constitutional requirements and the relevant ILO conventions which have been ratified by the Australian Government. As I indicated earlier, I believe the Government has overstated the relevance of som? of these criteria. 
On the evidence of this statement it seems the Government is still giving active consideration to the principle of alternative service. Perhaps the Minister in his reply can enlighten the House as to what stage Government thinking has reached. 
Undoubtedly there are many complexities and difficulties existing in the introduction of such a scheme. These reservations are not confined to the Government; they are held by important sections of the Labor movement. Objections here are based on contentious issues of manpower control and cheap forced labour. Obviously it would be intolerable if a pool of cheap involuntary labour were established in competition with the civilian workforce. This could not and would not be contemplated. My personal attitude is that 2 factors counter these most cogent objections. The first is the limited number of young men involved. In no sense could the operation of an alternative service scheme be construed as the formation of a civilian construction corps or anything of that sort. There are suitable outlets for the limited number of young men who decided to choose alternative civilian service in accordance with the dictates of their conscience. For example the non-combatant element of the Army could be extended to provide jobs of a civilian nature for some of these men. Work of a peace corps nature could be provided for applicants willing to work in areas such as Papua New Guinea, the Pacific Islands and South East Asia. 
Another alternative would be suitable work within the Commonwealth and State public services or Territory administrations relevant to the aptitude, skill and education of men who want to opt for this type of alternative. The second reason why I think objections to alternative service are overstated is that the pay rates of servicemen are moving much closer to civilian pay rates. The serviceman in future can expect to be paid at least at an equivalent rate to his civilian counterpart of the same age. Pay differences between civilians and servicemen will always be a contentious matter but this should not arise in a future alternative scheme if the Kerr Committee does - as I am sure it will - an effective job. A skilled man who is called up and opts for an alternative form of service ought to be paid for his skill and used in the work for which he is trained. For example, a tradesman would be paid award rates, or a doctor according to equivalent civilian salary scales. Overtime would be paid if the area of employment meant extra hours of work. Pay rates would also have  to  be adjusted to allow for the differential in living costs  from  a soldier who lived in barracks. Certainly a young man who opts for a civilian alternative would not be expected to benefit financially from his status. But he should not be penalised because he elects to do this work in accordance with his conscience. 
Most other countries which employ the call-up system have been able to evolve a satisfactory civilian alternative. These include countries such as Sweden and West Germany with governments of impeccable Democratic Socialist credentials. I refuse to believe that it is beyond the wit or wisdom of this Government to evolve a satisfactory form of alternative service. Nor do I believe the Labor movement would oppose a scheme which provided a dignified alternative under the law if the other options were military service against the grain of conscience or 2 years in gaol. 
The second element of the Bill to which I would now like to refer outlines and relates to exemptions on the grounds of conscientious belief. There has been very grave dissatisfaction over the existing protection within the Act for conscientious objectors and how these laws have been enforced. I 
Know  that the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  will point to his latest report on the operation of the national service scheme for 1970-71. This shows that 9 out of 10 applicants for total exemption have been granted that stutus There may have been improvements in the interpretation and administration of these provisions in the past 2 years, but the fact remains that under the present Act young men can still be gaoled for 2 years for refusing to comply with the Act in any way. 
As the honourable member for Grayndler interjects, this is a shocking indictment of the Government. It is a shocking judgment of a society that bases its legislation on a democratic principle. This anomaly will always remain. It is no good saying that these men ought to apply for conscientious objector status. The Department of Labour and National Service has the discretionary power to treat them as conscientious objectors and refer them to the courts for determination of their status. Where young men refuse to comply with the Act in any way and the Department refuses to use its discretionary power, then the odium of a 2-year gaol sentence remains. No-one can presume to judge the consciences of these young men. They may be people with subtle shades of conscientious objection beyond the Department's ability or willingness to comprehend. But their rights must be respected. 
After all, the Act lays down an absolute right of exemption on the ground of conscientious belief. It gives this right with one hand and largely takes it away with the other. At the moment 2 young men are in gaol for taking their conscientious objection to national service to the utmost extent. Charles Martin was gaoled in September last year for refusing to comply in any way with the Act. He made it clear that this refusal was because of his objection to the Vietnam war. He said in a typed statement which he distributed to his friends before the court case - I quote from the Adelaide Advertiser': 
I am sure an Australian military presence in Vietnam is not in the interests of peace, freedom or democracy for the people of Vietnam, but on the contrary in the interests of injustice and privilege. It is  brutalising  and embittering all combatants as well as uncommitted sections of the the populace. 
Obviously this is the statement of a man of most intense feelings of conscience against a particular war. One must contemplate the attitude of the Government now, particularly in view of the statement made by the Prime Minister in this Parliament last night that all Australian troops will be withdrawn from Vietnam by the end of this year. Without canvassing the policies involved in the statement, because a reply was made in this House immediately after the Prime Minister had delivered his statement, the fact remains that under the provisions of the Government's legislation as it now stands, Charles Martin will probably still be committed to gaol when all of the troops have been returned from Vietnam. 
From my understanding of this young man, one can place complete an absolute reliance upon the statement of Charles Martin made to the Adelaide 'Advertiser' and which I have just quoted to the House, that his conscientious objection is based on a particular war, the war in Vietnam. Obviously this is a statement of a man of most intense feelings of conscience against that war. No young man would commit himself voluntarily to 2 years in an Adelaide gaol unless it were in response to demands of conscience which could not be compromised. It is beyond belief that such a person could be thought of as a malingerer or a draft dodger. Yet under this law he has to go to gaol for  2  years. 
The other man in gaol is Geoffrey Mullins of Sydney, who was gaoled in March this year, again for refusing to comply with the Act because of a deeply held objection to the Vietnam war. Both Martin and Mullins refused to comply with the law in any way. Because of conscientious belief they could not apply for exemption under the Act. Honourable members opposite may find this paradoxical and difficult to understand, but they should not presume to judge the consciences of others. At a time when the end of the Vietnam war is in sight it is monstrous that  2  men who pushed their objection to the war to the hilt should remain in prison. There is no need for the Government to pursue its vindictive course against these men at a time when the folly of its Vietnam commitment is clearly exposed. They must be released immediately. 
In his recent report on national service the Minister said that no country accorded the status of conscientious objector simply to those who might claim it. However, the ways in which conscientious objection cases are determined is much more satisfactory in most of the countries to which the Minister referred. The first amendment the Bill proposes on determination of conscientious objection cases provides exemption for a conscientious objector who objects to a particular war. If this simple provision had been incorporated in the Act when the national service scheme was introduced a lot of the agony and divisiveness produced by conscientious objection cases could have been avoided. In isolated cases magistrates have found conscientious objection on the basis of the objection to the Vietnam war and granted exemption. However, the usual interpretation of the Act is that it provides for exemption only on the basis of objection to all wars. 
This interpretation was confirmed by the High Court in Thompson's case of  1968.  It will remain a permanent blot on this Government that for purely political reasons it consistently refused to give conscientious objector status to young men who were prepared to defend their country but could not in conscience accept the Vietnam commitment. This amendment which is proposed for the Bill would allow a much more flexible operation of the provisions of the Act. The second reform proposed by the Bill revises the whole procedure by which a conscientious objector applies for exemption. The trend in other countries has been to a broader and much more flexible attitude to conscientious objection and its determination by the courts. When I last presented this Bill I made the point that there was considerable variation in the determination of these cases in the courts. On examination of a number of cases it was clear that it was much easier to get total exemption in some States than in others. It was much more difficult to get exemption in New South Wales and Victoria than in South Australia and Western Australia. 
This situation may have changed in the past  2  years. Unfortunately, the Minister's report did not give a break down of conscientious objection cases on a State by State basis. Certainly the overall number of total exemptions granted has risen, but the basic point that there must be the utmost consistency in the judgment of conscientious objection cases remains valid. Undoubtedly there has been a considerable amount of inconsistent interpretation of the Act. This is inevitable where the procedures vary from State to State. Undoubtedly different courts and different magistrates have applied different tests and standards. This is not intended as a criticism of magistrates who have tried to do their job - fairly and in accordance with the law as they see it. But in such a system anomalies are inevitable. There has been a quite remarkable variation in the interpretation of the provisions from court to court and from State to State. 
The Opposition wants the utmost consistency in the hearing of conscientious objection proceedings. It has introduced this amendment to establish a uniform procedure for hearing conscientious objection cases in all States. This procedure is set out in clause  29  (c) and clause  29  (d) of the Bill. (Extension of time granted). The appointment of a Commissioner for Conscientious Objection in each State would eliminate differences between the States and give a consistent and uniform interpretation of the law over the whole of Australia. Such a system would allow a consistent body of law to be built relating to conscientious objection cases, so that consistent and equitable principles could be applied, lt would also allow commissioners to develop complete familiarity with conscientious objection and all its ramifications. These are matters which magistrates unaccustomed to dealing with delicate questions of conscience must find difficult to interpret. Our system would remove any possibility of individual prejudices on the  part of inexperienced magistrates in dealing with these matters. Under the amendment commissioners would be either senior judges or barristers or solicitors of at least 10 years standing. 
The Bill also provides a much broader right of appeal than exists under the present legislation. It would give a right of appeal from a commissioner's decision to the court of a State or Territory constituted by not fewer than 3 judges. Present rights of appeal are much more limited. The Bill also provides for an appeal to be brought to the High Court of Australia by leave of the High Court. I have outlined the main reforms that the Opposition wants to incorporate in this Act. The Bill also contains a number of other machinery measures which I will not outline in detail. In conclusion, the Opposition welcomes this chance to look at broad issues of national service. Until the National Service Act can be repealed by a Labor Government, we regard it as our duty to see flagrant injustices removed from the Act. The Bill may have some imperfections but it is intended to make the operation of the existing system more humane and more liberal. I commend its basic principles to the House and ask for its support from honourable members. 
I ask the Prime Minister a question. The right honourable gentleman will have noticed that according to the Estimates, spending on the operations of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation in 1971-72 will rise by $783,000, or 22 per cent. Is this an example of the ruthless pruning of Government spending to which the Treasurer referred in his Budget Speech? Why should spending on ASIO expand at such a rate when the Government is setting an example by eliminating conspicuous spending? What sort of increase in subversive activity is the Government anticipating to justify increased spending of this magnitude? 
I will be happy to second the motion which has been moved by the Leader of the House  (Mr Swartz).  At this stage I do not want to speak at any great length on this matter. As the Leader of the House has pointed out, this standing order was introduced on 23rd October last year. It provided to amend the sitting days to 4 days a week instead of 3 days a week, as previously applied. 1 suppose it can be said that this matter has been given a reasonable trial. Undoubtedly honourable members on both sides of the chamber have been critical of standing order 40. On the other hand, it should be agreed that some members prefer the new arrangement. For this reason J was pleased to hear the Leader of the House indicate that this matter would be the subject of a free vote, not only by members from his side of the chamber, but naturally, also by members of the Opposition. 
As a member of the Standing Orders Committee I supported the recommendations of that Committee on the elimination of standing order 40. But in addition, I want to make it perfectly clear that I do not believe that this should be the end of the matter. In effect we are reverting to the procedure of sitting on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays only. I suppose there are some advantages as at least honourable members will know how they stand in relation to the sitting days. They will not have to wait until the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  the Leader of the House or whoever has the responsibility to determine when the House commences its sitting days, advises them accordingly. In this respect there will be some advantage to honourable members. However, 1 have made it perfectly clear in this Parliament on other occasions as I have made it clear,  Mr Speaker,  in our discussions at meetings of the Standing Orders Committee, that I believe an alteration ought to be made to the sitting hours of the Parliament. 
I am drawing attention particularly to the times at night at which the House sits. I am referring, of course, to the late hours. We have not been able to overcome this problem by the new arrangement. If this motion is carried, as I predict it will be. assuming that the feelings of honourable members opposite are the same as those of members of the Opposition, all that will happen will be that we will revert to sitting on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays. This will mean almost inevitably that we will be going back to the practice of sitting late at night and into the early hours of the morning. I have repeatedly stated in the Parliament my objection to this procedure. 
I want to repeat now that I still hold those objections because I believe that this is an appropriate time to do so. I have never agreed that honourable members should sit in the Parliament in the early hours of the morning. I do not wish to deal with this issue at great length, but I believe that if an opportunity were given to study this matter seriously and to examine the statistics relating to sittings extending into the early hours of the morning following a lengthy sitting during the day, I am sure that it would be found that the health of many honourable members has been impaired over the years. I have no doubt also that that deterioration will continue in the future. As a result of the carrying of this motion we will be meeting an objection that has been raised by some members on both sides of the chamber but it will mean inevitably, as I have already indicated to the House, a return to sittings in the early hours of the morning, particularly towards the end of a session. 
I have spoken on this point on a number of occasions at meetings of the Standing Orders Committee and I believe that it should receive very urgent consideration. It could mean that the House would have to sit on a greater number of sitting days in order to eliminate late night sittings. I support the Leader of the House in what he has said in relation to standing order 40, and it is almost certain that it will be eliminated and we will revert to the sitting days in force before the standing order was introduced in October of last year. My personal attitude remains the same. I believe that the Parliament and the Standing Orders Committee must seriously consider whether the House should sit late at night, and whether solutions can be found to the problems that inevitably arise from the strain imposed on members, particularly towards the end of a session. I second the motion that has been moved by the Leader of the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Giles)  adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from 5.56 to 8 p.m. 
1 second the amendment and I reserve my right to speak later. 
The Minister for Defence will be aware that the Budget provides a total of S32.3m for maintaining Army and Air Force units overseas in 1971-72. Was this provision estimated on the basis that Australian units would be ;n Vietnam for the full year? If so, how will this amount be reduced by the completion of withdrawal from Vietnam early in 1972? 
My question is directed  to the Minister for the Navy. I preface the question by reminding the Minister that Royal Australian Navy personnel serving in submarines receive additional pay, commonly referred to as hard lying pay, and those serving in small ships receive half that amount. I ask: Will the Minister, in view of Judge Rapke's report, consider extending this hard lying payment to Navy personnel serving in HMAS 'Sydney' as the circumstances and the conditions would appear to warrant this payment? 
I ask the Minister for Trade and Industry whether he has seen a statement in the week-end Press attributed to his former leader,  Sir John  McEwen, and reading as follows: 
By a combination of good judgment, good luck and the character of my farm, I decided 8 years ago to get right out of sheep and right into beef cattle. This is obviously a very happy decision to have made. 
I ask: Was  Sir John  McEwen initiating a Country Party sponsored scheme of rural reconstruction by getting out of wool and into beef cattle? Did the Country Party 3 years ago actively encourage farmers to switch from wool to more profitable rural commodities in this way? Are most Australian wool growers now grateful for the example given by the Country Party leadership? 
1 ask the Minister for Repatriation: Did the Prime Minister announce on 27th May that an inquiry would be held into the repatriation system in place of a departmental inquiry? Did the Minister say on the same day that he was drawing up the terms of reference and a list of possible members of the inquiry? If so, why has there been a delay of more than 3 months in announcing the terms of reference and the composition of the inquiry? Has staff been appointed to assist the inquiry and when is the inquiry expected to begin? 
I wish to make one or two points in relation to this matter. The Leader of the House  (Mr Swartz)  concluded his statement by saying that it was traditional for the Parliament during the course of the Budget debate and the discussion of the Estimates not to introduce other matters. I accept this. But what I think is probably unfortunate is that the matter appeared on the notice paper at all. If we accept the fact that it has been a tradition adopted by the Parliament during the debate on the Budget and the Estimates not to introduce other matters, I think it would have been preferable had this agreement - if I may use that term - been adhered to rather than a discussion invited on a matter about which some honourable members quite naturally feel very strongly. Having said that let me emphasise again that it does raise a matter of principle. Naturally some honourable members are concerned. While I am prepared to concede, as I have already put to the House, that we have on other occasions accepted that no other matters would be debated during the Budget debate, I feel that where the Government has erred on this occasion, and I say this with due respect to the Leader of the House, is that it would have been far better if this matter had not appeared on the notice paper at all. 
The amendment moved on Tuesday night by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  condemned the Budget for a number of reasons. One was the failure of the Government to provide programmes for high national objectives of social welfare, economic strength and national security. I intend to concentrate my remarks concerning the Budget on the last element of the Opposition amendment; that is the Budget's impact on the defences of Australia. This Budget provides for estimated spending on defence services of $1,252. 4m in 1971-72. This was known well before the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  delivered his Budget statement. There was a wideranging debate in the Press on the size of the defence vote and what cuts would be made. 
Depending on what leaks you chose to believe, the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  had jumped on the former Minister for Defence and made him trim his submissions, or the former Minister had won a stirring victory on behalf of his brass against Treasury cuts. The Treasurer's comments on the defence vote are lacking in illumination. He was circumscribed by the Prime Minister's insistence on keeping the well-leaked withdrawal from Vietnam up his sleeve for the following day. There was a brief reference to the Committee of Inquiry into Financial Terms and Conditions of Service Employment- known as the 'Kerr Committee' - which recommended new rates of pay for other ranks in the 3 armed services. This was subsequently elaborated by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn). 
Apart from these plugs for the Minister for Defence and the Prime Minister the treatment of defence in the Budget Speech was meagre. It was confined to a statement of the total defence vote and the amount to be spent on new capital equipment and works, a quick run through of items of equipment to be delivered this year, and passing references to Cockburn Sound, Learmonth Airfield and defence aid programmes. This cursory treatment was rather disappointing because the Parliament has not had the benefit of a major statement on defence policy since March last year. That is 18 months or 3 Ministers ago. The defence report for 1971 will not be available for at least another month. Unlike governments of other parliamentary democracies this Government has shunned the custom of printing regular White Papers on defence. 
The only information oh Australia's defences in this Budget is the few brief paragraphs in the Budget Speech and the Estimates and brief explanatory notes in the schedule headed 'Item No. 1 - Defence Services' which is contained in the Budget papers. However, a clear trend can be discerned in these brief references and figures, a trend which I will try to summarise and elaborate in the rest of my remarks. This trend may be baldly stated as an impending conflict between two objectives: The need to re-equip the three armed services and the need to ensure proper pay and conditions for members of the Services. The over-riding aim of defence policy in the next few years must be to bring these two objectives into balance. On the evidence of this Budget the Government has set them on courses which are irreconcilable. 
The Treasurer said that the defence vote proposed for 1971-72 was $ 1,252.4m, an increase of $11 7m or 10.3 per cent more than the previous year. In terms of the gross national product, this is a marginal increase from 3.2 per cent in 1970-71 to 3.4 per cent in 1971-72. As a proportion of Government spending this year's defence vote is much the same as in 1970- 71. in real terms defence spending has shown little significant variation in recent years. The Government seems to have accepted a level of defence spending, around $1.2 billion or just over 3 per cent of gross national product as electorally acceptable. Spending at this level may well be the least the Government can do without feeling the lash of the Australian Democratic Labor Party. 
With this almost statutory order of spending, what is Australia getting from this Budget to assure national security? Analysis of the various components of the defence vote is much the same as in 1970- concern. The most significant is the large part of defence spending absorbed by civil salaries and other administrative and maintenance costs. Pay for servicemen in the Army, Navy and Air Force accounts for 32 per cent of the Budget. If the total defence vote is kept at its present percentage of the national income this allocation is unlikely to fall. 
The Treasurer implied that the implementation of the Kerr Committee recommendations was responsible for half of the substantial increase in provision for service salaries. However, this is not a onceandforall factor. The Kerr Committee has just begun its work. In this Budget higher salaries for other ranks are provided for under a system of new pay classifications sponsored by the Kerr Committee. The Committee's recommendations for officers' salaries have yet to be put before the Government. Undoubtedly these will mean a further increase in Service pay provision. On top of this will come the Committee's recommendations on conditions. These are likely to include revision of allowances and improvements in entitlements such as housing which will mean more spending. 
Furthermore the Government has accepted the Kerr Committee's suggestion that it conduct a work value study of Service jobs. This sort of study is likely to turn traditional assessment of Service jobs on its head just as work value studies have done in civil occupations such as professional engineering and journalism. If concepts of job values in the Services are recast then additional increases in pay rates are inevitable, lt is difficult to see pay, allowances and other benefits for servicemen absorbing less than a third of the defence vote in the next few years, allowing for the recommendations of the Kerr 
Committee and their acceptance by the Government. With Service pay taking this slab of the Budget provisions it is worth looking at the provisions for production and procurement of new equipment for the 3 Services. This amounts to $177m or about 14 per cent of the total defence vote. These figures would be rather lower but for a sharp increase in spending on new equipment for the Army. 
In total, paying servicemen and giving them appropriate equipment account for less than half of the defence vote of this Budget. If the Government contribution to the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund is excluded, the remaining half of the defence vote is soaked up by the extremely long administrative tail of our defence structure. Civil salaries, administrative expenses, maintaining forces overseas, repairs and maintenance of equipment, maintaining inventories, running the Department of Defence and the Department of Supply account for half of our defence spending. This leaves the other half of the defence budget for Service pay and production and procurement. 
Quite obviously if heavy pressure is applied to one part of this side of the equation the other must suffer. This is what is happening at the moment. Production and procurement is being cut back so that the increases in service pay flowing from the Kerr Committee report can be implemented. Provision for new equipment in the Budget is revealed under several items of the statement for the defence vote. For the Navy a provision of $29. 267m is made for naval construction and aircraft purchase and manufacture. The Army gets a total of $ 109.533m for arms, armament, and equipment and the Air Force $38. 245m for aircraft purchase, manufacture and lease. 
The total provision for new equipment for the 3 Services is $177m or about 14 per cent of the total defence vote. The only Service at all adequately served by this Budget is the Army. The amount allocated for new production and procurement amounts to 14 per cent pf the total defence vote. The inadequacy of this provision is pointed up by the omissions in the list of new acquisitions given in the Budget Speech of the Treasurer. Items listed include 10 Skyhawk aircraft for the Navy. 13 Macchi trainer aircraft for the Navy and Air Force and 12 light observation helicopters, communications equipment and armoured personnel carriers for the Army. There is no apparent provision for the new items of hardware, particularly for the Navy, that were announced by the former Minister in March of last year. Only SI 8.6m has been provided for naval construction in 1971-72. 
As part of the 5-year rolling defence programme the Government has accepted definite requirements and commitments for a number of new ships. In March of last year  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, the then Minister for Defence, said the Government would buy 2 new Oberon submarines at a cost of $37.2m. There is no indication in either the Treasurer's statement or the Budget papers that this purchase is being made. This is surprising because there is other evidence that the purchase of these submarines is at an advanced stage. The then Minister for Defence,  Mr Gorton,  in an answer to a question on notice, informed me that reciprocal purchasing arrangements had been negotiated for the order and that tenders for offset orders were under consideration by the Department of Supply. The Government has also accepted a requirement for fast combat support ship at a cost of $42m and a logistic cargo ship at a eost of $10m. Again these have been omitted from the Treasurer's shopping list and do not show up in the attached papers. Even more significant is the absence of any reference to the programme for the building of at least 6 light destroyers in Australian shipyards. This programme is already behind the time schedule announced by former Defence and Navy Ministers. 
In the 1969-70 estimates provision was made for a preliminary design study for a light destroyer. In March of Last year  Mr Malcolm  Fraser announced that the Government bad agreed to the next step, which was the detailed design stage. According to an article in the 'Navy News' of September 1969, the preliminary design phase would be completed at the end of 1970 and the detailed design phase by early 1972. Construction of the first destroyer was to take 4 years from the completion of the detailed design study. However, it was reported in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' on 30tb June that the preliminary design study had not been completed but the Budget would authorise spending of at least $10m for the detailed design study. If this spending has been authorised it does not show up anywhere in the Budget. Assuming the allocation has been made and included in the provision of $ 18.6m for new naval construction, then very little remains for new construction. On the meagre evidence of the Budget there is no chance that construction of the destroyers will start in the 1971-72 financial year, as initially scheduled. The Government has grandiose plans for naval expansion involving very large sums but these plans do not show up in the Budget. Plainly they have been deferred or rolled on somewhere into the future under the 5-year rolling plan. 
In the provisions fot the Royal Australian Air Force there is no hint of a new maritime reconnaissance aircraft to replace the Neptunes which Air Marshall Hannah has said are deteriorating rapidly. Reconnaissance aircraft are important not only for defence purposes but also because of the non-military role they play in the surveillance of coastal waters and in searescue operations. The RAAF urgently needs new transport aircraft to replace the C130-A Hercules, which have been worked to the limits of their airframes and are suffering severe corrosion. Quite plainly the provision of $38. 2m for aircraft purchase, manufacture and lease will be fully absorbed in payments for the Fill, the Phantom, and the Macchi trainers. 
With regard to the Army the Treasurer announced the purchase of 12 light observation helicopters. According to the statement of March of last year, 84 of these helicopters were to be bought at an estimated cost of $23m. It appears that the initial 12 will be purchased from overseas and the rest will be made locally. No reference is made in the Budget to other purchases which have been announced to give extra tactical mobility to the Army. These include 11 helicopter gunships, 12 medium lift helicopters and the remaining 35 of an order of 42 utility helicopters. Plans for the future procurement of helicopters seem to be most uncertain.  Mr Gorton,  when Minister for Defence, told me in answer to questions that the placement of a firm order for the medium lift helicopters had been deferred and that contracts for the gunships and the  utility  helicopters are still being considered. It seems that the Government is making a complete reassessment of its requirements for helicopters but it is not clear whether this is in response to Service demands or because of the results of the invasion of Laos earlier this year. Certainly there is no sign in the Budget that the delivery of these helicopters is likely in 1971-72. 
I have tried to point to the gaps in budgetary provision for new defence equipment. Quite obviously the bulk of the new production and procurement announced in the past 2 years by the Government has been shelved or deferred because the Government cannot find the money. The blame for this cannot be attributed to higher pay rates. As I pointed out earlier, further substantial increases in service pay rates are inevitable. The Government has got itself into the dilemma that it cannot afford higher pay rates for servicemen and urgent re-equipment programmes in the one year. If it is to continue its defence budget on the lines of 1970-71 defence budget then one or other of these 2 important components has to suffer. Put briefly, the crisis facing the Government is to assure the payment of the new pay rates and improved conditions for servicemen decreed by the Kerr Committee while freeing sufficient resources for the reequipment programme it has announced over the past 2 years. 
There are two ways by which these broad objectives can be reconciled. The first is the obvious course of a significant lift in overall defence spending. As a proportion of the gross national product, the defence vote in the Budget is less than it is in countries such as Britain, Sweden, West Germany and Norway. They are not countries which foster militarism or seek excessive military strength. Three of those countries are lead by Democratic Socialist governments. It is arguable, however, whether the political and social climate in this country in the next few years is conducive to more of the national income going to defence. 
With so many urgent domestic requirements and the sour aftertaste of the Vietnam venture higher defence spending will be extremely hard to sell in the years ahead. That is entirely the fault of the present Government. It has brought this legacy on its own head. The alternative is to make economies in the existing structure so that funds can be freed for essential reequipment programmes. Undoubtedly a defence system which sops up half of the defence vote in non-Service salaries and administrative costs is not operating at peak efficiency. 
This is the area where cuts can be made by reorganising and rationalising the whole defence structure, which is riddled with duplicated and often wasteful spending. 
Accurate comparisons are difficult to make, but any sort of comparative study of defence organisation in other countries emphasises the waste and inefficiency inherent in the Australian structure. An example is the British defence budget as outlined in Lord Carrington's statement on the defence estimates for 1971. We face the danger under this sort of administration of building up adequately paid and maintained armed Services with either obsolete equipment or none at all. The alternative is to have sheds full of fine equipment with no-one to use it because uncompetitive pay rates and poor conditions have depleted the ranks. (Extension of time granted.) 
On a rough comparative basis Britain allots 28 per cent of defence spending to Service pay compared with 32 per cent ot the Australian vote. However, British spending on new production and procurement is 30 per cent compared with 14 per cent in this Budget. The British Budget devotes 36 per cent of spending to civilian pay, administrative services, stores and supplies compared with around SO per cent in the Australian defence vote. These comparisons are somewhat crude and there is no certainty that precisely the same aggregates are being compared. But the basic point is valid that Australia is not spending enough on re-equipment because the housekeeping costs of the defence structure are much too high. Unless economies of the order of at least 10 per cent of the total vote can be made in these costs, then the squeeze will stay on Service pay rates or re-equipment. 1 have sought to draw attention to many of the features of the Budget defence vote which need clarification and resolution. The 
Opposition will have another chance to look at specific features of defence spending in the Estimates debate. However, the overall picture of the present state of our defences and their future role and effectiveness is dispiriting and depressing. This is why the amendment condemning the Budget moved by the Leader of the Opposition emphasises the Government's failure to plan and programme for the high national objective of social security.. 
As I said when I first commenced to speak, not only did we deal with the questions of social objectives and the lack of the Government's foresight in planning in relation to these important matters, but we also spelt out the failure of the Government to plan in relation to the security of this country. Naturally I have had to draw comparisons between what the Government is spending on defence procurement and what it is spending on Service pay and conditions. The comparison shows at once that there has been a failure on the part of the Government to plan and look ahead and to accept the proposition, which was inevitable, that there would be a need to increase the pay and allowances for men in the armed forces. The Kerr Committee was quite properly set up not only because of agitation from honourable members opposite, and also because of the initiatives shown by members of the Opposition. That Committee had an opportunity to investigate the present rates of pay and the conditions which apply to those serving in the ranks of the armed forces, lt quite properly brought back recommendations for increased rates of pay. 
As I have pointed out, the Government has yet to receive recommendations, which the Kerr Committee will inevitably make, in relation to pay and allowances for officers serving in the armed forces. I believe that these recommendations highlight the lack of the Government's foresight in planning to maintain at a relatively high level the rate of enlistments into the armed forces on a voluntary basis. At the same time the Government has completely neglected to provide for the purchase of essential equipment for the Army, the Navy and the Air Force. For these reasons I believe that the Government deserves to be condemned for its policies on the question of defence generally and that the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition should certainly be accepted by this House. 
 Mr 

 Deputy Speaker, I rise merely to make an explanation. Unfortunately. I have to point out to the House and, particularly, I suppose to members on my own side, that the responsibility for this matter is properly mine. Last week the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  discussed the matter with me. He suggested that there were a number of matters on the notice paper that might be removed but only with the co-operation of the Opposition. This matter was discussed by members of the Labor Party Executive but. unfortunately, the information was not conveyed to Caucus. 
Well, there are a number of reasons for this. It is not that members of the Opposition were not entitled to be told; they should have been told. However, because of another discussion, I did not have the opportunity to do so and so I think it is only fair to point out that the Minister had put this matter on the notice paper with my co-operation. He had notified me and 1 had indicated to him that so far as the Executive was concerned, these matters had been considered. Two of them, at my insistence, were left on the notice paper and the rest, with the concurrence of the Executive, could have been removed. I agree that this information should have been conveyed to the Caucus. Unfortunately, this was overlooked and therefore I have to accept complete responsibility for it. 
As the honourable member has pointed out, it was not overlooked but time ran out. However, that is exactly the situation and unfortunately this matter arose today. It was on the notice paper and thereforeI accept the full responsibility for it. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Health: Is it a fact that restricted imports of the drug prostaglandins have been authorised for use in Australia? What is the nature of the authorisation? If clinical trials are to be undertaken with this drug, in which hospital centres throughout Australia will the work be programmed? What are the clinical conditions to which use of this drug will be directed? 
 1  wish to make  a  personal explanation. 
Yes. I think the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  is being unfair because when I commenced to speak to the point of order I made it perfectly clear that the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  may have unlimited time to reply in the debate if he accepts the motion for the suspension of Standing Orders. I think that in making this suggestion 1 am being perfectly fair to the Minister and, I believe, to the Parliament. 
I rise to order. The Opposition is prepared to give fair play to the Minister. I repeat that he can have unlimited time to speak on this issue. He is now speaking from the notes he prepared in order to answer a matter that was to be raised last night in the adjournment debate. He is debating the matter that has been incorporated in the motion to suspend Standing Orders. I do not want to be unfair to him. I want to give him a full opportunity to debate this matter. But I think it should be done in circumstances in which not only the Minister has an opportunity to debate it but also the 2 honourable members on this side of the House who moved and seconded the motion have an opportunity to debate the issues involved. The Minister again is departing from your ruling,  Mr Speaker,  and I ask you to uphold my point of order. 
Motion (by  Mr Swartz)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
The Opposition makes 3 major criticisms of this Bill which implements the repatriation provisions in the Budget. The first is that the Government has persistently delayed the initiation of an inquiry into the rationale and principles of the Repatriation Act. The second is that the increases in benefits announced in the Budget do not curb the erosion of pension values in terms of the growth in average weekly earnings of the Australian work force. The third is that for the seventh consecutive Budget the claims of the great mass of pensioners getting the general rate have been completely overlooked. On the question of an inquiry into the repatriation system, the situation at the moment is rather confusing. A deparmental inquiry was begun and it has heard some evidence and taken submissions. This was superseded . by the announcement on 27th May by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  of an independent inquiry after repeated requests by exservicemen's organisations for such an inquiry. On the same day, the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Hol ten)  announced that he was considering the terms of reference and suitable personnel for the inquiry. He said the appointment of a judge or an eminent lawyer with war experience was one of the possibilities under consideration. Nothing more was heard of this independent inquiry until I raised it during question time earlier this week. The Minister said that the reason for the delay had been difficulty in getting an appropriate  chairman  from the judiciary to conduct the inquiry. He said, further, that the terms of reference would have to be the subject of considerable discussion but he hoped to be able to announce them in the near future. 
The Minister's explanation for the delay in appointing a  chairman  may have some merit. If the Government wants someone from the judiciary, someone of the calibre of  Mr Justice  Kerr who is conducting the inquiry into Service pay and conditions, then obviously it may have to wait months or even years. The Minister made it clear that the Government wanted someone from the judiciary. Apparently the alternatives of an eminent lawyer or senior public servant or other appropriate person have been rejected. Unless there is some certainty that a senior person from the judiciary is available pretty quickly, the Government should reconsider its attitude because it is causing unnecessary delay in this important inquiry. If a suitable judge cannot be found then the Government should look to the Bar or to the Public Service or to other areas of public life. The Minister's explanation for the delay in the terms of reference are completely unconvincing. It should have been possible for the terms of reference to be drawn up before now, particularly as a departmental inquiry had begun. This would have made it a comparatively simple matter either to take over the departmental terms of reference or to expand and change them as necessary. This could have been done in a matter of days. Instead, we have waited 13 weeks. 
The Opposition's attitude to an inquiry into the repatriation system has always been put consistently to the Parliament. It is that a joint select committee drawn from both Houses should undertake this examination of repatriation machinery. The Opposition sees no reason to change this attitude because the Government is moving in an extremely dilatory fashion to set up an independent inquiry. There is no lack of qualified people on either side of this House who could sit on such a committee. This House is filled with eminent and qualified administrators who could chair such an inquiry. It seems pointless for the Government to be looking for someone from the judiciary when a select parliamentary committee could be chaired by the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  who has impressive legal qualifications and who is familiar with these problems from the days when he was Minister for the Navy. There is no need to look for an eminent ex-serviceman in the community to be  chairman  when an eminent exserviceman who has been Prime Minister and Minister for Defence is sitting on the Government back benches. The right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  would make an excellent  chairman  of such a select committee in view of his Service and administrative experience. At present there is a shortage of committee work for members of this House. The only joint committee currently functioning on an important issue is the Joint Committee on Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Legislation and its business is nearing completion. 
I hope it does not become a fetish of the Government that it must have a senior judge free before it can undertake urgent reviews and investigations. In some cases an independent committee is warranted. An example of this is the Kerr Committee where swift and decisive action on Service pay was necessary, but a full-scale inquiry into a major piece of legislation like the Repatriation Act properly is the prerogative of the Parliament. For this reason the Opposition insists that this inquiry should be undertaken by the Parliament, and at a later stage of my address I will take the opportunity of moving an amendment which expresses the views of the Opposition. This will not be the first occasion that I have put to the Parliament a motion to have a select committee appointed to inquire into the Repatriation Act. I make no excuses for repeating, on the occasion of the resumption of the second reading debate on the Repatriation Bill, the opinion of members of the Opposition that a joint select committee should be appointed. 
I remind the Minister, if he needs to be reminded, as I remind the Parliament and parliamentary ex-servicemen's organisations that there has been no inquiry into the Repatriation Act, which was introduced into this Parliament as far back as 1918. since a joint select committee of this Parliament was set up under a Labor government. That committee was headed by a former prominent member of the then Parliamentary Labor Party, the former member for Lalor. As the Minister will know, that committee reported to the Parliament with recommendations which were accepted almost in their entirety by the government of the day and which had the support of the then Opposition which now comprises the Government members in the Parliament. I remind the Minister that it was competent for that committee at that time to consider and recommend a sensible provision which adjusted the Repatriation Act in relation to the onus of proof clause. Although there is some doubt about whether the onus of proof provision is being administered and interpreted today in the generous way in which that committee and ultimately the Parliament recommended that it should be interpreted, that section had the effect of being able to bring from 3 Attorneys-General submissions that made it clear beyond all shadow of doubt that where the onus of proof was in doubt the benefit was to be given to the ex-serviceman. 1 refer to this matter merely to indicate that this was one of the issues which received considerable attention at that time from a competent committee which had been set up under a Labor Government. I believe there is every justification for using the same arguments as were advanced then - there are greater arguments now, 25 years later - for appointing a joint select committee which would have an opportunity to deal with the ramifications and the anomalies which the Minister knows only too well are contained in our repatriation legislation. For this reason, as I have already indicated to the House, I will, at a later stage of my address, by way of amendment, express the opinion and intention of Opposition members. 
I turn now to increases in the benefits, particularly to those upon which the Minister concentrated in his second reading speech and announced in the Budget Speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  only a fortnight earlier - that is, special rate pensions and service pension payments. Of course, these are very great areas of need and the increases made are necessary. The improvements made in these areas do not obscure the neglect for the seventh consecutive year of the general rate pension, and the inadequacy of other benefits. The totally and permanently incapacitated rate, which is commonly known as the special rate pension, has been increased by $3.50 to $42.50 a week. This follows an increase of $3 in 1970-71, $2.50 in 1969-70 and $3.50 in 1968-69. It must be acknowledged that the Government has increased the TPI rate regularly in recent years. By the standards of changes in other welfare payments, the special rate pension has been treated reasonably well. But the latest increase barely maintains the parity of the special rate pension with average weekly earnings. As a proportion of estimated weekly earnings for 1971-72, the new special rate of $42.50 is 44.4 per cent, the same as for 1970-71. The Budget has maintained this relationship, but more significantly it has restored none of the erosion of the special rate in real terms which has occurred over the past 10 years. In 1961-62 the special rate pension was 55.7 per cent of average weekly earnings. If estimated average weekly earnings for 1971-72 are set at $95.80, allowing for an increase of 9 per cent as indicated on page 2 of the Treasurer's Budget Speech, then the TPI rate would have to be set at $53.36 to restore the relativity which existed 10 years ago. This would mean an increase of $14.36 in this years Budget; instead, TPI pensioners have been given an extra $3.50 which just maintains the relativity to average weekly earnings of 1970-71. Under the Government's approach purchasing power is being gradually whittled away from the special rate pension. In these circumstances it is deceptive to talk about concentration on areas of need when a policy of allowing the relative value of the TPI pension to fall sharply is tacitly pursued. 
I turn now to the general rate pension. This legislation is similar to last year's legislation in that a major defect lies in provision for general rate pensioners. The bulk of repatriation pensioners are general rate pensioners assessed at one level of disability or another. The general rate pension has been $12 a week since 1954 when it was increased by 50 cents. 
I am sorry if it sounded like 1954. I hasten to assure the Minister that I said 1964. That is bad enough. I would certainly not be happy to think that the Government had left the pension unchanged since 1954. After all, 1964 is 7 years ago. 
As a consequence, the general rate pension has been eroded at a quite remarkable rate. In 1961-62 the general rate pension was $11.50, only 50c less than it is now. At this level it represented 24.2 per cent of average weekly earnings. In 1964-65, when the last increase was made, the general rate pension was 21.7 per cent of average weekly earnings. In the subsequent years this relativity to average weekly earnings has fallen quite drastically. In 1967-68 it was 17.9 per cent; in 1969-70 it had fallen to 15.2 per cent; and the latest Budget has brought it down to 1.2.5 per cent - the lowest level in the history of this pension. lt would be very interesting for the Minister for Repatriation to explain to this House how the Government can allow a pension which is paid to the great majority of repatriation pensioners - those whose disability has been accepted as being the result of their war service - to decline to its lowest ebb in the history of the Repatriation Act. This is no credit to the Minister and no credit to the Government. 
The compensatory nature of this pension is completely negated by such a rapid deterioration in its real value and this deterioration is the result of deliberate acts of public policy. In my speech on the equivalent legislation last year I analysed at some length the implications of the Government's treatment of the general rate pensions. In this year's Budget the Government's strategy towards this particular pension has become more apparent. Last year great play was made of increasing the special compensation allowance, which had been introduced in 1968, from $3 to $6. I pointed out the extreme selectivity of this increase because it applied to general rate pensions assessed at 75 per cent or more disability, that is, from 75 per cent to 100 per cent. It would be extremely difficult for me, in the limited time I have available this afternoon, to deal with this issue and make the Minister understand the proposition I put in this Parliament before, which was: How does one assess the difference in the degree of disability of an exserviceman as being between 75 per cent and 70 per cent or below, but particularly 70 per cent? The difference in the pension is $6 a week. 
The answer is obvious. If I took the opportunity to quote the figures available they would show, as I have pointed out already to the House, that the great majority of repatriation pensioners in Australia come under the classification of the general rate pension. It would be extremely interesting to be able to quote these figures for the Minister. No doubt he has had the opportunity to study very carefully the 1969-70 report of the Repatriation Commission. That is the last one available. The report for 1970-71 is not yet available and therefore 1 must refer to the figures for 1969-70. There is a total of 195,399 pensioners in the category receiving the 100 per cent general rate pension. Slightly more than 30,000 of that number are in the category above 75 per cent. Quite obviously, for the Government to assume a greater responsibility for this section would mean that all those below that category have been completely ignored by the Government in terms of budgetary finance. Naturally the amount now being paid is being paid to the smallest number possible. This has distorted the whole structure of the general rate pension against the majority of pensioners assessed at less than 75 per cent. In effect the Government acted selectively by weighting the pensions received by a minority of general rate pensioners. lt should be emphasised that the Opposition does not begrudge the extra money to the ex-servicemen who benefited by last year's Budget. They deserve it and they are entitled to it. But the increase should have applied all the way down the scale. The limitation of the special compensation allowance had the effect of splitting general rate pensioners into 2 categories. This selective attitude to the general rate pension is perfectly plain in this year's Budget. Again, there is no increase in the general rate pension but a small number of general rate pensioners get some additional benefit. Again, no-one begrudges the extra benefit to those fortunate enough to get it. but it continues the highly discriminatory approach which the Government has adopted to general rate pensioners. 
In this Budget the selective approach has been applied to pensioners who get special assistance under the Fifth Schedule of the Act. These pensioners get the general rate pension plus a special loading because ot the nature of their disability. As well as general rate pensioners, a number of TPI pensioners on the special rate are classified under the Fifth Schedule. Pensioners getting increases in this Budget are listed under items 7 to 15 of the Schedule. The first category covered is pensioners suffering from amputation of one leg above the knee and another below the knee. Under the provisions of the Act. these pensioners get the $12 a week general rate pension plus an additional rate of $11.20  -  an increase of $4.10 in this Budget. This gives these men a total pension of$23.20 a week. According to the report of the Repatriation Commission for 1969-70, 17 pensioners are paid at this rate. 
The second group of pensioners is those who have lost two legs below the knee. They will get a total pension of $19.50 - an increase of $2.75. According to the Commission's report, 31 pensioners will get this increase. Fifteen pensioners suffering from loss of an arm and an eye or a leg and an eye will get an extra $2.30, lining their pension to $18.50. These 3 groups of pensioners are all getting the maximum 100 per cent general pension rate. Pensioners with loss of leg above the knee or an arm above the elbow are assessed at 75 per cent disability. They get a basic pension of $9 a week, that is. 75 per cent of the general rate. Under the Budget their total pension is lifted to $12.25 a week - an increase of $1.10. In 1969- 70 there were 625 pensioners paid at this rate. 
The next category comprises pensioners with loss of leg below the knee or an arm below the elbow. They get the $9 or 75 per cent pension plus an extra $1.70 which is an increase of only 35c under the Budget. There are 485 such pensioners. The last category is made up of those pensioners who have lost vision in one eye. This is by far the biggest group of the pensioners under the Fifth Schedule. In 1969- 70 there were 1,339 of them. Their disability is assessed at 50 per cent which gives them a basic pension of$8.50, an increase of 70c under the Budget. Regrettably the report of the Repatriation Commission for 1970- 71 has not been tabled so I have not been able to bring up to date the number of recipients under various classes of general rate pension. 
On the figures of the 1969-70 report -I do not think there would be any substantial variation - only 2,512 general rate pensioners will benefit from the provisions of this Budget. The total number of general rate pensioners in 1969-70 was 195,399; so just over 1 per cent of general rate pensioners get any benefit from the Budget. Based on last year's figures the total cost of these increases is just over $3,000 a week which is a pretty miserable sop to throw to this group of repatriation pensioners. Last year the maximum number of general rate pensioners who could have benefited from the increase in special compensation allowance was 35,629 or just under 20 per cent. So in the past 2 years only one in five general rate pensioners has benefited from Budget increases, if the Government is given the most charitable assessment of the impact of its measures. 
The Government may claim it is assisting the areas of greatest need; this claim would have some validity if regular increases had been made in the general rate pension. It cannot be substantiated when this basic rate of pension which is an essential ingredient in the subsistence of most repatriation pensioners has not been increased for 7 years. The Government has adopted a highly selective approach; certainly these unfortunate men with the injuries listed under the Fifth Schedule deserve the increase they got. But they should have got this increase in conjunction with an increase which would have lifted the whole structure of general rate pensions. This selective approach is illustrated again in the increase in the attendant's allowance. The higher rate has been lifted by $2 to $16 a week and the lower rate by $1 to $9.50. The attendant's allowance is a worthy welfare provision but again the application is extremely limited. 
It is well to put these much-vaunted increases in perspective; they are so selective and so limited in their application that their overall impact is mainly cosmetic. They allow the Government to claim it is improving repatriation benefits and services without making any improvements in the entitlements of most recipients of pensions. As I have indicated, the extra cost of two of the increases announced by the Government - that is the attendant's allowance and extra benefits under the Fifth Schedule - is about $4,200 a week, or about $220,000 in a full year. On 1969-70 figures, the increase in the intermediate rate pension will work out at about $120,000 a year, and the extra $3.50 a week for special rate pensioners at about $4. 2m. In all, these increases will cost the Government about $4.54m in a full year. I stress again that these calculations are based on last year's Repatriation Commission report, although I do not think the latest figures in the 1970-71 report due to be tabled soon will make any significant difference to my estimates. 
The fact remains that whatever one should say about the increases and the commendation which I suppose should be given to the Minister in relation to the paltry increases which have been given under this legislation, the Government has once again completely ignored the pension plan submitted by the Returned Services League of Australia in relation to the special rate of pension which it suggested should be equivalent to and not less than the minimum wage paid to workers in Australia today. It suggested that the 100 per cent general rate pension should be at least 50 per cent of the minimum wage and that the same ratio should apply to war widows. The League indicated that the funeral allowance which is now paid at the rate of $50 in the case of a deceased exserviceman - I think it has remained at this level since 1952  -  should be increased to $200. 
None of these matters has been mentioned by the Minister. They have been set aside in their entirety. The submission put to the Government by those who represent in a responsible way the Returned Services League of this country was completely supported by the Commonwealth Council of the Disabled Persons Association of Australia. I believe that they put forward an equitable case for a measure of justice from this Government but their representations have been completely ignored. How much longer should we go on accepting these conditions from a government which boasted back in 1949 that it would maintain the relative purchasing power of repatriation pensions but which has failed to do so? I move: 
That all words after That' be omitted with  a  view to inserting the following words in place thereof: 'whilst not opposing the provisions of the Bill the House condemns the Government because - 
it has failed to restore the relative values of repatriation pensions and 
the Bill does not provide for the appointment of a select committee to review the Repatriation Act, its operation and all of its provisions, and to make appropriate recommendations to the Government'. 
I ask the Minister for Social . Services a question. Is the Minister aware of any financial difficulties now being experienced by benevolent and church homes in all States, particularly in Tasmania? If so, what is the magnitude of these problems and what proposals does he have in mind to obviate them? 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister and refer him to the alarming growth in unemployment in  recent months and his forecast that 100,000 people would be out of work by January. Is the right honourable gentleman aware that the unemployment benefit for a man with a dependent wife and one child is only 22 per cent of average weekly earnings? Further, is he aware that the unemployment benefit for a single man is only 11.3 per cent of average weekly earnings? With a substantial rise in unemployment expected because of the Government's budgetary policies, will the Prime Minister consider an immediate increase in the present benefits of $10 for a single man and $19.50 for a man with a dependent wife and one child? 

 - Mr Speaker, I claim that the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  in his reply reflected upon members on this side of the House; he did not name them but nevertheless he reflected upon them. I suggest to the Minister that in view of what he said last night and of the importance of the subject, he might consult the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  in order to facilitate a debate on this subject in the House. 
Is the Prime Minister aware that the 'Sydney Morning Herald* yesterday summarised 'the whole underlying strategy of the Budget as 'creating  a  pool of unemployed to moderate wage demands and price increases'? ls he aware that on Tuesday the Liberal Premier of Tasmania said in regard to the Budget strategy that 'from the beginning I have said it was a mistaken policy which did not achieve what it set out to do' and that the Tasmanian Chief Secretary described the unemployment statistics for the State as 'alarming'? Will the Prime Minister pay no more heed to his Tasmanian colleague's call for a mini-Budget to boost the economy and counter unemployment than he has paid to the Associated Chambers of Commerce and Manufactures, the trade union movement and independent economic commentators? Further, is the nation's economy to be sacrificed so that the face of the Government can be saved? 
 I ask the Minister for Defence a question which is supplementary to the question asked by the Leader of the Opposition. When will responsibility for military operations in Phuoc Tuy Province be transferred from the Australian Task Force to the South Vietnamese army? When will the Third Battalion be withdrawn and, after its departure, what support units will remain in Vietnam to assist the Fourth Battalion? When will the withdrawal of the Fourth Battalion from Nui Dat to Vung Tau begin and when will it finish? Finally, what restrictions have been put on the operation of Australian units in Vietnam during the remaining months of the commitment? 
This is a machinery measure designed to reduce the period of national service from 2 years to 18 months. The substance of the Bill is contained in 2 sentences of the second reading address of the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch).  He went on to outline changes in the national service scheme which did not require legislation. The rest of his speech is padded out with a rambling discourse on the philosophy of national service and the Government's conception of the role of the Army. Not content with confining himself to the administrative matters within the ken of his Department, the Minister ranged broadly over issues of defence policy which surely fall within the jurisdiction of the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  who, of course, is absent from this debate this afternoon. 
Apparently the Minister does not see himself in the nuts-and-bolts cum jailor role which strictly speaking is all he and his Department are supposed to administer in national service.  His  speech was in many ways the speech of a de facto Defence Minister. All sense of demarcation and continuity of responsibility seems to have been lost in a Government which chops and changes its senior personnel so relentlessly and ruthlessly. 
At any rate the Minister made a series of sweeping assertions which warrant examination before I pass to the more pressing task of foreshadowing amendments the Opposition will move to this legislation in the Committee stage. He devoted much time to the national service and defence policies . of the Australian Labor Party. In the main he stated them accurately enough although one could cavil at the absence of context. But some of the comments the Minister passed oh these quite explicitly stated policies were most extraordinary. He said that Government and the Opposition both accepted compulsory military service in principle; neither was opposed to compulsion as such. However the Labor Party had adopted an approach to conscription which was rigid and dogmatic while the Government had adopted a flexible policy. Apparently it is rigid and dogmatic to oppose conscription except where Australian security is threatened; I would have thought this was neither rigid nor dogmatic because it allowed graduated response based on the degree and nature of the threat. 
However, according to the Minister, the Government was flexible in its approach because it wants conscription at all times and in all circumstances. How this can be interpreted as a flexibe approach beggars, I believe, the imagination; it seems to me to be both dogmatic and inflexible. The most charitable explanation for the Minister's confused terminology is that he got his parties back to front when writing his speech. He concluded this garbled analysis with the following remarkabe statement: 
The Labor Party's attitude is one of rigidity; it is therefore inadequate and this is one of the lessons of history. 
He does not specify what is inadequate - the Labor Party, its attitude to conscription or its rigidity - nor is there any account of what lesson of history is referred to by the Minister. One would hope that he is not referring to the period when the last government of his own colour was in power during the Second World War. If be was referring to that period of history he will be quite familiar with the state of the defences of this country when the Curtin Government came to power. The Minister went on to say: it- 
That is the Labor Party -  would use a force in the national interest only under threat of defence emergency. 
On the face of his words the Minister is saying that the Government would use the defence forces in the national interest in circumstances other than a threat to defence emergency. If I read the Minister rightly, he is criticising the Labor Party because it would use defence forces in the national interest only when Australia is threatened by a defence emergency. The Minister went on to say that this is because of 'dogma imposed on the Party from outside'. However, the Government's more flexibe approach would allow it to use the defence forces in the national interest in other circumstances, and for this reason conscripts are always needed. 
Perhaps the Minister did not intend these sinister overtones; perhaps he can explain this fuzzy thinking in his reply. If not, he ought to exercise this sore of pretentious and meaningless wordage from his speeches and concentrate on the bare bones of the legislation he is presenting to the House. The Minister went on to make the bland assertion that conscription was necessary because we could not get enough volunteers, even if we paid them more money. Again, this argument was put forward without a jot of evidence to support it, except that it did not work in 1964. He did state one concrete fact, that even in the difficult military market of the late 1960s it had been possible to increase the volunteer component by a thousand a year. This was achieved even though pay and conditions were inferior and in a period when the labour market was light and high selection standards were applied. 
It is worth while to look at the figures on Army manpower put by the Minister. In 1964 when conscription was introduced we had an all-volunteer army of 23,000 men. Now we have 44,000 men made up of 28,000 volunteers and 16,000 conscripts. However, with Vietnam over, the Government finds it can cut the Army by 9 per cent to 40,000. The Minister says that conscription was not introduced for Vietnam; however with Vietnam over, we do not need as big an Army. With an Army of 40,000 it has been possible to cut the term of conscription by 6 months; that is, the number of conscripts serving at any one time will be only 12,000. According to the Minister it was necessary for defence preparedness that Army strength be maintained at 40,000. Anything less would put our defence interests in jeopardy. 
There are aspects of the crude manpower analysis put by the Minister that cry out for clarification. He said that the volunteer element of the Army had been increasing in round terms at around 1,000 a year. This had produced a strength of some 28,000 men at 30th June this year. There seems no reason why, even under present Government policies, net recruitment should not continue al this rate or even higher. At the rate projected by the Minister it would take 12 years - that is, until 1983 - to bring the Army up to the level considered by the Minister as essential for defence preparedness. At present recruitment rates, which have many deficiencies, the need for conscripts would be progressively eliminated over 12 years. That is to say, without any positive initiative by the Government or action beyond what it is doing now, the conscript element would fade away. Even this target figure of 40,000 is rather illusory, because a substan tial percentage of it depends on conscription. These are the men who are absorbed in the administration and training of the conscript element of the Army. I do not know what percentage of the present force is absorbed in this way but any reasonable assessment would be at least 5 per cent. On this basis at least 2,000 of this 40,000 force would be in non-effective roles because of the need to train the conscript component. An all-volunteer army of 37,000 to 38,000 men would have the same effective fighting strength' as a mixed force of 40,000 volunteers and conscripts. 
On another projection, in 4 years time, in 1975 the volunteer strength of the Army would be 32,000 if present recruiting rates are maintained. The target level on present figures when discounted for the elimination of conscripts would be 37,000 to 38,000. Under these conditions if conscription were abolished the strength of an all-volunteer army would not be significantly below the target strength defined by the Minister as constituting defence preparedness. However, the Minister made much of the fact that 4,000 fewer men were needed now because of the changed situation from that which existed in 1964, when national service was introduced. To quote the Minister's jargon: "That the overall framework within which defence manpower requirements are determined should change is inexorable'. If this is the case, then there is no reason why these requirements should hot change again in the next few years. Accordingly, there is no reason why, once the dust settles from Vietnam, a peak requirement of 36,000 or even 32,000 may not be the norm of Army manpower requirements. 
On the figures I have quoted, it would be possible to form an all-volunteer Army by 1975 not significantly different from the terms of defence preparedness set out by the Minister. This could be done even with the present unsatisfactory rate of voluntary recruitment. If the present manpower patterns changed or Army standards' of selection were varied, it could be done even more quickly. Even on the Government terms, conscription will dwindle year by year - it must do so if the Government considers an army of 40,000 to be adequate - and the volunteer element is increasing at a rate of 1,000 a year from a base of 28,000. By the logic of the Government's policy the term of conscription should fall as the number of conscripts needed to fill the 40,000 ranks falls from 12,000 to 10,000 to 6,000 and ultimately withers away. This sort of examination exposes the falseness of the Government's argument that not enough volunteers can be found and that this country automatically is doomed if we do not have an army of 40,000 in 1972, 1975 or 1980. The point is that the Government has never seriously tried to form and maintain a volunteer army since 1964 when the imminent Vietnam commitment prompted a hasty resort to conscription. This has thrown the emphasis from the volunteer component of the Army where it should properly lie to the induction and training of conscripts. Regular soldiers have suffered from this distortion of priorities. Pay and conditions of members of the Army deteriorated at a quite alarming rate until the Government was coerced into appointing the Kerr Committee, not by regard for the military, but by a threatened revolt of a substantial section of its back bench. 
The honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  who is keen to interject will remember only too well that I raised this matter in the terms of a motion before the Parliament to appoint a joint select committee of the Parliament to look into the pay and allowances of serving members of the Forces and other matters related to their conditions including housing for serving members of the forces, education and scholarships for the children of- those who are serving in the forces and the rehabilitation of ex-servicemen. The honourable member for La Trobe will remember very well that although the Government was not prepared to accept my motion, because of the attitude of those who at that time showed in this House that they were not prepared to tolerate these circumstances any longer and threatened a revolt, the Government introduced its own motion several days later. But the fact remains that the Government even had to be coerced into this. It was prepared to allow these conditions to apply, even though they had prevented proper recruiting. The Minister for Labour and National Service who has accepted the role of the Minister for Defence, as I pointed out when I commenced to speak on this matter, remains silent on these matters. And well he should, as should other members of the Government, because it is no credit to them that they have allowed the conditions of serving members of the forces to deteriorate and that, together with the question of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund, they have refused to accept their responsibility. The honourable member for La Trobe is very well versed in this matter. He knows that this was a matter of complaint and dissatisfaction among those already serving in the forces. We say emphatically that the Government has never really set out to provide for this country an army based on a system of voluntary enlistment. It is possible to obtain recruits for the Royal Australian Air Force and all the recruits needed for the Royal Australian Navy. Again the Minister for Labour and National Service, who has accepted the role of spokesman for the Minister for Defence in this matter, remains silent on the question of recruitment. One hopes that some of this hypocrisy which Government members indulge in when they speak in this House on the matter of conscription will be explained by those who refuse to accept their responsibility in relation to some of the more important aspects of recruitment of the defence forces of this country. 
One could speak at great length on this matter. Having had an opportunity to visit Army establishments or defence establishments in every State and to talk to those who are in a position of responsibility in relation to these matters I believe that a great deal of dissatisfaction exists within the Services. The responsibility for that dissatisfaction can be placed fairly and squarely at the door of this Government. Again I emphasise that since 1964 this Government has never seriously tried to form and maintain a volunteer army. Regular soldiers have suffered from this distortion of priorities to which I have referred. The Government thought it could let the pay and conditions of the Army drag behind the civilian workforce because it had the tool of conscription; it could make up any shortfall in volunteers by exploitation of the machinery of selective conscription. In short it made the conscript element the most important in the Army. 
This was dangerous folly in more ways than one. As I have pointed out it alienated volunteer soldiers. It introduced a large element of waste into the training of soldiers. It produced heavy social costs which do not show up in conventional accounting of defence spending; for example the cost of detecting and punishing offenders under the Act. Above all it induced Government lethargy in the need to stimulate a greater flow of volunteers to the Army. Instead of tackling the question of recruitment in a sensible way, the attraction of more volunteers was shuffled into the too hard basket. The Minister made a great deal of the statement of the Gates Commission in relation to an allvolunteer Army for the United States. He said that this had greaty influenced members of the Labor Party in their cry for an all-volunteer Army. The Minister went on to discount the significance of the Gates Commission report for Australia. Of course our manpower and employment patterns are vastly different from the. United States. The United States has a much larger pool of unemployment to draw on, though it must be conceded that the Government is doing its best at the moment to make up the leeway. 
Of course different situations exist in Australia and America and the conclusions of the Gates Commission cannot be automatically applied to Australian conditions. But the Commission's report has relevance to Australia nonetheless, not least because of its scathing account of this Government's failure to tackle the recruiting problem in the early 1960s. There is a very great lesson for Australia in what the Gates Commission has done; that is, analyse future manpower trends in the United States to see how the draft can be ended and what would need to be spent to form an all-volunteer army. It is remarkable that the Minister should have to refer to an American report for a comparative study of wage and labour conditions. This is the sort of manpower analysis using mathematical techniques and models which should be assayed by his own Department. We had no information on future population and workforce trends from the Minister beyond a vague reference to current research indicating that elasticity of supply of volunteers to our Army was lower than the United States. It is shameful that this should be the level of analysis the Minister brings to this problem, bearing in mind the statistical information and other resources available to his Department. In his concentration on the Gates Commission the Minister ignored the volume of research on military manpower research done in Australia. Two examples are the work done by  Mr A.  D. MacGuarr, a former systems analyst in the Department of Defence and  Mr Glen  Withers of Latrobe University. It is a blot on this Government that studies of this sort should be left to outsiders and that the Minister should have to use the Gates Commission as a yardstick. 
At the moment we just do not know what impact higher pay and better conditions would have on the flow of volunteers to the Army. We do know on figures used by both the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and the Minister for Labour, and National Service that in the difficult period from 1964 to 1970, net recruitment to the Army was at the rate of 1,000 a . year. Even in a period of relative affluence and high employment, even with a rejection rate of 2 in 3, even with Government discouragement of volunteers, it was possible to increase the strength of the volunteer component from 23,000 to 28,000 men. In the next few years we are unlikely to have the same prosperity and the same tight labour market. Moreover traditional patterns of labour and employment are changing and contracting. Recently the Minister introduced a scheme for rural retraining. This made the point that employment prospects on the land are diminishing. There is no reason why the Army with its emphasis on out-door life should not be appealing to workers who are forced off the land, particularly as better pay and conditions flow from the recommendations of the Kerr Committee. There seems, also, to be a real need for re-assessment of selection standards; the Army may no longer be able to enjoy the luxury of the high rejection rate it now applies. 
Remedial treatment of potential recruits whose literacy is not sufficiently high or who possess othe disabilities which could be corrected would produce more recruits. These techniques have been applied effectively in the United Kingdom and there is no reason why they should not be used here to increase acceptance rate of applicants for the Army. There is no reason why the present net rate of recruitment should not be expanded, perhaps even doubled to 2,000 or more recruits to the permanent strength of the Army each year. For the past few years the Government has wanted an Army strength of 44,000 to sustain a three-battalion task force in Vietnam. Its present pre-occupation is to maintain an army of 40,000, presumably to maintain one battalion or more in Malaysia and Singapore in accordance with its stubborn adherence to the discredited forward defence policy. It also clings to the conscript system on the very dubious ground that it provides defence preparedness. It is difficult to see how a mixed force of 40,000 volunteers and conscripts, with all the waste and effectiveness inherent in the conscript system, provides greater defence preparedness than an all-volunteer army of 34,000 which could be raised in 2 or 3 years. In terms of effective fighting manpower the 2 forces would be much the same. In terms of economic efficiency and elimination of wasteful spending and hidden social costs, the all-volunteer army would be vastly superior. 
The Minister made much of the need for a strong army which could be developed in adequate time should more immediate threats arise. It is -difficult to see what the Government means by an immediate threat; any immediate threat would arise from an outbreak of nuclear warfare which would be beyond the capacity of the Australian Army to influence. Any direct threat to Australia based on conventional weapons would have an intelligence leadtime of at least 2 years before it could be considered immediate. In any case the reconnaissance capability of the Air Force and the reconnaissance and protective shield of the Navy would be of much more crucial importance than the Army, whether volunteer or mixed, in the early stages of such a threat. 
There would be time to see the threat coming, assess it and prepare for it; it is not like the 50s and 60s of the last century when the eastern seaboard of Australia waited helplessly for the Russian Navy to appear off the coast. Any rapid expansion of the Army would depend on the permanent forces, that is, the volunteer component of the Army. 
If large numbers of men were to be trained quickly in response to such a threat it would matter very little that there were a few thousand conscripts in the ranks. Nor would it be of vital significance that there were men on the reserve who had been trained as conscripts some years earlier. The existence of the reserve and the Citizen Military Forces would not be of great significance in forming and training a major army to repell a threat of this size. I make no disparaging remarks about the CMF at all. I would like to deal with that in much greater detail at some time when it is more opportune to do so. I have great faith in the CMF to provide a cadre of trained NCO's in a time of national emergency. So the exitence of the reserve and the CMF is of no great significance. They would be swamped in the general mobilisation. In any case even with trained men who had served 2 years as conscripts the rate of retention of military training would not be particularly high. An example are the veterans of the previous national service scheme which ended in the late 1950s. I do not think anyone would seriously suggest that these men, now in their early and mid-thirties, could be recalled now in response to a threat and turned into effective fighting units in anything less than a year. Veterans of the present scheme would be in a better position because of the length and intensity of their training, but even so considerable retraining would be needed. The same would apply to the CMF; quite obviously it would need several months training to bring it to effective standards. For any major threat to Australia what the Minister calls the defence preparedness provided by a few thousand conscripts in the Army and the pool of trained men on the reserves would not be a decisive factor. 
For these and other reasons we will move in the Committee stages for an end to the operation of the Act from 1st January 1972. It seems it is not possible to repeal the Act earlier because of machinery provisions, otherwise we would try to end it immediately. Consequent on the acceptance or rejection of this fundamental amendment the Opposition will move 4 other amendments. The first is designed to provide exemption for conscientious objection on the basis of objection to a particular war. This has been put to the House by the Opposition on several occasions and there is no need for me to elaborate it here. The second amendment is designed to incorporate a new section into the Act which would establish a new procedure for dealing with conscientious objection cases. In short it would establish a uniform framework for hearing these cases throughout the whole of the Commonwealth. This proposal has been put by the Opposition on 2 previous occasions. The third amendment relates to the paroling of perons serving terms of imprisonment under the National Service Act either now or in the future. At present young men gaoled under the National Service Act are denied the provisions for parole given offenders against federal law by the Commonwealth Prisoners Act of 1967. This amendment would enable these young men to be considered for parole according to the law in the State in which they are imprisoned. Right to parole is at present denied to young men imprisoned for offences against sections 51 and 51 a of the National Service Act. The final amendment is designed to secure the release of the 3 men at present in prison under the Act - Charles Martin in Adelaide, Gary Cook in Perth, and Geoff Mullen in Sydney. If carried the amendment will end their terms of imprisonment from the implementation of the Act. These basically are the amendments that will be moved by the Opposition if the first amendment fails, that is, the amendment the Opposition believes should be carried to repeal this Act by 1st January 1972. 
-I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Com. monwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That Lake Pedder, situated in the Lake Pedder National Park in South-West Tasmania, is threatened with inundation as part of the Gordon River hydro-electric power scheme., 
That an alternative scheme exists, which, if implemented would avoid inundation of this lake. 
That Lake Pedder and the surrounding wilderness area is of such beauty and scientific interest as to be of a value beyond monetary consideration. 
And that some unique species of flora and fauna will be in danger of extinction if this area is inundated. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly 'pray that the Federal Government take immediate steps to act on behalf of all Australian people to preserve Lake Pedder in its natural state. All present and particularly future Australians will benefit by being able to escape from their usual environment to rebuild their physical and mental strength in this unspoilt wilderness area. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. I preface it by reminding him that yesterday at question time the Prime Minister said he had referred to the Minister a request from the Premier of Tasmania for a single national fruit marketing authority. Is the Minister aware that delay in answering the Premier's request has deferred action by the Government of Tasmania to set up a State fruit authority? Does the Minister think that a Federal authority is feasible? If so, how much would it cost and how long would it take to establish? 
The submission of this matter of public importance is intended as an exercise in clarification of aspects of the disposition of the Australian Task Force in Vietnam; it is not intended as a post-mortem into the tragic encounter last week in which 5 Australian soldiers were killed and another 25 wounded, nor is it intended as a vehicle by which to canvass the broad range of issues affecting Vietnam which have preoccupied this House over the past 7 years. 
This is not the time to assess what our military commitment in Vietnam has done to Australia and what impact it has had on the defence and security of this country. The final wash-up in Vietnam is beyond the capability of this country to influence in any way. No-one knows with any degree of precision what is going to happen to Vietnam. The Government spokesmen have their views on the level of security that has been achieved in South Vietnam. The Opposition may be extremely sceptical of the worth of these assessments. We will not know for another 2 years at least whether the South Vietnamese state as now constituted will survive or whether it will crumble under renewed Communist pressure. 
For Australia the conflict has contracted to a narrow and rapidly diminishing focus, that is, the safe withdrawal of the remainder of the Task Force from Phuoc Tuy Province. The over-riding issue in the remaining months of the commitment should be to ensure the safe and bloodless removal of the remainder of the Australian forces from Vietnam. This is precisely the reason for raising this matter now. The Opposition has warned repeatedly that the extrication of our troops from Phuoc Tuy Province would be a very dangerous task. It has pointed out that, as the most vulnerable flag force in Vietnam during the rundown of overseas forces, the Task Force faced the peril of special attention from the North Vietnamese main force units and the Vietcong. There is no reason why the Communists in Phuoc Tuy should sit by passively and watch a dwindling antagonist withdrawing across their front. The events of the past week have reinforced these fears. Flowing from the engagement last week, subsequent statements made by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  and the Minister for the Army  (Mr Peacock),  and the answers given by the Minister for Defence to questions in the Parliament yesterday, the Opposition wants to look at the disposition of Australian forces in Phuoc Tuy Province and the security of their withdrawal. 
The first matter we want to look at is the present role in which Australian forces are engaged. There seems to have been no change in the role stipulated for the Australian Task Force even with the sharp contraction in its strength. Briefly summarised, the role of the Australian forces was always envisaged as an offensive one, designed actively to engage the main force regiments, winnow out the Vietcong infrastructure and secure the Province. In the past 2 years much stress has been put on the growth in strength of provincial units in Phuoc Tuy. A picture was painted of the transformation of security in the Province as these territorial units grew in strength and gradually assumed increasing responsibility for the security of the Province. This picture was exposed as an illusion by last week's engagement. In this encounter the Task Force engaged what have been identified as part of a main force Communist regiment without any support from the territorial units supposedly taking over control of the Province. The Government's repeated claims that the Task Force could be withdrawn because the Province has been secured were exposed as a myth. Just as significantly the engagement revealed that the Task Force was still engaged in an active role of hunting out the Communists and engaging them. This is the technique designated as search and destroy by the Americans. 
It is true there has been some conflict of opinion between the commander of the Task Force and the Minister for the Army about just what the Army is doing in Phuoc Tuy at the moment. According to Brigadier McDonald in a story published in the 'Australian' on 24th September, the Task Force was still actively seeking out 
North Vietnamese and Vietcong forces. The Brigadier was quoted as saying there had been no change in military strategy despite the Australian withdrawal. According to the Minister the Task Force was noi on a search and destroy operation when last week's battle broke out. He said the operation had occurred because of the Australian responsibility for the security of approaches to populated areas and the Australian Task Force base. The battle area had not yet been transferred to Vietnamese control. This is a completely different, emphasis from the interpretation of the operation given by the commander of the Task Force, according to  Press  reports. The Army's conception of its role has not changed despite the reduction in strength from 3 battalions to 2 battalions and in the next few weeks to one battalion. This was indicated by the former Task Force Commander, Brigadier Henderson, in a television interview earlier this year. The Brigadier said that despite the removal of one battalion the Task Force role was the same; in substance it was performing a 3-battalion role with 2 battalions. Quite obviously what was militarily feasible with 3 battalions is completely beyond the compass of one battalion. If the Army is to continue a role of actively seeking out enemy units and engaging them, more heavy casualties can be expected. 
It seems the Government  is  culpable here for not insisting that our forces go wholly on the defensive. The task of withdrawal in the face of an active and far from beaten enemy is an immensely difficult one. The difficulties are only intensified if an active role of policing and patrolling the Province is superimposed on the task of withdrawal. No single battalion could perform these 2 military tasks in conjunction, that is, to secure much of the Province and make a simultaneous withdrawal. Yet on the words of the Task Force commander this is how the Army sees its role during the next few crucial months. The Minister for Defence did nothing to dispel this impression in the Parliament yesterday. The Government has a clear duty to direct the commander of the Task Force that in the remaining months in Vietnam, the Task Force should operate strictly on the defensive. It should shed immediately the aggressive patrolling role it sustained in previous years with 3 battalions and support troops. With only one battalion and with most of the support elements gone, it would be disastrous to continue this role. 
The second point the Opposition wants clarified is the relative disposition of Australian and South Vietnamese forces in Phuoc Tuy. The Minister for Defence said yesterday that South Vietnamese regional and popular forces were already responsible for a considerable proportion of the province. According to the Minister the Task Force still maintained the responsibility for security and operations in some of the more remote areas. This hardly squares with the account of Australian responsibility given by the Minister for the Army. The Minister for the Army defines Australian responsibility as the security of approaches to populated areas and the base at Nui Dat. This is sufficiently vague to be defined in any way you want. In a sense approaches to populated areas and the Task Force base could be denned as the whole of Phuoc Tuy province. What is plain is that the area of responsibility defined by the Minister for the Army is not the more remote areas of the province as stated by the Minister for Defence. It would not be a breach of security for either of these Ministers to state to the Parliament just what areas the South Vietnamese are responsible for and what areas the Australians still secure. This is the only way of clearing up these flagrant contradictions between the Minister for Defence and the Minister for the Army. If the remaining battalion is still responsible for patrolling widely over the whole province as withdrawal is undertaken, then it is exposed to very grave risks. 
The third point I want to raise on behalf of the Opposition is the security of the remaining forces during the  2  phases of withdrawal. These are the initial withdrawal from the central area of the province to the seaport of Vung Tau, and then the sealift from Vung Tau to Australia. The first phase will mean the withdrawal of the Fourth Battalion, remaining support units and a considerable amount of equipment through an area whose security is highly suspect. It seems that the Fourth Battalion is engaged at the moment in covering the Third Battalion as it completes withdrawal over the next  2  weeks. The problem remains of how to protect the 
Fourth Battalion as it makes a similar withdrawal to Vung Tau, presumably in late October or early November. The Minister was far from clear yesterday on how this difficult evacuation is to be safeguarded. He said that every possible assistance would be sought and be given in the evacuation by the South Vietnamese and by the United States Air Force. He did not say whether the South Vietnamese assistance would be from regular ARVN units or the territorial units. The territorial units which are ostensibly responsible for a great proportion of the province were not engaged in last week's battle. When the elements of the Third Battalion were reinforced during this encounter, the reinforcement came from the Task Force, not from South Vietnamese provincial units. 
On the details released by the Army it seems there are no regular South Vietnamese Army units on active operations in Phuoc Tuy province at the moment. If there are, the Minister should indicate what units are available and how they will be used to protect Australian withdrawal. To put it bluntly, there is no reason to think that the provincial and popular units have the capability to provide adequate protection for Australian withdrawal. There is no doubt in my mind that these units, despite the improvement claimed for them by this Government, have not the ability to cope with mainforce North Vietnamese units. Last week's battle indicated that these forces are re-entering the north of the province in some strength. In this situation it is imperative that the Third Battalion has the protection of the Regular Army of South Vietnam during this withdrawal. 
There are other questions of security raised after the completion of withdrawal to Vung Tau. The Australian forces will not be as exposed here as at Nui Dat but grave dangers remain. The port of Vung Tau is dominated by the Long Hai hills which are still a Vietcong stronghold. The area of the Australian logistics base, which will be the nerve centre of withdrawal, is also vulnerable to enemy penetration from the sea and across adjoining marsh and sand dune country. A strong risk element will remain until the last man is shipped aboard off Vung Tau. In these final critical months, there is an obligation on the South Vietnamese Government to protect and facilitate Australian withdrawal. This protection should not be dependent on territorial or provincial units. I hope the Minister will give an assurance to the House that the support of regular ARVN units will be available during this decisive period. 
In summary, all the present difficulties and anxieties about the Task Force as the commitment runs down stem from one crucial choice of Government policy. This was to spread the Australian withdrawal over a protracted period. Withdrawal began in December last year; by the time of completion it will have taken more than a year. The reason given for extending withdrawal over this length of time was the need to allow the territorial forces to develop and take over control of the province. On the evidence available the extension of the commitment has not achieved this aim. Certainly the Government should have planned for withdrawal of the last 2 battalions together. What should have been a concentrated withdrawal has turned into a piecemeal withdrawal spread over too long a time span. This has given the Communist forces in Phuoc Tuy province all the intelligence it needs about the Task Force's intentions and likely movements; punches have been telegraphed to the enemy long before the fight. 
At a time when the bulk of American forces in South Vietnam arc acting on the defensive and in support roles, the Government should insist that the remnants of the Task Force relinquishes immediately an offensive patrolling role designed to find and destroy enemy units. For these reasons the Opposition has raised this matter today to allow the Government to clarify confusing aspects of its Vietnam policy, and to reassure the Parliament and people on the security of Australian forces during the agonising months of withdrawal ahead. Australian security must be imperative; our forces must not be influenced by projections of what could happen in Phuoc Tuy after Australian forces leave forever. 
It is unfortunate that I did not have in front of me while he was reading it a copy of the statement made by the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp),  who represents in this chamber the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright). 
I accept the assurance of the Minister that it was passed on to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitiam).  In his statement the Minister raised one or two matters which are of very great importance. One of the problems that is apparent at all of the permanent defence establishments in the various States is the large amount of sub-standard accommodation. I have taken the opportunity of examining a great deal of this accommodation myself. Indeed, last week I had an opportunity to look at what I and I am sure those who serve in the area would regard as sub-standard accommodation at the Puckapunyal camp. 
I appreciate that the Minister's statement dealt with an entirely different matter. However, I hope that implicit in the Minister's statement is an assurance that the accommodation that is to be planned and provided for in this area will be proceeded with as soon as possible. I hope that the fact that the Department of Works has currently under consideration the question of providing more suitable barrack style accommodation at permanent camps will not mean a delay in the completion of this project. I express this hope because I believe that this is an extremely important matter. I believe that some of the problems that have arisen in relation to the subject we have been discussing during the last 2 days are directly related to the matters dealt with by the Minister in his statement. I hope that the Minister will give an assurance that this work will not be delayed just because of some suggestion that other forms of accommodation might be more satisfactory than the accommodation which is about to be provided. The rate of improvement in the standard of accommodation at these camps is, in my opinion, pro gressing far too slowly. However, 1 will not debate that aspect any further at this stage as it is not an appropriate occasion to do so. But I hope that the matter which is at present under consideration by the Department of Works will not delay the provision of the very necessary accommodation in the area to which the Minister has referred. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I move: 
Omit all words after the word 'deemed', insert to end on that date' 
The purpose of this amendment is to secure the release from gaol of the 3 young men who are presently serving sentences for their refusal to take part in the Vietnam conflict. The 3 young men are Charles Martin, who was sentenced to 2 years gaol on 25 th September 1970; Geoffrey Mullen, who was sentenced on 22nd March; and Garry Cook, who was sentenced as late as 27th August 1971, 9 days after the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  made his formal announcement in this Parliament of Australia's withdrawal from Vietnam. The sheer fact that these men are prepared to serve 2 years in gaol must surely provide ample evidence of the conscientious nature of their objection to serving in Vietnam. With the withdrawal of Australian troops from Vietnam now under way there can be no reason in morality or logic for continuing their detention. Indeed, the Minister for the Army  (Mr Peacock),  as reported in the Australian' on 25th September of this year, has said that no national serviceman has been posted to Vietnam since the final withdrawal announcement if he has objected to the assignment. How then can anyone be kept in gaol for objecting to the same assignment? 
Charles Martin was gaoled in September last year for refusing to comply in any way with the National Service Act. He made it clear that his refusal was because of his objection to the Vietnam war. The Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  earlier in the debate tonight, when speaking to one of the other amendments that I had proposed, disputed the fact that Charles Martin had a conscientious objection to a particular war - the Vietnam war. I said then that Charles Martin had made a statement which was printed in the Adelaide 'Advertiser'. The Minister said that Charles Martin had a wider objection to conscription. This is what Charles Martin had to say in a statement which appeared in the Adelaide Advertiser': 1 am sure an Australian military presence in 
Vietnam is not in the interests of peace, freedom or democracy for the people of Vietnam, but on the contrary in the interests of injustice and privilege. It is brutalising and embittering all combatants as well as uncommitted sections of the populace. 
In the face of this statement by Charles Martin which was made not under duress but after having given full consideration to the penalties that would be imposed on him if he expressed a conscientious objection - if I may use that expression - to a particular war, it is quite clear that Charles Martin, as in the other cases, has this objection to a particular war. We are about to relinquish our responsibility in Vietnam. As 1 have pointed out, Charles Martin will still be serving a sentence in a South Australian gaol after the last of the Australian troops have returned from Vietnam. Charles Martin made it clear that his refusal to comply with the Act was because of his objection to the Vietnam war. In the typed statement which he made available to the Adelaide 'Advertiser' and which I have just read to the House he said that he had a conscientious objection to a particular war. 
Likewise, both Geoff Mullen and Gary Cook have made it plain that their consciences would not allow them to participate in the Vietnam war. I think the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  has previously made out a very cogent case for Charles Martin being accorded the same treatment as Bruce Ross. I do not think there is anyone on this side of the House who would not agree with the case which was put by the honourable member for Adelaide in respect of this matter. Upon the intervention of the former Minister for Labour and National Service, Bruce Ross was released after serving 11 months of his 2-year gaol sentence. Charles Martin has now served 12 months of his sentence. As I understand the situation, remissions for good behaviour should allow him to be released as soon as this legislation is passed. This situation arises from the reduction in sentence from 2 years to 18 months which is inherent in this Bill's reduction of the term for national service training from 2 years to 18 months. 
However, I feel the analogy to the Bruce Ross case could be extended to the cases of Martin and Cook. It would be an unhappy conclusion to Australia's involvement in the Vietnam conflict if 2 young men remained in gaol after the last troops had returned from Vietnam. Both Mullen and Cook refused to comply with the law in any way. Because of conscientious beliefs they felt that they could not apply for exemption under the Act. Honourable members opposite may find this paradoxical and difficult to understand, but they should not presume to judge the conscience of others. At a time when the end of the Vietnam war is in sight it is monstrous that 2 men who pushed their objection to the war to the hilt should remain in prison. There is no need for the Government to pursue its vindictive course against these 2 men at a time when the folly of the Vietnam commitment is clearly exposed. They should be released immediately. 
This is not the first occasion that 1 have taken the opportunity to put this case in the House on behalf of those who have expressed an opinion in relation to an objectionable war. If this amendment is defeated, probably it will not be the last occasion. Because they held that opinion they were prepared to accept the consequences of a 2-year gaol sentence. They held a moral objection to what they believed was an unjust war. I believe that this war is drawing to an end so far as the Australian commitment is concerned. It would be morally wrong for this Government to leave these 3 young men in gaol when the Australian commitment has ended in Vietnam. The purpose of this amendment is to seek the release of these 3 young men. Again I believe in all conscience that the Government ought to accept this amendment, do the honourable thing and release these 3 men from gaol. 
I move: 
That the following new clause be inserted in the Bill: 3a. After section 3 of the Principal Act the following section is inserted: "3a. This Act ceases to be in force on the first day of January, One thousand nine hundred and seventy-two.".'. 
The amendment is moved in the context of the statement made by the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  when be wound up the debate on the motion for the second reading of this legislation. I listened with a great deal of interest to the Minister as I have listened to those others who have spoken in this debate from both sides of this Parliament. As the Minister said, it has been a wide ranging debate. Some of the matters raised have been completely irrelevant, but that has not been the responsibility of honourable members on this side of the chamber. The debate certainly did not extend to the terms of the amendment I have moved to repeal the National Service Act as from 1st January 1972. 
It was extremely interesting to listen to honourable members on the Government side expounding their theories about national service, giving the impression to the people of Australia that national service has always been a part of the Australian society. Let me remind the Minister and those who sit with him on the Government side that the Government has experimented with national service on 2 occasions. Everyone on this side of the chamber can recall the Government's first method of national service, which it introduced some years ago and which it subsequently abolished as a complete failure. I suggest that honourable members opposite should read the second reading speech of the Minister who introduced the legislation to abolish the previous system of national service, which they knew was no more than a costly failure. 
Again I say that I have listened with great interest to the arguments advanced by the Minister for Labour and National Service who has spoken, as I pointed out last night, as with the authority of the Minister for Defence. The plain fact is that this is a Bill relating to the Department of Labour and National Service and the Minister knows only too well that the matters about which the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  has just spoken are matters that come within his province and nothing else. Having regard to what the Minister said about the attitude of honourable members on this side of the Parliament, I say that the foreign and defence policy of the Australian Labor Party is based on the firm conviction that war can and must be prevented and any responsible Australian government has a part to play in that prevention. At the same time we make it perfectly clear that we believe there is a necessity for a strong defence force in this country. If we go back into history, as so many on the Government side did during the course of the second reading debate, we can point, I believe, with a great deal of satisfaction and pride to the record of the Australian Labor Party during 2 World Wars. 
What I have said, and what the Government has not answered, is that we do not believe that in a period such as this, a period in which the former Prime Minister said there was no danger to Australia for the next 10 years at least, there, is any necessity for the kind of conscription that this Government has foisted on the people of Australia. It knows that this is one of the most divisive issues that have faced this country in recent years. There have been 2 of them, both of the Government's own making. The first was the introduction of national service and the second was our involvement in Vietnam. It is not my prerogative to speak about the latter tonight. 
Let me turn again to this question of national service. Every honourable member on the Government side knows that there is no-one in Australia who could possibly justify the Government's method of selecting 20-year-olds to be conscripted to fight overseas in a war in which Australia should have no part. We know and the Govern-  ment knows that national service was introduced with Vietnam in mind. Since we are now relinquishing our involvement in Vietnam the period of national service is to be reduced from 2 years to 18 months. We have maintained consistently that it requires a period of only 12 months to train a serviceman in this country. 
Let me remind the Minister for Labour and National Service that his colleague, the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  quite recently during a very short but unforgettable career as Minister for Defence, twice removed, himself admitted that, if we doubled the number of conscripts, reduced the period from 2 years to 12 months and spread the responsibility, it would be a much more equitable burden on the people of this country. So he believed that it could have been reduced at that time - and that was in July of this year - from 2 years to 12 months. I hope that I have quoted the former Minister for Defence correctly. The plain fact is that this system is neither just nor equitable. It is costly. It has been foisted on the people of Australia and, despite what the Minister and those who support him have had to say about the National Service Act, it is intensely disliked by the people of Australia because of the method of selection. No honourable member on the other side of the House has attempted during the course of this debate to justify the method of selection of 20-year-olds who were called upon to serve for a period of 2 years or who will be called upon to serve for a period of 18 months under this amending legislation. 
The time at my disposal is limited, so let me conclude on this note. We on this side of the House have never suggested that it is not essential to maintain the defence forces in this country to guarantee our security. The Labour Party, whether in government or in opposition, has never failed to express its point of view in this way. Indeed we on this side have made it perfectly clear that in a time of national emergency if the necessity arose we would not hesitate to introduce a system of national service and conscription in this country. In the Second World War and in the Korean War, the Government was able to obtain all the volunteers it required at that time. I believe that if the Government set out to give to the armed Services of this country the kind of professional status to which they are entitled there would be no difficulty in obtaining all the volunteers that are required. The Minister for Labour and National Service said only a few moments ago that this could not be done. The Government has only just attempted to provide improved conditions that will mean additional volunteers for the armed Services. 
The Government had to be prompted in this respect because it was not the Government that decided of its own volition to set up the committee under the chairmanship of  Mr Justice  Kerr which is now examining conditions in our armed Services. The Government was prompted by the Opposition to set up this inquiry and by the fact that there could have been a rebellion by honourable members on its own side. The honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  freely admitted this last night; he did not have to be prompted in this respect. Who caused an inquiry into the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund to be set up? Again the Government was prompted by honourable members on this side of the House. If this Government decided to build up the defence forces of this country on a voluntary basis it would find it could be done. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Hallett)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
 I move: 
That the following new clause be inserted in the Bill: "6a. Sections 29a, 29b, 29c, 29ca and 29d of the Principal Act are repealed and the following sections inserted in their stead: 29a. - (1.) A person whose conscientious beliefs do not allow him to engage in military service, either generally or while particular circumstances (including a particular war or particular warlike operations) exist, is, so long as he holds those beliefs, exempt from liability to render service under this Act. (2.) For the purposes of this section, a conscientious belief is a conscientious belief whether the ground of the belief is or is not of a religious character and whether the belief is or is not part of the doctrines of a religion. 29b.  -  (1.) The question whether a person is, by virtue of sub-section (1.) of the last preceding section, exempt from liability to render service under this Act shall be heard and determined by a Commissioner for Conscientious Objectors upon application made in accordance with the regulations. (2.) Where an application has been made under the last preceding sub-section in relation to  a  person in relation to whom no previous application has been made under that sub-section, then, until the hearing and determination of the application by a Commissioner and, if an appeal is brought from the decision of the Commissioner, until the hearing and determination of the appeal - 
the person shall be deemed for the purposes of this Act other than sub-section (5.) of section thirty-five b to be exempt from liability to render service under this Act; 
any notice under Part 111. requiring him to attend and submit himself for an examination for the purpose of determining his physical or mental fitness or capacity for service under this Act is of no effect; and 
if he is a national serviceman - he shall be granted leave without pay. (3.) The parties at the hearing of an application in relation to a person under sub-section (I.) of this section are the person and the Minister. (4.) In determining an application under subsection (1.) of this section in relation to a person, a Commissioner shall have regard to all relevant matters including - 
the circumstances in which the person claims to have formed his beliefs and to have continued to hold those beliefs; 
the period during which the person claims to have held his beliefs; and 
the extent to which the person's evidence as to his beliefs is corroborated, but the Commissioner may, if he thinks fit, accept the evidence of the person whether it is corroborated or not. (5.) In this section, "Commissioner" means a Commissioner for Conscientious Objectors holding office under the next succeeding section. 29c. - (1.) For the purposes of this Act, the Governor-General shall - 
in respect of each State - appoint a person to be the Commissioner for Conscientious Objectors for that State; and 
in respect of each Territory - appoint a person to be the Commissioner for Conscientious Objectors for that Territory. (2.) A person is not eligible for appointment as the Commissioner for a State or Territory unless he is - 
a Judge of the Supreme Court of that State or Territory; or 
a Judge of a District Court or County Court of that State or Territory or, if there is no such Court in that State or Territory, a barrister or solicitor of the Supreme Court of that State or Territory of not less than ten years' standing. (3.) A person appointed to be a Commissioner holds office for such period (not exceeding seven years) as is specified in the instrument of his appointment, but is eligible for re-appointment. (4.) A person appointed as a Commissioner shall be paid remuneration at such rate (if any) as the Governor-General determines, but the rate shall not be diminished during his term of office. (5.) A Commissioner shall be paid such allowances (if any) in respect of travelling expenses as the Minister determines. (6.) A Commissioner shall, before proceeding to discharge the duties of his office, take an oath or make an affirmation as prescribed. (7.) A Commissioner may resign his office by writing signed by him and delivered to the GovernorGeneral. (8.) The regulations may make provision for and in relation to the practice and procedure in relation to the performance by Commissioners of functions under this Act, including the Summoning of witnesses, the production of documents, the taking of evidence on oath or affirmation, the administering of oaths or affirmations, the payment of expenses of witnesses andthe protection and immunity of Commissioners, of barristers and solicitors appearing before Commissioners and of witnesses. 29d.  -  (1.) Where a Commissioner for Conscientious Objectors for a State or Territory has given a decision on an application under section twenty-nine b of this Act, a parly to the application may appeal from that decision to the Supreme Court of that Stale or Territory constituted by not less than three Judges. (2.) The Court in which an appeal under this section is instituted - 
shall hear and determine the appeal; 
may affirm, vary or set aside the decision of the Commissioner; 
may give such judgment, or make such order, as in all the circumstances it thinks fit, or refuse to make an order; and 
may remit the case for rehearing and determination, either with or without the hearing of further evidence, by the Commissioner. (3.) A decision of a Court on anappeal under this section is final and conclusive except so far as an appeal may be brought to the High Court by leave of the High Court.'.". 
The amendment  I  have moved on behalf of the Opposition can be considered in  2  parts.  I  have of course moved for these provisions on  2  other occasions in this Parliament. The Opposition proposes  2  amendments to the principal Act and if these amendments are accepted by the Government they will almost certainly remove a great deal of the agony and divisiveness that has accompanied the question of conscientious objection since national service was introduced by this Government. Briefly the first part of this amendment proposes that there should be the right for a person in this country who has a conscientious objection to a particular war to express that objection.  I  cannot emphasise too much the necessity for including this provision in the principal National Service Act.  I  concede at this stage that our first amendment was defeated and that if accepted it would have had the effect of repealing the principal Act from 1st January 1972. As this amendment has been defeated I believe it is now the responsibility of the Opposition to put forward the amendments which we have put before this Parliament on other occasions and which we believe would improve the principal Act if they were accepted. Therefore I return to the first pan of the amendment which concerns conscientious objection and conscientious objection to a particular war. Every honourable member in this Parliament is fully aware of the circumstances that have surrounded the cases that have been dealt with in the courts whereby young men have been imprisoned. 
Honourable members who have spoken tonight, particularly from this side of the chamber, have referred to those young men who are now imprisoned as a result of their conscientious objection, but in particular as a result of their conscientious objection to a particular war. There will be an opportunity at a later stage to deal with these 3 cases because I propose to move a further amendment which would provide for the release of those young men who are now imprisoned because of their conscientious objection. 
Let me refer briefly to these cases. In at least 2 of these cases the young men stated their conscientious objection to conscription particularly on the basis of the Vietnam war. It was quite clear from the statement which was made by one of these young people and which appeared in the Adelaide 'Advertiser' that he had a conscientious objection to the Vietnam war. We believe that it is a principle that ought to be accepted by any democratic government that if the right of conscientious objection is to be recognised there ought to be the opportunity for a person to express his objection to a particular war. I reiterate what I said a few moments ago in relation to the divisiveness that has been created in this country as a result of the treatment of those who wanted to express their conviction and opposition to conscription and who refused to accept the law of this country because they had an objection to a particular war. 
Surely this is a democratic process that has been accepted in other countries in relation to their conscientious objection provisions. It is a provision that ought to be accepted by this Government in relation to the national service legislation. It is notorious, of course, that it is much more difficult to obtain recognition of conscientious objection on any grounds in some States than it is in others. One does not blame those who have to apply the law in this respect. I think that they have done what they could under the circumstances having regard to the Act and the manner in which the Act should be interpreted. That brings me to the second part of the amendment which would provide for a commissioner for conscientious objection. 
The amendment, therefore, is divided into 2 parts, the first to provide for conscientious objection on the basis of objection to a particular war, and the second to provide for the setting up of a commissioner for conscientious objection in each State. I have already emphasised how difficult it has been for magistrates to interpret this legislation. I think there have been some cases in which a magistrate has granted conscientious objection on the basis of a young man's application for conscientious objection to the Vietnam war. but basically the Act, if it is interpreted correctly, would not allow for conscientious objection on these grounds. Indeed, if my memory serves me correctly, in the Thompson case in 1968 judgment was given that conscientious objection could not be granted on the basis of objection to a particular war. 
So I believe that there is a need to adopt a uniform standard in this country in relation to conscientious objection if we are to overcome the problem of disparity between the States and the fact that it has been much easier, for example, to obtain recognition of conscientious objection in South Australia and Western Australia than it has been in New South Wales and Victoria. The last figures provided by the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  do not give a breakdown of the number of cases for each State in which conscientious objection has been granted. On previous figures, which I have quoted in this House, it has been proved conclusively that in some States it has been much easier to gain conscientious objection than in others. In this respect I make no reflection on those whose responsibility it has been to make these determinations but I believe that if there were a uniform code of conscientious objection and if in each State there were appointed a commissioner for conscientious objection it would be much easier for this uniform code to be adopted. 
The amendment proposes that there should be appointed a commissioner for conscientious objection in each State. Much of the amendment is purely of a machinery nature in relation to the appointment of a commissioner and in relation to the payment of remuneration. 1 do not think it would be necessary for me to deal with those matters at this stage. Finally, in relation to the appointment of a commissioner for conscientious objection the amendment provides for an appeal from the magistrate to a court of a State or Territory of not less than 3 judges and finally an appeal to the High Court of Australia by leave of the High Court itself. Undoubtedly these provisions which, as 1 have already indicated, can be placed in 2 categories - the right for a person to express conscientious objection on the ground of objection to a particular war, and the appointment of commissioners for conscientious objection - represent an improvement to the Act. I hope that the Minister will accept the amendment. I am sure that there must be some honourable members on the Government side who can at least see some merit in this proposal. 1 hope that they will be prepared to support the Opposition on this occasion. I commend the amendment to the Committee. 
I support the amendment moved by the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby).  I would not have risen to speak in this debate if it had not been for what I regard as a fatuous speech made by the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street).  Undoubtedly he has given little thought or consideration to what, after all, is a humane amendment which was explained very carefully to the Committee by the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory. Surely noone could be convinced by the argument advanced by the honourable member for Corangamite. He merely said that he did not believe in parole provisions. Surely he subscribes to the parole provisions which apply in his own State. He would not oppose the parole provisions which apply in bis own State or in Tasmania or in South Australia. It is merely a question of justice. We are asking that the parole provisions which apply to those who are serving sentences for any one of a number of indiscretions for which a person can be sentenced in a criminal court in a State should apply to those who have committed an offence under the Commonwealth law. There is no justice in a provision in an Act which prevents the normal parole provisions which apply to any other citizen from being applied to people convicted under the National Service Act. 
I do not want to deal at any great length with the 3 persons who are concerned in this matter. A great deal has already been said about those persons who are serving gaol sentences, and I will have something more to say about them when we are discussing the last amendment. All we are asking the Government to do, in the ordinary course of justice, is to amend the National Service Act to allow not only remissions for good behaviour but also the normal parole provisions to be extended to these people. Having listened to the honourable member for Corangamite one wonders whether the Government is prepared to allow the remission provision to remain in the Act 
Surely if the provisions which refer to remissions for good behaviour can be applied it ought to be left to the good judgment of those in the States who have the responsibility to see that a person serves the sentence which has been imposed for an offence - in this case it would be an offence relating to the National Service Act - to decide whether the parole provisions also should be applied. Then any young man who refused to obey the law of the land in this respect - whether it was for conscientious reasons or for some other reason - could expect to have applied to him the parole provisions which operate in the State in which he is convicted. Under normal circumstances, if he were convicted of some other offence - no matter whether it was under Federal law or not - he would be entitled to receive the benefits of the parole provisions. 
This Government has refused consistently to apply the parole provisions to those who are convicted under the national service legislation. Where is the justice or logic in this kind of attitude? It indicates quite clearly that the Government is consistently opposed to those who it says have the temerity to stand up and oppose its national service legislation. Apparently the honourable member for Corangamite has not been very well advised on this issue. I do not know whether this is an indication of what we can expect from him. I understand that he is an Assistant Minister. On the first occasion on which he has assisted the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  he has put forward a proposition opposing an amendment moved in this House merely for the sake of opposing it. There was no logic or reasoning in his argument. I hope that the Minister for Labour and National Service, who is responsible for this Bill, will reconsider the proposition put by the honourable member for Corangamite and accept an amendment which ought to be accepted on the basis of common humanity and justice. 
Motion (by  Mr Giles)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put 
Question put: 
That the new clause proposed to be inserted  (Mr Enderby's amendment)  be inserted. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Why has the payment of the 6 per cent national wage increase to Service medical and dental personnel been delayed for more than 8 months. 
Will he ensure that future national wage increases are paid in the same financial year as they are granted so that these personnel are not forced to pay tax on money earned in a previous financial year in addition to the tax payable on earnings for the current financial year. 
asked the Minister for Supply, upon notice: 
Is he able to give the (a) number and (b) value of all sub-contracts involved in Boeing's production of the 747 aircraft. 
Can he state the (a) number and (b) value of these sub-contracts awarded to Australian companies. 
asked the Minister for 
Primary Industry, upon notice: 
How many Department of Primary Industry scientists engaged in fisheries research are based in each State. 
What sum has been spent by the Commonwealth on fisheries research in each State for each of the last three years. 
asked the Minister for Ship ping and Transport, upon notice: 
What are the comparative costs of an Omega transmitting system using an aerial 
mounted on a platform; 
erected on a complex of high masts; and 
slung across a valley. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Can he say which American, British, Japanese and European companies make Omega receivers. 
Which of the companies has associates in Australia. 
What is the cost of each model of Omega receiver made by the companies. 
How many receivers have been manufactured by each of the companies. 
asked the Minister for Ship  ping and Transport, upon notice: 
Can he say which: 
international shipping lines have installed Omega receivers on their ships and 
which international airline companies have installed Omega receivers on their aircraft. 
asked the Minister for Ship  ping and Transport, upon notice: 
What sites in Australia for an Omega navigation transmitting station have been inspected by United States survey teams. 
asked the Minister for Ship  ping and Transport, upon notice: 
What are the estimated power requirements for: 
an Omega transmitter and 
a total Omega Complex. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Defence and is, in a sense, supplementary to that asked by the honourable member for Bradfield. I ask: Has further consideration been given to the establishment of a tri-service academy in Canberra to train officers for the Royal Australian Navy, the Australian Regular Army and the Royal Australian Air Force? The Minister will recall that this matter was originally suggested by his predecessor twice removed. Has this matter been further considered? Is it one of the recommendations that the Minister will be placing before Cabinet and, if so, when can the House expect to be informed in relation to this matter? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Air, upon notice: 
What modifications were made at the request of the Royal Australian Air Force in (a) Mirage and (b) Macchi aircraft. 
Is the Minister for Supply aware of growing discontent among employees in the aircraft industry about future employment prospects and the future organisation of the industry? Is the Government yet in a position to resolve this uncertainty, particularly over the proposed merger of the Government Aircraft Factories and the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation? Have inspections been made of GAF equipment by senior staff of the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation? Has correspondence been circulated to staff of the Government Aircraft Factories indicating the inclusion of the GAF factory at Avalon in the proposed merger? Finally, are Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation engine and helicopter operations involved in merger proposals? 
asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
What percentage of imports have entered Australia each year under the system of limited preference given to underdeveloped nations since the introduction of the scheme. 
asked the Minister for Supply, upon notice: 
In relation to total expenditure in Australia on purchases by the Department of Supply for each of the last 3 years, what has been the percentage expended in each State. 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Army. The Minister will be aware of persistent Press reports in recent months that Australian troops have been involved in action against Communist forces in Malaysia near the Thai border. Some reports have referred to casualties and loss of life in such encounters. Has there been any military contact between Australian units and Malaysian Communists? Have Australian units ever been used in any way for internal police operations in Malaysia? What is the area of operations of the Australian unit stationed at Butterworth on a rotational basis? If these reports are without substance what arrangements can the Minister make for better Press liaison facilities at Butterworth to stop dissemination of these disturbing stories? 
It is almost 30 years since the last comprehensive examination of the operation of the Repatriation Act was made. This was by a joint committee of this Parliament with  Mr Reg  Pollard as  Chairman.  It presented its report to the Parliament in January 1943, so it could never be claimed that the Government has acted rashly in initiating its inquiry. The Pollard Committee made its examination of the Repatriation Act at a time when World War II was entering its final years and the Curtin Government was preparing for the repatriation of hundreds of thousands of ex-servicemen. The Pollard Committee did not try to project beyond the complexities of the immediate postwar years. 
The strict meaning of repatriation is restoration or return to the native land; accordingly, the primary objective of Government policy after World War II was to get our soldiers back to Australia and reestablish them in the domestic economy. With this objective achieved, the focus of the Act switched to the care and welfare of returned soldiers and the dependants of those who had died. In a sense the term 'repatriation' is a misnomer as applied in Australia; the whole range of activities covered under what we call the Repatriation Actis usually designated as veterans legislation in other countries. Largely for traditional reasons the term repatriation has persisted in Australia. This is one example of the urgent need for a comprehensive review of this wide-ranging Act; the title of the Act is redolent of limited periods of Australian history, that is, a few years after World War I and a few years after World War II. In terms of its overall impact, the Repatriation Act is one of the most important pieces of legislation administered by the Commonwealth Government. Its range is so vast that it could be said with fairness to affect a majority of Australian families. 
The scope of the Act and the period of 28 years since it was last reviewed make it extremely unfortunate that the Government has delayed for so long in initiating this inquiry. I raised certain matters related to this inquiry when the repatriation legislation was debated in this House only a few weeks ago. The Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  will recall that this question has been raised by means of our moving amendments to repatriation Bills over a number of years. Our request has been for the establishment of a joint select committee of the Parliament to review the Repatriation Act. In the first place it is regrettable that the Government took so long to announce the terms of reference and the appointment of the person to conduct the inquiry. Apparently the Government wanted a senior judge; I belive that it is fortunate in getting  Mr Justice  Toose to conduct the inquiry. 
What is alarming is the fetish the Government has about insisting on senior members of the bench to conduct these inquiries. These resources are already severely overtaxed. It would be most regrettable if a stage were reached where a government insisted that an inquiry of this sort could be conducted only by a top judge. I make no criticism in this respect except to mention what I believe is a possibility. We could be placed in a position in which an important inquiry could be held in abeyance because of the Government's insistence that only a top judge could accept these responsibilities. 
This legislation is the responsibility of this Parliament. Accordingly when it is revised the Parliament should be responsible. For this reason the Opposition has always moved for a joint committee of this Parliament to make the examination. All too often matters which are the prerogative of this Parliament are delegated outside. Of course there are circumstances where an inquiry by a senior member of the judiciary is appropriate. Examples are the Fox inquiry into bastardisation at Duntroon and the Rapke inquiry into treatment of naval cadets. But where a major piece of legislation which is the responsibility of this Parliament comes up for review it should be done by the Parliament. 
Having stressed this point I make no criticism of the appointment of  Mr Justice  Toose. From the detailed biography given by the Minister his legal, civil and military record appears to be exemplary. Indeed, one would assume that as a result of his activities on behalf of servicemen, particularly those with whom he served during the Second World War, he has maintained his interest in military matters since his discharge from the forces. Therefore one could expect, and I know, that Judge Toose will most certainly conduct an inquiry of this kind with sympathy and understanding towards those with whom he served, and others who served in the First and Second World Wars and the other wars which have followed. 
With regard to the terms of reference there is one grave source of disappointment and dissatisfaction. This is the refusal to include any specific recommendation on rates of pension. The reasons given for rejecting this course of action are extremely feeble. Obviously it has been done to prevent any recommendations of pension rates which would embarrass the Government. One of the reasons given is that the inquiry would make known the views of ex-servicemen's organisations and the public on pension rates. It is then intended that  Mr Justice  Toose should collate these views and include them in his report. This procedure is open to challenge on two grounds. Firstly, the views of exservicemen and other organisations on pension values are widely known. They could be collated in a matter of hours by a junior clerk. A senior judge is not needed to perform such an elementary and menial task as collating sets of figures already on the public record. 
Secondly, it is an insult to a top judge to expect him just to collate these figures and present them to the Government. This was not the practice adopted in the Kerr Committee's inquiry into service pay rates. The Kerr Committee was given a clear mandate to set new pay rates and the Government has accepted its recommendations and introduced them. Presumably,  Mr Justice  Kerr will follow a similar line in his inquiry into Parliamentary pay rates and allowances. However,  Mr Justice  Toose will not be able to express himself on proper levels of pension payments and other benefits for ex-servicemen. This is a notable down grading of the status of this inquiry. It is a clear indication that the Government fears the consequences of any assessment of repatriation benefits by an independent authority. 
There is also a clear implication in this tactic that present benefits are much too low and that their values have been eroded sharply in the 28 years since the last inquiry. The excuse given by the Minister that it was not considered appropriate for the judge to shoulder the heavy responsibility of reaching conclusions on matters involving large amounts of Commonwealth money is sanctimonious eyewash. On this line of reasoning no committee of inquiry would ever recommend anything that cost money because of the charge on the Commonwealth. A term of reference specifying recommendations of pension rates has not been incorporated because the Government fears political embarrassment. In the years since the Act was last reviewed, in 1943, Australian servicemen have been committed to three other wars. These have raised new problems which were not envisaged by the Pollard committee. 
One of the areas which should be looked at closely by  Mr Justice  Toose is the impact of Vietnam on the whole structure of the Repatriation Act. In America at the moment there is considerable debate on the medical care of veterans wounded in Vietnam. The basis of this debate is the need to give care and rehabilitation to a large number of very seriously wounded veterans. The point is that many of these men would not have survived in earlier wars. Because of fast evacuation by helicopter, new drugs, new medical techniques it is now possible for men with enormously devastating wounds to survive. This has meant a much greater proportion of 100 per cent disability, or what our terminology calls totally and permanently incapacitated pensioners. In actual fact it is a special rate of pension. 
It has been estimated that in the United States there are three times as many permanently disabled from Vietnam as from World War II and there are twice as many from Vietnam as from Korea. The nature of the weapons used in Vietnam has produced many more multiple injuries, many more spinal cord injuries and many. more wounds which are permanently disabling. This raises the problem of matching rehabilitation and care techniques with the medical miracle achieved in the field in Vietnam when the veteran returns home. The same problems will occur in Australia though on a much smaller scale. I do not know whether it is yet possible to assess categories of wounds relative to pension and repatriation benefits for our Vietnam disabled. On the figures available there seems to be a much higher proportion of permanently disabled among the wounded. 
For example, in the four months from 1st April to 31st July 1970, 32 Australian soldiers in Vietnam incurred serious disabilities described in the fourth and fifth schedules of the Repatriation Act. Of these, 13 received wounds, injuries and disease involving total and permanent disabling effects. Thb means that one in three of these seriously injured men will automatically be a TPI pensioner. The Act describes them in this way. The other 19 men listed under these schedules are not automatically described as TPI pensioners in the same way. From the nature of their wounds they will qualify for TPI status. We should accept the fact that the Vietnam war will produce a greater proportion of TPI pensioners than any war in Australia's history, lt is then our duty to evaluate techniques for rehabilitation and re-establishment. These may have been successful in handling the disabled of past wars. They may need substantial changes to cope with the peculiar circumstances of the Vietnam war. This is one particular and important area which I hope will receive special attention from  Mr Justice  Toose. 
In summary the Opposition is pleased that this belated inquiry is about to begin. We would have preferred a Parliamentary committee. 1 acknowledge that exservicemen's organisations and other interested organisations have pressed for an inquiry of this sort. Therefore, one must accept it as being a reasonable approach on behalf of the Government to accede to that request. In the main the terms of reference are acceptable but the Government warrants severe censure for ducking the issue of having pension and benefit values assessed by an independent authority. These serious reservations apart, the Opposition welcomes the appointment of this Committee. I conclude by making one or two brief observations. I reiterate what I said in relation to the appointment of a very senior judge with special qualifications. I join with the Minister in extending my good wishes for the success of the inquiry. I know that it will be a successful committee of inquiry into one of the most important aspects of government in this country. I have already drawn attention, as has the Minister, to the need for this inquiry and the requests made for it. 
Although I have been critical of that important aspect of the terms of reference which denies a qualified person the right to assess pension rates and the extent to which their values have been eroded - if it can be successfully argued that they have been eroded, and I believe it can - I think it is competent for a man of the calibre of  Mr Justice  Toose, with the evidence that will be placed before him, to be able to recommend to the Government what he believes ought to be the schedules of repatriation benefits and how those schedules should be applied. 
Having made that criticism I again acknowledge that the terms of reference will at least provide to those organisations and persons interested, particularly the Returned Services League, members of this Parliament and others, the opportunity to place their views before  Mr Justice  Toose in relation to the many other matters that have been raised in this Parliament and which 1 believe would improve the existing Repatriation Act and remove some of the anomalies. I refer particularly, of course, to section 47. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Which members of consumer groups or the general public are on each of the following committees or sub-committees of the National Health and Medical Research Council: (a) food standards (b) food additives (c) food microbiology (d) food science and technology and (e) pesticides and agricultural chemicals. - (2) Which companies involved in the food industry are represented on these committees, and on which committees are they represented. 
My question is directed to the Minister for . Supply. Has the American procurement programme known as 'Pave Coin' been drawn to the attention of the Minister? Is the programme designed to procure for the use of America's allies under the military assistance programme planes in utility, close support, strike and forward air controller categories? If so, would the Project N Aircraft be suitable for any of these categories? Has the Government brought Project N to the notice of American procurement authorities selecting aircraft under the 'Pave Coin' programme? 
The Committee is considering Commonwealth spending on education, estimated at $345.5m in 1971-72, according to the statement made last week by the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  This assistance ranges over a wide area, from the provision and maintenance of schools and tertiary education institutions in the Territories through grants to the States for a number of educational functions to Commonwealth scholarship schemes and special assistance to Aboriginals and soldiers' children. This range of assistance looks daunting on paper, but in no sense of the term can it be labelled a national plan for education. A broad range of educational services and assistance has been created by a process of accretion; odd components have been added over the years either in response to electoral needs or to supplement existing Commonwealth projects. This is reflected in an ironical way in the statement made last week by the Minister. He made great play of the discrepancies in the assessment of educational needs by the various States. Examples were estimates of pupil-teacher ratios and building costs per pupil. The Minister had great pleasure in castigating the States for their ineptness in not coming up with more consistent estimates. He claimed that the needs estimates of the States showed they were based on narrow and parochial criteria. The States were at fault because they did not approach their surveys with a consistent nation-wide view. This is a remarkable statement to come from the Minister for Education and Science in a Government which has always ducked the questions of a national plan for education and a survey of needs conducted by the Commonwealth. Did the Minister seriously think he could get a coherent national plan by amalgamating the results of the State needs surveys? Are the States to be blamed if they look through the wrong end of the telescope in making their projects and stating their needs? Of course the Commonwealth is at fault for not setting the broad guidelines for co-operation of Commonwealth and States and allowing the States to fill in the basic detail. Despite years of evidence of deterioration in Australian schooling at all levels, his Government will not accept that the Commonwealth has any overriding responsibility for education. 
This has shown up in every debate on education in this Parliament; in particular it has been revealed in repeated attempts by the Opposition to get the adoption of a national plan for education at all levels with the Commonwealth providing direction and channelling funds into education in a more rational and constructive way. For a time it did seem the Government would use the needs surveys conducted by the States as the basis for better planning at the national level. These hopes have been dashed by the demolition job done on these surveys by the Minister in the Parliament last week. In many ways this exercise was reminiscent of the destruction of the Vernon Committee report by  Sir Robert  Menzies. 
The Minister put considerable emphasis on the enhanced ability of the State to meet its education needs. He referred to improvements in the general financial situation of the States because of increases in Commonwealth general revenue grants and the transfer of payroll tax to the States. According to the Minister this put the States in a much better position to improve education by increased spending. He went on to list increases in spending on education announced in the various State Budgets. This concentration on aggregate figures conveniently obscures important aspects of public finance policy in the States. On a close examination the alleged improvement in the ability of the States to devote more to education because of Commonwealth munificence is revealed as a myth. 
Undoubtedly the States are devoting more of their spending to education. But they are doing this by cutting down on other areas of essential spending such as health, law and order and public safety. 
This is revealed in the national accounts figures released each year with the Budget documents. According to these figures recurrent spending on education has increased quite significantly while resources devoted to health and law and order have declined. For example recurrent spending on education increased from 37.3 per cent of total State and local government spending in 1959-60 to 43 per cent in 1969-70. In the same 10 years spending on law and order and public safety dropped from 12.4 per cent to 10.6 per cent, and spending on public health from 22.1 per cent to 19.9 per cent. This shows quite clearly that resources have been slowly diverted from other key areas of public spending to education. 
The new sources of revenue opened to the States may do something to curb this trend. It is extremely unlikely that it can be reversed. Quite clearly resources which should be applied by the States to a broader range of essential activities are being plundered because of the enormous pressures on education. This has skewed priorities in public spending in a very marked way. The trend is just as marked in capital spending. Education is the only item which increased significantly in the 10 years from 1959-60 to 1969-70. Capital spending on development and transport has fallen. Again resources have been diverted from important areas of spending to education. Both recurrent and capital spending have been caught in a vice by the overwhelming demands of education. It exposes the hypocrisy of repeated efforts by the Commonwealth Government and Liberal-Country Party Premiers to drum up law and order campaigns when spending on maintenance of law and order and public safety is allowed to dwindle. 
On the question of needs there are many areas of dissatisfaction on the impact of Government policies and the choice of Government priorities. A striking one is the provision of pre-school training by the States. The variation in quality of services provided and the amount of spending devoted to these facilities is quite staggering. This can be pointed up in many ways. Perhaps the most impressive example of inequalities between the States shows up in figures on children who attend pre-schools in the States and the Australian Capital Territory. 1 refer to figures from the 
Department of Education and Science and the Australian Pre-school Association on the number of children eligible for preschool education who attend in each State. These show that in 1969 the highest attendance was in the ACT where the Commonwealth has responsibility. Attendance was 48.9 per cent of eligible children, that is from 3 years upward to school age. The best of the States was Victoria with 28.5 per cent attendance followed by South Australia and Tasmania with 15.5 per cent and 14.4 per cent. New South Wales was at the bottom of the scale with only 3 per cent of eligible children getting a preschool education. 
These figures are a couple of years old but the trend is unlikely to have changed to any significant extent. They reveal that in the most populous State with the biggest city in Australia, with a heavy concentration of migrants and lower income earners, facilities for pre-school education are negligible. The pattern of educational inequality emerges between the Commonwealthadministered Territories and the States, between the individual States, between country and urban schools, between independent and State schools. Yet all this Government can do about the needs that have emerged from the surveys conducted by the States is to discount them and point to the extra revenue resources provided. Whatever the defects of the surveys made by the States, they warranted a better treatment than disdainful dismissal by the Minister. Nor is it any defence by the Commonwealth to point to extra sources of revenue open to the States. This will not end the need for State governments to pillage resources which should be earmarked for other public spending. 
Education is the dominant item in the Budget of each of the States. In effect it is the dynamic for the whole structure of State fiscal policy and has an immense impact on relations between the States and Commonwealth. For this reason it must get much better planning and much better administration from the Commonwealth Government. The States have been burdened to the limit of their resources by the demands of education. Further pressures are inevitable, particularly with the contraction of the Catholic school structure which is now evident in Victoria and Tasmania. The strains of the Catholic school system, which is the backbone of the independent schools structure, will be felt increasingly in other States in the months ahead. In summary, the future of education at all levels cannot be approached with any optimism. The Government has no conception of the inequalities which are mounting in our education. It is not capable of establishing meaningful co-operation with the State governments and directing a concerted programme to overcome these defects. Because it claims to have made more revenue available to the States it believes that the States can surmount the crisis in education without further assistance. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Cope)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Has the Minister for Defence seen a report in the latest issue of Aviation News' claiming that more Phantom aircraft for the Royal Australian Air Force are definitely on the production line at the McDonnell-Douglas plant in the United States of America? Is the report correct? If so, are the additional Phantoms intended as a replacement for the F111 aircraft? Alternatively, are these Phantoms a reconnaissance version designed to supplement the F111, assuming that the Government takes delivery of that plane? 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
At which universities are surcharges imposed on fees paid by overseas or interstate students. 
What are the reasons given for imposing these surcharges. 
Has he made any approach to the universities concerned with a view to removing the surcharges. 
asked the Minister for the Army, upon notice: 
Has the Army Food Science Establishment at Scottsdale, Tasmania, published the results of tests undertaken to determine the nutritional values of various foodstuffs. 
If so, in what publications can these results be found. 
If not, will he make the necessary arrangements for publication. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has the National Health and Medical Research Council's recommendations on the use of mono-sodium glutenate in baby foods been written into the legislation or regulations of any, of the States or Territories of Australia. 
When was this recommendation first made. 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister. Since the Prime Minister rejects the analysis of his colleague and predecessor the right honourable member for Higgins, I ask him whether the General Manager of the Melbourne Chamber of Commerce said on Sunday: 'a lack of confidence is pervading the business community, and it stems from the deflationary aspects of the August Budget'. Did the Victorian Employers' Federation assert on the same day that any further delay in abandoning the Budget strategy would add to the grave doubts already expressed over the competence of our present leadership? Did the national  president  of the Metal Trades Industry Association of Australia refer to the need to relieve industry of a general apprehension and lack of confidence? Will he, in the light of these comments from sources normally sympathetic to his Government, reconsider his rejection of the views put forward by the right honourable member for Higgins and thus avoid delay in correcting the economy which the Victorian Employers' Federation described on Sunday as 'the height of electoral folly'? 
asked the Minister for Edu  cation and Science, upon notice: 
How much has Australia contributed in each year since 1960-61 on international research cooperation? 
asked the Minister for the 
Army, upon notice: 
Will he bring up to date the information contained in answerto question 765 (Hansard, 18th August 1970, page111). 
asked the Minister for Edu cation and Science, upon notice: 
Is Australia a member of the Internationa! Institute of Refrigeration. 
If so, (a) when did it join, (b) what has it contributed and (c) has it been a member of the Executive Committee. 
has pointed out, does not oppose the Bill which provides $4.25m for the construction of a rail link between Launceston and Bell Bay in northern Tasmania. This link has been repeatedly advocated by the Australian Labor Party; it was promised as part of Labor's election policy at the 1963 and 1966 elections by the former Leader of the Opposition, the right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell).  The present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  made it plain during the 1969 election campaign that a federal Labor government would provide funds for the rail link. 
Provision for this money for the Bell Bay link has been forced on a reluctant Government by the rapid development of the woodchip industry in this part of Tasmania. All other arguments over the years had failed to convince the Government of the economic value of the link as part of the transport system of northern Tasmania. The viability of the link was never in doubt to .those who looked closely at the link in cost-benefit terms. The provision of this 23 miles of rail between the existing State system north of Launceston and Bell Bay has become a matter of urgency with the first woodchip shipments scheduled for next August. 
It is more than a year since the request for this assistance was made by the Premier of Tasmania, so the Government has not rushed blindly into the Bell Bay project. However, there is reason for gratitude in the recognition of the merits of this rail link. There is less reason for gratitude in the terms imposed in the financial agreement between the Commonwealth and the State of Tasmania. Initially the Commonwealth was to provide 85 per cent of the establishment cost of the line, then estimated at $3.5m. This would have amounted to $2.97m, leaving the Tasmanian State Government to find the remaining $530,000. The total cost is not stated in the second reading speech of the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt),  who was at the time the acting Minister. 
On a ratio of 85 to 15, the total cost based on the Commonwealth contribution would be $5m with the State providing $750,000. This indicates a substantial increase in the cost of the Bell Bay link, an increase which has not been explained either by the Minister or the Tasmanian Premier. Obviously, any further increases in construction costs will have to be met by the State Government, allowing for the limited time available for construction. After the Commonwealth pledge of assistance was announced ry  Mr Bethune  in April, he said that Tasmania did not expect at that stage to get the rail link assistance as a straight grant. It is just as well  Mr Bethune  did not build up any high hopes about any lack of strings to the Commonwealth assistance. By any standard the terms of the finance provided by the Commonwealth are far from generous. 
The Commonwealth is to provide up to $4.25m towards the cost of the link, ft will make $2.5m available by way of loan repayable over 30 years and carrying interest at the long term bond rate, currently 7 per cent. The remaining $ 1.75m will be provided as a non-repayable grant. This makes the relative shares 50 per cent loan, 35 per cent non-repayable grant, and 15 per cent from the State Government. This split-up compares most unfavourably with Commonwealth assistance provided for other railway works in the past 20 years. I ask for leave to incorporate in Hansard details of Commonwealth assistance for railways since 1949. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The table is as follows) - 

<graphic href="074131197110272_50_0.jpg"></graphic>

The table shows this Tasmanian railway agreement provides most unfavourable terms; only the Western Australian Railway Agreement of 1961 is in any way comparable to the agreement for Commonwealth asistance to build the Bell Bay link. The railway standardisation agreements are an example; here assistance was made available on a relative basis of 30 per cent by loan and 70 per cent by grant. Furthermore, the loan period in each case was 50 years. The interest rate for the South Australian agreement was the cost to the Commonwealth of raising the money. In the case of New South Wales and Victoria, the interest rate was 5 per cent. 
Even allowing for changes in the monetary climate and Government monetary policy, the application of an effective rate of 7 per cent for the Bell Bay link seems unjust. For improvements between Parkes and Broken Hill under the standardisation programme a maximum of SI Om was provided to New South Wales as a grant without any strings whatsoever. In the 20 years since 1951-52 the Commonwealth has made a total of $248. 8m available to the States for railway projects. Tasmania's share of this has been $4.25m - about 1.7 per cent. The State's share of grants given for railways is even less; it works out at 1.4 per cent. In view of the many millions the Commonwealth has provided for railway projects and the very slender share absorbed by Tasmania, there is a strong case for making this money for the Bell Bay link available on more reasonable terms. The railway agreement explicitly confines Commonwealth assistance to the rail link, a new railway bridge, marshalling lines and some upgrading of existing lines. There is no mention of Commonwealth assistance for provision of rolling stock for the line. This is surprising because  Mr Bethune  has always made it clear that his request for assistance included rolling stock. According to Press reports the Prime Minister had said that the Commonwealth would consider assistance for rolling stock in addition to its 85 per cent contribution to the capital cost of the line. A figure of $ 11.4m was mentioned for locomotives, rail trucks and other equipment. 
There is a precedent for Commonwealth provision of equipment of this sort in the Railway Equipment Agreement of 1961 which gave South Australia the finance to buy 12 locomotives and 100 iron ore wagons. This assistance was given under the following terms: A 70 per cent grant 30 per cent loan over 50 years at the prevailing long term bond rate. Significantly, the assistance for this rolling stock was provided on much better terms than the assistance given to Tasmania for the capital works of building the rail link. If the Commonwealth is to provide assistance for the rolling stock as indicated by the Prime Minister, some reference should have been made to it in the second reading speech of the Acting Minister for Shipping and Transport. Beyond Bell Bay the upgrading of the Tasmanian railway system is a matter of increasing urgency and an area where Commonwealth assistance will be needed. The future economic growth and health of Tasmania is in large measure dependent on improving existing transport systems, both sea and rail. This is put quite plainly in the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Primary and Secondary Industry and Trade which investigated shipping freight rates on the Tasmanian trade. The Committee recommended that the Commonwealth consider giving capital assistance by way of grant to the Tasmanian Government for revitalising the railway system. 
The Tasmanian Government Railways has a major role as part of an integrated service for moving goods to and from Tasmania. The Bell Bay link is an important part of this integrated system and Commonwealth assistance has at last assured construction of this railway. But the Commonwealth has given no hint of what further assistance it will give to provide suitable rolling stock and to upgrade the Tasmanian Government Railways system. There is a very strong case for provision of Commonwealth grants to do these important jobs, bearing in mind the neglect of Tasmanian railways in a period when every other State has secured a considerable measure of assistance from the Commonwealth for railways projects. 
It is quite obvious - I am sure that all honourable members will concede this - from the figures which I have given to the 
House tonight that there is a case for further Commonwealth assistance to Tasmania in line with the request which was made to this Government by the Tasmanian Premier for further financial assistance to upgrade the railway system in that State. The original request for assistance to provide the Bell Bay link not only sought financial assistance to provide the rail link itself but was also based on the proposition that the rail link would not be feasible unless provision was made for rolling stock and for upgrading other lines which would provide a feeder system for the Bell Bay link. All of these matters have been ignored. The Tasmanian Government has received a very small amount in comparison to the amount which it requested when this matter was put before this Government almost 12 months ago. If one compares this amount and the terms under which the loan has been provided with the amount that has been provided by the Commonwealth to assist other States in their standardisation programmes, it can be seen at once that the Government has not been generous in its treatment of the Tasmanian Government in relation to this rail link. 
However, I conclude on the note on which I began - that while the Government has obviously driven a very hard bargain so far as Tasmania is concerned, it has at least recognised the importance of the rail link. The link will now be a possibility and will be undertaken under the terms and conditions laid down by the Commonwealth Government. This will provide a useful railway link in the northern part of the State, particularly in view of the increased industrial activity in this area as a result of the wood chip industry. However, once again I draw the Minister's attention to the request and recommendations of the Senate Committee - a responsible committee of this Parliament - which was set up and which recommended to the Government that there is a special case in relation to the State of Tasmania for special grants to upgrade the railway system to improve its transport system. This is necessary in a State which depends entirely upon the railway system and shipping services from the mainland States. I believe that while the Government is entitled to some credit for having made this money available, it is also- 
Yes, I did not hesitate to say that the Government was entitled to some credit in this respect. I do not want to appear completely critical on all of these matters. As I said when I first began to speak, at least the Government recognises that this would be a viable link and that it would provide a very useful service and be an addition to the railway system of Tasmania. However, I believe that the Government deserves some criticism on the other matters I have stressed which relate to the basis of the loan. It could have been more generous in all the circumstances. 
asked the Minister for 
National Development, upon notice: 
Will increases in the price of Middle East crude oil mean Increases in the cost of producing oil from Esso-BHP's leases in Bass Strait. 
Has his attention ben drawn to a statement at the Annual General Meeting of The Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd on 8th September, 1971 by the  Chairman, Sir Ian  McLennan, calling for an increase in the price of Australian crude oil as a consequence of increases in the price of overseas crude oil. 
Has his attention also been drawn to a statement in The Australian Financial Review of 26th March 1970 in which a leading expert on the Australian oil industry,  Dr Alex  Hunter, claimed that Esso-BHP will make over 100 per cent aftertax profits from its Bass Strait leases. 
Will he insist that Esso-BHP demonstrate increases in costs as the basis of any increase in the price it obtains for its crude oil. 
asked the Minister for Edu cation and Science, upon notice: 
Is Australia a member of the International Bureau of Weights and Measures. 
If so, (a) when did it join, (b) what has it contributed and (c) has it been a member of the International Conference. 
asked the Minister for Supply, upon notice: 
What has been the average mileage obtained from (a) tyres and (b) batteries purchased for Commonwealth cars each year since 1949. 
What has been the average cost of (a) tyres and (b) batteries purchased for Commonwealth cars each year since 1949. 
If this information is not available for each year since 1949, would he provide it for those years for which it is available. 
If the information is not available for any of the years, would he ensure that in future approproae records are kept to provide these measures of motoring costs per mile. 
I ask the Treasurer a question. Were the trading banks notified of the Government's decision to increase advance limits by $5m a week, before the Prime Minister's announcement in the House on Tuesday? If so, what was  their  assessment of the feasibility of lending at the level proposed by the Prime Minister? Is this measure an integral part of the Budget strategy or is it, as the 'Sydney Morning Herald' suggested this morning, an admission of budgetary miscalculation? 
The statement of the Minister for the Navy  (Mr Mackay)  is a product of what has undoubtedly been a very thorough examination by Judge Rapke of extensive areas of naval practice. The preliminary report on Judge Rapke's investigation into allegations of bullying at HMAS Leeuwin' was supplied to me and to the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  in May. I would like to say at this stage that the Minister is to be commended for the way in which he made this information quickly available to both myself and the honourable member for Fremantle. We were kept fully informed and I think this is to the credit of the Minister. He has said that Judge Rapke's full report will be made available in the same way. 
This investigation followed a rather different course from a similar investigation made into the practice of bastardisation at the Royal Military College, Duntroon. Here an independent inquiry headed by  Mr Justice  Fox was made into the allegations and a comprehensive report given to the Parliament. When the Minister announced the investigations into the incidents at HMAS Leeuwin', the Opposition expressed the view that an inquiry similar to the Fox inquiry should have been instituted by the Minister. The virtue of this line of approach is that the evidence and recommendations are available in accessible form to all members of the 
Parliament. This makes it easier for the Parliament to keep a check on the initiation and implementation of reforms designed to curb any harmful practices. 
From my reading of the full preliminary report by Judge Rapke, the Minister summarised it accurately in the much briefer statement he made to the House. I am sure that a reading of the full report by Judge Rapke will reveal that the Minister has omitted nothing of significance in his statement to the House this morning. In the circumstances I think there is a strong case for the Minister to reconsider his attitude and make these reports public. 
From my reading of the first report it contains nothing which could not properly be divulged. The main substance of Judge Rapke's report was contained in the Minister's statement; the remainder was largely an account of the evidence and the judge's comments. This detail could have been made available for the benefit of members of the Parliament and the public who take an interest in the armed services. Obviously confidential information contained in the judge's final report should not be divulged, but the bulk of the evidence and. the judge's analysis could be released. 
Judge Rapke had a unique opportunity to study many aspects of naval life which are causing concern. In the course of his examination and in particular his voyage on HMAS 'Sydney' he has acquired a mass of information which should be made available to those interested in the Navy and the quality of the Service environment and Service life. The honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  and I will know more about these matters when we have a chance to look at the full report. But I feel that both the Minister and Judge Rapke may have over-reacted to the publicity which accompanied the original allegations. This may have made them over-zealous to protect their service by not releasing parts of the report which could only help a better understanding of the Navy's social and human problems. 
From the content of Judge Rapke's report as paraphrased by the Minister, it is appropriate that the investigation was made at this time. According to the judge there were 22 cases of physical injury resulting from fighting or bullying in 1970. So far this year there have been 9 cases; this reduction can be taken as evidence that these practices are being eliminated. The judge and the Minister conclude that these figures prove that there was no widespread pattern of bullying or barstardisation at Leeuwin'. I feel that the tally of 22 cases of physical injury resulting from bullying and fighting is not an insignificant one. Undoubtedly a pattern of bullying or bars.tardisation is much more subtle than the infliction of a degree of physical injury which warranted medical treatment. 
This is only the tip of the iceberg; the fact that there were 22 injuries of this nature confirms that there was a measure of substance to the allegations, that it is most fortunate that these practices were exposed, and that Judge Rapke conducted his investigation and recommended measures designed to eliminate them. The judge's proposals for better supervision and organisation of junior recruits at 'Leeuwin' seem to be soundly based. I agree with the Minister that it is regrettable some of the proposed improvements cannot be introduced because of lack of finance and manpower. This is one of the unfortunate by-products of the present squeeze on the services. 
Both the Minister and Judge Rapke have been highly critical of the media treatment of the allegations, lt seems there were some highly misleading and over-sensational accounts of life at 'Leeuwin'. Looking back over the Press accounts published in April, it seems that most were soundly based and responsible. It should be remembered that Press stories were responsible for the investigations into harmful practices at Duntroon and 'Leeuwin'. 
These investigations have lead to corrective measures and improvements in the life of cadets and junior recruits. Abuses that occurred in the media treatment of these allegations were more than outweighed by the benefits brought by the initial exposure. 
In the main Judge Rapke has done an excellent job in the extremely demanding investigation given to him by the Minister. The judge's love of the Navy and his emotional response to criticism of the Service have not prevented him from making a rigorous and dispassionate examination of practices harmful to the Navy. In his investigations the judge has accumlated a mass of detail about naval life and practice; as 1 said earlier this evidence should be made public. If the Minister will not consider this course of action then it should be made available to the Kerr Committee on service pay and conditions. 
The Minister has expressed his confidence in the younger members of the Navy. From my own observation of them during a recent visit to the Naval College at Jervis Bay, 1 subscribe to his opinion of their calibre and his optimism about the future of the service. All the armed Services are undergoing fundamental changes; traditional customs and practices are under re-assessment. Admiral Crabb recently pointed to the need for elimination of much obsolete custom in dress and manners. In this time of change all vestiges of harmful practices sometimes given the dubious sanction of tradition should be eliminated with the utmost rigour. I agree with what the Minister has said about the comprehensive nature of the investigation and the dedication of Judge Rapke during the whole course of his investigation into what were at that time and, I believe the Minister would agree, still are very serious allegations. Judge Rapke has recommended corrective measures. Indeed, as I said earlier he has also made other substantial recommendations which could prove to be invaluable to those who take an interest in Service matters generally. It is only upon the question of publishing the report that 1 disagree with the Minister. I do not believe that there is anything in Judge Rapke's report that could not be made public, indeed with great advantage to these people to whom I have just referred - not only to the Minister and to myself. 
As I have already acknowledged, the Minister was good enough to keep both me and the honourable member for Fremantle fully informed, and I have already commended the Minister for his attitude and his actions in this respect. Nobody could have expected to have received more cooperation in this respect. Judge Rapke's report was an excellent one. It fully covered the whole of the ramifications. Indeed, as I know only too well, he investigated individual complaints in order to ensure that they were satisfactorily investigated. I concede that this was done with great determination by Judge Rapke, because the cases that I sent to him as they came to me from individual sources were treated in the same way by Judge Rapke as were the cases which came to the Minister. 
I conclude by saying that I hope that the Minister will reconsider his decision not to make the report public. I think that there is valuable information in it which could be used, I believe, very satisfactorily in many ways by those who take an interest in the future of the armed Services. I refer particularly to recruits who join the armed Services and who are so particularly important, as the Minister has himself stressed on occasions, if we are to build up in this country officers of the standing and calibre that one would expect to see in each of the armed Services. So I again appeal to the Minister to reconsider this one question. It is only on this one issue that I find any disagreement at all with the Minister. [ express my confidence in the report and in Judge Rapke's investigation, and I am sure that the Minister's competence will bring about the necessary recommendations. 

 - Mr. Drury, I want to comment about aspects of the war service homes programme. The Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  in his Budget Speech pledged the Government to increase the limit on war service homes loans by $1,000 to $9,000. The amending legislation has yet to be introduced; presumably it is in the pipeline. If there has been some delay, then the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  should explain it to the House when he answers points raised by honourable members at the end of this debate. Undoubtedly the war service homes scheme is a very important part of homebuilding in Australia. With the contribution to the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement it forms the most important part of Commonwealth assistance to home building. Although the number of homes provided under the Act has fallen well below the peak years of the 1950s, demand for the services provided under the Act remains at a high level. 
In the past few years the number of homes provided has risen steadily; accordin to the most recent report of the Director, the total number of applicants assisted under the Act rose by almost 600. This rising trend can be expected to continue in the next few years with the thousands who served in Vietnam being eligible for assistance under the Act. AH the evidence suggests that this scheme will continue to form an important part of the Australian housing industry and will remain a key source of housing finance. The last time the scheme was studied in any detail in this Parliament was in November 1968, when the maximum advance was raised from $7,000 to $8,000. It is now $9,000, or will be $9,000 when the enabling legislation gets through the Parliament. These increases in the limit have hardly kept pace with the soaring costs of land and homes in all States. Once it used to be possible for a home to be financed by the war service homes grant. This was the case in 1951-52 when in New South Wales the average cost of a dwelling and land was $5,050. The maximum loan available for a war service home was then $5,500. This sort of relativity, however, has not been preserved. 
According to an answer given by the Minister to my colleague the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  the average cost of all homes built or financed under the Act in New South Wales in 1970-71 was $16,281. This means the average cost of a home and land has more than trebled in 20 years. In the same period the maximum loan has been increased by 45 per cent. If the relationship which applied in 1951-52 had been maintained the maximum loan available today would be about $17,732 and hot $9,000 as proposed in this Budget. Quite obviously there has been a marked deterioration in the benefits provided by the scheme, even though the number of homes approved has fallen quite considerably. Admittedly, those eligible for loans under the scheme get much better terms than their peers who are not eligible and who are often forced to obtain finance at excessive interest rates. This is a broader part of the home finance structure in Australia which the honourable member for Reid, who is the Opposition spokesman on housing and urban affairs, has dealt with admirably in the House on a number of occasions. The principle was accepted of giving this sort of special assistance to exservicemen so they could re-establish themselves in civilian life. Undoubtedly there was also an element of compensation for the demands and sacrifice of service life. If these principles are still accepted, and I believe that they are, then there is a duty on the part of the Government to stop the value of the maximum loan from being eroded. 
If a 10 per cent deposit is made on a home at the present average cost that is $16,281 in New South Wales, and a maximum loan of $9,000 obtained, then an additional $5,653 has to be found. Interest rates for this sort of supplementary finance are extremely high. In other States this gap between cost of home and land and the maximum loan is not as serious because land and building costs are lower. But the same need for additional finance at higher interest rates exists. This failure to move the loan limit along in step with rising costs has negated much of the benefit of the war service, homes scheme. There is no doubt that a substantial increase in the maximum loan could be made because payments made under the scheme are running well below the level of repayments. In 1970-71 spending under the scheme was $61 m and total receipts were $78.43m. The gap between spending and receipts has been widening rapidly in the past 5 years. 
The last year when spending exceeded receipts was 1965-66. Even if spending increases in the next few years because of the demands of the Vietnam veterans, this pattern of substantially higher receipts than spending is certain to persist. All sorts of accounting procedures will doubtless be raised to show that the War Service Homes Division is not making a substantial profit on its operations. But there can be no doubt that the scheme has enough built-in flexibility in its operations to allow for much higher maximum loans. When the last war service homes legislation was before the House in November 1968, the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  moved an amendment to increase the maximum advance to $12,000. This was in line with the average cost of a home and land at that time; the figure for New South Wales which I have used as a comparative base was then $11,388. On the evidence of present costs there is a strong case for raising the maximum limit to at least $15,000. 
There are many anomalies in the operation of the scheme which honourable members will have a chance to look at when the new Bill comes before the House. One matter I would like to refer to briefly is the nature of assistance given by the War Service Homes Division. In an era when patterns of living and dwelling habits are changing, the approach of the scheme is geared to the traditional pattern of an individual home on an individual block of land. It would be appropriate in view of the rapid increases in land and housing costs, and the increasing gap between the maximum loan and home and land costs, for the Division to look at new concepts of group housing. It would be timely for the 
Division to have a look at initiatives in the field of medium density housing or courtyard or town housing as it is sometimes called. There is little knowledge of the potential demand for this sort of housing from eligible applicants. Certainly, group housing could prove to be attractive to younger applicants particularly those eligible because of service in Vietnam. According to the National Capital Development Commission, up to 25 per cent of future residents of Canberra will choose to live in this sort of medium density housing. An entry by the War Service Homes Division into this sort of housing would be a contribution to containing the urban sprawl. Because of its long experience in providing housing for Australian families, the Division would be an ideal body to undertake these new concepts of housing. With land prices continuing to soar and building costs also rising rapidly, any stimulus for group housing where proven demand existed would be most desirable. Because of its sound financial position there is scope for the Division to show greater imagination and creativity in the sort of housing it provides. 
I indicated during the course of my address that we believe there should be an opportunity, when the war service homes legislation comes before this . Parliament, for members to scrutinise all aspects of that legislation. In the limited time that has been available- to me this afternoon it has not been possible to develop these anomalies to the extent I would like. The Minister is well aware of them. They have been dealt with on other occasions in this Parliament. The most important one that exists today, I believe, is the one to which I have just referred - the fact that there is this gap that has to be bridged by those who are eligible under the war service homes legislation before they can apply successfully to the Department to be able to provide a home for themselves. I have referred to the increasing numbers of applicants as a result of those who have served in Vietnam wanting to take the opportunity provided by the generous scheme to apply for the assistance that is provided under the war service homes legislation. When that legislation comes before this Parliament I will want to extend some of the arguments I have put before the Parliament this afternoon, particularly the question of a second advance. How difficult the Government has been on this aspect. One would hope that the Minister would take the opportunity to say something about it when he replies at the end of this debate. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Supply, upon notice: 
What has been the average mileage travelled by Commonwealth cars each year since 1949. 
What has been the average cost per vehicle of spare parts used for repairs to Commonwealth cars each year since 1949. 
If this information is not available for each year since 1949, would be provide it for those years for which it is available. 
If the information is not available for any of the years, would he ensure that in future appropriate records are kept to provide this measure of motoring costs per mile. 
asked the Minister repre  senting the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
How often has the Health Advertisements (Standing) Sub-committee of the National Health and Medical Research Council met during the past year. 
Can this sub-committee recommend changes in health advertisements. 
If so, in which health advertisement has it recommended changes during the past year. 
What has been the nature of these recommended changes. 
Which body has power to enforce these recommendations. 
I ask the Acting Prime Minister a question. Has the Government received a request for Australian advisers to train Cambodian and Laotian troops? If so, from which Government did this request come? Will the honourable gentleman immediately table the text of this request? Bearing in mind that the provision of this type of assistance led to our long and protracted involvement in the Vietnam war, will the Government refuse this request? 
I ask the Minister for Defence a question. The Minister, in reply to the Leader of the Opposition, referred to the special request that had been made for Australian Army advisers to train Cambodian troops. I ask the Minister whether the special request was made to the Australian Government by the Cambodian authorities or whether it came to the Australian Government through the United States authorities. Secondly, I ask the Minister: How many additional advisers will be required in Vietnam to train Cambodian troops, and where will the training facilities be made available in Vietnam? 
The Minister for Shipping and Transport is aware, as a result of the question directed to him yesterday by my colleague the honourable member for Braddon, that the freight levy imposed by Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd. on steel shipped to Tasmanian ports other than Hobart will have serious effects on the economy of northern Tasmania. Is he aware that the levy will seriously affect exports of steel products from northern Tasmanian ports and will increase the cost of railway works in Tasmania? Is the arbitrary use of monopoly power in this way a deterrent to an effective decentralisation policy for Australia? Will the Minister intercede with BHP to stop the freight levy or, alternatively, will he direct the Australian National Line to carry steel to all Tasmanian ports without discrimination in freight rates? 

 - Mr Speaker, I ask leave to give notice of a motion. 
I move: 
That the House has no confidence in the Minister for Defence because of the damaging and dangerous treatment of the request for assistance in training Cambodian and Laotian troops in Vietnam. 
This motion arises from answers given by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  to questions in the House about the training of Cambodian soldiers by Australian training teams in Vietnam. An extraordinary sequence of events can be pieced together from the Minister's answers and from subsequent Press and television interviews given by the Minister. It is evident from this material that even the most menial messenger boy at Russell Hill knew more of what was happening in the Department of Defence during the past month than the Minister for Defence. 
Yesterday the Minister said that a request for Australian assistance was received from the American Ambassador by his Department on 1st October. In a personal explanation to the House later last night the Minister made a most important change in this causal sequence. He said that this request had been received from the American Embassy by the Department of Foreign Affairs on 30th September and had been transmitted to Defence on the following day. This initiated a process of what the Minister termed discussions between the departments of Foreign Affairs, Defence and Army on the extent to which this request for assistance could be met. 
Apparently the Minister elaborated on this process of discussion at a Press conference he gave last night with his Permanent Head,  Sir Arthur  Tange. I have not been able to get a transcript of this conference, but I understand the Minister repeated much of the substance of it on the television programme 'This Day Tonight'. According to the transcript of this interview the Minister described the incident as a 'low key affair'. He said it was 'low key' because it was made verbally by an officer of the American Embassy to Foreign Affairs who passed it on to Defence. Presumably the discussions between officers of the three departments were also 'low key' because they did not reach the Minister for at least 3 weeks. 
It seems the Minister learned of the request and the subsequent discussions on 25th October, that is, 2 days before the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  left for the United States. According to the Minister he sent a letter urgently to the Prime Minister but the Prime Minister either did not get it or did not open it before he left. Nor, it seems, did he open it on the plane to New York. At a Press conference before he left on 27th October, the Prime Minister was questioned about reports from Washington that  President  Nixon would ask him to send advisers to Cambodia - to train the Cambodian Army. According to the questioner, it has been reported that the Americans had secretly sounded out the Australian Government on this matter. The Prime Minister answered that to the best of his knowledge there had been no secret sounding out of the Australian Government. He went on to say:  . and I believe I would have known as soon as anyone'. As it turned out the Prime Minister was the last to hear; a legion of public servants knew about this secret sounding out before the head of the Government. That in short is the sequence of events revealed by the Minister for Defence yesterday. 
Looking in closer detail at some of the aspects of this chain of incidents, the most striking thing is the failure of this request to be passed through the regular channels to the Prime Minister and the Cabinet. This request for assistance got to Cabinet by a most tortuous and circuitous route. The first request was received from the American Embassy by the Department of Foreign Affairs. The House knows the speed with which verbal messages can be transmitted through the Department of Foreign Affairs to the senior administration and the Minister. An example was the telephone message from the Japanese Embassy on a matter involving the Leader of the Opposition. This message was received after hours by a desk officer at the Department and conveyed to the Minister with the speed of light. He raised it in the House on the following day. However, a verbal message on a most important policy question did not pass through the system with the same celerity. Indeed it is doubtful whether it has yet reached the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who missed yesterday's proceedings. 
Instead this message with its request for assistance was shuffled over quickly to the Department of Defence. Verbal messages which the Government wants to use for political purposes get to the top quickly in the Department of Foreign Affairs. Important policy matters involving Australia's presence in Indo-China do not. When the request from the Department of Foreign Affairs was received the Minister for Defence acknowledged that there had been a slip-up. He said that the Prime Minister should have been informed immediately the request was received. It is not clear whether the Minister is blaming the Department of Foreign Affairs or his own Department for this slip-up. 
From my recollection of his answer at question time he said 'the Department' which can only be taken as Defence. However, this appears in Hansard as 'a department' so it is obscure where the Minister is sheeting home the blame. The Minister was rather more specific on 'This Day Tonight' where he said there had been a slip-up in his Department and he had acted to ensure that this did not happen again. In this interview he modified the answer he gave in the House in which he said that the Prime Minister, and by implication himself as the responsible Minister, should have been notified immediately the request was received. 
In the television interview he said that it was normal procedure for such requests to be processed by the Department and then taken to the Minister. He indicated that the request for assistance should probably have been given a slightly higher priority but did not repeat his claim that it should have gone immediately to the Prime Minister. This was a marked reversal of his previous attitude. Obviously every piece of information, whether verbal or written, that is received by a department has to be assessed in some way. A Minister would be burdened with a mass of detail if everything was passed on to him immediately. The need for selectivity is even more important with what is passed on to the Prime Minister. 
But in this case it is completely inexcusable that a major request of this sort should circulate through 3 departments, including the major policy departments of Defence and Foreign Affairs, without even a whisper getting to one of the responsible Ministers or to the Prime Minister. The action taken by the Minister when he finally got this request and presumably the recommendations on it by the 3 departments are just as farcical. The news was broken to the Minister on 25th October. He regarded it as a matter of some urgency on which the Prime Minister should be informed before he set out on his momentous journey. The Minister sent an urgent letter to the Prime Minister and apparently regarded his duty as done. 
It seems that this letter did not get to the Prime Minister until some time after the reached New York. Certainly the Prime Minister had no impression whatsoever of the urgency of the request. This is completely the fault of the Minister for Defence. The Minister knew the request had been received. He knew that there had been intensive discussions on it in 3 departments. He had assessments and recommendations on the request. 
He must have realised that it would be a major item at the discussions between the Prime Minister and  President  Nixon. Yet he did not lift a finger or telephone to convey the importance of the request for assistance to the Prime Minister. This was due to what the Minister ambiguously refers to as the difficulty that the Prime Minister had in the day or two before his departure. If the Minister did not try to impress the urgency of this matter on the Prime Minister, he cannot blame the Prime Minister's staff for not bringing it to the Prime Minister's attention. 
It is impossible to believe that the Minister was too coy or bashful to approach the Prime Minister directly. It was just a matter of walking a few steps down a corridor or pressing the buzzer on his desk which gives senior Ministers direct access to the Prime Minister. The Minister has never been diffident in the past about asserting himself to Prime Ministers. The right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  who once got an important message from the Minister by telegram will vouch for this. Yet in an important matter of national policy the Minister could not bring himself to disturb the Prime Minister. This meant the Prime Minister was subjected to the highly humiliating experience of denying in Canberra and New York any knowledge of the request while a letter from the Minister for Defence setting it out in detail was in his office and in his brief case on the plane. 
As the Acting Prime Minister admitted in the House yesterday, the Prime Minister told a questioner in New York that he had not seen the request. When the message finally got through to the Prime Minister his response was electrifying. In a matter of hours the Cabinet had been directed by the Prime Minister to consider the request urgently. This was essential if the Prims Minister were to discuss the request for assistance with  President  Nixon with any vestige of credibility. 
In contrast with the sloth of the previous month there was a flurry of activity as Cabinet met and hastily conveyed its decisions to the Prime Minister so he could have last minute authority to put the view of the Australian Government. If the Prime Minister had learned of the request earlier he must have referred it immediately to Cabinet in view of his impending discussions with the  President.  This is evident in the panic action he took to clear the decks before he saw the  President. 
This is not the low key matter which the Minister for Defence tries to paint. It involves the disposition of Australian troops in lndo-China. It would mean extension of the Australian presence in Vietnam. It could mean that more support troops and training teams would have to go to Vietnam. Ultimately, it could embroil Australian troops directly in the wars in Cambodia and Laos. Yet this is the issue that the Minister for Defence described in this House and to the nation on the television programme 'This Day Tonight' as a low key issue, an issue involving Australian troops training Cambodians in South Vietnam. This Govern ment has never learned from the lesson of 1965 or, I believe, if my memory serves me correctly, probably back in 1964. 
In 1962. I have been corrected by the honourable member for Reid and I thank him for the information. Back in 1962 an announcement was made in the House of Representatives by the then Prime Minister,  Sir Robert  Menzies, that an Australian training team would be sent to South Vietnam. I have no doubt that the Minister describes that incident as a low key issue just as he describes this issue. This could escalate in the same way as when Australian troops became involved in 1962. A small training team of some 50 or 60 personnel sent as training advisers to the South Vietnamese forces of that day - the United States forces became involved on the basis of sending a training team to South Vietnam - grew to 3 battalions and all the ancillary forces that were required to maintain them in an active service role in South Vietnam. Despite the fact that this decision to increase Australia's commitment was made back in 1965 we now have a Minister and a Government who are seriously considering involving this Government in a further conflict in IndoChina - the war that is now taking place in Cambodia. The Government apparently has never learned, despite the fact that it has acknowledged that the people of Australia objected to Australia's involvement in Vietnam. 
It is only a few months ago that we had the announcement by the Prime Minister that Australian forces would be withdrawn from Vietnam; yet now we are told that we are to increase the numbers in the training team in South Vietnam and that not only will we be responsible for the training of South Vietnamese but also that this training will be extended to include Cambodian forces. Obviously the Government felt that this might be unpopular; there is no question that the request initially contained a suggestion that Cambodian troops be trained in Australia, but because the Government undoubtedly felt that this would be unpopular it moved to provide only for the training of Cambodian troops by an Australian training team in South Vietnam. And so the Government has never learned. 
I can only repeat to the House that this is the issue that the Minister for Defence has described to the nation as only a low key issue. It may be that the Minister did regard it as a low key issue because he ignored the Cabinet and he ignored the Prime Minister. One can only assume that there must be a great deal of discussion in other countries, particularly in the United States of America, of the fact that the Prime Minister should go to that country without being informed of a decision involving a commitment of further Australian troops in South Vietnam. I would like to hear the Minister give a full and frank explanation, not only to this Parliament but to the nation, why he believes that this must be considered a low key issue. The Minister is at fault. He has blundered, blundered seriously. As I pointed out only a few moments ago, when the Minister felt that he could bring about the downfall of the former Minister for Defence, the right honourable member for Higgins, he did not hesitate to send a telegram to the Prime Minister and he made sure that the Prime Minister received it without any delay. 
But this issue involves this nation and involves a major decision on policy. Is there anyone in this House who does not believe that an issue which involves Australian forces overseas, whether in Vietnam or in any other part of the world, is not a matter of national importance arid one which certainly must be considered as an issue that must go directly to the top level of the Government? Yet we find that in this situation the Prime Minister was not informed. Apparently a very few senior members of the Department of Foreign Affairs knew a very little about the issue and either the Minister for Defence was just not interested or he did not care. Therefore I believe that the nation and the Parliament is entitled to hear from the Minister a frank admission in regard to the whole of the circumstances surrounding this decision and particularly why we should be asked to  regard  this as no more than a low key issue. 
Certainly the Opposition has no confidence in Government assurances that Australian advisers and training teams will not be used in the field in Laos and Cambodia. How can we have such confidence? We were given this assurance in 1962 in relation to the training team in Vietnam. These are not low key issues; they are very grave issues and it can be said to the credit of the Prime Minister that he recognised their significance and acted when the request was finally laid before him. It is ironical that the Department of Defence is not represented among the legion of advisers the Prime Minister took with him. If the Prime Minister had known that this request would form such an integral part of his discussions with  President  Nixon he would have, given more emphasis to defence in the composition of his team. All sorts of efforts are now being made to attribute blame for this incident which came within inches of a major diplomatic disaster. In summary, the Opposition believes that it is unnecessary to look beyond the Minister for Defence in sheeting home the blame for this debacle. Whatever the bungling at the low levels of the Department of Defence, the Minister ultimately is responsible for the delay of almost a month in a major matter of defence policy reaching his desk. 
Beyond this administrative shambles, the Minister for Defence has displayed gross incompetence in not conveying the request for assistance immediately to the Prime Minister and to Cabinet. It is beyond dispute that the Minister was fully informed of this matter on Monday, 25th October. In the event, Cabinet had to assemble hastily and rush through the authority which the Prime Minister should have had before he left Australia. This is incredibly sloppy and incompetent. The Minister for Defence is responsible for it and he warrants the censure of this House. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
Is Australia a member of the International Hydrographic Bureau. 
If so, (a) when did it join, (b) what has it contributed and (c) has it been represented on the Directing Committee. 
asked the Minister for Edu  cation and Science, upon notice: 
Is Australia a member of the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission; if so, when did it join. 
asked the Minister for Edu  cation and Science, upon notice: 
Is Australia a member of the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea. 
If so, when did it join and what has it contributed to the Council. 
asked the Minister for the Army, upon notice: 
When were plans first drawn up for the proposed expansion of the Service Corps facilities at Puckapunyal Army Base. 
What is the nature of these proposals and what is each stage estimated to cost. 
When is each stage expected to be (a) commenced and (b) completed. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That Lake Pedder, situated in the Lake Pedder National Park in South-West Tasmania, is threatened with inundation as part of the Gordon Riverhydro-electric power scheme. 
That an alternative scheme exists, which, if implemented would avoid inundation of this lake. 
That Lake Pedder and the surrounding wilderness area are of such beauty and scientific interest as to be of a value beyond monetary consideration. 
And that some unique species of flora and fauna will be in danger of extinction if this area is inundated. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Federal Government take immediate steps to act on behalf of all Australian people to preserve Lake Pedder in its natural state. All present and particularly future Australians will benefit by being able to escape from their usual environment to rebuild their physical and mental strength in this unspoilt wilderness area. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Has the Treasurer noted the cut backs in steel production by Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd following what  Sir Ian  McLennan has described as a 'considerable downturn' in secondary industry activity in Australia? In the face of this evidence does the Treasurer still claim that demand is growing at a reasonable rate? Has the campaign to 'talk-up' the economy by the Prime Minister and himself been a complete failure? Does the Treasurer now agree that there has been a marked deterioration in key areas of demand? What further evidence does he need to show that the Government's budgetary strategies were wrong and that there is an urgent need to stimulate economic activity? 
There are many aspects of defence policy that warrant consideration in this debate. Because of the extremely restricted time span I intend to concentrate on one part of the Government's procurement programme, that is the DDL light destroyer programme. The 1971 Defence Report describes the DDL as a light, generalpurpose destroyer of about 4,000 tons and powered by gas turbines. The initial time scale for the DDL was from 1969 to 1976. This encompassed a preliminary design period of 12 months starting late in 1969, followed by a detailed design stage beginning at the end of 1970 and finishing at the end of this year. 
Construction of the first destroyer would begin in 1972 and it be launched in 1976. The other 4 destroyers in this initial programme of five would join the fleet during the following 2 years. This time schedule has slipped very badly. The preliminary design study did not reach the Navy until September this year, almost a year behind schedule. The detailed design study which was to begin at the end of 1970 has not started, and it is unlikely to start until well into 1972. This will put the entire programme at least 20 months behind schedule. 
So far $lm has been spent on the preliminary design phase. The Budget for 1971- 72 allocates $1.5m for spending on the detailed design stage. However, this money will not be spent until Cabinet approval is given for the detailed design stage, so at the moment the DDL project is suspended in a state of limbo. Little real work on the project can be expected before the next budget, even if the Government decides to go ahead with the DDL. The delays in the programme have been accompanied . by a quite remarkable increase in cost, undoubtedly as a result of the transformation of the Navy's concept of the destroyer. 
In the initial programme the destroyer was conceived as a relatively cheap and modest vessel designed to fulfil one specialised role with significant back-up capacity in other roles. One destroyer would be designed to concentrate on an antisubmarine role, another on anti-ship, another on anti-aircraft, and so on. Each would have the ability to perform one major task with secondary capability in other areas of naval warfare. According to this rationale the destroyer had to be designed and built in Australia, because European designs were too small and United States and Canadian designs too big. As stated in the Navy News' of September 1969, the allpurpose class of ship was too big, too expensive and needed a bigger crew. This meant a light destroyer designed for Australia's requirements was needed. 
At a Press briefing in March last year before a defence statement made by the then Minister for Defence.  Mr Fraser,  a naval spokesman described the programme in the following terms: 
The general plan ls to build a batch of ships armed for general escort and interdiction duties followed by specialised ships for anti-submarine or anti-air duties. 
Having made it clear that it did not want a sophisticated and expensive general purpose ship, the Government went ahead and blue-printed a sophisticated and expensive general purpose ship. The revision in plans and the higher cost were acknowledged by the Minister for the Navy  (Dr Mackay)  on 1st October. When referring to the project, he said: 
We have to face the fact that these and greater costs are inescapable if we are to have ships of this size and sophistication. 
The revision in the role of the DDL from a fairly simple vessel to a large, powerful and expensive destroyer performing a number of roles has been reflected in a spectacular cost escalation. The first estimate when the project was announced in September 1969 was under $20m a ship. When the preliminary design study was given to the Minister in September this year, he said the estimated cost was between $40m and $44m. According to evidence given to a Senate estimates committee last week by  Mr Boreham  of the Department of the Navy, the present estimate is between $40m and $50m. Even higher estimates ranging up to $85m a ship have appeared in Press reports. 
It has been claimed that these figures are inflated by inclusion of the costs of improving dockyard and construction facilities which would be needed in any case to keep pace with Navy servicing requirements. But it is just as correct to say that unit costs of ships have a way of rising rapidly during construction. An example is the DDG guided missile destroyer procurement where the HMAS 'Brisbane', which was completed 30 months after the HMAS Perth', cost SI Om more. Even on the most conservative estimate of costs, it is difficult to see a programme of 12 light destroyers costing much less than a billion dollars. In this way a modest project which could have provided a versatile fleet of 12 destroyers at an acceptable cost has escalated into the most ambitious and costly procurement programme ever undertaken by an Australian armed service in peace time. 
The scope of the projected DDL procurement makes the Fill look like a curtain raiser. The dramatic change in concept and cost is reminiscent of United States programmes such as the MBT 70 tank and the Cheyenne attack aircraft where the cost increases were so staggering that Congress vetoed them. The DDL programme is a prime example of the upgrading of a comparatively modest item of defence equipment by adding more requirements to cope with more contingencies. This is happening at a time when other navies are moving to simpler and smaller vessels with the emphasis on speed and missile armaments. By cramming so many roles into the one vessel and increasing its size the Government is also increasing its vulnerability. 
There is increasing evidence that larger warships are outmoded and by contemporary standards the destroyer is one of the larger warships. With advances in electronics, automated weapons systems, lightweight rapid fire guns and self sufficient surface to surface missiles, a greater number of more powerful weapons can be installed on hulls of smaller displacement and serviced by smaller crews. It is not a sign of reduced naval strength but an indication of the advances in technology which astute navies can use to revolutionise maritime warfare. The trend evident in naval exhibitions and procurement by other navies is towards faster and smaller vessels of the light corvette and fast patrol boat types. With the rapid advances in armaments these are powerful warships, even in their smallest form. A destroyer of several thousand tons can be put at very grave risk by a missile boat or fast patrol boat of 200 tons. Along with these advantages this sort of vessel is still cheap enough to be provided in the numbers needed to build any creditable naval force. 
The DDL programme goes completely against this trend and for this reason and what is certain to be its high cost, it does not seem to me to be the proper solution for the problems our Navy will face in the next few decades. It is far too costly to be provided in adequate numbers unless other parts of the defence budget are drastically revised. Even if the project is approved and goes forward, these destroyers would not join the fleet until the early 1980s. By this time the HMAS 'Melbourne' would have reached the end of its service life and there would be a requirement for air cover. In addition Admiral Crabb has pointed to the need for another DDG destroyer and another Oberon crass submarine if the vessels now in service are to be used with the utmost effectiveness. The Admiral has also stressed that Australia needs many more patrol boats. He might have gone further and pointed out that the fast patrol boats which other countries in the region such as Malaysia, Singapore and Indonesia have or are acquiring are superior in speed and armaments to those in commission in the Australian Navy. 
In summary, if the DDL project proceeds we can forecast a situation in the early 1980s where Australia lacks fleet air arm capability. There will also be serious deficiencies in other areas of naval capability. Against the evidence of present naval trends all our resources for deployment will have been thrown into the one enormously expensive project. The argument in favour of the FI 1 1 was that if we wanted a sophisticated weapons system of this sort we had to buy it off the shelf in the United States. It would not do to design and build a more modest aircraft in Australia, or alternatively to build a cheaper aircraft under licence or coproduction arrangements in Australia. 
Now the Government is moving to do just the opposite; it wants to design and build an immensely complex and costly weapons system in Australia for the Navy. Yet the Government seems completely unaware of this blatant contradiction in its procurement logic. Of course there should be provision for local production and local design work, just as there should have been these provisions in planning for the Canberra bomber replacement. But it would be as much folly to try to do the DDL project solo as it would have been to design and build the Fill from scratch in Australia. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Hallett)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
Is Australia a member of the International Council of Scientific Unions. 
If so, (a) when did it join, (b) how much has it contributed to the Council (c) has it been represented on the executive committee and (d) on what scientific unions of the Council is Australia represented and what has it contributed to each. 
asked the Treasurer, upon  notice: 
Will he bring up to date the information which the then Treasurer gave on 21st May 1969 (Hansard, page 2096) on the percentage changes in selected components of the Consumer Price Index using the December quarter figures for 1969 and 1970 and the latest available figures for 1971. 
asked the Minister for Edu  cation and Science, upon notice: 
Is Australia a member of the Organisation Internationale de Metrologie Legale. 
If so, when did it join and what has it contributed. 
Has the Treasurer seen a statement made by  Mr Bethune  in the Tasmanian Parliament that it is the Commonwealth Government's policy to inhibit development in the smaller States? Is it correct, as claimed by  Mr Bethune,  that Commonwealth Treasury officials at Commonwealth Grants Commission hearings have admitted that Treasury policy is to discourage development in Tasmania? Further, is it correct, as claimed by  Mr Bethune,  that this discrimination by the Treasury is due to the greater per capita cost of the needs of smaller States compared with Sydney and Melbourne? If this is the official attitude of the Treasury, will the Treasurer revise it so that proper revenue sharing procedures are adopted? 
I would like to look at some aspects of transport involving Tasmania, particularly the need to develop an integrated system for the development of Tasmanian transport. Since these estimates were last debated in the Parliament 2 important reports on Tasmanian transport have become available. One is the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Primary and Secondary Industry and Trade. The other is the survey of sea, air and rail transport made by Pak Poy. It is impossible to make any sort of detailed synthesis of the recommendations made by these 2 reports. What I would like to do is to direct attention to the most important findings of the Committee and Pak Poy and to suggest some ways in which they could be used to evolve an integrated transport system for Tasmania. 
Obviously any integrated transport system will depend on rail and sea transport. Air transport is an important supplement to the carriage of freight to Tasmania by sea, but as it absorbs less than 1 per cent of total non-bulk freight to the island each year it is not of overriding importance. The Pak Poy report found that existing facilities at major aerodromes were adequate to meet freight needs for some time and that no major investment was required. This is not the case with railway investment. A fortnight or so ago the Parliament passed a Bill which gave assistance to Tasmania for the building of the railway link to Bell Bay. This provided $4.25m of Commonwealth money for the construction of the rail link. The initial intention of the Commonwealth was to provide 85 per cent of the establishment cost of the line, then estimated at $3.5m. The total cost of the railway, based on the Commonwealth contribution of $2. 5m, would have been $5m with the State providing $750,000. 
According to discussion on the Bell Bay railway in the Tasmanian Parliament in the past week, the link would cost more than $7m or at least double the original estimate. If the initial ratio of Commonwealth to State assistance were intended to apply the Commonwealth contribution would have to be raised to $5.95m, that is, 85 per cent of the cost of the link. This is $1.7m more than the assistance the Commonwealth made available in the Tasmanian Rail Agreement Bill 1971. If the Commonwealth will not vary its assistance because of the increased cost of the link, the State Government will have to find at least $2. 75m towards the cost of the railway. In this way a commitment by the Government to contribute 85 per cent of the establishment cost of the line would be whittled down to 60 per cent and even lower. 
The level of Commonwealth assistance for the establishment costs should be clarified and if an extra contribution is necessary, the Commonwealth should make it. Beyond the establishment costs of the Bell Bay link, there is a lengthy list of other railway works needed in Tasmania. The Bell Bay link will require extra locomotives and log wagons to handle woodchip consignments. Other railway works have been submitted to the Commonwealth and assistance requested. These include a new railway freight yard at Launceston and upgrading of other sections of track. There is precedent for Commonwealth assistance in provision of rolling stock in the Railway Equipment Agreement 1961 which assisted South Australia to buy locomotives and iron ore wagons. The Tasmanian Government should be given similar assistance on the same terms because of the importance of the wood chip industry to northern Tasmania. Looking past the horizons of the Bell Bay link, there is a most urgent need for the upgrading of Tasmanian main line railways. In a remarkable piece of understatement the Senate committee said that this would be beneficial and that Commonwealth assistance should be provided. The need for this revitalisation of the Tasmanian railway system is revealed in stark terms in the Pak Poy report. 
According to evidence given to the Pak Poy inquiry, the timetable for the swiftest freight service by rail between Hobart and Launceston is 9 hours 48 minutes or an average speed of 13.5 miles an hour. Stephenson's 'Rocket' would have made better time. According to  Mr N.  C. Vogan, a chartered engineer who looked closely at the existing structure for Pak Poy, the maximum speed of trains on the Tasmanian rail system is 45 miles an hour for passenger services and 35 miles an hour for freight trains. Average speeds are much lower. In his survey  Mr Vogan  estimated that the Hobart to Launceston line could be upgraded to give a maximum speed of 50 miles a hour for freight trains at the modest cost of $5.7m. This assistance for the upgrading of the 500 miles of existing rail in Tasmania should be given readily by the Commonwealth. 
Since 1951-52 the Commonwealth has given a total of $248. 8m for rail projects in Australia; Tasmania has got $4.25m which is the bare cost of the Bell Bay link. Now that the provision of extra railway works and the upgrading of existing lines has become crucial, it is imperative that more assistance be given to Tasmania. The need to upgrade the railway system is one of the prongs of any integrated transport system for Tasmania. The other is some sort of solution to the vexed shipping problems which constantly beset and beggar the State. The annual report of the Australian National Line tabled recently makes depressing reading with its record of further losses and a most unsatisfactory industrial picture. Again the report makes no reference to the extent of losses on the Tasmanian sector of ANL activities. Repeated attempts to get this sort of information have failed, but there is no doubt in my mind that until the past 2 years the Tasmanian operations were profitable. According to evidence given to the Senate committee by the ANL there were heavy losses on the Tasmanian trade in 1970-71. This in the majority opinion of the Senate committee justified the 121 per cent freight increase imposed by the line in August last year. 
The committee's opinion must be respected but on the basis of past contributions of the Tasmanian trade to ANL profits and the State's almost total reliance on shipping freight, a different approach could have been adopted. On this line of approach, it seems that further freight rises are inevitable and will be adopted unless some ways can be found of improving ANL profitability on the Tasmanian trade. A number of recommendations to do this are contained in the Senate committee's report and the Pak Poy report. One is the separation of the tourist and freight trade by provision of specialised tourist vessels. Under the present system it is impossible to separate out costs for either trade. The Pak Poy report found that the loss in passenger and tourist vehicle trade seemed to be higher than carriage of freight. If this is the case, it is clearly misleading to lump together charges for all cargo, whether passengers, cars or commercial freight. With the cost of each component known, it should be possible to put charges for ANL services on a more rational and economic basis. The separation of tourist and cargo services would also have the benefit of eliminating the impact of seasonal tourist demand on the supply of cargo space. 
Another important policy change that should be adopted would be to allow the ANL to act as a freight forwarder and provide a door to door service. The roll-on roll-off services introduced by the ANL in 1959 cut sea freight rates by almost 45 per cent. The benefit of these lower sea freight rates has since been eaten away by the additional freight-forward charges the new services brought. These associated land transport services sop up from 45 per cent to 50 per cent of the door to door movement of freight with wharfage taking 10 per cent and sea freight 40 per cent to 45 per cent. These are two tacks that could be taken to improve the profitability of ANL operations. Other suggestions have been put forward by the Senate committee and Pak Poy. AH these ideas have merit but there is little point in introducing them in isolation beyond the limits of a comprehensive plan for Tasmanian transport. At the moment we have a series of sane and relatively modest recommendations made by the Senate committee. There is also another set of recommendations made by Pak Poy supported by volumes of evidence on the transport of goods for Tasmania. What is needed is some sort of master plan designed to weld these recommendations into an integrated plan encompassing shipping, port and freight forwarding facilities by rail and road. This cannot be done in the scope of a 10 minute speech on the Estimates. Many of the Pak Poy recom mendations are controversial, particularly on the need to concentrate on larger ships and centralise facilities at one port. This recommendation has provoked violent reaction from sections of Tasmania and undoubtedly there are serious social issues involved. But it is important that these vital issues be examined closely by a competent authority and a list of priorities in cost-benefit terms drawn up. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Luchetti)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I ask a question of the Minister for Defence. The Minister will recall that the Prime Minister told a Press conference in Washington on 2nd November that the Government had made a decision in principle to train Cambodian troops in South Vietnam in co-operation with New Zealanders and United States people. I refer the Minister to a report in  the 'Auckland Star' of 4th November quoting the New Zealand Minister for Defence,  Mr Thomson,  as saying that no agreement, even in principle, had been made by New Zealand to train Cambodians inside Vietnam. When asked how  Mr McMahon  could say that New Zealand had made such an agreement,  Mr Thomson  is quoted as answering: 
You'll have to ask that in Canberra.* 
I ask the Minister: Did the Department of Defence advise the Prime Minister that New Zealand had made this decision in principle to train Cambodian troops in Vietnam? If not, did the Prime Minister commit New Zealand to train Cambodian troops without any authority from the New Zealand Government? Alternatively, has the Prime Minister made yet another grave error of fact and judgment? Finally I ask: Is there any end to the Government's sorry record of confusing and misleading statements over the training of Cambodian troops? 
by leave- As a result of the question asked by my colleague, the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant),  and the answer given by the Leader of the House  (Mr Swartz),  I think I should make it perfectly clear that the Leader of the House and I did have some discussion on this matter. The Leader of the House informed me of the sitting arrangements until the end of the session. It should be clearly understood also that 
I can be placed in an invidious position unless I inform the members of my own side that the discussion took place at a time after it was possible to inform our own members of the outcome. The Leader of the House will remember that our discussions took place yesterday afternoon and yesterday morning. 
The blue sheet shows that the Leader of the House is to move a motion relating to alteration of hours of meeting and I fully expect that when the Leader of the House moves that motion some time this evening we will have the opportunity to discuss fully not only alterations to sitting hours , but also the period that the House will be sitting. The Leader of the House has now explained his thoughts adequately to honourable members on this side of the House. Frankly I concur with what he put to me yesterday - that this Parliament should not sit late at night, that there should be a complete understanding on this matter and that basically the Parliament should not sit on Friday. If it is not possible to get through the business of this Parliament by 9th December, the day on which the Leader of the House indicated to me the House would rise, the alternative - and a sensible alternative - is for the Parliament to sit later in December. I merely wanted to make this explanation because I do not want honourable members to have the misunderstanding that the Leader of the House and I had made certain arrangements without giving the fullest opportunity to members on both sides of the House to discuss whatever arrangements the Minister had in mind. This will be done tonight. 
Sitting suspended from  12.48  to  2.15  p.m. 
asked the Minister for Supply, upon notice: 
Are initial military orders for the Project N aircraft likely to fall short of the number considered necessary to begin production. 
If so, what is the likely short-fall. 
Willbe approach the Minister for Foreign Affairs to ascertain whether the aircraft's ultrashort take-off capabilities, simple design and low cost would make it a suitable item of equipment for inclusion in out foreign aid programme. 
1 ' ask the Prime Minister a question. He will be aware of the confusion which has been created in his absence by answers which the Acting Prime Minister and the Minister for Defence have given on the training of Cambodian troops. At a Press conference immediately prior to his departure was he asked: 
Our correspondent in Washington reports today  . . that the Americans have secretly sounded out the Australian Government on this matter. Could you tell, me? 
And did he reply: 
To the best of my knowledge there has been no secret sounding out of the Australian Government, and I believe that I would have known as soon as anyone. Secondly, I have not heard any suggestion that we would be asked to make a contribution of a training team of instructors to Cambodia. 
Is he aware that on 10th November the Acting Prime Minister told the Leader of the Opposition: 
In April this year there was  a  request from the American Embassy that we help train Cambodians in Cambodia . . . The Prime Minister was notified of the discussions that had taken place and the refusal by Australia to participate in that type of operation. 
Will the Prime Minister- 
asked the Minister for the Army, upon notice: 
How many horse depots and  farms  and stations for the breeding of horses are maintained by the Army under the powers given to the GovernorGeneral by section 63(1) (dc) of the Defence Act. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Has the Bureau of Mineral Resources made any study of the elasticity of supply of the metals obtained from mineral sands. 
If so, docs this study indicate that the optimum return to Australia would be achieved by increasing or decreasing the production of mineral sands. 
Is the Prime Minister aware that the letter from the  Chairman  of the Interim Council for the National Film and Television Training School about which he was asked yesterday by the honourable member for Franklin, and which he said he had not seen, was sent by the  Chairman  on 20th October and acknowledged by the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts on 25th October? Has he asked the Minister why this crucial letter was not drawn to his attention before he made his statement on 26th October? If so, what was the Minister's reply? 
 I refer the Minister for the Navy to a statement made in the House of Commons on 11th March this year by the Minister of State for Defence,  Mr Kirk.  In that statement  Mr Kirk  said that, apart from a short period during January when the Soviet Navy relief squadron took over from ships returning home, the maximum Soviet presence reported in the Indian Ocean was 6 vessels - 3 surface warships, an attack submarine and 2 support ships. I ask the Minister: Whom does he consider the more reliable authority - a British Tory Defence Minister or a commercial organ whose objective is to promote sales of warships? Does he still persist in clinging to his thoroughly discredited claim that the Russian presence in the Indian Ocean comprises at least 20 surface ships and an unknown number of submarines? 

 - -Mr Speaker, the Opposition supports the basic proposition put to the House. However, we will move an addendum designed to elaborate future attitudes to Vietnam and the other Indo-China states. This is an expression of support for the pledge given by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  not to embroil Australia in future wars in IndoChina. Accordingly, it should be acceptable to Government members; and we urge that it be accepted to round off the resolution before the House. Bearing in mind the source of this resolution, the House must be thankful that it is moderately phrased and expresses sentiments that I am sure all Australians will support. 
There has been an immense volume of debate on Vietnam in this House and in the public arena. The time for reassessment of policies and attitudes will come when all Australian troops are returned from Vietnam and the future of that country emerges a little more clearly. It would be pointless to go over ground that has been covered extensively and exhaustively in earlier debates in this House. 1 want to look briefly at the record of Australian troops in Vietnam and the impact of the war on our defence structure. 
The attitude of the Australian Labor Party to the individual troops committed to Vietnam was put with admirable clarity by the former Leader of the Opposition, the right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell),  when the first battalion was committed to the war in May 1965. He made it clear then that despite the Labor Party's opposition to the war, it regarded it as a duty to support to the utmost troops doing their duty in the field. The right honourable gentleman further said: 
In  terms of everything that an Army in the  Geld  requires, we shall never deny you the aid  and  support that it is your right to expect in the service of your country. 
In the subsequent 6 years of warfare the Labor Party has fulfilled this pledge. It has always carefully distinguished between the policies of the Government and the implementation of those policies by men doing their duty in the field in Vietnam. There have been criticisms of aspects of military policy; this is the right and indeed the duty  of  an opposition Party. Undoubtedly errors  of  military judgment were made in Vietnam; this happens in all wars and military leaders must expect this sort  of  criticism. 
But the Opposition has always been most careful in conceiving its duty as the protection of Australian life in Vietnam and the exposure of abuses when they occurred. 
It is a measure of dedication and sense of duties of our soldiers in Vietnam that abuses and excesses were few. To an overwhelming extent Australian soldiers in Vietnam conducted themselves wilh restraint and respect for humanity. Unlike other participants in the war the tactics adopted by Australian forces did not employ the use of free fire zones, stupid defoliation, and search and destroy operations which devastated large civilian populations. In incredibly difficult circumstances the Australian operations were conducted with restraint and with a sense of responsibility to civilian populations in the regions where they operated. 
The Vietnam war was an immense strain on the Army. The Army was the principal victim of the defence rundown of the late fifties. In the period from 1963 to 1965 it was subjected to immense pressures purely for the political expediency of committing troops to Vietnam. At its peak the Army administration was servicing Vietnam with 3 battalions a year. In addition a battalion was committed to Malaysia-Singapore and there was the heavy burden of training 16,000 national servicemen each year. The Army responded magnificently to these immense demands; its efficiency and dedication in this highly arduous period is to be admired. For these reasons the Opposition agrees that the House should express its gratitude for these sacrifices and this dedication to duty. 
In length of time the Vietnam war was the most sustained commitment ever undertaken by the Australian armed Services. By the time the last units are withdrawn at the end of this year Australians will have maintained a major commitment for 61 years. Even then under the policy of the present Government training teams and special advisers will remain. In demands on the Services the Vietnam War far exceeds Australian commitments to the Korean War and the Malayan emergency. The casualty lists have been high; at least 473 killed and around 3,000 wounded. The cost to Australia has been assessed at about $40m a year but this is the bare accounting difference between the cost cf keeping troops in Australia and the cost of sending them to Vietnam. If bidden costs are taken into account the annual cost to Australia must have been rather higher. 
The Opposition believes that the spending of life and scarce resources in Vie* nam was futile and that this futility will become more apparent in the next few years. We join in the expression of sympathy with the relatives of those who lost their lives. These unfortunate people have to make their own bitter assessments of what these sacrifices entail and whether they should have been demanded. The number of wounded in Vietnam raises important questions about the future of the veterans who survived. In the nature of injuries afflicted the Vietnam war was one of the most terrible in history. The development of weapons with greater ability to maim and disfigure was accompanied by improvements in medical techniques which assured ti higher survival rate. Many survived terrible wounds which would have caused certain death in earlier wars. The use of helicopter evacuation and new drugs and methods of healing meant that a much higher proportion of the very seriously wounded survived. 
The welfare problems created by these peculiar features of Vietnam have produced immense problems in the United States. These problems are present on a reduced scale in Australia. For Australian soldiers the most terrible weapons causing disabling wounds were undoubtedly the anti-personnel mines. Because of the nature of operations in Vietnam, many Australian soldiers were maimed by these mines; many young men will not be able to participate in an active working life because of these wounds. This is obvious from a study of the numbers severely disabled by the terrible injuries listed in the schedules of the Repatriation Act. These are matters which will require careful and compassionate consideration from the Government. 
In particular the benefits available to Vietnam veterans and their future should be examined in detail by the Toose Inquiry into the Repatriation structure. To a much greater extent than other wars the permanently maimed from Vietnam are very young men; often only in their early 20's. 
This means that a greater percentage of young men have been denied productive working lives because of Vietnam. The presence of a high percentage of national servicemen in the Vietnam combat units has ensured this. There is little point in the Parliament paying lipservice to the sacrifices of our troops in Vietnam if this expression is not translated into measures for the effective care and rehabilitation of those veterans. 
Yes, as the honourable member for Barton has interjected, there is a great deal that the Repatriation Department can do in this respect. I think it is gratifying that the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  is now sitting at the table. No doubt he will participate in this debate and one would expect that he will have something to say on this important issue. 
In particular the anguish of those young men who will be dented satisfying professional or family lives because of Vietnam must be given special consideration. There are some questions arising from the resolution which has been transmitted to the House from the Senate. It is ironical that this resolution should have been sponsored by a Party which has been the most consistently wrong and misguided of any contributor to the Vietnam debate. In outandout hawkishness and callous disregard for human suffering the Australian Democratic Labor Party has even exceeded the Government. lt would be foolish to expect this Party to have any rational thoughts about the future of I ndo China and Australia's relations with the countries of Indo China. There is a little more hope for (he present Government. It seems that at long last it has recognised the futility of military involvement in Indo China, but it has hesitated about putting its doubts into effective action. 
The key to the future of Indo-China is North Vietnam and the relations of the rest of the world with North Vietnam, or the Democratic Republic of Vietnam as it calls itself. With China admitted to the United Nations. North Vietnam is the most powerful Communist country remaining outside the world community. 
The Communist Government of North Vietnam has dominated Indo-China in the past  20  years. Military efforts have failed to quell either the North Vietnamese Government or the Communist wing working in association with it in South Vietnam. There is no sign that the military strength of the North Vietnamese Government or of the situation in North Vietnam generally or the will of its people and leadership have been diminished in any way by the military efforts of the United States and its partners. It is unrealistic to expect that this country will suddenly lay down its arms or wither away as an effective power. The only hope of assuring peace in Indo-China and assuring the neutrality of Indo-China lies in negotiations with North Vietnam. 
The difficulties of the present Australian Government initiating any sort of dialogue with North Vietnam are immense, but eventually a start will have to be made to normalising our relations with this country. One would hardly expect a sensible comment or interjection from the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham).  He has never been guilty of making one in the time that he has represented that and other electorates for the brief periods he has been here. The only hope, and I repeat it for the benefit of the honourable member, of assuring peace in Indo-China is to open negotiations with the parties involved. Unless the neutrality of Indo-China can be assured and guaranteed by international supervision, then the way is open for further protracted and bloody warfare in Indo-China. In particular it will set the vast armies of North Vietnam and South Vietnam at each other's throats. It must be plain that no solution in Vietnam can be found without negotiations and some form of settlement with, the Communists. One of the realities of withdrawal is that the need for accommodation will be forced ultimately on the Government of South Vietnam. Until accommodation is reached in Vietnam the wars in Laos and Cambodia will continue because the contending forces in Vietnam have made these states part of the Vietnam cockpit. 
In paying tribute today to the performance of their duty by Australian soldiers in Vietnam, it is proper that recognition be given to the future of Indo-China. Once all our troops are out ii will not be possible for Australia to wash its hands of IndoChina. There is a duty to assist in the rehabilitation and rebuilding of all the states of Indo-China. There is also a duty to embark on the difficult course of negotiation and settlement. 
Admittedly this is an immensely difficult task for an Australian government which has involved itself in the military war. But the task of opening up channels with North Vietnam will have to be faced in the next few years by all the countries which sought to destroy it, including the United States and Australia. 
A year ago it would have been unthinkable that this Government would go as far along the road to rapprochement wilh the Peoples' Republic of China as it has gone in recent months. Now it must swallow its pride and make a similar gesture towards ending the isolation of North Vietnam and diverting it towards the establishment of a peaceful balance in Indo-China. With these observations about the nature of Australia's future role in Indo-China, I move the following addition to the resolution before the House: 
That the following words be added to the motion - and also endorses the promise of the Prime Minister that Australian troops will not again be involved in Indo-China. 
I welcome the opportunity to support, the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  the Australian Labor Party shadow Minister for Housing, on what is a most important amendment. First of all may 1 say that when I was sitting in my office a few moments ago listening to the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  I felt much the same as I am sure the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  felt when he was drawn into this debate because of the lamentable and shocking reply from the Minister for Housing. 
We are now discussing the war service homes legislation, and frankly I am appalled that the Minister should display such ignorance and lack of knowledge about what after all is one of the most important pieces of legislation that has been introduced into this Parliament dealing with the rights of ex-servicemen. I know and appreciate that I am not in a position to be able to make a second reading speech at this stage because we are dealing with an amendment in the Committee stage. I wish that I did have the opportunity to deal in detail with some of the anomalies and some of the omissions that the Minister glossed over in his  reply  to the debate on the second reading of this Bill. 
The honourable member for Reid has moved an amendment to provide for the extension of war service homes benefits to all those who have served in the armed Services of this country on a volunteer basis, that is, those who have volunteered to serve in any one of the armed forces. In supporting this amendment I put it to the Australian people, as we have put it to this Parliament on a number of occasions, that the benefits of the war service homes legislation should be extended to encourage young people in this country to become members of the armed Services and to accept their responsibility in this way on a purely voluntary basis. But of course we are up against a Government which really does not believe in voluntary enlistment. It is more concerned with conscription. 
The Government is concerned with getting men for its armed forces on the cheap, as the honourable member for Barton has just pointed out. What would an extension of the benefits of the war service homes legislation mean to this Government? Those who have spoken in this debate would know only too well that, as the honourable member for Reid has pointed out in a very competent address to this Parliament on this legislation, this Government is now making a profit out of those who accept their entitlement under the war service homes legislation. I hope some time later this night on a further amendment to be able to present to the Parliament the figures which show that this Government is now making a profit out of the war service homes legislation. I do not blame the departmental officers for this state of affairs because I know that the Department of Housing administers the War Service Homes Act with a great deal of humanity and sincerity. The plain fact is that when one looks at individual cases under the war service homes legislation one finds that the Minister has issued a direction. It is ministerial policy. Many provisions contained in this Act shall apply to ex-servicemen in this country to guarantee to them assistance under the war service homes legislation, but such provisions have been curtailed because the Minister has issued a ministerial direction. I challenge the Minister to stand in this Chamber and deny that this is not the case in relation to special assistance. For example, I refer to the transfer of existing mortgages. The Minister knows that these are dealt with in the Act and its benefits should be extended to ex-servicemen but, because of ministerial direction, ex-servicemen are denied these opportunities. 
Let me return to the matter under discussion, namely, whether we should extend the benefits of the war service homes legislation to all those who serve in the armed forces in this country. Would it cost Australia a great deal to do this? Naturally, it may increase the allocation that will have to be made available by the Government to this Department to include those who will become eligible for these benefits if this amendment is carried. However, this Government has always adopted the attitude that rather than increase the allocation, it should be reduced. I ask the Minister to produce statistics which will show how the average cost of a home in this country has increased and how the overall allocation has substantially decreased. Finally, of course, the Government now is making a profit from its War Service Homes Division. This is no credit to the Government and I want to hear the Minister justify the Government's attitude to war service homes and to those who are eligible for benefits under this Act. The Opposition believes that if the provisions of the war service homes legislation are applied to those who are prepared to volunteer for any one of the armed Services in Australia, then this is no more than that to which they are entitled. 
Only a few months ago, I made a plea in this House during an adjournment debate - of course, it was ignored; one does not expect it to be accepted by this Government - for those who fly into Vietnam. I pointed out that those who flew into Vietnam on a special trip were, of course, directed to do so by the Government and were carrying out their responsibilities. They were in Vietnam overnight. I asked that they be eligible for the provisions of the war service homes legislation. Under the Act, of course, anyone who serves in Vietnam for 24 hours - for one day - is entitled to the benefits of the war service homes legislation. In the case that I instanced, the groups of pilots who flew special trips into Vietnam and who stayed there overnight were denied such benefits. The former Minister for the Navy, the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  was in the chamber while I was putting my case. I have a great respect for my colleague, the former Minister for the Navy who, I thought, was at least listening to the debate on that occasion with a great deal of sympathy and who appreciated my point of view. However, this was some months ago and the Government has done nothing about it. How can it justify these kinds of anomalies? 
I am glad that the honourable member does agree with me. However, the plain fact is that the Minister has done nothing at all about this matter. How does he justify these anomalies? The Government is prepared to allow such anomalies to continue under this legislation. Anyone who serves in Vietnam for 24 hours and who has been sent there as a member of the Army or of the Royal Australian Air Force is entitled to the benefits of the Repatriation Act as it applies to war service homes. In this case or in the case of people who happened to go to Vietnam as members of the crew of the HMAS 'Sydney' - which was referred to by my colleague, the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  - they are not entitled to the benefits of this legislation. How does the Minister justify these anomalies? Let the Minister stand in this chamber and tell the people not only of this Parliament but also of this country how he justifies them. The members of the crew of the HMAS 'Sydney', which is transporting troops to Vietnam and anchoring off the shores of Vietnam, receive no assistance under this legislation. What sort of Government is it that allows these anomalies to continue? 
The amendment which has been moved would provide these benefits to anyone who joins the Services. After all, any person who joins the Armed Services is entitled to choose in which arm he wishes to serve. He gives an undertaking that he will serve this country in any sphere or in any area to which the Government chooses to send him. One may go to Vietnam, but the one who spends his time in a base in 
Australia is denied the entitlements of this Act. It will be interesting to hear the honourable member, who so often speaks for ex-servicemen in this country, explain this attitude. 
 I move the following amendment- 
I move: 
Before paragraph (a) insert the following paragraph: by adding at the end of the definition of  "Australian  soldier" in sub-section (1.) the following words: and includes a serving member of the permanent forces'. 
I have moved this amendment because 2 honourable members from the Government side have had the courage to stand up and support the Opposition's proposal in this respect, to provide for an extension of the War Service Homes Act to cover those who have joined the armed Services I am now referring to the regular forces of this country on a permanent basis for the duration of their service. 
 I am not very happy about it. 
No. I think you ought to let me put my case on this. I would be very happy to comply with the request of the Leader of the House later.I understand his motive in suggesting this. But there ought not to be any doubt in the minds of honourable members opposite about what the Opposition proposes in relation to this matter. After I have made my explanation the Opposition will be very happy for progress to be reported. Undoubtedly there are honourable members on the Government side who believe that there ought to be an extension of the War Service Homes Act to provide for those who join the Navy, the Army or the Air Force on a permanent basis and who serve this country in that capacity whether their service is in Australia or overseas or, as the Government terms it. in a prescribed area. The amendment I have proposed clearly puts this proposition. I understand the objection that the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  had in relationto this matter. He does not believe that members who joined up for a day or a week that is, those who come within the description of serving in the Citizen Military Forces ought to be entitled to the benefits of the war service homes legislation. Neither do we believe that, but we do believe that the benefits ought to be extended to provide for those who volunteer to serve in the armed forces. 
I think that the amendmentI have proposed meets the wishes of both the honourable member for Moreton ,  (Mr Killen)  and the honourable member for La Trobe, both of whom have had the courage to stand up and say that they support this proposition. The honourable member for Moreton put to us the reasons why he believes the scheme ought to be extended. He pointed out some of the anomalies to which I have already referred. I referred, for example, to those who fly into Viet nam on special service. The Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  has not done his homework. He does not understand the Act. It is quite clear that he had to get the Leader of the House  (Mr Swartz)  to come to his assistance and ask that progress be reported. I suggest that the Minister ought to do his homework and he ought to understand the Act. He simply does not understand it. 
I do not want to go back over all the anomalies that have been referred to during the course of this debate, butI want to emphasise with all sincerity the proposition that has been put by honourable members on this side of the House. There is a clear case for the war service homes legislation to be looked at so as to bring within its ambit those who join the armed Services of this country to serve Australia, whether their service be in Australia or outside it. However ridiculous it is that the Minister for Housing has not done his homework.I believe that I can substantiate my claim that he has not. The plain fact is that, as the honourable member for Moreton pointed out, anyone who joined the armed Services as a volunteer during the 1939-45 war the honourable member for Moreton referred to the Air Force had a TX number, a QX number, a VX number or an NX number or the appropriate prefix according to the States of the Commonwealth in which they enlisted. They were entitled to assistance through the War Services Homes Division whether their service was in Australia or outside. 
Someone referred to the Victoria Barracks. How ridiculous it is for the Minister to use that as a valid argument when the plain fact is that any member who served in the Victoria Barracks during the last world war and who had a prefix X before his number was entitled to assistance from the War Service Homes Division. I ask the Minister to look at this Act andlearn something about it. His lack of knowledge of the Act is a disgrace to this Parliament. 
There are members on his side of the House who would support what I have said in this respect. All we are asking  for  is justice for those who have served this country. The honourable member for Moreton referred to those who served in HMAS 'Sydney'. I apologise for the fact that when I first spoke on this matter I referred to HMAS 'Melbourne'. I meant HMAS 'Sydney'. How can the Minister justify a situation in which those who serve on the 'Sydney', taking troops to Vietnam, and who are stationed there overnight in an area patrolled by HMAS 'Perth' are not entitled to the benefits, when everyone serving on the 'Perth' would be eligible for the benefits of the war service homes legislation. Because they happen to go to Vietnam as a member of the crew of the Sydney' the Minister says to them: "You are not entitled to the benefits of the war service homes legislation.' 
I put it to honourable members opposite wilh all sincerity that all we want to do is ensure that those who serve this country - who are prepared to accept the responsibilities, whether as members of the Navy, the Army or the Air Force and who are prepared to join and be called upon to serve this country overseas - are entitled to the benefits of the war service homes legislation. That is the only suggestion the Opposition makes in relation to this matter. It is a reasonable proposition. I believe that the Minister now acknowledges that this is a reasonable proposition because he has agreed with the Leader of the House that we ought to report progress. I make one final appeal to honourable members opposite. I hope that when progress is reported they will use whatever influence they have on the Minister - who does not know the Act, docs not understand its implications and does not understand how it was applied to those who served during the last world war and the First World War - to see that he accepts this proposition, which is a reasonable one. 
The honourable member for Moreton made a very good point when he asked: What will it cost this country?' It may mean an increase in the appropriation, but the plain fact is that when one looks at it in relation to the overall Budget it is just a matter of peanuts. The honourable member for Moreton put it in a very descriptive form. He said it was a question of peanuts, but the Minister and the Government must accept some responsibility for this. They consistently have opposed any action on the part of honourable members on this side of the chamber to bring about what, after all, is a change that would be acceptable to al) Australians. 
Progress reported. 
asked the Ministerfor Supply the following question, upon notice: 
Has the Australian designed Project N light utility aircraft met all specifications within budgetary and time limits. 
-I  present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth: 
Whereas - 
Parents have the right to choose their children's education and as taxpayers they are entitled to ask that public funds to which their taxes have contributed should be shared justly and equitably for the education of all children. 
The Commonwealth Parliament has accepted the principle of an independent school system in Australia and has also accepted the principle that those schools should be assisted from public funds. 
The very existence of a large number of independent schools is now threatened due to the changes in economic circumstances and due to the increased demands on the resources of these schools. 
The reduction of the number of independent schools in Australia will effectively deprive many taxpaying parents of their right to choose an alternative type of education for their children. 
The closure of a number of independent schools will result in serious overcrowding in and further deterioration in the standard of government schools. 
It is in the interest of all school pupils whether in government or independent schools that the independent school system should survive and function  efficiently  and effectively. 
The absence of any increase in capitation grants by the Commonwealth since 1969. notwithstanding the great increase in costs since then, has created serious problems for independent schools. 
Your petitioners request that your honourable 
House make legal provision for - 
An emergency increase in capitation grants for independent schools to enable them to survive without increasing fees beyond the capacity of parents to pay. 
A just and equitable means of increased support for all schools both government and independent to the intent that such support should be integrated into the economic and financial planning  of  Australia' and that the question  of proper  support of both Government and independent schools should cease to  be  a matter  of  political debate and  expediency. 
Petition received and read. 
I wish to ask the Minister for the Army a question. 

 - Mr Chairman, you may remember that, probably transgressing the rules and regulations of this Parliament, 1 did indicate while the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  was speaking that he was obviously not interested in the problems of the War Service Homes Division or of those who are not receiving assistance under the terms of this legislation and that he was more concerned as usual with taking a smart political point. Let me say to this- Committee, and particularly to the Minister for Social Services, that J am not prepared to sit back in this Parliament and decline to accept at least some of the credit for the attitudes that I have adopted on behalf of the Opposition in relation to the problems of ex-servicemen. If the Minister for Social Services is able to achieve as much as a Minister and as a so-called responsible member of the Ministry in relation to the abolition of the means test as I have been able to achieve in this Parliament in relation not only to war service homes benefits but also repatriation matters generally, he will be able to stand up in this chamber and talk in the way he did when he delivered his speech only a few moments ago. But no-one is surprised at the Minister for Social Services. He talks but he never acts. Indeed he wants to see justice denied to ex-servicemen. I agree with what you,  Mr Chairman,  said in rela- lion to this matter, that perhaps we ought to come back to the amendment and that probably the speeches that have been made this afternoon dealt with matters that are quite irrelevant. 
I am disappointed al the fact that both the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  and the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  have decided after reflection - not mature reflection, but reflection nevertheless - over the weekend that they will not support the amendment which they indicated last Thursday night they would support. Let me remind the honourable member for Moreton and  Ihe  honourable member for La Trobe of the terms of the amendment which I moved, lt reads: 
Before paragraph (a) insert the following paragraph: by adding at the end of the definition of "Australian soldier" in sub-section (I.) the following words: and includes serving members of the permanent forces'. 
I emphasise the words 'and includes serving members of the permanent forces'. We make no apology for this. I am sure lhat every honourable member in this Parliament, government members as well as honourable members on this side, fully understand the policy of the Australian Labor Party in relation to the terms of the War Service Homes Act, and lhat is to extend the benefits of this Act to every member who serves in the regular forces of this country. This is our policy. Surely the Minister for Social Services would not suggest that we have been trying to make a cheap political point in this Parliament this afternoon by merely taking the opportunity to advocate what is, after all, our policy. I. am sure that if this is put to those who are responsible for speaking on behalf not only of the ex-servicemen in this country but also, as the Returned Services League of Australia has put it on so many occasions, on behalf of those who are serving in the armed forces in Australia, they would agree with the contention of the Labor Party that it is not beyond this Government financially or in any other way to extend the terms and provisions of the war service homes legislation to those who serve in the regular forces in this country. 
I do not want to go back over the points that I made last Thursday night when I spoke on this matter but I did point out to the Minister that Labor Government did not deny to those who joined the forces in the 1939-45 War the benefits of the war service homes legislation if they joined for the purpose of serving this country overseas. That is, if they made themselves available to serve anywhere they were directed during their period of service they would be eligible for the benefits of the war service homes legislation. The Minister obviously does not understand this. I do not think he wants to understand it. While one could probably excuse the Minister for not knowing the Act when he was first appointed the plain fact is that he has held this portfolio long enough now to have some understanding of the legislation relating to war service homes. 1 have heard some criticism this afternoon about the intentions and actions of the honourable member for La Trobe and the honourable member for Moreton. But the guilty person in this is the Minister himself. I say that the Minister is guilty because he has had the whole weekend to reflect on what was said in this House on Thursday night. If the Minister is not prepared at this stage to accept that the benefits of the war service homes legislation should be extended to all regular serving members of the armed forces in this country then he at least might, in common justice and in a sense of decency, give consideration to the appeal that was made not only by myself but by the honourable member for Moreton as well, when we drew attention to the anomalies in relation to those who have served this country in Vietnam. How does the Minister justify these anomalies? Surely we do not have to await a long and considered judgment by the Cabinet to determine whether a member of the Royal Australian Air Force flying in a Hercules aircraft from Australia into Vietnam, into a war zone, and who stayed there overnight or even only a few hours and then returned to Australia, is entitled to benefits under this legislation? How can such a person possibly be denied the benefits of war service homes legislation? 
I would go much further and say that he should be given not only the benefits of the war service homes legislation but also repatriation benefits. The honourable member for La Trobe claims - and I believe that probably he is justified to an extent in making the claim - that he is always looking for and has always looked for ways to extend benefits to ex-servicemen in this country and to serving members of the forces. If he is justified in making this claim then surely he can see the logic in extending these benefits immediately to this group of people. .1 can only repeal, as another honourable member did this afternoon, that this matter was raised not only last Thursday night during the course of a debate on the amendment I have referred to but also by me in this House nearly 12 months ago. 
How does the Government justify its discrimination against someone who accepts the responsibility of flying into Vietnam, a Hercules aircraft, with all the value attached to that plane and all the dangers associated with such a mission? If I were to write to the Minister concerning one of these pilots the Minister would write back to me and say that the person is not eligible to receive the benefits of the war service homes legislation. What utter nonsense. Yet we have the hypocrisy of the Minister for Social Services who can stand up in this House and- 
The  CHAIRMAN (Mr Lucock)Order! 
I withdraw the word 'hyprocrisy'. Yet we have the Minister for Social Services standing up in this House and suggesting that we are trying to score a point. Let the Minister stand up and justify the action of the Government that discriminates against this, section of the community, those who have served this country in a war that this Minister has consistently supported. Now we may argue whether Australia ought to have been involved or not, and we have so argued in this House, but when it comes to defending the rights of those who serve there then I intend not to be behind anyone in this Parliament in making my stand known. The plain fact is that if the honourable member for La Trobe and the honourable member for Moreton accept our propositions, if they believe that in common justice this country can now afford to extend the benefits of the war service homes legislation to all those who serve in the armed Services in this country, as we did for those who served during the 1939-45 war, and as we did again after the 
Korean war, without any discrimination, then they will support the amendment which has been moved not for the purpose of scoring some political point but to provide a measure of justice to those who deserve this assistance. 
It is seldom that one hears an argument advanced with less logic than that which has been put by the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess).  I think it is obvious that the acceptance of our amendment to increase the loan would require a larger allocation. Nobody denies this. It would require a larger allocation of funds. If the honourable member for La Trobe looks very carefully at the allocations for war service homes over the years he will find that they have fluctuated according to the dictates of this Government. It has been reduced, it has been put back up again, then it has gone down again. There is no reason why the amount of $60m - which is the amount which this Government is making available as a result of the appropriation legislation introduced this year - should be the final sum to be made available to the War Service Homes Division. One has to look at this in relation to the other factors that are involved in the Division. 
I thought the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  put this matter very concisely and very carefully and very clearly. If one followed the argument of the honourable member for La Trobe to its logical conclusion one could go on and argue that you may have X number of ex-servicemen receiving war service home loans but you must not increase the amount that could be made available to them because an increase in the loan would put them back into the position that ex-servicemen were in between 1946 and 1949. A few minutes ago the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  said, by way of interjection, that he was here between 1946 and 1949 and that he remembered the situation during that period. However, he should be reminded, just as the honourable member for La Trobe needs to be reminded, that between 1946 and 1949 the maximum advance was sufficient to be able to purchase a home under the war service homes legislation. It has always been a basic requirement of this Division that 10 per cent of the cost of the home was necessary as a deposit, even if the maximum advance exceeded the cost of the home. However, what is the situation today under this Government? The real test is whether the maximum advance is sufficient to allow those who qualify under the Act to be able to gain assistance or to purchase a home. The plain fact is that the great majority of them cannot do so today. I thought that the honourable member for Reid made this perfectly clear. 
For example, in New South Wales - I refer to the report of the Director of the War Service Homes Division - in 1951-52, the average cost of a dwelling and land was $5,050 and the maximum loan was then $5,500. I hope that the honourable member for La Trobe will remember these figures. In other words, the average cost of a dwelling and land was less than the maximum loan that was then available. This meant that a person who was entitled to a war service home loan did not have to go to an outside source for finance to supplement the amount made available by the War Service Homes Division. From the annual report of the Director of the War Service Homes Division, it will be seen that in 1970-71 the average cost of a house and land in New South Wales was $16,281. This means that the average cost of a house and land in New South Wales has more than trebled in 20 years. If the provisions of this Bill, are passed, the maximum loan will have been increased by only 64 per cent over the same period. If the relationship which applied in 1951-52 had been maintained, the maximum loan today would be $17,732 and not $9,000 as is proposed in this Bill. Where then is the logic in the argument of the honourable member for La Trobe and those who support him in opposition to this amendment? Of course, there is no question about it. One would not expect the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  to be sympathetic in these matters. I do not believe that he really understands them. However, surely Government supporters can appreciate the significance of the fact that the statistics made available by the Director of the War Service Homes Division show that in one State alone the average cost of a house and land is almost $7,000 in excess of what will be the maximum loan. How can one accept this kind of situation? 
As I have already pointed out to the Committee, it can be shown that there has been a great deterioration in the amount that was made available during the period of the last Labor government. The maximum loan which then applied under the terms of the War Service Homes Act exceeded the average cost of a dwelling and land. The Opposition has suggested that the maximum loan should be increased to $15,000 which is still $2,000 below the figure that it should be if the ratio between what was made available before this Government came to office in 1949 and the average cost of a dwelling and land had been maintained. I do not want to stress the fact that this is merely the policy of the Party - that probably does not have a great deal to do with it- but what is important is whether the maximum advance is sufficient for those who desire to purchase a home through the War Service Homes Division. The plain fact is that it is not. lt is quite unreasonable for the honourable member for La Trobe to argue that if the maximum advance is increased, the amount that will be available for those who require loans under the war service homes legislation will decrease. If this is to be the position, the answer is obvious. The Government must increase the overall appropriation. Since the honourable member for La Trobe has been asking questions, perhaps he might be able to provide an answer as to why the Government is not prepared to increase the appropriation. Surely if it is good enough for him to argue as he did a few moments ago, it is reasonable  to  expect him to answer this question. This Government has a responsibility under the terms of the legislation to provide assistance to those who require and who are eligible for assistance from the War Service Homes Division. I have already indicated to the Committee how the cost of a house and land has increased in this country during this Government's period in office. It is quite reasonable for the Opposition to request that the maximum loan be increased to $15,000. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  (Mr Drury)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I second the amendment, which reads in part:   . . the  House is of opinion that  a  Select Committee of the House should be  oppointed to  inquire into all  aspects  of  War  Service Land Settlement in  Australia in  order tq  formulate  guidelines for any future land  settlement  scheme with  particular  reference to the level  of rentals  demanded from settlers, the  method of valuations  and the option of  purchase price on properties. 
As other honourable members have pointed out, this is a machinery measure which comes before the. Parliament each year. Last year for the first time the Opposition moved for the appointment of a select committee of this House to inquire into all aspects of war service land settlement in Australia and to formulate guidelines for future land settlement. The honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  has moved in similar terms for the Bill now before the House to be amended so a select committee of inquiry can be appointed. One of the main reasons for such an investigation is that it is almost impossible to assess the functioning of soldier settlement from a national viewpoint. 
Each year the House gets a number of excellent contributions on aspects of the scheme in the various States. The honourable member for Dawson is able to give the House the benefit of his wide associa tion with closer settlement schemes, in particular the development of the Queensland brigalow country. The honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Davies)  has dealt in some detail with the problems of soldier settlers on King Island, which has been acknowledged by successive Ministers for Primary Industry as a major problem area. The honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  informed the House of the problems of soldier settlers in the Mumimbidgee Irrigation Area and at Coleambally. On the Government side the most regular contributor to these debates has been the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles),  who has drawn the attention of the House to soldier settlement problems in the Upper Murray region of South Australia. 
A number of detailed regional studies of soldier settlement have been put before the House but it has not been possible to paint an overall picture. The amount of information available at the Commonwealth level is extremely meagre, although the Commonwealth is responsible for the policy direction of the scheme and its general supervision. There is no statutory body administering the scheme. Accordingly there is. no accounting to this Parliament each year of the annual operation of the soldier settlement scheme. It. is also surprising to learn that the scheme has been beyond the scope of the Bureau of Agriultural Economics, which has not made any comprehensive study of soldier settlement. A considerable amount of information is available at the State level, but it is a major piece of research work to gather this material, analyse it and draw it together into a coherent critique of soldier settlement. 
For these reasons the Opposition wants soldier settlement to be assessed as part of a national rural policy. The scheme has not been reviewed since its inception at the end of the war. Now that the Government has embarked at least on a comprehensive investigation of the repatriation structure, which is the other major piece of Commonwealth legislation affecting exservicemen, it would be timely to have a look at rural resettlement projects for war veterans. Last year when this amendment was moved by the Opposition the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony),  who was then Minister for Primary Industry, indicated that he had some measure of sympathy for a review of the scheme. He conceded that there was some meaningful purpose in such a review but rejected it because the record of the Government did not warrant reassessment. This stand was based on the rather curious view that demands by eligible settlers for land had been satisfied. It ignored the point at issue, that it was the difficulty of settlers already farming under the scheme and not the supply of land for potential settlers which warranted re-examination. According to the  Deputy  Prime Minister's logic, the balance achieved between supply and demand meant that the scheme was successful. He agreed that there were pockets of difficulty but did not feel that these warranted a full scale inquiry into the scheme. He said that these difficulties were being dealt with on an individual basis by the Department of Primary Industry and that any inquiry, by the House of Representatives would only duplicate ibis work. 
The Minister pointed also to the committee of inquiry into war service land settlement conducted by the Legislative Council of Tasmania. He considered it most Inappropriate to set up a Commonwealth committee while the Tasmanian committee was conducting its inquiry. This difficulty has since been removed by the completion of the Tasmanian investigation and the presentation of the committee's report to the Parliament of Tasmania. There is very little substance in the other objections given by the  Deputy  Prime Minister to a Commonwealth inquiry. In view of the investment in soldier settlement, the wide spread of soldier settlement through Australian rural areas - and the heavy concentration of soldier settlers in some regions there are very strong reasons for reassessment and planning for the future along the tines indicated by the honourable member for Dawson. 
I would like to make some general comments about this Bill and the operation of the scheme before looking more closely at the report of the Tasmanian Committee of Inquiry. Each year the Commonwealth arranges the raising of loan moneys for the 3 agent states - Western Australia, South Australia and Tasmania. These 3 States account for about one-third of Australia's soldier settlers. The Commonwealth has raised a total of approximately S324m for capital costs. This Bill provides for the raising of S4m to be devoted in the main to capital spending. Development spending is concentrated mainly on drainage and irrigation works in the upper Murray region and presumably this is a continuation of the .development announced when last year's land settlement Bill was before the House. 
Some development spending is allocated to drainage work in Tasmania and additional work to increase the productivity of some later developed farms. This allocation for marginal farms that have been developed in recent years raises one of the most crucial problems facing the soldier settlement scheme. The most successful settlers have been those who received land soon after the war and were well established before the buoyant commodity prices of the 1950s. There were failures from the immediate post-war group, but because the scheme was administered with caution, because holdings were better and because individual farmers were more skilled there was little of the economic hardship experienced bv soldier settlers after World War I. 
Later settlers were not so fortunate. Some of the land which was opened for settlement was of a marginal character and could not be made to pay. in other oases holdings were too small to be viable. Later settlers were also extremely vulnerable to the deterioration of market prices. At a time when all rural producers are feeling a squeeze on income, late comers to soldier settlement with little capital are finding it extremely difficult to survive. They did not have a chance adequately to establish themselves before the onset of the rural recession. There are quite astounding variations in the relative status of soldier settlers, not only from State to State but also from region, to region. These fluctuations are illustrated dramatically in evidence given to the Tasmanian Committee. According to figures contained in the Committee's report 549 farms have been established in the State, including the Bass Strait islands. When farms vacated and reallocated were taken into account, it was found that a total of 654 soldier settlers were assisted under the scheme. Of that number 104 either voluntarily surrendered their leases or had them terminated by the Board because they could not meet their financial commitments. 
At the end of last year the total amount of arrears owing by settlers to the Board was $493,400. Another $696,700 owed by settlers had been written off by the Commonwealth. Those figures give a rather depressing measure of the operation of the scheme in Tasmania. The broad conclusion of the Committee was that the scheme had failed but because of the wide variation of circumstances of settlers it was not possible to assess the extent of the failure. The report points to settlers who were able to acquire a substantial equity in their holdings and to build up their financial status. At the other end of the scale were settlers without capital and in debt for all livestock, plant, machinery and other improvements. They could not meet their commitments and could not make a reasonable living. 
The assistance provided in the BUI before the House is designed to reduce some of this hardship by providing finance for current working expenses and the purchase of stock and plant. Judged on the Tasmanian experience, this assistance has not prevented many later settlers with little capital from getting into difficulties. The committee observed that an unfortunate aspect of the scheme was that the later an eligible person settled, the higher were his capital valuation and option price, the higher his rent and general costs of production and the lower his gross return. An important cause of this impossible economic situation has been the sharp increase in rentals particularly since 1956 when new Commonwealth scales were adopted. 
Section 18 of the Act provides that a rental should be fixed to give a settler a reasonable standard of living, even if he starts off with no capital. In practice the rentals just have not worked out this way. Some settlers who started just after the war at lower rentals are in as good or better position than civilian farmers. Others paying post-1956 rentals are in hopeless financial difficulties. Much of the blame for this has been laid on the new scale of rentals adopted by the Commonwealth in 1956. On the evidence available it is difficult to dispute this contention. It seems that section 18 of the Act has not been applied fairly to assess the rental so a settler can live reasonably after other costs have been met. 
Another vexed question raised by the Tasmanian committee is option of purchase prices. Again there has been much criticism of the interpretation of the provision of the Act for assessing the option price. There have been many disputes over valuations and who is to blame for anomalies. The issues and the evidence are much too complex to summarise here. But there seem to be good reasons for supporting the committee's recommendation that option prices be reassessed and in many cases recalculated. This recommendation was based on evidence that the option prices were substantially above market value and therefore infringed the Act. 
The matters 1 have raised derive from an investigation of the soldier settlement scheme in only one State. It would be unwise to apply the experience of Tasmania to the operation of the scheme in other States. The Tasmanian report does indicate grave problems in the operation of the Act. It seems that abuses have sprung up, perhaps from lack of co-ordination between State and Commonwealth or lack of precision about respective responsibilities. The Tasmanian inquiry put much of the blame for the failure of war settlement to achieve its objectives on defects in the system of dual State and Commonwealth control. This has been reflected in delayed or amended decisions causing confusion, injustice and resentment among settlers. 
In the words of the report of the committee that conducted an exhaustive inquiry into the conditions of war service land settlement in Tasmania, the Commonwealth authority seemed to exercise a dominating and in some cases unreasonable attitude. Because of Treasury pressures it had shown little regard to farming problems under a system of 'no capital contribution' by settlers. These are strong criticisms. Certainly they do much to refute the claim made by the  Deputy  Prime Minister that a full-scale Commonwealth inquiry is not justified because there have been very few complaints from settlers. Dissatisfaction among settlers and the very serious problems confronting the scheme are stated quite bluntly in the report by the Tasmanian Legislative Council. Because the Act has functioned for 25 years without review, it is most urgent that it be completely reassessed and the legislation reshaped for the future. If the scheme is neglected and allowed to run along on present lines, soldier settlement could deteriorate into a major social problem. For these reasons the Opposition urges the Government to reconsider the attitude that it expressed previously and to open the way for a major review by this House of the operation of the war service land settlement scheme. I cannot emphasise too strongly that the Legislative Council in the Parliament of Tasmania conducted a long and exhaustive inquiry into the conditions of war service land settlement in Tasmania. One would believe that the Minister has carefully studied the findings of the committee of the Legislative Council of that State. If he has done so he cannot ignore completely the problems in Tasmania. 
I have conceded that the problems related to soldier settlers in Tasmania may not necessarily apply to those in other States where land has been granted under the provisions of the Act, but even from my own experience - I do not intend to adopt a parochial attitude on this - I have gained some knowledge of the workings of the war service land settlement scheme in Tasmania. My colleague the honourable member for Braddon has devoted a not inconsiderable amount of his time to a study of this vexed problem. Anyone who has had an opportunity to look at these problems in Tasmania knows that there is something wrong in the situation relating to those who have been granted assistance under the provisions of the Act. I want to be perfectly fair and 1 am being fair when I make the point that some soldier settlers in Tasmania, and presumably some in other States also, have done very well. They are the ones who were settled on the land in the early post-war years. Their financial circumstances were certainly much better than the financial position of those who followed in later post-war years. But in addition to this they had the opportunity to begin operations on their properties at a time when rural prices generally were at a very high level. 
If I wanted to be parochial about this matter I would point to some of the problems that I have experienced personally in relation to some of the soldier settlers on Flinders Island. I say quite frankly that I believe that part of the report of the committee of the Legislative Council in Tasmania has some substance when it refers to the lack of co-operation between the Commonwealth and the State. I have made representations to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  in relation to individual cases that have been brought to my attention only to be told that it was a matter for the State, but then, conversely, to be told by the State authorities that it was a matter for the Commonwealth. The plain fact is that one can get nowhere on this issue - nowhere at all. 
I invite the Minister to consider the case of one farmer on Flinders Island who was granted 300 or 400 acres of land for use as a dairy farm whereas 1,100 acres were provided for those who were conducting wool producing operations. The Minister must know that for the dairy farmer it would be a completely uneconomic proposition, but nobody is prepared to look reasonably at his case. The matter goes backwards and forwards between the Commonwealth and the State, It was problems of this kind to which the committee of the Legislative Council drew attention. The committee had the opportunity to interview people and to consider their cases, and it came up with findings which in my view, and I believe in the view of honourable members who think carefully about the problems, warrant the same kind of investigation at a Commonwealth level. Even on the basis merely of the recommendations of the committee of the Legislative Council in Tasmania the Minister should give serious consideration to and, I hope, accept the amendment moved by the honourable member for Dawson which provides for a full scale inquiry into the conditions and circumstances which now apply in relation to war service land settlement in Australia. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Cope)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 - Mr 

asked the Minister for 
Defence, upon notice: 
Will the salary increases recommended by the Kerr Committee for other ranks be paid  in  November 1971. 
If not, when is it now expected that those increases will be paid. 
Did the Prime Minister, before establishing a group of Ministers chaired by the Treasurer to handle the matter of the national film and television training school, advise the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Aru of his intention to do so? 
These 3 pieces of legislation are part of the complex fabric of Commonwealth assistance to the States. I want to concentrate my remarks on the States Grants (Special Assistance) Bill. This is designed &gt;o authorise payment in the present financial year of S7m to South Australia and S7.8m to Tasmania, in recent years there has been quite a remarkable about-turn in the application of this special assistance. When the 1968 Bill was put to the House, emphasis was put on the end of Western Australia's dependence on the Commonwealth Grants Commission. It. seemed then that Tasmania would be the only remaining claimant State for special assistance. 
On all the indications available it seemed that the Grants Commission was coming to the end of its period of useful life. With Tasmania the only claimant State, it hardly seemed necessary to retain the Grants Commission. Since 'hen South Australia has elected to return to the protection of the Grants Commission as a claimant Stale. This is reflected in the legislation before the House which provides special assistance to South Australia which had relinquished its claimant State status in 1959-60. Now Queensland has approached the Grants Commission for special assistance, although the approach was too late for implementation in this legislation. It seems that there is still a role for the Grants Commission, that despite pride in sovereignty and States rights there are still advantages in retaining the despised mendicant status. 
In its 37th report published in 1970, the Grants Commission dealt in considerable detail with public finance and fiscal policy in Tasmania. In its latest report, the Commission treats the problems of CommonwealthState relations in a rather broader perspective. It is disappointing that some of the specific issues affecting budgetary pOliCy in Tasmania raised in the previous report have not been followed through in the latest report. Perhaps this was inevitable with the return of two of the claimant States to the fold. The Commission recommended payment of a special grant to Tasmania for 1972 of $7. 8m. This was composed of an advance grant of Slim based on the estimate of a deficit of $15,878,000 in 1971-72. However, this grant of Slim is subject to subtraction of the complete grant for the previous year. 
Adjustment to the State budget based on the standard derived from New South Wales and Victoria have produced a negative completion grant of S3. 2m. This completion grant was considerably augmented by the special payment of SI. 5m in 1969- 70 by the Commonwealth to Tasmania to help that State finance its expected revenue debt. Undoubtedly Tasmania has been treated according to  the  strict letter of practice and precedent. The calculation of the special assistance is impeccable; it is in accordance with carefully prescribed and observed procedures. What is open to grave doubt is the wisdom of this .scrupulous observance in a period of very  grave  financial peril for Tasmania. For this reason it is disappointing that the special assistance the Commonwealth thought warranted by the State Budget projections should be chopped by 30 per cent by the completion grant formula. This prompts the feeling that the whole machinery is too inflexible, that the objectives of fiscal adjustment would be better served by adopting a broader framework and a less rigid time scale. 
In this debate last year I referred to these questions, and the case I put forward then has been substantiated by the results contained in the latest report of the Grants Commission and implemented in this Bill. Whatever the merits of the present structure, it is not providing long term financial planning for the State. Economic growth in the State has proceeded in an extremely erratic pattern. Part of the reason for these fluctuations in growth is the susceptibility of the Tasmanian economy to natural disasters such as flood and fire. But it must be realised that a major cause is uncertainty and timidity in budgetary policy. The State Government is left in considerable uncertainty about future planning because it is dependent on the calculations of the Grants Commission. The Budget always has a concealed element in the incidence of the completion grants formula. Depending on the modified budget results in New South Wales and Victoria, the  Tasmanian  Government may get an unexpected windfall or it may have  potential  revenue drastically cut back. This machinery brings short term benefits to Tasmania in effective accounting and scrutiny of the day to day operations of the economy. It has the disadvantage of hindering long term economic planning in the State. The impact of the Commonwealth through the overwhelming influence of the Grants Commission on the State Budget has limited the opportunities for enlightened fiscal policy. 
Undoubtedly the Tasmanian Budget is the most closely constrained in Australia. There are strong grounds for relaxing this structure and adopting more flexible techniques of fiscal planning for the State under the guidance of the Grants Commission. Again in this debate last year, 1 recommended that the Grants Commission should be asked to develop a system of programme budgeting which would allow spending to be analysed and incorporated into an overall budgetary framework projected up to 5 years ahead. Unless revenue and expenditure flow can be projected in the framework of programme budgeting, there is little possibility of achieving effective planning for Tasmania. Certainly no State in the Commonwealth needs long term planning more. It is difficult to look at the future of Tasmania with any degree of optimism. The State has been hit particularly hard by the present recession in economic activity deliberately induced by Commonwealth Government policy. This shows up in the employment figures. The pleasant surprise promised by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  for the October figures certainly did not show up in the State breakdown for Tasmania. Before the attack on demand initiated by the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  in this year's Federal Budget, pockets of severe economic stagnation already existed in Tasmania. The policies of the Commonwealth Government have produced further unemployment and hardship. This was an inevitable result of policies aimed to suppress demand across the board rather than concentrating correc tive action on the sectors of the economy where powerful inflationary forces existed. Inflationary forces have not run unbridled in Tasmania, yet Commonwealth policy has dealt the State a particularly savage blow. According to Commonwealth Employment Service statistics for Tasmania, the proportion of unemployed in October was 1.71 per cent, the highest in Australia. So much for pleasant surprises. 
In the debate on the no confidence motion yesterday the Government spokesmen did not refer to a widely publicised scheme to make S20m available to the States for emergency grants to country councils in areas with serious unemployment. Now the Prime Minister has waited until the last possible moment before disclosing the scheme to the House. The only reason for keeping back such a project seems to have been that the Government did not want to give the impression of being goaded to act by Opposition pressures. This is illogical because a scheme of this nature is primarily a welfare measure. It should be regarded not as an overall stimulus to the economy but as a relief measure linked to the reconstruction of rural industries which is ostensibly part of Government policy. It is a measure which should have been introduced at least 2 budgets ago when the deterioration in rural employment become apparent. The effect of such emergency grants on aggregate demand and the restoration of the national economy will be relatively unimportant. But as a selective measure aimed at reviving economic activity in depressed sectors of the economy, this proposal has merits. If the Government is seriously intending to introduce such a scheme, then I urge that consideration be given to those pockets of economic stagnation and unemployment which show up in the economic indicators for Tasmania. The Government is cutting it pretty fine if it intends to get an emergency grants scheme into operation before the Parliament rises. Even if the first grants were made tomorrow, it would be some months before any real benefit would be felt in the local government areas assisted. It seems that the New South Wales Premier,  Mr Askin,  announced in the State Parliament this morning that the Commonwealth would make these grants available. Apparently this was done with the authority of the Prime Minister after the inevitable telephone call. At the same time  Mr Ask  in was announcing the measure as established fact, the Federal Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  was stonewalling questions on it in this House. He managed to convey the impression that the Commonwealth did not favour making additional grants to the States. It is extraordinary that the Prime Minister should delegate to a St;,te Premier the announcement of such an important policy matter at a time when the Commonwealth Parliament was in session. 
Reverting to the broader picture of the Tasmanian economy, it is obvious that Tasmania"* economic growth depends on the maintenance of comparative advantage of its industries in the internal Australian market and in the export trade. This comparative advantage has been eroded in the past few years. Cost advantages which industry based in Tasmania once enjoyed through cheaper power and other concessions have been whittled away. There has been little movement of new industry from mainland States to Tasmania; a reverse flow has gained ground with a number of prominent industries moving back to the mainland. Heavy increases in shipping freights have accentuated this trend. The deterioration of the internal transport structure, in particular the railways, has assisted the loss of comparative advantage by Tasmania. Coupled with this loss of comparative advantage has been a relatively low rate of public and private investment. This problem of sagging investment was studied by the Hunter River Foundation in its report on Tasmania's economic growth. Unfortunately the last estimate given by the report is for 1967-68. but there is no sign that the trend has changed in the subsequent years. In 1967-68 the Foundation estimated that Tasmania's gross regional product was S659m. Using this as a yardstick, the Foundation estimated that the Stale needed  n  flow of investment from government and private enterprise amounting to more than Si 80m a year to sustain an adequate regional growth rate, lt is difficult to give even a rough estimate of the present level of investment in Tasmania, but there is no reason to believe it is anywhere near this base figure of SI 80m a year. On the information available in Grants Commission reports, Budget papers and other sources it is unlikely that investment is running anywhere near a level sufficient to maintain ait adequate growth rate. 
The Commonwealth must accept  some  of the responsibility for this apathetic investment rate. An example is the deadlock which seems to have arisen over the provision of Commonwealth assistance fur the upgrading of Tasmanian main line railways. Commonwealth support for litis major project has been recommended "bv a Senate standing committee and the takPoy report. The Minister for Slipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  has indicated that the Commonwealth is willing to consider u request for assistance from the State Government. For some inexplicable reason  Mr Bethune  and his colleagues have delayed in making the request. I do not blame the Minister for this. Quite clearly he reg'-ds it as his prerogative to wail on the Tasmanian Government's request for as islance. But. there is an absence on either side of the sort of dynamism needed to find the investment funds to lift Tasmania's ailing economy. 
I referred earlier in my address to the serious unemployment situation in Tasmania. I regret that, because time is limited in this debate, I will not he able to develop this matter and other related matters to the extent that 1 would like. The plain fact is that, despite the special grunt that has been accorded to Tasmania tis a result of this legislation, there is a deterioration in the economic situation in that State. 1 believe that this has been recognised to a certain extent by the Commonwealth Grants Commission, lt has been recognised that South Australia, too. has special difficulties. That is one of &gt;he reasons why South Australia has elected to apply for assistance through the Commonwealth Grants Commission. 
But above all the Commonwealth still has a responsibility to recognise that a Slate has a disadvantage in relation to New South Wales and Victoria in terms of transport, industrial development and all of those matters that help to develop he economy of the smaller States. As a result of the decision of the Commonwealth Giants Commission additional finance will- he provided for Tasmania. But I believe 'hal if the problems of that State and the other smaller Stales are to be arrested the Commonwealth will have to acknowledge that it has a greater responsibility, which should not be left only to the Commonwealth Grants Commission, in relation to matters which are so important if the economy is to be satisfactorily adjusted. 
[ second the amendment. This Bill outlines assistance to be given by the Commonwealth for Aboriginal advancement in 1971-72. J want to refer to one part of this spending designed to cover Aboriginal people in all States. This is the amount to be spent on people of Cape Barren Island extraction. I do this because as far as I am aware - although I have from time to time made representations in this Parliament on matters concerning the welfare of these people - the peculiar problems which apply to a very small section of the community but, nevertheless, a very important one have never been placed on record. 
Their history and evolution of these people have been most extensively studied from their origins among sealing communities in the Bass Strait islands in the 1830s and 1840s down to the present. The great majority of people of Cape Barren Island descent are honest and honourable people, as I can testify from many years of close contact with them. Many of the island people who have migrated to the Tasmanian mainland have been completely assimilated and have proved to be industrious and responsible. Their response in both world wars emphasised their Australian patriotism and their pride in a distinctive race. But there are substantial welfare problems flowing from the existence of this unique people. The first is the future of the hard-core island people who make their home on Cape Barren Island and will not leave it despite the lack of employment opportunities. These are the people who have become part of Australian folklore because of their traditional association with the mutton bird industry. The number of families on Cape Barren Island varies from month to month because of regular movement between the island and Tasmania. They go back to Cape Barren to see relatives or take part in the mutton bird season. But there is a hard core of about 60 men, women and children who could be described as permanent dwellers on Cape Barren Island. 
These people have the assets of living their own lives on an Island of great natural beauty with an abundance of fish and wildlife. Balanced against this are less attractive elements of life on Cape Barren such as poor housing, inadequate nutrition and lack of employment opportunities. There have been many suggested solutions to this problem, ranging from mass transplantation to the establishment of kibbutzes on the island. The future of these island people remains extremely uncertain and in many ways precarious. The forced movement of the settlement on Cape Barren to the mainland has been suggested by people with irreproachable motives who see it as the only way of preventing serious social problems such as further inbreeding among younger island people. Granted there are problems but it seems to me that mass transplantation cannot bc seriously considered as a solution. These are the only remaining people with traces of Tasmanian Aboriginal blood still in their veins; they are the only link we have with a race that was exterminated. This genocide should not be compounded by rudely forcing these people from their traditional home. 
In addition there are practical reasons why an involuntary movement of the islanders from Cape Barren Island would not be feasible. A second course has been the application of more subtle pressures to get the islanders off Cape Barren. These can take the form of implied threats to deny welfare benefits or other assistance to islanders unless they leave Cape Barren and go to Tasmania. This in essence is the tacit attitude of the present Tasmanian State Government. In saying this 1 do not criticise the efforts of State Government employees who look after the health, education and social welfare of the islanders. An example of the sort of insidious pressures that can be applied is the use by the State Government of Commonwealth grants for housing. 
These grants are not earmarked in any way, yet the State Government has applied them consistently to buy homes for island people living in Hobart or Launceston. None of this money has been spent on housing for Cape Barren itself, although the Commonwealth has put no conditions on the use of these housing grants. Indeed, on one occasion I wrote to the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth),  who was at that time Minister in charge of this Department, and asked him to give an interpretation of the attitude of the Commonwealth in relation to people who live on Cape Barren Island. He made it abundantly clear that if the people wished to remain on the island it was their prerogative to do so. But there has been a movement in a way which leaves the people of Cape Barren island with no alternative to leaving the island if they want to attract decent accommodation. I invite the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts  (Mr Howson),  who is sitting at the table, to study and consider the way in which the money has been allocated, particularly in respect of how much has been Spent on Cape Barren Island. As I have already indicated, the grants are not earmarked in any way and I give the Government full credit for its direction in this respect. However, none of the money has been spent on housing for Cape Barren Island. 
Despite this sort of passive discouragement there are people who do not want to leave the island and who will not be dragooned or seduced into leaving it. The drift from the island may continue but a nucleus of permanent residents will remain; they will resist all pressures to get them to leave their homes. The islanders who have settled in Tasmania represent a completely different set of problems. These are problems similar in many ways to those encountered by Aboriginal people in other parts of Australia - problems of housing, social welfare, education and employment. Against this background I want to have a look at assistance given to Tasmanian Aboriginal people by the Commonwealth Government. On a per capita basis the islanders are not badly treated; a total of S62,000 is allocated to Tasmania out of a total budget of $9.2m for 1971- 72. Commonwealth assistance has grown from $25,000 in 1968-69 to $39,000 in 1969-70, $54,000 in 1970-7.1 and $62,000 in the year under consideration. Given that the total allocation of funds for Aboriginal people is inadequate, the Cape Barren islanders have been treated fairly by what is now the Office of Aboriginal Affairs. 
The individual officers of the Commonwealth Office of Aboriginal Affairs have approached the peculiar problems of these people with sympathy and imagination. The fault lies, not with the Office, but with the inadequate resources available. In respect of the $62,000 allocated to Tasmania there are some notable omissions. Allocations to the States are made under 6 headings: Housing, education, health, employment, special works projects and regional projects. Tasmania is the only State which does not get any money for employment and vocational training. It is difficult to comprehend the reason for this omission because there is a real need for this sort of assistance. Perhaps the Minister will be able to examine this matter for me and give me some indication or some reasons why employment and vocational training do not come into the categories normally allocated by his Department in this way. 
There is no provision for regional projects although Cape Barren would seem an obvious area for this sort of grant. A comparatively modest allocation under this heading would do much to establish a viable fishing industry on Cape Barren, an industry which would create jobs and bring revenue to the island people. Alternatively a grant could be made to establish the mutton bird industry as a co-operative venture to be controlled and worked by the islanders. At the moment the industry is controlled predominantly by outside interests with the islanders providing seasonal labour. It is wrong that revenue from this industry should go to Tasmania and Victoria. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting for dinner I was referring to Cape Barren Island and the problem of those who have lived on this island and who regard it as their home. I was referring to that part of the problem concerning a basic industry of the islanders, an industry in which they have been engaged for a great many years, the mutton bird industry. I had pointed out that despite the fact that the industry had been initiated by the islanders themselves it was very largely controlled by interests outside Cape Barren Island, that is. in Victoria and Tasmania. I had made the point that I believe the industry is one that ought to be developed, probably on a co-operative basis, by the islanders themselves. I believe it is wrong that revenue from this industry should go to Tasmania and Victoria. It could and should sustain the people who live on Cape Barren Island and work the mutton bird islands each year. 
This year's allocation provides $35,000 for housing. It will provide 4 homes in Tasmania. This does something to eliminate the problem of Aboriginal people in substandard housing in Hobart and Launceston. It does not provide housing on Cape Barren Island, although the Commonwealth Office has made it plain that this money is provided without strings. If the Tasmanian Government wants to put money into homes on the island, there is nothing to stop it. Unfortunately, the State Government does not look at Commonwealth assistance for housing in this way. I understand the Commonwealth Office has considered the acquisition of houses from hydro-electric estates in Tasmania and their transportation in knocked-down form for re-erection on the island. This would do something to provide cheap and adequate housing for the island people on Cape Barren. As the Minister points out in his speech, this has been done in New South Wales with the purchase, removal and re-erection of Snowy Mountains Authority houses by the Shoalhaven Shire Council. 
The allocation for health is rather misleading. As the tables attached to the Ministers speech make clear, a sum of $7,000 is provided to pay salary and expenses for a community development adviser for Cape Barren and Flinders Islands. This officer is a competent and dedicated man, but it is not appropriate that he should be regarded as providing health services. His work is social welfare work; it does not give any medical cover to people on Cape Barren Island. In every other State, the allocation for health provides public health and nursing services; in some States it provides dental services. There is a makeshift hospital on Cape Barren Island but there have been no nursing services even of an itinerant nature for some years. The families who live on the island are reliant for medical services on Flinders Island. This involves dependence on transport services often disrupted by bad weather. 
Assistance given for education is just as disappointing. In particular there is no provision for assistance to provide pre-school facilities in the grant of $7,000 for education. The final form of assistance is an allocation of $5,000 for special work projects. I am not clear what this assistance provides; presumably it is to be applied to public works on the island, for example, drainage of the airstrip and control of noxious weeds. This gives employment at pretty meagre rates to some people on Cape Barren. I would like to refer briefly to the annual report of the Commonwealth Capital Fund for Aboriginal Enterprises tabled in the Parliament today. This Fund provides' loans to Aboriginal Australians for business" enterprises. Assistance from the Fund has been given to Cape Barren islanders, although there is no breakdown on a StatetoState basis in the report. 1 hope that the activities of this Fund will be expanded, that more Aboriginal people will be given loans, and that more courses in business management will be conducted by the fund. 
I have concentrated on this aspect of Aboriginal advancement because it has received little attention in the Parliament. The tables appended to the Minister's second reading speech show the scope and imagination of the work of the Commonwealth Office of Aboriginal Affairs, lt is no fault of the Office that the surface has hardly been skimmed. 
I hope that in future Budgets it will be possible for provision to be made to expand the Office to its proper departmental status and provide greater resources for its valuable work. The Minister also referred to the grants for a wide range of purposes to non-governmental organisations. According to the list contained in attachment B, a total of $1,628,699 has been distributed over the past 3 years to organisations administering Aboriginal welfare. Tasmania's share of this is $1,390 made up of $250 for the restoration of an historical chapel on Flinders Island $140 for a cricket tour, and $1,000 for the Flinders Island Council for operating expenses. Looking at the wide range of grants made to welfare, social and sporting clubs and to individuals for welfare assistance to Aboriginals, it is disappointing that Tasmanian Aboriginal people should be neglected. There is a very strong case for making a grant under these provisions to Abschol, which has initiated a number of assistance projects and organised a conference of Aboriginal people in Launceston earlier this year. Commonwealth assistance should be given to put this conference on a regular basis and to finance periodic meetings of an administrative council elected by the conference. 
In summary, I have dealt at length with the problems of Tasmanian Aboriginal people because they are unfamiliar, as I have already pointed out, to the Parliament and even to many Australians who are committed to Aboriginal advancement. There are disappointing features of Commonwealth assistance which should be corrected. I have referred to a number of them - the question of education on the island and the question of health services. I acknowledge at once that the Government and the successive Ministers have at least provided a measure of assistance to a group of people who may be classified in this category but who previously had received no assistance at all. 1 suppose the responsible Minister is entitled to whatever recommendation should be given in this respect. Some improvement has been effected, but in relation to housing, education and health services, to which I have referred. I believe a great deal more can be done. 
Finally. I hope that the Minister will understand that the whole theme of the speech that I have made in relation to the people on Cape Barren Island is that the principle should be acceded to and accepted by all governments, not only the Commonwealth Government but by the State governments as well, that an island which these people regard as being their home should be accepted as such. The people should not be forced oft the island merely because the Government thinks they should leave. In this instance I am referring particularly to the State Government of Tasmania because if cannot be claimed that the Commonwealth Government has adopted this attitude. Certainly it has not been the attitude of the Minister's immediate predecessor. The island is the traditional home of these people. If there are social problems involved in keeping the people on Cape Barren Island which arise from the fact that the number of people Who arc left on this island is small, these problems ought to be dealt with in a way thatI am sure the Minister's Department can approach them. They ought to be dealt with sympathetically. They ought to be : alt with on the basis that these people have for some generations regarded Cape B arren Island traditionally as their home, believe they are entitled to Cape Barren as future home, and I hope that this will be th e attitude of the new Minister as it was the attitude of his predecessor. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Darling) (8.10)- It is a strange feeling to stand up as the third  speaker  for the Opposition in this debate and not to have any arguments to reply to. I hope that this does not mean that Government supporters are not interested in the problem of Aboriginal advancement. I know that many of them have Aboriginal populations in their electorates. One would think that they would show a bit of concern by speaking on this Bill. When glamour Bills are before the House if one walks within 10 feet of the Whip one is frowned upon because so many honourable members are lining up to get on the list of speakers. But it seems a bit odd that at this stage no-one from the Government side has spoken. 
However, regardless of that, I feelI have many reasons for speaking on this question of Aboriginal advancement. A large proportion of the Aboriginal population of. New South Wales resides in my electorate. I spend a good deal of time discussing the problems confronting Aborigines both with the Aborigines and with the people who are concerned with their welfare, such as welfare workers and child welfare officers.. I am also a member of the Labor Party's aboriginal committee. I can assure the House that the committee has spent many hoursdiscussing these problems as well as travelling many thousands of miles to investigate the situation at first hand. This does not make me an expert on this matter. I think we all agree that it is a pretty complex problem. However, it is some satisfaction to know that the legislation provides for an increase of 31 per cent in the grants to the States or $9.2m for 1971-72 as compared with $7m for 1970-71. 
The Minister for the Environment; Aborigines and the Arts  (Mr Howson)  made mention in his second reading speech of the fact that direct national expenditure on Aboriginal advancement for 1971-72 will be $44m for an estimated Aboriginal population of 140,000.It could be said that the Government has shown some consideration for the Aboriginal problem on that score alone. However, we cannot let it rest there. We have to ask ourselves: What advancement are we making to solve the problem? Are we leading the main body of the Aborigines out of their predicament or are we just skimming the cream off the top of the problem and making things much more comfortable only for those Aborigines who have really advanced? In my electorate one can go around to various homes; particularly in Walgett, and see some great advancement. The homes that the Aborigines are living in are well kept and the gardens look better than those of the Europeans next door. 
However, if one goes out to the reserves or settlements one will find poverty, suffering and problems. There seem to be just as many people in this predicament as there were the year before and the year before that. So one wonders whether we are really getting hold of the main problem of our Aborigines. In this regard I feel that an important part of the Bill is the allocation to the States under the 6 headings of housing, education, health, employment, special work projects and regional projects. In my opinion, it is here that we have our priorities out of order. On reading the table incorporated in the Minister's second reading speech - sometimes I think these tables are meant to confuse people - it would appear to me that in New South Wales we are granting $1,500,000 for housing and only $12,000 for employment. I think that this is a lopsided way of spending this money. 
T have been told of Aborigines in my electorate moving info homes and after a short period they become unemployed and they move out again. T went along with one welfare officer who had a talk to an Aborigine living on the river bank. He asked him why he moved out. The welfare officer said: 'You will probably get a bit more work later on'. He said: 'Why should I live in that home there and struggle to live up to the people around me just to please you?' The tragic part about it is that the children have to move out with them, and this becomes an educational problem. They do not have the facilities or. as a school teacher called it, the environmental stimulus in the shack on the river bank that they would have in the town where they would have some form of radio, television and lighting to help them do their homework. A teacher illustrated the problem. They were talking in class about geography and the teacher mentioned a mountain. A little Aborigine said:  'Sir, how  big is a mountain? Is it bigger than the levee bank?' Of course, this was in flat country. This would indicate some of the problems that must be faced. 
Another important factor in lifting the Aborigines up as group and having them all working was the drought relief work for the western division of New South Wales up around Bourke, Brewarrina and Walgett. When they were all working on drought relief it was noticeable that the drunkenness amongst the Aborigines reduced, absenteeism was just about nil and their general health standard rose. I think that we must concentrate more on finding more regular employment for Aborigines. The system of handouts that we have is very damaging. In his second reading speech the Minister said: 
Another point worthy of mention is that, because of the nature of the programmes to which these finances arc devoted, most of the funds are applied to the advancement of the younger generation of Aboriginal Australians. I believe that it is here that  the  greatest opportunities exist. . . . 
At first glance one would feel inclined to agree with that statement. But I want to. point out that there too we could be causing some opposition to the assimilation of the Aboriginal population. Today the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  made mention of the Isolated Children's Parents Association. Many people in these isolated areas are finding it very bard io educate their children and they arc conscious of the assistance being given to the Aborigines. So we have to be very careful how we give them this assistance, lt will not assist the assimilation of the Aborigines if we cause some kind of hard feeling amongst the people in the area. T am told that money is made available to the students. If the teachers think that they have a certain amount of equipment some of this money finds its way back into the home for other purposes. It is allocated to a student regardless of whether he is trying to advance with his education or whether he is just filling in time at school. 
I think that more attention should be given to this feeling that exists between one section of the community and the other. We have heard a fair amount of talk in this House at various times about the problems of the Aborigines, but I think we have to agree that there is a great need to concen-tra te a little more on the education of Aborigines. We should also be concentrating on educating the Europeans about the Aboriginal problem because I feel that it is in this area that a lot of harm has been done to the Aborigines. There is an urgent need for our educators to attack the ignorance of the average Australian about the Aborigines. School curricula should include sections which explain how the Aborigines lived before the European invasion. They should give some idea of the difficulties that Aborigines are facing in adapting to our technological environment. This is something that the average person does not really understand. it is well known that a good percentage of Aborigines leave school at an early age. People go so far as to say that we will never make a great deal of progress in educating tha Aborigines. I find this very hard to believe. As a matter of fact, I think that except for the racists and the so-called snobs in the Australian community the average Australian accepts the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation statement on race which points out that according to present knowledge there is no proof that groups of mankind differ in their innate mental characteristics or in respect of their intelligence or temperament. The scientific evidence indicates that the range of mental capacities of all ethnic groups is much the same. Therefore, if the Aborigines are not making progress as a group we have to look to our own faults. One of these faults was our treatment of the Aborigines shortly after we came to this country. Aboriginal students are often considered drop-outs, but I believe they could be more realistically termed kick-outs because of the fact that they are unable to adjust to the conformist, egocentric type of education that we have in this country. 
Aboriginal children are like many nonAboriginal children who live under disadvantageous circumstances. They become painfully aware that opportunities for economic and social advancement are more illusory than they are real. 1 believe that for those who are working in the field of Aboriginal advancement the next step should be to discuss these problems with the Aboriginal people themselves. Too any non-Aboriginal Australians believe that they can solve the problems of the Aboriginal without giving consideration to what the Aboriginal himself thinks. No-one will solve the Aboriginal problem unless he harnesses his efforts to assist the Aboriginal people to solve the problem themselves. It seems to me that one of the main barriers to Aboriginal advancement is the arrogance of the European people, especially those sometimes well-meaning people who think they know all the answers. I believe that the statement made by the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  that separate statistics for Aborigines were hard to find is true. On one occasion when I was touring with the Labor Party's Aboriginal committee we were informed by the Aborigines in a particular area that a large percentage of them were arrested each day for drunkenness. We went along to the police station to find out whether this was true. We said to the policemen: 'Have you got any figures? Can you tell us how many whites and how many Aborigines were arrested?' They said: 'No, we do not keep separate statistics. They are all in together.' We said: 'Do you mind if we go through the charge sheets?' They were not very helpful but I would not say they hindered us to a great extent. They gave the charge sheets to us. On examining them we could not tell which was an Aboriginal name and which was not, but on asking someone who did know the area we found that they were all Aborigines. No Europeans had been arrested. We said to the police: 'Don't the whiles get drunk in this area? You would think there would be one or two.' We were informed by the police that they did get drunk but when they were spoken to by the police they would go home but the Aborigines gave a bit of check and were arrested. I am not a knocker of the police because in a good many areas they have to be very considerate people, but I think that point clearly illustrates what is happening to the Aborigines. If we could have an inspector or someone who could give them a bit of advice and let them know their rights this would make a great deal of difference. Something along these lines should be done and it would not cost the Government very much, it might make a great deal of difference to the lot of the Aborigines. 
It seems to me that the Aborigines are crying out for guidance. We should assist them to identify their problems. This will be achieved only by a consideration of the Aborigines' own thoughts and desires in the matter. We have to find a way to get to know the Aborigines and to get the Aborigines themselves to take positive action to cope with the situation. It- seems to me that we have to build in the Aborigines some- vision and some hope for the future. If one .goes along to a big Aboriginal settlement to see what is there and to. talk to the people one can- feel the hopelessness of the place. .In there one finds sick people, old people, mental cases and people .who are quite, normal. These people are anxious to do something for themselves. If one asks them what they think about living in an Aboriginal settlement they will say: Wish we could get out of it.' You say: 'What is wrong?' They say: Too many fights and too many something else.' They are just normal people. They have religious pictures hanging on the walls of their homes. They have well-kept homes and one can sit down and have a good chat and be as comfortable as in one's own home. But the environment is not the same. Some of the people who surround them are alcoholics and even early in the morning one can find people with bottles of plonk and so forth. But one does find decent people in this environment. 1 think wc have to do something about this problem, lt has been admitted that when there was employment for everyone in Bourke and other places a lot of this sort of thing disappeared. In my opinion, no matter what we do we will achieve nothing unless we find some form of permanent employment for them. This is the major problem. The first thing we must do is find work for them. The idea of a handout is doing no good whatsoever. The Minister should take into consideration that many people are concerning themselves With the problems of Aborigines. I think that the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  particularly would realise this. I have written several letters mentioning Aboriginal problems to him. But the thing that concerns me is that there can be a conference of officials of the State Department of Aboriginal Welfare in my area and 1 will know nothing about it. Surely we should get together and pool our know ledge or our thoughts on this matter.  I  think that this is the only way that we can come up with a reasonably firm answer to this question. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Will he arrange for the publication of a white paper examining the effectiveness of increases in interest rates as a means of combating inflation. 
If  so,  will he ensure that the paper includes an examination of (a) ways in which interest rate increases may in fact add to inflationary forces and (b) the impact of interest rate increases on income distribution within the community. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What has been the  percentage  of total income tax  paid by  persons in each  ten-percentile  group of income earners for each year since  1953-54. 
The Minister for Defence will recall that under the 5-year rolling programme the Service departments have projected existing commitments and proposals for new equipment up to 1975- 76. He will be aware also that his Department has analysed these projections and put them into consistent form. In these circumstances why should it take up to 6 months to prepare a White Paper on defence? What is the point of having a 5- year rolling programme if it cannot be used in the preparation of a comprehensive report on defence commitments and equipment in a short time span as requested by the Prime Minister? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What White Papers have been issued by the Treasury since 1st January 1960 and  on  what dates were they issued. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Has any progress been made by his Department in the publication of a White Paper on overseas investment in Australia, since the Prime Minister, when Treasurer, replied to my question without notice on this subject on 29th May 1969 (Hansard, pages 2452-3). 
asked the Minister for Supply  the following question, upon notice: 
What amount has been spent on purchases (a) throughout Australia and (b) in Tasmania by the Department of Supply Contract Boards in each of the last 3 years. 
What have been the major items purchased (a) throughout Australia and (b) in Tasmania in each of the last 3 years and how much have they cost 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
Can he supply details of the recommendations of the British Library Association on standards of library provision in colleges of technology and other tertiary colleges. 
I direct a question to the Minister for the Army. What impact has the cutback in the total strength of the Army from 44,000 to 40,000 had on the strength of units of the Royal Australian Regiment? In particular, what effect has it had on the strength of the 6th Battalion, the 1.08th Field Battery and the 9th Field Squadron which are stationed in Singapore? 
The Minister for the Army  (Mr Peacock)  has made a generally sound and sensible assessment of the present state of the Citizen Military Forces. There is general agreement that the CMF is facing a period of extreme pressures. This has been to some extent the result of an end to the Vietnam commitment. Certainly the Vietnam war swelled the numbers of the CMF, but this was only an artificial stimulus. Quite a number of the new recruits were not bona fide militia men; they were able to take advantage of the CMF to avoid the impact of selective conscription on their lives. It was a sane and rational course for young men to take, but of course they were not motivated to serve in the CMF. This has been reflected in the high wastage rate of the CMF in recent years. The numbers are now declining, but this is a healthy sign. At least those who join the CMF now and serve in it for their full terms will be motivated predominantly by the simple wish to serve in the Army. Undoubtedly there will still be a component recruited from those who want to avoid the consequences of an 18-month call-up on their professional and personal lives. But with the Vietnam commitment out of the way this component should be much smaller. 
In a sense the CMF is finding its proper strength bythe hard necessity of supply and demand functions. The implicit forces of moral pressures are fading, and hopefully will disappear completely. The end of the Vietnam war will have other important effects on the CMF. It will free more regular Army personnel and much equipment for use by the CMF. In particular, it will allow much closer co-ordination of policy designed to promote the effectiveness of both regular and civilian wings of the Army. The CMF has been neglected during the 6 or 7 years of the Vietnam commitment. Now it is time to start to redress this injustice and give the CMF structure its proper weight in the military establishment. 
The main change of policy announced by the Minister was the approval in principle of a Ready Reaction Force. It is difficult to comment on this proposal because of the very limited information the Minister has been able to give the Parliament. It seems the concept has some elements of the British ready reserve and incorporates also some features of an elaborate proposal put forward by the Citizen Military Forces Association. The proposal from thai Association had some very useful features. However, it was based on expansion of the CMF to 50,000 by the extension of the conscription ballot to CMF 5-year service. 
The moral objections which apply to the present selective ballot for the regular Army would apply just as strongly to its use to increase the CMF. Aside from these objections, which are the basis of Labor Party standpoint on conscription, it would not be practicable even on the Government's terms to extend conscription in this way. The theory of selective conscription is that it picks young men by random sample and brings them together in consolidated units for training. This could not be done with the CMF which has a far-flung structure based on drill halls and small units scattered throughout Australia. Obviously these units could not be increased by random sample unless the ballots were cooked. The only alternative would be to concentrate on forming conscript CMF units in the major centres of population, which would negate the principle of the CMF. Besides, as the Minister has pointed out, the only areas where recruitment. of other rank personnel has increased are Darwin, northern Queensland and Papua New Guinea. 
I have dealt at some length with this issue of conscription for the CMF because it is not explicitly excluded from the Minister's proposal.  His  suggestion that a Ready Reaction Force would be based on sub-units drawn from parent units throughout Australia implies that conscription for the CMF is not a goer. However, it is up to the Minister to clarify exactly how these sub-units are to be manned and whether the Government has any intention of extending conscription in this way. No indication has been given of the potential strength of this ready reaction force. The force projected by the CMF Association was of at least task force size. It was based on a CMF of 50,000 men, a target which seems unrealistic without conscription. Until more information is available about the size and composition of the ready reaction force, there is little point in speculating about the fine detail of the project. In the main the concept of the ready reaction force is a good one, if it is followed through with vigour by the Government. 
In the past 15 years the CMF has been a principal victim of chopping and changing in defence policy. It has been reorganised because of the abolition of universal national service in the late 1950s, the introduction and then the abandonment of the pentropic organisation, the selective conscription scheme, and the Vietnam commitment. Now another major reorganisation is to be imposed on the CMF. It cannot be emphasised too strongly that the CMF will crumple unless there is consistent planning. In particular, it would be a disaster to the CMF if an extensive reorganisation were undertaken and then the role of the CMF was abruptly revised for the umpteenth time. If a ready reaction force can be established with volunteers organised into a number of sub-units it would give a fillip to the worth, effectiveness and morale of the CMF. But the Government must ensure that it is firmly committed to this form of organisation and that this commitment is reflected in long term planning. That is the most important aspect of CMF policy raised by the Minister. 1 agree with most of the other points raised by the Minister. In particular, it is welcome that better equipment and clothing is to be made available for civilian soldiers. It is very difficult to maintain the morale and interest of civilian soldiers if they are trained with outmoded equipment and dressed in garb which to the modern eye often looks as antiquated as suits of chain mail. The Army has made a useful start in getting modern equipment and clothing to the CMF units. I hope that that is the start of a comprehensive programme to re-equip the CMF. 
A novel feature of the statement was the hint given by the Minister that the CMF would become much more involved in community service. This is an approach which should be extended beyond the CMF to the whole Army. The Regular Army is much too remote from community activity. There has been little attempt to develop in Australia the peaceful use of military forces in community work. Work of this sort is fast becoming an important component of other armies, for example, those of West Germany and the United States of America. It is ironical that community work performed by the Australian 
Army in Vietnam has gone way beyond what has been attempted in Australia. With an end to military commitment in sight there will be pressure on the Army for a much more productive use of its resources within the Australian community. The Minister has seen the logic of the need for greater involvement of CMF units in the community. 1 hope he will extend his insight to recognise the need for greater participation in the community by the Regular Army. 
In summary, the Minister has made some useful suggestions. All the armed Services are facing serious manpower problems. These are reflected in the CMF. lt is impossible to predict future manpower trends, but it is highly likely that much more realistic standards will be forced on the Government than it now accepts. On present trends the most useful areas of activity for the CMF would seem to be the training of officers and NCO's, and the building up of specialist and support skills. The concept of ready response or reaction units may revolutionise the status and operation of the CMF. Until the Minister gives us more information about the proposed scheme, there is little point in analysing it further. No doubt the Minister will give to this Parliament a great deal more information than he has been prepared to give in relation to the very important aspect covered by the statement he has made tonight. The Minister treated, I thought, in a rather frivolous way some of the references I made not only about the equipment that is now being used by the CMF but about the dress of the CMF. 
 I hope that I did misunderstand the Minister, but I want to make it perfectly clear that these matters together with other problems have affected the CMF recruiting situation, to which the Minister himself referred in very great detail. The Minister informed the House tonight that the number of personnel in the CMF fell from a peak of 13,800 in 1965-66 to 7,060 in 1970-71. This does not appear to me to indicate that all is well with the Citizen Military Forces in this country. Indeed, it did not require a statement from the Minister for the Army tonight to inform this Parliament and the people of Australia that there has been a general decline not only in recruitment but also in the general standard and the status of the CMF. 
I want to make it perfectly clear that while I agree with what has been said by the Minister, 1 believe in a very forthright manner, in relation to the future of the CMF, I hope that what he has indicated tonight as a practical approach will be transformed into action. There are many matters that I believe would contribute and have contributed to the decline in the morale and the effectiveness of the CMF which are not referred to in the Minister's statement. The CMF has played and can and will play in the future under a Labor government a very important role in this country. No-one, particularly a responsible Minister for the Army, can afford to ignore - I am not suggesting that the present Minister for the Army has done so - the importance of the CMF and the role that it played at the outbreak of the Second World War back in 1939. The Minister emphasised that the CMF would provide a cadre of NCOs and officers. Not only did it provide a cadre of NCOs and  officers  at the outbreak of the Second World War but it also provided other ranks in great numbers. As 1 see the role of the CMF, not only must its status be recognised by this Government but I believe there is a responsibility on the community as a whole to recognise the importance of the role that the Citizen Military Forces can play. 1 have referred to what I believe to be a number of factors that have been involved in the general decline of the morale of the CMF. Perhaps some of it is the result of some of the Government's policies and perhaps some of it may be due to issues referred to by the Minister himself. But on the whole I think the Government has been so preoccupied with 2 issues - firstly, national service and, secondly, its involvement in Vietnam - that it has allowed the role of the CMF to decline. This is acknowledged by those who serve in the CMF. lt is certainly reflected in the large number of resignations from the CMF. 
I believe that the Minister's statement is a very timely one. lt is timely because we should now assess the extent to which the CMF can play a role in this country. I speak on behalf of those members in this Parliament who belong to the Parliamentary Labor Party and on behalf of the Australian Labor Party as a whole when I say that there is a far greater future for the CMF than there is for the present programme of national service to which this Government attaches great importance. The present national service programme will go just as every form of national servise which has preceded it has gone. I believe tha; the Government will ultimately r-ach that decision, and that when this dension is reached, as 1 believe it ought to te the importance and significance of the Citizen Military Forces will surely be acknowledged. Any responsible government would acknowledge it. 
I ask the Minister for the Army: Are any members of the Army attending staff college or other courses in India and Pakistan? If so. what instructions have been given to them in relation to the present conflict between these nations? 
I move the following amendment to the motion that the House take note of the paper: 
That the following words be added to the motion: aird urges the Government to initiate immediate discussions with the States so that the first grants under this programme can be made before Christmas and further urges the Government, at the some time, to confer with the Slates to ensure the resumption of the rural reconstruction scheme now halted by lack of finance in  the  various Slates. The House regrets that the Government has not made provision to extend unemployment assistance to alleviate problems of growing unemployment in metropolitan areas with particular emphasis on. the problems and placement of school leavers which can be accentuated as a result of poor employment conditions in the country areas'. 
A week ago the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  announced in the Parliament a programme to make money available to the Slates for the relief of unemployment in non-metropolitan areas. The Prime Minister in announcing the grants made the point that much of this nonmetropolitan unemployment is of a structural kind. For this reason it required specific rather than general economic measures to deal with it. Undoubtedly, this is correct. Brit the Prime Minister ignored the fact that these pockets of structural unemployment feel in heightened form the impact of general economic measures to reduce demand across the board. This sort of structural unemployment does nol respond to broad economic stimulus. But it would be foolish to argue from this that these pockets of rural unemployment do not feel the impact of general economic measures to dampen the economy and reduce demand. The unfortunate people in rural areas are in the invidious position of feeling chill winds from both structural unemployment and the general reduction in economic activity. They are cushioned only against the beneficial effects of a revival in economic activity produced by broad economic policy. For this reason it is unfortunate that the Government should have delayed for so long in applying these grants. 
The Prime Minister implied that structural unemployment in rural industries is a new phenomenon, that it has emerged in -dramatic form only since the last Budget and that the Government had acted swiftly to crush it. This interpretation just does not square with the facts. Unemployment of this sort has been a factor for several years. It is part of much broader social  and economic changes in country areas which have occurred in the past 10 years. The scope of these basic changes is beyond this debate, but a majority of small country centres have been so affected that even a small change in the composition of the work force spreads hardship in the community. These changes may take the form of minor changes in the policy of a State Government or a commercial firm, for example a decision to concentrate staff at a larger centre. More sweeping changes may result from important switches in Commonwealth Government policy. 
An example is the proposed reorganisation of postal services throughout the Commonwealth; this may involve the transfer of only a few personnel and families but it can have a serious impact on economic activity in a small community. These changes of the past few years have increased the difficulties caused by the structural changes in world markets and the Australian rural industries. 
Now the general downturn in employment and economic activity flowing from deliberate budgetary policy have added to economic hardship in non-rural communities. lt is difficult to assess the full magnitude of this sort of unemployment because figures on the size of the work force !n rural centres are hard to get. The monthly statistics issued by the Department of Labour and National Service give the raw figures in important rural subdivisions for registered unemployed, registered vacancies and recipients of unemployment benefit, lt does not give any estimate of the size of the work force in these subdivisions. The latest work force figures available from the Department arc estimates made at the end of the 1969-70 financial year. It is possible from these to get an idea' of unemployment in key rural centres. Using the September unemployment figures and these work force estimates, unemployment in Dubbo was 2.62 per cent, in Ballarat 2.29 per cent, in Bendigo 1.84 per cent, and Toowoomba 1.78 percent. 
Admittedly these examples are somewhat crude but they do give an indication of how unemployment in major regional centres is considerably above  the long term national average on which the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  relies. With this sort of structural unempoyment the first drift is to the major provincial centres. When unemployment builds up in these centres, as it clearly has in the 4 centres I have cited, the next drift is to the major cities. This adds to the pressures on employment in the metropolitan centres. For- this reason remedial action to curb structural unemployment in the country has the effect of alleviating unemployment and economic hardship in the cities. lt is not possible to divide unemployment into separate compartments as implied in the Prime Minister's statement. This brings me to the first point contained in the amendment moved by the Opposition. It is designed to clear away the deliberate vagueness which the Government has encouraged ' about the time scale of this programme of grants. These grants cannot be regarded as a measure to stimulate economic activity in areas affected by structural unemployment. At best it is a relief measure in the form of a holding operation to prevent further deterioration in these areas. The money will go via the States to local government authorities for public works. The point that concerns the Opposition is the lapse of time before the impact of this spending is felt in the communities the grants have been designed to help. 
The time scale outlined by the Prime Minister is extremely unsatisfactory. He said that the Government envisaged an arrangement providing for grants for employmen creating activities to be made to' the States for the period up to 30th June 1973 subject to review after the end of the 1971-72 financial year. However, legislation for the grants will not be introduced until the autumn session of Parliament which begins on 22nd February. In the interim, temporary arrangements would be made for financing the scheme. It is the duty of the Government to spell out clearly this extremely vague : pledge of temporary financing. Does it mean that the Commonwealth will underwrite- advance grants made to the States? Alternatively, is it intended to divert some of the funds made available to the States for the rural reconstruction scheme to relief of rural unemployment? If either of these courses is intended by the Government, there has been no sign of action by any of the State governments to get the scheme going. The State Premiers are not to blame for this; presumably they are still waiting for the Commonwealth to elaborate on its proposals. 
The overwhelming impression to be got from the way the Government has approached this relief measures is that it does not regard them as a matter of urgency. If the Government wanted to get legislation through the Parliament to get this scheme going before the end of the sesson it could have done so. It would have had the full co-operation of the Opposition in securing the passing of the enabling Bills through the Parliament. In marked contrast to the speed with which legislation to assist the wool industry was drafted and shepherded through the Parliament by the Government, there is a complete lack of urgency about getting this scheme to work. Unless there is evidence of a much greater will on the part of the Government to get the States moving, it will be months before any benefit is felt from these relief grants. At the earliest, legislation to authorise, the grants to the States will not clear the Parliament until March. 
By the time unemployment in rural areas is assessed by the States and the grants transmitted to local government bodies, it will be near the end of the financial year. On the time scale indicated by the Prime Minister, it will be at least 6 months before this so called emergency assistance is transmitted to areas of need. The programme will then be subject to the review referred to in the Prime Minister's statement* This is hardly evidence of swift, decisive and humane action to bolster communities afflicted by rural unemployment.' For this reason the Opposition has moved that the House urges on the. Government the importance of getting down with the States to the task of assessing structural unemployment, selecting the areas of greatest, need and getting the first grants out before the end of the year. Unless this is done this relief scheme .will have no impact whatsoever on the crucial January and February period when '...... of thousands of school leavers will be looking for jobs. All school leavers will be feeling the crunch of a tighter economy. The plight of country children leaving school will be particularly acute because of the structural unemployment outlined in the Prime Minister's statement. 
In summary, millions of dollars have been made available in recent months to assist the wool industry. The honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  has made the point repeatedly that most of this assistance is not going to the country areas where its need is most vital. Far too much of this assistance has gone back to the finance companies and pastoral companies in the cities. Assistance has gone to wealthy graziers at the expense of the small growers who are in greatest need. But assistance by the Government in this form was promptly accepted and translated rapidly into effective action. When  a  measure is introduced to provide employment for rural workers caught through no fault of their own in the massive restructuring of the rural industries and the rural community, the Government's response is contemptibly lethargic. 
There are 2 other points in the Opposition's amendment which 1 want to refer to briefly before they are treated in greater detail by my colleagues. The first is the need for consultations with the States on getting the rural reconstruction scheme into effective operation. Honourable members will recall that under this scheme $10Om was to be allocated to the States over 4 years for rural reconstruction. This assistance was allocated for debt reconstruction, for building up farms into economic holdings, and for rehabilitation of those forced off the land. It is not possible to assess the overall impact of the scheme because of the time lag between approval of reconstruction plans and the spending of assistance provided. Quite obviously there are difficulties between the Commonwealth, and the States in the implementation of the scheme. There are difficulties in the interest rates applied by the Commonwealth; the rate for farm build-up is  6i  per cent compared with 4 per cent for debt reconstruction. This means that debt reconstruction is much more attractive and is favoured by rural producers. 
However, the Commonwealth wants an approximately equal allocation of funds between debt reconstruction and farm build-up. Applications from farmers have shown that this is not feasible and that most want debt reconstruction assistance. For example, only 9 per cent of applications for assistance under the scheme in Victoria and New South Wales have been for farm build-up. Because of Commonwealth policy these States have had to reject many applicants seeking debt reconstruction assistance. These are matters which must be sorted out between the Commonwealth and the States so full benefit is derived from these rural reconstruction measures. Under the terms of the Act a review of the scheme is to take place in time to allow any changes to be brought into operation by 1st July 1972. This review should be undertaken immediately to allow funds allocated for farm build-up to be redirected towards debt reconstruction in accordance with the relative demands for these 2 types of assistance. 
The final point which I earlier referred to indirectly was the growth of unemployment in metropolitan areas. This is relevant to the Prime Minister's statement because metropolitan and non-metropolitan unemployment cannot be separated into 2 distinct spheres. There is a constant process of movement of labour between the two. Many workers will .not linger in depressed rural areas if they see any chance of getting a job in the city. The creation of extra employment in the country must ease the strains on the labour market in the cities. Growing unemployment in the cities is a problem which has not been recognised by the Government. On the evidence of those receiving unemployment benefit, basic unemployment is increasing much faster in the cities than in the country. These statistics are important because they indicate the gut element of unemployment which is not reflected in these figures. 
Registration of unemployed and job vacancies gives a measure of the buoyancy or otherwise of the labour market. The numbers getting unemployment benefits indicates the extent of economic hardship flowing from a tight labour market. If the numbers drawing the benefit are compared, it becomes clear that in all States except South Australia and Tasmania, metroplitan unemployment is rising much faster than non-metropolitan unemployment. 
Looking at these figures for the end of October 1971 and comparing them with the end of October 1970, in New South Wales those on benefits increased by 115 per cent in metropolitan areas and 53 per cent in non-metropolitan areas. In Victoria the increases were 185 per cent and 101 per cent; in Queensland 93 per cent and minus 1 per cent; and in Western Australia 242 per cent and 92 per cent. This shows quite dramatically that hard-core unemployment is rising much more rapidly in the major cities than in the country. In Tasmania the increase is much the same for metropolitan and non-metropolitan areas at 153 per cent and 160 per cent. In South Australia, the increase is the lowest in Australia for metropolitan areas; it is 33 per cent compared with 91 per cent for non-metropolitan areas. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, 1  join in the debate on the motion to suspend Standing Orders because the Leader of the House  (Mr Swartz)  ha&gt; made one or two points concerning ministerial statements to which I wish to respond. It is not very often that I disagree with the Leader of the House on these matters because it is true that we do have discussions about statements that are to be made in the House. But it is also quite clear to ail honourable members that debates on ministerial statements that are made in thi:; Howe are not always confined merely to  2  speakers. There are many occasions when a full scale debate is arranged by agreement. I have no objection to the Leader of the House being adamant about a debate being adjourned after a statement has been delivered and a reply has been made by one member from this side of the House. But the proposition that the Minister is now proposing is entirely different. The circumstances are completely changed The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  has suggested that there ought to be a vote on this issue. T thought that this was the attitude which had been expressed very clearly by the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Allan Fraser),  lt certainly was clearly expressed by the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby). 
What is the position with regard to a vote on an important issue such as this? I do not want to transgress the rules of the House. But the p'ain fact is that, as J understand the position, the Minister for Primary Industry challenged members of the Opposition to a debate on this issue. If the circumstances are that the Minister has asked for a debate, has suggested that there ought to be a debate and has challenged members on this side of the House to a debate, the motion moved by the hon ourable member for Eden-Monaro to suspend the Standing Orders for this purpose is a legitimate request. 
I direct attention to those honourable members who sit in that corner of the House and who claim to represent the wool growers of this country. They have made this claim despite the fact that they have failed in this respect. But they claim to repre,sent wool growers. Again  1  know that I might be in difficulty if I refer to the crisis in the wool industry, but members of the Country Party cla m to represent those engaged in the wool  industry.  If one of their members, who is the Minister for Primary Industry, has issued a challenge for a debate on this subject with honourable members on this side of the House, this motion presents a clear opportunity for a debate to take place. 
This issue is an important one. The question is whether this ban ought to be applied or whether it ought to be lifted. The opinion of honourable members on this side of the House and. indeed. I think he opinion of some members on the Government side of the House, if not the opinion of those members in the Country Party corner, is that this ban should not be lifted. 1 think tha* this is the general consensus among the wool growers themselves. The Standing Orders do not permit us to debate  the  issue. We are speaking to a motion for the suspension of the S anding Orders. But the Minister for Primary Industry has had the opportunity to make his statement. 
The Leader of the House has now StIffgested that there ought to be a vote on the issue. If there is to be a vote on this important issue, quite clearly the substance of the argument advanced by the honourable member for Eden-Monaro, very capably supported by the honourable member for Riverina who did not transgress the Standing Orders in the debate but who put his case very clearly that there should b; a suspension of Standing Orders which would enable this matter to be debated fully, leads to the question: What has the Government to hide? Sitting on the front bench now is the  Deputy  Prime Minister and Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony).  He is the former Minister for Primary Industry.  1  think that he was glad to hand the portfolio over to his successor. 
But the Deputy Prime Minister is here. Surely he has something to say on the question as to whether this ban ought to be lifted or whether the embargo ought to continue. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has made a statement in relation to this matter. The opportunity now exists for the Minister to accept our challenge. If he issued a challenge to honourable members on this side of the House, we now challenge the Government to allow a full scale debate on this matter. Therefore, I support (he motion for the suspension of Standing Orders. Here is a clear opportunity to undertake a debate in the way proposed. The Leader of the House has acquiesced to the extent that he is now prepared to allow the House to vote on the issue. But surely it is not a proper procedure to allow the House to vote on a most important matter before that matter has been considered fully by honourable members who. wish to express their views one way or the other. 
In these circumstances, if the Leader of the House is prepared to allow a vote, I suggest that he might be prepared to allow a debate. After all, if we are to make a decision in this manner, there are members on this side of the House who would like to express an opinion on it. Therefore, I support the motion moved by the honourable member for Eden-Monaro and seconded by the honourable member for Riverina that the Standing Orders should be suspended to enable a full scale debate to take place in this House. Then this Parliament will be in a position to record a vote and to make a decision. I believe that that decision would be in favour of the proposition that has been put to the House by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson). 
The Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  has announced the commitment of about 150 Australian soldiers to South Vietnam after the withdrawal of the Task Force. There is little new in the statement that an Army assistance group will be retrained in South Vietnam. This was made clear in the statement by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  on the future of Australian forces in Vietnam in this House on 18th August. Nor is there much novelty in the statement that this assistance group will contain a subgroup of 30 instructors to train Cambodians in South Vietnam. This stems from the extraordinarily ham-handed handling of negotiations with the United States Government before and during the Prime Minister's recent overseas trip. lt was made clear to the Parliament that this request to train Cambodians had come from the United States Government. The Government went to remarkable lengths to disguise and rationalise this approach. Even staunch supporters of the Government such as the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  queried the Government's performance. This honourable gentleman has on the notice paper a motion in the following terms: 
That this House is of the opinion that, until such time as evidence of a request from the Cambodian Government to the Australian Gov.ernment to provide instructors to train Cambodian troops in South Vietnam is tabled in this House, no Australian servicemen be ordered to instruct Cambodian servicemen in South Vietnam. 
If the memorandum on the Australian participation in the training of  FANK  personnel in Vietnam is intended to satisfy the demands of the honourable member for Moreton, then 1 suggest that u falls somewhat short of evidence of a request from the Cambodian Government. lt is plain that this arrangement resulted from a direct approach by the United States Government to the Department of Defence, although all sorts of vague proclamations have been used in retrospective justification. 
It is significant that New Zealand is not a signatory to the memorandum nor is there any indication that New Zealand is to participate in the scheme to train Cambodians in Vietnam. The Prime Minister at one stage committed New Zealand to this training scheme along with the United Slates and South Vietnam. This is an example of the sort of bungling and wrong information given by the Government on this extremely important policy issue. In the event the New Zealand Government has shown much more sense than this Government in getting out of Vietnam and staying out. The attitude of the Labor Party to these two announcements can be stated quite simply: We are opposed to the retention of an Australian assistance team in South Vietnam. We are opposed to the use of Australian servicemen to train Cambodians in South Vietnam. The Government supports the administration of General Lon Nol in Cambodia; the Opposition has very grave reservations about it. These are our attitudes and 1 do not want to elaborate them in any detail. - The main dangers of commitments of this sort is that they can be so readily used as the springboard for a massive escalation. An American army of more than half a million flowed on directly from the commitment of a modest number of advisers. Australian advisers have been used in Vietnam for just over nine years. With the Task Force out, there will be very little check on where and how these advisers will operate. 
The Government is quite adamant that it will not commit Australian soldiers to Cambodia, but South Vietnamese units are in and out of Cambodia all the time. No one can say for certain that Australian advisers have not gone into Cambodia or into Laos in the operations earlier this year. These are the 2 dangers of maintaining such a presence; that it can be used as the basis for the re-commitment of Australian units, and it is not possible for proper supervision of their movements and activities. 
Having stressed the Labor Party's total opposition to the 2 measures contained in the Minister's statement, 1 want to look at an important matter arising from the Government's policy of training South Vietnamese and Cambodian troops. This is the fate of the proposed jungle training school at Nui Dat. The Minister referred to the Nui Dat project in an oblique reference to the Jungle Warfare Training Centre at its new location in Van K leI] in Phuoc Tuy Province. When the proposal to establish the school was announced by the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  in April last year, it was to be in quarters vacated by reduction of the task force from 3 to 2 battalions. In October last year, the former Minister ' for Defence, the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said that the school at Nui Dat would be training 400 to 500 junior leaders for the South Vietnamese forces by early 1971. On 30th March in this House, the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  said the Nui Dat school had just completed its first school. 
A report appeared in the 'Australian' on 23rd April, by Barry Wain claiming that a total of $600,000 would be spent on building the permanent training school at Nui Dat. This would include 60 married quarters, 5 student company areas, lecture rooms, a 500-man assembly hail and administration buildings, staff accommodation and mess halls. In his statement on 18th August, the Prime Minister said that the training school at Nui Dat would be retained if wanted and if satisfactory arrangements could be made. On 15th October the Minister announced in the baldest possible terms that the jungle training scheme would be moved to Van Kiep. lt was reported in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' of 18rh October that Nui Dat base including the training school was being destroyed by the South Vietnamese as the Task Force withdrew. This switch from Nui Dat to Van Kiep which is a major training camp conducted by the United States Army has never been explained in a satisfactory way. 
The Government intended to maintain a flag force at the traditional Task Force quarters at Nui Dat. This was- made quite clear in successive statements by Prime Ministers and Defence Ministers and in statements given to the Press. Now. Nui Dat has been scrapped completely and the jungle training school dismantled. The Government should outline why it was not possible lo maintain the school at Nui Dat and why the training school had to be swiftly shifted under the American umbrella. It should also outline to the House how much was invested in the jungle training camp at Nui Dat and how much of the capital investment and equipment was destroyed when the camp was moved. A figure of $600,000 was reported in the Press and not refuted by the Government. If a sum of this size has been written off in a futile venture of this sort, then it adds new dimensions to the folly of the Vietnam commitment. 
Another mysterious feature of this announcement is that no reference is made to the formation of the mobile army training teams which were to be formed for service in Vietnam as the Task Force withdrew. This was announced by the Former Prime Minister in his statement in April last year. According to the right honourable member for Higgins, these mobile teams would bear the brunt of Australian participation with 130 men formed into mobile training groups to Ii ase with and train regional and popular forces in the field. The next reference I have been able to find to the mobile training team was in an article in the Melbourne 'Age' on 16th October last year when it was claimed that these 130 men would be divided into 15 mobile training teams. There has been no further mention by either Government or Press of these 15 'phantom' mobile training teams. In a total commitment of 150 men with 30 earmarked for training Cambodians, a team at Van Kiep, a cadre providing advisory and training assistance to territorial forces and a number of engineers, it is not possible to get 130 men organised into 15 mobile training teams. 
These are samples of the way in which this Parliament has been misleading repeatedly about the Government's actions in Vietnam. The history of the jungle training school and the disappearance of the mobile training teams are important matters which the Government is obliged to explain to the Parliament. The Government is practising an act of deception on itself if it believes that these important policy reversals can be allowed to pass without Parliamentary scrutiny. In summing up, I repeat again the Labor Party's complete opposition to any further military participation of any sort in the Indo China wars. The last vestiges of military assistance will be ended immediately by a future Labor Government. But on this issue and on this note may i indicate at once that while we have consistently stated our opposition in this Parliament to the Government's decision to have Australian training teams located in South Vietnam for the purpose of training Cambodians, just as we opposed Australian intervention in South Vietnam, and while we welcome the Government's belated decision to withdraw Austraiian forces before the end of this year, we do not believe that this should be the end of Australia's responsibility in Vietnam. 1 am now speaking of the period after the inevitable political settlement, which is the only way in which the war in Vietnam can be completed sal.isfactorily. The Minister and the Government must be fully aware of this. 
This Government and any Australian government - no doubt the next government will be a Labor Government - will have the continuing responsibility of providing the kind of assistance that will mean something to the people in the devastated areas not only of South Vietnam but also North Vietnam, lt is a great pity that, in these ministerial statements which, of necessity, may be confined to one aspect of Government policy, there is too much emphasis on the Government's attitude in respect of what it will do in relation to its commitments in Vietnam and too little emphasis on the attitude that one would expect the Government to adopt as a humane approach to the problems of the people of South Vietnam. Irrespective of what attitude it may adopt if the Government is to be congratulated on any approach it has made in South Vietnam in the pas:, it should be on the basis of the assistance which it has provided which, J believe, will leave a lasting impression on the people of that country. This is an impression which has been created as a result of the attitude of those who have been in a position to provide projects of a worthwhile nature to the people of South Vietnam. In this way I believe that Australians in South Vietnam - quite apart from their general conduct as soldiers, to which I have referred on many occasions - have made worthwhile contributions. 
I have taken the opportunity to state in this House tonight the Opposition's continued objection to the Government's decision to leave troops in South Vietnam, whether for training purposes or as advisers. We believe that the Government is wrong in this decision, lt should adopt the attitude that New Zealand has adopted and which I mentioned earlier. New Zealand has decided that it will no longer retain troops in South Vietnam. It has made a clear decision in this respect and we believe that Australia should have adopted this same attitude. This Government now is prepared to maintain 130 advisers in South Vietnam to train Cambodian and South Vietnamese troops. I do not want to repeat what I have said on other occasions, but this is the way in which a country can become involved in a conflict that is of no concern to it. 
I conclude by saying that while I have slated the Opposition's objections, I reiterate that there will be a responsibility on any Australian Government to ensure that whatever assistance is required in the rehabilitation of the people of South Vietnam and of North Vietnam when a peaceful settlement to this problem has been found - I hope this will not be in the too distant future - it will be provided. The Australian Government should recognise that, because of the way in which it has been involved as a result of its commitment in that country, it should accept responsibility for the great task of rehabilitation. 
As the Leader of the House  (Mr Swartz)  has already pointed out, the hour is late, but I think I would be lacking in common courtesy if I did not take the opportunity to express one or two views on this very important occasion. First of all, I should like to join with those who earlier this evening expressed good wishes to the  Clerk  of the House. I did not join in the discussion at that time for obvious reasons. There were a number of speakers, and I knew that there would be an opportunity to speak later before the House adjourned. Although I did not speak at that time, I know that  Mr Turner  would realise that my tribute is just as sincere. He has assisted me, just as he has assisted every other member of this House whenever the occasion has arisen. In more recent years, since it has been my responsibility to approach him on a great number of occasions, I have always found him to be a man who was helpful, considerate and courteous. He certainly was of great assistance to me personally. So I wish both  Mr and Mrs Turner  a very happy, pleasant, long and enjoyable retirement together. I also join in congratulating  Mr Parkes  on his appointment to this very high and distinguished office. I know that he will give the same kind of service as we have grown accustomed to receive from Alan Turner. 
Next I should like to refer to you  Mr Speaker.  I have to work very closely with you in some ways. I have appreciated your courtesy and assistance, and I am sure that although honourable members in this House, when matters are under discussion and controversies arise from time to time may not always agree with your decisions, I know that you act impartially, fairly and in the way in which you believe your high office should be discharged. 
I should also like to join the Leader of the House in paying a very well deserved tribute to the members of the Hansard staff, to the attendants and indeed to all those people who assist in the running of this Parliament. I believe that we are very fortunate in the House of Representatives and, I suppose too, in the Senate - of course, one can speak sincerely about the House of Representatives - for the high standard of service that all honourable members have received and acknowledged from the staff that very effectively helps in the running of this Parliament. I join with those who have paid a tribute to the Hansard reporters, to the attendants, to  Mr Pike  and indeed to may people who assist in making our duties less difficult and the standard of the Parliament much higher than it would otherwise be. 
I suppose at a time like this there are a great many people to whom one could pay tribute. At this stage I wish to express my gratitude not only to those who have assisted in this way but particularly to the staff of the Leader of the House. I am referring now to  Mr George  Brownbill who will be retiring from his position. I thank him for his co-operation and assistance over a very long period. I would like also to welcome his successor. I know that we will be able to work together in the same way that I have been able to work with  Mr Brownbill.  So I look forward to a happy association with him. It is not always an easy task for the Leader of the House or for his opposite number on this side of the House. Of course, this has been demonstrated on a number of occasions. I suppose this is because there are some members of the House of Representatives - both on the Government side and on the Opposition side - who are not always aware of the arrangements that must be made if the business of the House is to be dealt with effectively and expeditiously. In this respect I have endeavoured to work with the Leader of the House as he has endeavoured to work with me to achieve this objective. I believe that it has been done during this session reasonably well. Therefore I join wilh the Leader of the Opposition and those who have spoken tonight to express my own personal good wishes to all those people who have contributed in this way, and to wish all members of the House of Representatives the compliments of the season. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Were the trading banks notified of the Government's decision to increase advance limits by $5m per week before the Prime Minister's announcement in the House on 26th October 1971. 
If so, on what date were they notified and what was their assessment of the feasibility of lending at the level proposed by the Prime Minister. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
What has been the- 
total recurrent expenditure on libraries; 
expenditure on library books and periodicals; 
bookstocks; 
number of professional staff, and 
number of other staff in relation to each college of advanced education in Australia for each of the last 5 years. 
What are the estimated figures for each of the next three years. 
and (2) The question was referred to the 
asked the Minister for the Army, upon notice: 
How many men enlisted in (a) the first AIF and (b) the second AIF. 
How many saw active service overseas in each case. 
Of those who saw active service overseas, bow many were married at the time of enlistment. 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
What steps have been taken by the Government to implement the recommendations of the Weeden Committee on Educational Television whose report was completed in 1964. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
ls Australia a member of. the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. 
If so, will the OECD make a review of Australia's national science policy on the lines of reviews made of Sweden, Greece, Belgium, France, the United -.Kingdom and Germany (together), Japan, the United States of America, Italy, Canada and Norway? 
asked the Minister for the Army, upon notice: 
What arrangements exist for making financial provision for (a) capital expenditure and (b) current expenditure on (i) baby health centres, (ii) pre-schools and (iii) family stores at Australian Army bases where these facilities are not available in nearby civilian communities. 
What amount has been spent on these facilities at each base in Australia for each of the last 3 years and what have been the sources of funds for this expenditure. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Will the Government support at the next meeting of the Australian Transport Advisory Council the system of road signs laid down by the United Nations Convention on Road Signs and Signals or the modified system recommended by the Victorian Road Safety and Traffic Authority. 
asked the Minister for the Army, upon notice: 
Do all radiographers employed by the Army meet the framing standards required for employment by the Commonwealth Public Service Board. 
What are the rates of pay for radiographers in (a) the Army and (b) the Commonwealth Public Service. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What has been the cost to revenue of tax ." exemptions granted on profits made by (a) private superannuation funds and (b) superannuation funds operated by life insurance companies, where these funds have mct the requirement that they invest 30 per' Cent of their annual increase in asse.s in public securities, for each year since 1961. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: : 
How many overseas investors have informed the Treasury of their plans for financing nonresidential construction .in Australia , since the then Prime Minister asked that they do this in his nationally televised address to the nation -on 29th January 1971.  . 
Have any foreign investors sought approvals for or commenced non-residential building without first notifying the Treasury; if so, how many have done this. . 
What has been the value of (a) .commencements and (b) approvals for foreign' investment, in non-residential building in each quarter since March 1969. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Can he say which overseas owned companies operating in Australia have made available some degree of Australian equity participation by an offer of shares to the Australian public during the last 5 years. 
If so, what has been the (a) par value pf the shares offered, (b) issue price and (c) amount of Australian money raised in each case. 
What has been Ute (a) percentage equity obtained by Australians and (b) percentage of the paid-up capital which was actually subscribed by Australians in each case. 
I ask the Prime Minister a question. Was the Minister for Social Services speaking for the Government on 11th February when he called for a prices and wages freeze? Did his call echo the views of the right honourable member for Higgins and was it endorsed by the Premier of New South Wales? If the Prime Minister will not heed the entreaties of these distinguished Liberal colleagues, will he at least establish the prices justification tribunal which has been advocated by the Treasurer? 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Can he say what amount has been obtained by the Government of the United States of America from oil lease auctions in each of the last  3  years. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
What rentals have been paid to date for the 24 F4 aircraft. 
What is the estimated cost of converting the leasing arrangement for these aircraft into a purchase. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Can he say (a) what was the percentage of overseas ownership in (i) Mayfair Hams Limited, (ii) Lionel Sampson and Son and (iii) Thomas Playfair and Sons at (A) 1st January 1965 and (B) 30th June 1971 and (b) what were the names of the overseas companies involved. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Can he say (a) what was the percentage of overseas ownership m (i) Harvest Foods Limited, (ii) Cottees Industries Limited, (iii*) Thomas Brown and Son and (iv) Coca Cola Bottlers (Melbourne) Pty Ltd at (A) 1st January 1966 and (B) 30th June 1971 and (b) what were the names of the overseas companies involved. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice:  Can he say: 
what was the percentage of overseas ownership in 
South West Frozen Foods, 
Smiths Potato Crisps (Australia) Ltd, 
Big Sister Foods Ltd, 
Girgarre Cheese, (y) Barnes Honey and (vi) Medallion Products at 
1st January 1968 and 
30th June 1971 and 
what were the names of the overseas companies involved. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice:  Can he say: 
what was the percentage of overseas ownership in J. Y. Tulloch and Sons Pty Ltd at 
1st January 1969 and (ii) 30th June 1971 and 
what were the names of the overseas companies involved. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice:  Can he say: 
what was the percentage of overseas ownership in 
Morris Family Wineries, 
G. Gramp and Sons (Orlando), 
McLaren Vale Wines Pty Ltd, 
Ryecroft Vineyards Pty Ltd and 
Reynells Wines at 
1st January 1970 and 
30th June 1971 and 
what were the names of the overseas companies involved. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
How many social workers are employed by his Department outside the capital cities. 
At which centres are they employed and how many are employed at each. 
How many social workers are employed by his Department in each capital city. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
What has been the percentage of Defence expenditure allocated to each of the recruiting branches of the three Services for the year ending 30th June 1961 and each year thereafter. 
I ask the Prime Minister whether he is aware that the Minister for Social Services on I 10th February said that inactivity enforced by the means test could be a major cause of premature death among retired Australians. Does he regard this statement as a rebuke to the Government for perpetuating the means test and to Cabinet for delaying consideration of the Minister's national superannuation scheme? What action does he intend to take in the light of the Minister's fears? 
I want to raise a matter within the purview of the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon),  lt is a matter which I understand has been the subject of representations from Tasmanian shipping authorities and Government senators from Tasmania. There is a strong possibility that it will also be brought to the Minister's attention by the State Government of Tasmania. What I want to put before the House is the action of the Australian National Line in rescheduling shipping services to the ports of northern Tasmania. I do not want to be unduly critical of the Line; undoubtedly it has serious problems. Undoubtedly, also, it has given most valuable service to Australia and it has an excellent record of innovation in shipping services. 
In recent years it has become increasingly vulnerable to criticism from Tasmania, the only .State which is completely dependent on shipping transport. Formerly, the Line maintained excellent relations with Tasmania; it carried the lion's share of the Tasmanian shipping trade, and in turn it found the Tasmanian trade an extremely profitable one. In recent years the relations of the ANL wilh Tasmania have become increasingly strained: Higher shipping freight rates have been one cause of this tension; other causes have been inexplicable decisions by the Line and what can only be summarised as bad timing and bad public relations. On these counts the ANL rivals Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd. The basic reason for changes in schedules to the north of Tasmania is the withdrawal of the 'Princess of Tasmania from service. This means the Empress o: Australia' will replace the Princess of Tasmania' on the MelbourneDevonport :un. The 'Empress' which had been making one call a week at Bell Bay to and from Sydney has now been withdrawn for refitting. This has brought an extensive reshuffle of passenger and cargo services to Bell Bay. 
The first unfortunate result of this reshuffle has been chaos in forward bookings for ANL passenger services. It is difficult to assess the full extent of this disruption; undoubtedly it will have an undesirable impact on tourist traffic to Tasmania which will affect the whole State. The port of Launceston will lose a substantial part of its passenger trade to Devonport with the cut in passenger traffic from 3 to 2 vessels. In turn this will probably bring a reduced capacity to ferry passengers to and from Tasmania. The Senate Standing Committee on Primary and Secondary Industry and Trade report on ANL services showed that the number of passengers and cars carried by the line to Tasmania had doubled in the 10 years to 1969-70. With a growing market for tourism within Australia, it is a pity that the potential of passenger shipping to Tasmania should be limited in this way. As the Senate Committee pointed out. the ANL had a special role as the carrier of a large number of tourists who helped to maintain one of Tasmania's most important industries. The net loss of berths in a year has been estimated at more than 15,000  -  a heavy toll on the State's potential tourism. 
For the port of Launceston the impact of the revised schedules goes beyond the loss of passenger services. It means also that cargo services will be cut, although it is impossible to get an accurate estimate of the extent and nature of the cuts. According to Bell Bay port authorities the cargo services into the port of Launceston would be cut by two-thirds. It would bring the monthly tonnage down from around 18,800 tons to just over 6,000 tons. This is the considered opinion of the people who run the port and have a detailed knowledge of vessels on the run and their capacity. Their estimates have been disputed by the ANL and by the Tasmanian Premier,  Mr Bethune.  These refutations have been far from convincing. 
Although the cut of two-thirds has been denied, it has not been possible for the ANL or for  Mr Bethune  to give any estimate of what capacity will be under the new schedules. Quite plainly, they just do not know what the impact of the new schedules will be in terms of actual tonnages.  Mr Bethune  has pinned his faith in undertakings given by the ANL and the Government in December. According to t'hese assurances freight services to Tasmania were to be maintained and improved.  Mr Bethune  has expressed confidence that the undertakings will be honoured. I do not doubt the Premier's sincerity in this mat;er, but in the absence of an effective and convincing delineation of tonnages for the revised services there must be serious doubts about the future of cargo services to the port of Launceston. 
It has been stated that the new schedules were tentative and that adjustments would be made if services proved inadequate. The ANL says also that it will adjust its services to demand. Presumably it will divert ships to Bell Bay if the volume of cargo warrants it. This may be all right in theory but it destroys the assurance of regular services which are necessary for the effective movement of cargo to and from Bell Bay. Regular services are particularly important for the growth of freight forwarding operations moving cargo from door to door. This sort of development was advocated by the Senate Committee and also by the Pak Poy report on Tasmanian transport. Lack of regular services and uncertainty about schedules strikes at the basic concept of this sort of transport operation. 
Another grave defect of the new schedules is that they run counter to the trend of port development. According to the Pak Poy report the predicted growth rate for Bell Bay was faster than for any of the other Tasmanian ports. The report found that Bell Bay was the cheapest of alternative central port systems, based on shipping, port development and land transport costs. Even if the central port concept is discounted and the present 4-port structure retained, surely it is illogical to cut services to the fastest growing port and the most viable in economic terms. There is the further point that considerable capital investment is being made in a link from Bell Bay to the State railway system. The Commonwealth is putting a considerable sum of money into this Bell Bay link. It is absurd that the need for the link should be acknowledged and resources diverted for it and that the ANL should be allowed to readjust its services in a way which would negate the principle of the railway. For many years there has been a thriving port and no railway. It would be futile to build a railway and let the port run down. 
In summary, the ANL says it will adjust services to the volume of cargo to be carried. The Bell Bay port authorities maintain that the volume of cargo depends on the certainty of regular services. The ANL seems intent on waiting until sufficient cargo builds up at Bell Bay before diverting shipping for it. The port says that the volume of cargo will not build up unless shippers know that regular services are operating. Surely these conflicting claims should not be put to the lest of practice before determining who is right and who is wrong. There is much that needs to be clarified. The ANL assessments may be correct but this is to be proved. Until a more convincing and detailed case is put by the company, it is difficult not to accept the claims of the port authorities that the new schedules would have a ruinous effect on Bell Bay. 
This morning I have taken the opportunity in this House to enlarge upon this subject because there is considerable concern, particularly in the northern part of Tasmania, at the attitude and actions of the ANL. I made it quite clear at the commencement of my remarks that I offered no criticism of the ANL in this respect. I believe it has endeavoured to look at the situation sympathetically and, 1 suppose, with the objective of economies in view. But the fact remains that the port of Launceston, as I have already indicated to the House, contrary to the recommendations of the Pak Poy report, is to be allowed to run down. The Australian National Line has a responsibility and an obligation to the Tasmanian people to make iti position clear. To reduce the tonnage info one port from 18,000 to about 6,000 a month is a very drastic step to take without giving some clear explanation of the reasons for it. I appreciate from my correspondence with the Minister for Shipping and Transport that re has reacted very quickly to the criticism. I hope that the Minister will be able to provide for me a convincing reply in relation o the ANL's new schedules and that the matter will be rectified as soon as possible. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  finished on the note that the Opposition wanted to make a mountain out of a molehill. The plain fact is that the Prime Minister did not answer the charge which has been made.  His  credibility inside this Parliament, as well as outside it, is at stake. He made no attempt to refute the motion which was moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  - a motion of no confidence in the Prime Minister. Of course, he did endeavour to smear the brothers Kibel, but this is not sufficient refutation of the charge, and in the absence of any reasonable reply from the Prime Minister the motion which was moved by the Leader of the Opposition should be carried. This motion has immense relevance to the Government's conduct of relations with the People's Republic of China, surely the most vital issue of external policy confronting Australia. It bears also on the important question of the attitudes of the Prime Minister and his Government to racial relations in South Africa. This is a matter on which the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Kennedy)  has exposed the Prime Minister's lack of frankness in a most devastating fashion. 
Because of limited time, I want to concentrate my remarks on the issues raised by the Prime Minister's comments in the Parliament last Thursday on a ministerial visit to the People's Republic of China. There has been some suggestion that this is not an important matter - that it is a question of semantics or hair splitting over the meaning of words and sentences. But the issues raised go directly to the heart of conduct of our relations with the People's Republic of China in the past year. Beyond this they raise the important issue of the veracity of the Prime Minister and what weight should be put on the information he gives the House. For many years there have been suspicions that the Prime Minister has given to the House statistical information which has been plucked out of the air. Since the right honourable gentleman became Prime Minister there has been repeated evidence that he has extended this off-the-top-of-the-head thinking to the weaving of elaborate fantasies about his own actions and motives. The Opposition will not accept any longer this conveying to the House of imprecise and often downright wrong information. 
Yesterday the Prime Minister issued a lengthy statement on the communique from  President  Nixon and Premier Chou En-lai. Part of the statement complimented the  President  on a visit unprecedented in itself and in its bold disregard of established practice. It seems the Prime Minister recognised the essential nobility of the concept of  President  Nixon's mission to China. Unfortunately, he did not recognise the shambles which passes for Australia's relations with China. America has won immense kudos by a direct approach at head-of-Government level to a traditional and very bitter foe. Australia's contacts with the People's Republic are still conducted in a half world, a world of shadows. In saying this I do not intend to be disparaging of the Kibel brothers who seem to have been the Government's main emissaries to China in the past few months. I am sure they are worthy men who have acted to the best of their ability in the Australian interest. But other nations of the world of no greater status or significance than Australia are approaching China at head of Government or senior diplomatic level. 
The Australian Government has to fork out the expenses for 2 businessmen to go to Hong Kong and negotiate for it. The point is self-explanatory; it is a remarkable example of diplomatic helplessness. The Government clearly lacks the courage or even the hide to make a direct approach to China. Obviously, it has had the option at any time in the past year to make a direct approach to China and to send a ministerial delegation to China. Quite plainly, 
China would not have rejected an official approach for a member of the Government to go to China. The  Deputy  Prime Minister and Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  would have been an ideal person to go to China on behalf of his Government. The  Deputy  Prime Minister is no stranger to the Communist world; he has made a favourable impact on his official visits to Russia and Eastern Europe. There is also the stake his Party has in improving trade with China. But the Government left the initiative to the Labor Party delegation headed by the Leader of the Opposition. 
The Prime Minister and his Government will never live down the fact that the Labor Party delegation got to Peking '7 months before the American President. It got there a generation before any Liberal or Country Party Minister can anticipate getting there; certainly the Prime Minister is destined never to follow President Nixon to Peking. As far as this Government and relations with China are concerned, the parade has gone by. The next official visit to China will be by the Leader of the Opposition as Prime Minister. The present Government has not the competence to get even a trade mission to China, let alone a junior Minister. This is the context of a disastrous series of diplomatic setbacks for the Prime Minister and his Government over relations with China. 
The Prime Minister has tried to put the blame for failure to get effective relations going squarely onto the Chinese. He said on the television programme, 'Monday Conference', that the Chinese had cut off discussions 'suddenly . . . without rhyme or reason'. He said further: 
We thought quite frankly that we were on the way to success but the Chinese act in their own inscrutable ways.' 
The Prime Minister's phraseology alone would indicate that his understanding of Chinese psychology and politics was still in the realms of Fu Man Chu and Charlie Chan. It was disclosed a week later in the National Times' that the Prime Minister had rejected an invitation by the Chinese to have a member of his Ministry go to China for 10 days. It was revealed that the Chinese had sent the invitation through  Mr J.  C. Kibel to the former Minister for the 
Army. This illuminated an otherwise inexplicable reference by the Prime Minister to ministerial emissaries in the House some months earlier. 
It became clear that the Government, in seeking to get a trade mission to China, had hooked a rather bigger fish. The Chinese had invited  Mr Peacock  and his wife to go to China, apparently on the recommendation of the brothers Kibel. The Government was extremely embarrassed by this disclosure according to a report in the Canberra Times' on 13th December last year. Although there had been no official comment on the reported invitation Government sources did not entirely dispute the report. The Government did not dispute the report because it was spot on. 
It gradually emerged that the Government had been using the Kibels as emissaries or intermediaries with the Chinese. This entailed flying them to Hong Kong and accommodating them while they negotiated, surely a most potent comment on the standing of Australian trade officials with the Chinese. Not a hint of these negotiations or the negotiators was conveyed to the Parliament. If the 'National Times' had not stumbled on the story, the negotiations and the eagerness of the Chinese to receive a member of the Australian Government would have been obscured forever. 
In the words of  Mr J.  C. Kibel on the radio programme, 'P.M.' on 24th February: The invitation was issued through me. There were a number of negotiations concerning the possibility of a private visit by Andrew and Susan Peacock'. According to  Mr Kibel,  the Chinese were intrigued by the Minister's relative youth and the nature of his portfolio. It seems they regarded him as one of the less reactionary members of the Australian Government and were prepared to bring him to China and ensure he met the right people. 
These are facts that have come to light since the Prime Minister's extraordinary and highly misleading answer in the Parliament last Thursday. This lengthy and garbled answer has attracted an immense amount of publicity and interpretation. Whatever interpretation is placed on the answer it cannot be regarded as other than highly misleading. Initially the Prime Minister said of the negotiations with the Chinese: 
But i cao state that initially they thought it would be wise, providing the Minister gave up his portfolio, that he should be invited with his wife to go on what shall be called not so much a goodwill mission but a mission on which he could enjoy himself and enjoy the delights and comforts of Peking. 
There is not the slightest doubt from the context here that the Prime Minister was referring to either the Chinese or the Kibels stipulating that the Minister had to give up his portfolio before making the visit. Later in his answer the Prime Minister said: 
When it was pointed out that it would require a Ministerial resignation from the portfolio, and that we had troops in Vietnam this non-official source promptly dropped the idea and n;ve raised it again. 
This implies that the Australian Government had pointed out to the Chinese that Australia was participating in Viet nam, and that  Mr Peacock  would have to resign if he wanted to enjoy the comforts and delights of Peking. Apart from the remarkable fact that the Chinese had to be told Australia had troops in Vietnam, it is clear that the Prime Minister has given 2 versions that cannot be reconciled. 
On the first version, he said the Chinese through the Kibels had stipulated that the Minister had to resign to accept the invitation. This has been vehemently denied by the Kibels. The second version is that the Australian Government stipulated that the Minister had to resign and this was pointed out to the non-official Chinese source. The invitation was then promptly withdrawn by the Chinese. 
This account was given by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  on the television programme 'This Day Tonight' on 25th February. According to the Minister, the Prime Minister pointed out to  Mr James  Kibel that a visit by  Mr Peacock  would require Ministerial resignation. I quote the Minister for Foreign Affairs from the television transcript: 
So what the Prime Minister has clearly indicated in his answer, the same answer, that what he means is that he told Kibel that it would involve resignation because the stipulation was for a private visit. 
Where this interpretation falls down is that  Mr Brian  Kibel has denied that  Mr McMahon  had given this explanation to his brother. It seems that even the Minister for Foreign Affairs cannot get the Prime Minister off the hook.  His  ingenious explanation of what the Prime Minister was saying falls down because a key part of it has been denied by the Kibels 
The best possible interpretation that can be put on the Prime Minister's answer is that it is grossly misleading. It is open to 2 conflicting interpretations, neither of them capable of being verified or sustained. I would like to quote further from the television interview given by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It has some excellent stuff including the observation that an Army Minister could conceivably make a private visit as far afield as New Zealand without resigning. The Minister says also that an Army Minister would be put in a schizophrenic position by visiting China while Australian troops were engaged in Vietnam. He neglects to explain how the American President - as the Leader of the Opposition pointed out - who is the supreme authority - the supreme commander - for conduct of the Vietnam War avoided a spectacular division in his personality while he was in China. 
We have not heard from the former Minister for the Army about whether a portfolio is adequate compensation for relinquishing the comforts and delights of Peking. We have not heard from the other party to these negotiations, the Chinese. It is probable that we will hear very little from any Chinese sources, official or nonofficial, while this Government remains in office. 
It is pointless for the Prime Minister to express pathetic hopes that the Chinese should disregard Taiwan in dialogue with Australia, as he claims it has done with America. Any hopes of an effective dialogue have been destroyed by the constant campaign of distortion and vilification towards the Chinese conducted by the Prime Minister in the past year. This reached its peak in the Prime Minister's rewriting of events which have baffled the Chinese just as much as it confounded all who heard it in this House. The Chinese can only wonder what limits exist to the blatant charlatanism of this Government's conduct of its foreign relations. 
It does not seem possible for Australia to get even a trade mission to China while this Government stays in office. Why should the Chinese have relations with us at any level while these misleading statements persist?  Sir, the  Opposition has moved this motion this afternoon in an effort to get the conduct of our foreign relations out of the fantasy world created by the Prime Minister and back into the real world of diplomatic logic and realism. 
I direct a question to the Prime Minister. He will recall saying on the programme 'Monday Conference' on 6th December last year that defence would be the key issue at this year's election. He will recall also directing the Minister for Defence to prepare a defence White Paper and expressing publicly his disappointment at the delay in presenting this paper. In view of the right honourable gentleman's promise that the paper would be ready 'somewhere about February', I ask him: Has it been completed? If not, has defence been relegated as an election issue by the deterioration in the economy and the decline in the Government's electoral support? 
The honourable member for Diamond Valley asked a very long and complex question. Unfortunately, as a result of the points of order that have been taken, it is rather difficult for me to follow the substance of his question. However, I say in reply to it that the Bill which was introduced by me and referred to by the honourable member has been dealt with on 2 occasions in this House. A full explanation of all the clauses referred to by the honourable member will be found in the Hansard report of the subsequent debate. As far as 1 am aware, the honourable member for Diamond Valley made no attempt on either occasion to join in the debate. The honourable member had an opportunity to question me during that debate. Of course, the continuation of the debate was not facilitated by the Government. He refused to join in the debate. 
I will answer the question. The last occasion on which this matter was debated in this House was about  6$  months ago. It was made clear by me at the time that I was introducing a Bill to amend the National Service Act because the Opposition recognised that the Government would never repeal the legislation. We agreed that it would be better to amend bad legislation if we could not have it repealed. The policy of this Party is to repeal the National Service Act. That will be undertaken when I have the responsibility as Minister for Defence in the next government. Finally, let me point out to the honourable member that we will be happy to continue this debate on the Bill which I introduced and last spoke on 6i months ago in this House if the Government will give us an opportunity to do 
60. 
The Opposition is concerned about the future of the Australian aircraft industry in view of disturbing developments in the past few months. For many years now, the industry has stumbled along at a very low level of activity. It is to the credit of all the components of the industry that they have retained enthusiasm for aircraft design and forward planning despite the lack of Government encouragement and stimulation. In this dispiriting context the industry has come forward with Project N, a short take off and landing aircraft which is certainly competitive wilh any comparable aircraft and is probably superior. This has been achieved with only half-hearted Government encouragement. Indeed, some sections of the Government have been actively hostile to the project, notably the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman).  The future of Project N and its market prospects in the context of the present state of the aircraft industry is one of the issues we will raise under the terms of this motion. But first 1 want to look at plans which have been bruited about in the past year for the rationalisation of the aircraft industry. 
In effect these plans mean some sort of rationalisation of the plans and activities of the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation Pty Ltd and the Government Aircraft Factories in Melbourne. The other major component of the industry, Hawker de Havilland Aust. Ply Ltd, has plants at Lidcombe and Bankstown in Sydney. I understand that the company's forward planning envisages the integration of these 2 plants. If this were done and an effective arrangement made between the CAC and the GAF in Melbourne, this is probably all that could be achieved in rationalising the overall structure of the Australian aircraft industry. It is the future of the CAC and the GAF that concerns the Opposition at this moment. In the Senate last December,  Senator Little  questioned the Government about a possible amalgamation of these 2 groups, and whether Parliament would be fully informed before any commitment was made. The answer provided by the Minister for Supply  (Mr Garland)  indicated that rationalisation of the operations of the GAF and the CAC was under consideration. He described the objective of rationalisation as achieving a more stable and effective organisation that could develop with Australia's needs. According to the Minister, this would be in the long-term interests of the industry and those who worked in it. I hope to demonstrate as I proceed that there is no great disagreement on this point itself. 
The Minister said that an in-depth study of the practicability of the merger of the 2 organisations was being made. It was not expected that any firm recommendations would be before the Government until the early months of 1972. He adroitly dodged any reference to informing Parliament about the details of a proposed merger and allowing it to be debated fully. The situation at the moment, as I understand it, is that the report on merger proposals has been received and is in the hands of the Minister. The Minister can correct me if this is not the position. 
There have been disquieting rumours circulating in the CAC and the GAF that a merger of the 2 organisations is imminent. There has even been some suggestion that the announcement could be made within the next month. The disturbing thing is that a merger proposal could be accepted and put into effect without it being debated in this Parliament. It could be done by a stroke of the pen without any chance for the management and employees of the 2 organisations to assess the proposals and make objections. This is why the Opposition has raised this matter today to allow the Minister for Supply to outline to the House what the merger proposals are and what impact they will have on the relative status of the CAC and the GAF. 
It is an interesting feature of the answer given by the Minister to  Senator Little  that the terms merger and rationalisation are interchangeable. There is no reason why rationalisation should be synonymous with merger. Rationalisation as applied to defence organisation and production usually means the integration of common functions. This is a much less drastic step than merging the 2 organisations into a new entity. I think there would be general agreement that some rationalisation of the CAC and GAF plants at Fishermen's Bend is desirable and inevitable. It is not economic to have 2 plants in the same area servicing a common industry and having duplicated functions and equipment. This is conceded by the work forces at both plants. 
I have received some material from employees at the Government Aircraft Factories which indicates their attitudes to a merger. They agree that there should be rationalisation but conceive it in terms of much closer co-operation in production, planning and marketing by the 2 organisations. Under this proposal the separate identities of the 2 organisations would be retained, but joint committees would be used for planning and implementing joint marketing of products and joint design projects. Joint committees could also be used to plan for new capital spending on equipment and expansion, and the phasing out of areas of overlap. This is one approach to the problem; to my mind it is rather closer to rationalisation than the merger terms envisaged by the Minister. Undoubtedly this scheme has many merits; it would allow more effective co-ordination of the activities of the 2 plants. But in the present climate of making defence cheaper by cutting out duplication, I feel it does not go far enough. 
The time has passed when the GAF and the CAC could expect to retain separate identity in adjacent plants with many common and complementary capabilities. If the need for 1 organisation is conceded, and I believe the economic case is overwhelming, what form should the combination of the 2 existing structures take. The fear of the work force at the GAF and the suspicion of members on this side of the House is that the Government intends merging the 2 with the CAC as the dominant partner. This would mean the GAF would lose its identity and be incorporated into the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation. In effect the Commonwealth would hive off its aircraft design and production capability to private industry. This raises several important matters of principle. 
In making these comments I do not intend any criticism of the CAC. It has played an admirable role in very difficult circumstances. The dedication to a viable Australian aircraft of the private component, that is the CAC and Hawker de Haviland, must be acknowledged. But the issue of turning the industry over completely to the private companies is a very grave one which must be closely analysed toy this House. In the first place it would hand over to a private company very substantial publicly owned assets. One estimate is that the joint assets of the GAF and the CAC at Fishermen's Bend are around $30m. The CAC puts the total value of its land, buildings and plant at $14m to $15m. This would leave the assets of the GAF at Fishermen's Bend at $15m to $16m, although there are estimates of $20m. All that can be concluded from these rough figures is that the assets of the GAF are at least as great as those of the CAC. They may be even higher. On this basis it would be intolerable that the GAF be absorbed completely by a smaller partner. Yet there are strong reasons to believe that this is what the Government has in mind. 
It is difficult to make a valid comparison of the cost structure of the 2 organisations. One comparison of costs that has been supplied to me by GAF source puts the charge per man hour at $7.50 for the 
GAF and SI 7.50 for comparable work by the CAC. I acknowledge that these figures may be disputed by the CAC and that the source may be biased; therefore 1 do not put them up as gospel. If correct, they show that the relative cost structures of the GAF and the CAC are poles apart. Absorbing a lower cost structure into a higher cost structure is not the way to produce cheaper aircraft. Another argument against allowing a merger with CAC, with CAC being the dominant partner, is that the Government would relinquish all capacity in the crucial area of aircraft production. This would leave the industry at the mercy of market forces. All private companies have an obligation to achieve profitability. No matter how dedicated the private companies in the industries are, there could be circumstances which would dictate curtailment or even abandonment of aircraft design and production. This might not correspond with our defence requirements or the national interest. Another argument is whether it is desirable to have a monopoly of weapons production in the hands of private industry. Labor Party policy is quite explicit on this point - that the Commonwealth Government should control all weapons and munitions manufacture. Obviously this includes the aircraft and guided missiles made by the aircraft industry. There is also the issue of overseas control; 6 of the 7 shareholders in the CAC are overseas companies which control twothirds of the total shareholding. At a time when the Parliament is paying increasing attention to the extent of overseas ownership of Australian assets, do we want to hand over the aircraft industry in toto to overseas control? This raises also the question of possible conflicts of interest between overseas companies and Australia's defences. The next point I want to emphasise is the superior design and engineering capability of the GAF. This has been the main motive force behind the design and production of Jindivik, Malkara, Ikara, Turana and Project N. Some of these have been good export earners. Project N has the potential to be a good money-spinner if the Government can formulate effective marketing policies for it. A. most important aspect of any merger is the future of the staffs of the two organis ations. The present combined workforce of the 2 plants is about 3,800 men. lt is estimated that a merger could cut this workforce to 3,000 or 3,500 men- that is, up to 800 jobs would be lost. If the GAF were merged with the CAC it would stand to lose more of its workforce by retrenchment. Many of the GAF workforce are permanent public servants who have built up leave and superannuation rights. These officers must be protected and their entitlements must be assured. This is another compelling reason why the GAF must not be absorbed into the CAC. 
In the view of the Opposition, these arguments add up to an overwhelming case that the GAF should be retained and should be the dominant partner in any amalgamation of the plants at Fishermen's Bend. It should be possible for an amalgamation to be made which would maintain the Commonwealth's share in the aircraft industry and allow CAC to maintain a profit motive. I want to make this perfectly clear. In the circumstances where in this country we have a viable aircraft industry which should be built up and which has such a clear and close relationship to the defence of Australia - no-one should appreciate this more than the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  - the Opposition will not tolerate a situation in which the Australian Government does not retain at least 51 per cent of the shares in any industry or undertaking of this nature. In this regard it should be remembered that the Commonwealth makes a very substantial contribution to the profitability of CAC. The Opposition believes that Commonwealth control of the aircraft industry is paramount if the industry is to be competitive, if valuable skills built up in design and engineering are to be retained and if a lower cost structure is to be ensured. This is the broad nature of the Opposition's case against the merger which the Government seems to have in mind. 
Unfortunately, I have not the time to look at the plans for Project N, but I am sure this issue will be dealt with by my colleagues. This is an admirable project, f believe that the aircraft has been designed with great expertise by GAF, which has now produced an aircraft whose . performance and standard must be regarded as being amongst the best in the world. Yet, in this Parliament, the Minister for Air made a statement virtually condemning the aircraft and preventing any future expansion of production and, far more importantly, preventing possible purchasers from being able to place firm orders for Project N and, shortly afterwards, the Minister for Defence made a statement contradicting the Minister for Air. Who is right in this matter? Who does intend to give this industry the support that it now requires? One would hope that the Minister for Defence will be in a position to give some indication to the Parliament and, more particularly, to the people of Australia what the Government intends to do about the Australian aircraft industry and about Project N. Project N is an aircraft that has been designed by Australians to meet Australian needs as well as offering a fair proposition for companies overseas. It is the clear responsibility of this Government to make a firm and sensible decision in this matter. 
Quite clearly, the purpose of this motion has been to denigrate the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  It is not the first time that a motion of this kind has been moved against the Leader of the Opposition in this House. It can be said in favour of both the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Hughes)  and the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  that their speeches were somewhat restrained in the circumstances. I exclude from that the remarks of the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown)  because his motives were dictated by circumstances not beyond his control.  His  motives, of course, are the same as those of honourable members who sit on the other side of the House whose purpose it is to denigrate the Leader of the Opposition. I think the honourable member for Moreton should understand this: This morning the Leader of the Opposition gave a very clear account of the situation involved in the motion moved by the honourable member for Diamond Valley. He spoke in a very restrained way indeed. But he made it quite clear to the House and to the nation where he stands on this issue. Quite clearly, the proposition now before the House is whether Government suppporters and particularly the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood),  have the right to prejudge anyone in our society. This, together with the objective of making a false charge against the Leader of the Opposition, is the whole purpose of the action of Government supporters in this debate. 
There has been a great deal of talk from Government supporters in this Parliament in the past few days about the rule of law. One could be forgiven for thinking that this great basis of the British constitution had just been discovered by honourable members opposite. The supremacy of the law in our system of government is undeniable. Of course, the Opposition subscribes to this principle. But there are elemental features of the rule of law that have either been neglected or glossed over completely by supporters of the Government. The first is that everyone is equal before the law. The second is that a person is innocent until proved guilty. It is regrettable that these basic principles should have to be stated in this Parliament but it is a sad necessity. This is the background to the issue that has been raised by the honourable member for Diamond Valley. 
The fact is that a young man, Barry Johnston, has been endorsed as Australian Labor Party candidate for the seat of Hotham. He was selected according to the constitution of the Victorian Branch of the Australian Labor Party. There has been no challenge of any sort to  Mr Johnston's  endorsement as a Labor candidate. Challenges to pre-selection are not unknown in the Labor Party. Therefore, it can be assumed that he was selected without blemish on his record as a member of the Labor Party, and in conformity with the rules. This is the democratic process in action. Undoubtedly, this man is entitled to nominate and, if selected, stand for political office on behalf of the Labor Party. It is also a fact that Commonwealth Police are seeking  Mr Johnston  under a warrant for alleged breaches of the National Service Act. The Police have not been able to locate  Mr Johnston  or take him into custody. The nub of this matter is that until  Mr Johnston  is located by the Commonwealth Police, until he is brought before the Court, and until judgment is given in his case, he cannot be regarded in any sense as a criminal. This, I believe, is the point that was so forcibly put by the Leader of the Opposition. 
Yet in the eyes of the Government he stands already judged and convicted. Even the Attorny-General, a man who in principle should be the fount of justice and equity, has condemned an untried and unconvicted man as a criminal and a law breaker. This is the most evil feature of the Government's attitude to this case - that it has prejudged the case and presumed guilt. It should not be necessary to remind supporters of the Government that the function of this Parliament is to make the law, not interpret it judicially. Yet this is what the Government is doing in the case of  Mr Johnston  and other young men sought by the Commonwealth Police under similar warrants. It is even more objectionable that the Attorney-General and his Government should try to prejudge issues of conscience. In the minds of honourable members on this side of the House, this represents a most alarming deterioration in the judicial system of this country. It is the duty of the Attorney-General to find this young man and others sought under warrant, and put their guilt or innocence to the test in the courts. It is quite clear, again as has been stated on this side of the House by the Leader of the Opposition, that the Government has not sought to apprehend thousands of other young Australian who could be charged in the same way as  Mr Johnston  is now being charged by this Government. The Government does not want to find them. It does not want to find  Mr Johnston.  Until this is done the Government has no right to brand unconvicted people as lawbreakers. 
It is not the function of the AttorneyGeneral to exploit the law for political purposes. The honourable member for Diamond Valley has raised the National Service Bill which I have put before the House on behalf of the Opposition on 2 occasions. I commend his interest in the principles of the Bill, even if he has come to it rather late in the life of this Parliament. I do not recall him taking interest in the projected amendments when they were put to the House. The purpose of this Bill was to ameliorate the harshness of the National Service Act in its impact on cases of conscience. In particular, it was intended to provide a civilian alternative to 2 year gaol sentences for young men whose conscience compelled them to go to the limit in defiance of the National Service Act by not complying with the Act in any way. This was a principle supported by 2 former Ministers for Labour and National Service, the present Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  and the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Bury).  Unfortunately these gentlemen could not impress the merits of their case on the Government. The purpose of my Bill was not to repeal the National Service Act; the Opposition recognised the political realities of the situation. The Bill was drafted in terms which it was thought would be acceptable to reasonable Government supporters. Despite the moderation of the amendments and the valuable reforms they were intended to achieve, the Bill was rejected by the Government. This is the point of the. National Service Bill which the Opposition has on the notice paper. 
It is unfortunate that with the Vietnam commitment over and national service curtailed, the Government should not accede to the principles of this Bill. I do not intend to canvass to any extent the matter put before the House by the honourable member for Diamond Valley. 
I address my question to the Minister for Housing. The Minister will recall that last week or the week before the honourable member for La Trobe asked the Prime Minister a question without notice relating to war service homes and the action that was taken in this House towards the end of the last parliamentary session. In answering the honourable member for La Trobe the Prime Minister indicated that he had examined this matter. The Minister for Housing may now care further to amplify the situation. Is he now in a position to make a statement on the attitude adopted by the Government in relation to this question towards the end of the last parliamentary session? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Do all food processing plants in Australia have adequate facilities to test for levels of pesticide residues and heavy metals in food wherever it is considered possible that these impurities may be present. 
If not, are steps being taken to ensure that all food producing companies provide these facilities where appropriate. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Has the lease of the Royal Navy destroyer Duchess' expired; if so, is it to be renewed. 
What payments have been made for the lease of the 'Duchess' since May 1964? 
asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
How many separate loans have been arranged overseas by the Australian Industry Development Corporation. 
What is the amount of each loan, and the rate of interest payable. 
From which country has each loan been obtained. 
I ask the Prime Minister a question. The right honourable gentleman will recall that the amendments to the industrial legislation foreshadowed by the Minister for Labour and National Service include provisions for a Commonwealth right of appeal in private agreements  as well as arbitrated decisions. Will the Prime Minister insist that similar rights be preserved for the Commonwealth in arbiration with doctors? As he has often said that arbitration cannot work without sanctions, what penalties does he have in mind for breaches of decisions made by the medical arbitrator? 
Has the Prime Minister's attention been drawn to a statement made in Singapore by the  Chairman  of the Senate Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee that the right honourable gentlemen's latest statements on China were unwise, in fact stupidity? In particular, has he noticed  Senator Sim's  reported comment that Australian foreign policy should not rest in the hands of 2 Manchester Jews? Has he noted further  Senator Sim's  comment that sending the Minister for External Territories to China would be sending a boy to a country where age is venerated and respected? If he has seen these comments, will he raise their content with  Senator Sim  when he returns from Singapore? Does he not agree that the tone of these comments, if correctly reported, is grossly offensive? 
 I listened with great interest to the honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman).  I think I understood him correctly to say that those who originally entered an aged persons home made a contribution to the institution and (hat subsequently, in some instances at least, those who followed them when homes became available entered the institution al no cost at all. The honourable member showed an abysmal ignorance in relation to this matter because it is well known to honourable members, as I believe it is known to the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth),  that many of these institutions and organisations demand a second donation when a home is re-let. If the honourable member for Dea kin claims thai the situation as he described it applies throughout the Commonwealth of Australia, he is very much in error. This was one of the points made by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  who indicated the general situation that now applies in Australia. Members of the Opposition claim that it is completely wrong for an organisation which accepts a donation - there may be some justification for organisations asking for a donation to be able to ensure that they will be able to continue a programme of providing homes for the aged - to require a second donation from a person who is to occupy a home for which the organisation has already received a donation. No-one, least of all the uninterested Minister for Social Services who is sitting at the table, can successfully argue that organisations should be in a position to be able to ask for a second donation. This is one of the main items of controversy that the Opposition has raised. The point was well made by the honourable member for Oxley, as were other points he made about other matters that I hope to debate shortly. 
The Minister has given the House a glowingly optimistic account of the progress and future of aged persons homes in Australia. His remarks are confined to the homes subsidies granted by the aged persons homes legislation which was introduced in 1954. Unfortunately, the Minister did not seek to take a global approach and look at all the aspects of accommodating and caring for aged people, in particular aged people who are chronically ill. It is difficult to look at the impact of the aged persons homes scheme in isolation. Inevitably aspects of aged persons homes legislation are linked with benefits for nursing homes and private hospitals. There is also the very important  related issue of catering for the health needs of old people. The branch of medicine and social practice known as gerontology has had little encouragement in Australia. 
The Minister makes it plain that the Government has no reservations about the success of the aged persons homes legislation. In the eyes of the Minister it is beyond criticism; all that is needed to assure perfection is the provision of more homes and more beds. He makes it clear that the Government emphasises incentives for expanding the scheme and allowing donations to aged persons homes as tax deductions. Provision of another 40,000 to 50.000 beds would solve all problems of housing and caring for the aged in our society, according to the Minis er. This is admirable in theory. But there is strong evidence that the Government has never followed through or faced up to the implications of the aged persons homes scheme. It still looks at the scheme through the eyes of 1954 when it was introduced.' 
I do not wan' to look in any detail at the course of the scheme and the legislation that has been put to the Parliament over 'he years. When the scheme was in roduced one of the conditions laid down by the Commonwealth was that all persons admitted as residents had to have a reasonable amount of mobility. They had to be reasonably healthy people who did not require hospital treatment. This left the care of aged people who were ill firmly at the door of the S:ate hospital systems. The trouble with this sort of approach is that if neglected the advance of the years. Elderly persons in their sixties could enter aged persons homes in a reasonable state of health and capable of considerable independence. As they got older the health of these people deteriorated and they became more dependent on proper nursing and medical care. This put enormous strains on benevolen- homes and other aged persons homes who had accepted responsibility for their clients. It introduced the nursing home element into the aged persons homes structure. Commonwealth subsidies were provided for residents of the homes in need of medical care and for those requiring intensive nursing care. Entitlement to these subsidies was made dependent on a reasonably high standard of nursing accommodation and the employment of trained nurses. Homes which got the capital grant from the Commonwealth under the Aged Persons Homes Act were restricted to a maximum of a third of the to al residents getting the daily subsidies. The cost structures of these homes were drastically altered by heavy commitments for structural changes to incorporate nursing facilities and for payment of nursing staff. 
In a short space of time the whole concept of homes for the aged changed quite remarkably. The initial concept of provid ing homes and hostels for aged people in good health was expanded to include an additional responsibility for the treatment and care of the frail and infirm aged who needed nursing care. At the same time the introduction of a profit motive in the form of Commonwealth subsidies stimulated the growth of private nursing homes. The virtues and vices of the nursing home structure were dealt with in this House when the additional $24m in Commonwealth subsidies was legislated. I realise that nursing homes and private hospitals are beyond the scope of the Minister and the aged persons homes legislation. But the introduction of a nursing home element into the traditional benevolent home format makes it impossible to separate the issues. The Minister's praise for the aged persons homes scheme can only be put in perspective by looking at the whole range of accommodation and care for the aged, and in particular the aged who are chronically ill. When this is done the defects in the Government's assistance to aged and sick people is exposed. 
There is not a hint in the Minister's statement of the financial perils facing many of these homes. Undoubtedly the homes that are the most successful and affluent are those who have not accepted the responsibility of caring for the chronically ill among their patients. This is nol intended as a criticism, of course; there is no legislative duty on the homes to do this. But many of the homes have regarded if as an obligation and have struggled valiantly to give proper care to aged people who are infirm. Many homes now face the choice of abandoning their nursing home component and reverting solely to the care of aged people in good health. This means considerable capital' loss in the facilities provided and immense social loss in the added burdens imposed on State hospitals. This would also throw many aged and ill people onto the private nursing home structure. Here they have to take their chance according to the sort of home they can afford. Undoubtedly many of these nursing homes are competently managed and provide excellent care. But the system is liable to exploitation and grave abuse, as has been pointed out repeatedly in this Parliament and in the Press. Even if benevolent homes were forced to jettison their nursing care in the interests of solvency, their financial future would not be assured. 
The wage increases of the past 2 years have had a serious impact because of the difficulty of passing on increased costs to pensioners and other aged people of limited means. A way of easing the financial difficulties of these homes would be the provision of greater assistance by the States. The Minister referred to the superior position of the scheme in South Australia and with customary generosity attributed this pre-eminence to the efforts of the Wilsons, father and son, another matter referred to by the honourable member for Deakin. He neglected to mention that South Australia is one of the 2 States that have given substantial assistance to aged persons homes and nursing homes. It would be completely out of character for the Minister to acknowledge the contribution of a State Labor Government to the success of .the scheme. Unless the States give more .assistance and unless the Commonwealth increases its assistance, many of the better benevolent homes will be in serious financial difficulties. For example, a survey of benevolent homes in Tasmania shows that most are running deficits and some have closed or will be forced to close. According to estimates prepared by the Tasmanian Council on (he Aging, the deficit for 24 homes in 1971-72 would be about $310,000. This is on top of a deficit of Si 12,000 in 1970-71. Obviously the homes cannot sustain losses at this level and still maintain their services. 
The unit cost of keeping an elderly person in a nursing section in Tasmania has risen by $6 a week in the past year. The pension has increased by $1.25 a week and subsidies under the National Health Act were raised in October from $35 a week to $45.50 a week for intensive nursing care and from $14 a week to $24.50 a week for elderly ill people. Even with these increases the homes are finding it difficult to absorb higher costs without lifting fees or drawing on reserves. I have raised this matter with the Minister for Social Services. I have had correspondence with the Minister and made representations to him on behalf of this Council to which I just referred as well as on behalf of individual benevolent homes, not only in Tasmania but also in other parts of Australia, where the interested authorities have written to me concerning their financial position. Yet here is the Minister today talking about the success of this scheme. No-one. least of all me, would want to take away from a former Prime Minister, not the Minister, credit for the conception of providing homes for the aged in Australia. I have already referred to the fact that in 1954, or the year when the scheme was first introduced, nobody in this House or, 1 believe, anyone outside the Parliament found anything in the Act at that time to be critical about. 
But what the Minister refuses to do is to compare the situation in 1954 with that existing in 1972. With the lapse of time there are financial difficulties created for the homes because of the changed circumstances. Even the Minister must appreciate that those who accepted responsibilities in 1954 for people in the 60 to 65 years age group who had just retired would, with the passage .of time, naturally find these ageing people had become afflicted in many ways. These people are now and were then chronically ill and this is where the homes are now experiencing the problem. They are no longer homes for the aged. They are bound to accept nursing responsibility and so there has been a complete change in their circumstances. I wonder whether the Minister does really appreciate the situation, whether he believes that something can be done in this respect. If so, he is very reluctant to move in the way that I think a responsible Minister ought to move. 
Undoubtedly aged persons homes in other States are in a similar pickle. Of necessity and contrary to principle, many homes are forced to look for residents on the basis of capacity to pay rather than need. These are the reasons underlying the Opposition's refusal to accept the attempts at rationalisation and half-truths of the Minister for Social Services. Undoubtedly many of the homes have been successful and have brought comfort to thousands of older people, but it is not possible to look at the Act and the aged persons homes scheme without looking at nursing homes subsidised under the National Health Act. 
The Government has recognised this situation by giving access to subsidies to homes financed under the Commonwealth 
Act. I believe that there is a strong case for the formation of an advisory board on the lines of the Council for Aboriginal Welfare to investigate and report upon the needs of aged people. 

 Mr JARMAN (Deakin) - I claim to have been misrepresented and 1. ask for leave to make a personal explanation. 
When accommodation in an approved home is vacated by the aged person who occupies that accommodation, on the first occasion referred to in the lust preceding sub-clause the organisation shall allocate that accommodation in accordance wilh the object of reaching as early as practicable the position where at least half of the  total  number of aged persons accommodated in the home is made up of aged persons by whom, on whose behalf or in respect of whom a donation has nol been made to the organisation. 
That is the point I made. Obviously the Deputy Leader of the Opposition is not aware of this document. I hope he is more accurate with the rest of his information than he was on that point. 

 Mr BARNARD (Bass)- If the honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman)  feels that I have misrepresented him, I apologise to him. He has quoted from a document of which 1 am fully aware, but under its terms it is still possible for a second charge to be levied. 1 do not think the honourable member for Deakin would argue about that. 
Not in all cases. 
I want to be fair to the honourable member, but let me say that not in all cases are those people who are accepted into a home - that is, on the basis of letting the home on a second occasion - able to get there without paying a deposit, a second deposit; not in all cases. 
Since the Mouse met following the suspension of the sitting 2 Government supporters have spoken.  Mr Speaker,  no doubt you will recall that the reason for this sequence is that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  who spoke immediately before the sitting was suspended, followed an Opposition  speaker.  I think one could say that the 2 speeches we have just heard have been in great contrast to the speech made by the Leader of the Opposition. 
The speech delivered by the honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer)  was obviously designed, to create the feeling that the Government wants to generate in the community - that is, to divide the people of Australia. This is probably the most divisive government this country has ever known. The Government has missed an imcomparable opportunity to raise school standards for all children in government and non-government schools. However, as one listened to the speech of the honourable member for Bennelong it became even more apparent that what the Government is seeking to do is to divide not only the schools and the parents but the education systems as well. The honourable member for Bennelong was followed by the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Reid)  and there was little in the honourable member's speech with which one could disagree as, I believe, he endeavoured to trace the historical background of the church and the school. So, I make no criticism of what the honourable member for Holt had to say in this respect. 
The Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is on record as supporting equality of education. During the Estimates debate on education in this House last year, he pledged his support for the reduction of inequality by education. 
He extended this splendid concept further by equating equality of education with equality of opportunity. It is unfortunate that this admirable theorist should have to preside over an educational structure which is riddled with injustices and inequalities. There is an immense volume of literature and research on inequalities in Australian education. It has been one of the popular topics of educational theory and literature in the 1960s and early 1970s. There has been no lack of detailed listings of defects in the education system and the relative advantages and disadvantages it disposes. 
The House has before it tonight two Bills relevant to inequalities in Australian education. The first is designed to increase per capita grants for pupils attending independent schools from $35 to $50 a year for each primary school pupil, and from $50 to $68 for each pupil getting secondary education. The Opposition  is  not opposing this increase in assistance nor the appropriation of this assistance to independent schools. The question of giving Government assistance to independent schools has been thrashed out in all Australian political parties and in this Parliament. It is a principle which has provoked much vexatious and passionate debate and much heartburning. The Opposition does not intend to track back over the well-worn ground of independent schools versus government schools. We recognise that we have to deal with reality and the present reality is that 2 massive systems of education exist in this country. It is difficult to make any predictions about whether this sort of structure will last or whether it will be supplanted by another. The whole area of educational research is an area of flux and change at the moment. It is not possible to project with any accuracy what the schooling system will be in 10 or 20 years time. If the concept of 'de-schooling' which has attracted considerable attention in the United States and Europe, gains favour, conventional systems of education as we know them may have vanished completely by the end of the century. The present reality is that we have a government school system and we have an independent school system. Both have to be supported if any sort of coherent educational structure is to be maintained in Australia. 
Having accepted this, the Opposition does not give automatic approval to the way in which the Government gives assistance to independent schools. On the contrary, we say that the carve-up is conducted in a most inequitable way with wealthy public schools getting the same treatment as do battling parochial schools with very humble resources and facilities. This is the basis of the Opposition's attitude - that this sort of scheme gives something to the have-nots but it gives just as much or more to the haves. This will be a perpetual source of resentment and opposition in the Australian community until it is replaced by a distribution based on need. Opponents of independent schools are entitled to feel aggrieved when they see some of the facilities at independent schools which are getting substantial injections of public funds. It is pointless for defenders of conspicuous spending at independent schools to point out that facilities such as swimming pools have been provided by support of parents or old boys' organisations. With per capita grants flowing into school revenues opportunities must arise for diversion of resources. The people who demonstrate outside these schools and demand the use of independent school facilities by the public because of the use of public funds have a perfectly valid point. 
I know that it is a sweeping generalisation to say that all in this bracket of independent schools are wealthy. There are schools labelled as GPS or public schools which have been on the brink of penury and bankruptcy. Here the per capita grants do contribute to better standards of education. But I believe this to apply to only a small number of schools. The point of a needs survey is that it would sift out these schools from their affluent colleagues and give them the benefit of Commonwealth assistance. Undoubtedly there are once great public schools which no longer warrant that status because of a falling off in prestige, income and pupils. In these cases need should be assessed and appropriate assistance given. But certainly the main flow of Commonwealth assistance should be towards the areas of greatest need. In the case of independent schools, these are undoubtedly the Catholic parochial schools. The Opposition's shadow minister, the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr 
Beazley), went into this issue in some detail when he moved the amendment on behalf of the Opposition. The gist of this amendment was that a schools commission should be appointed to determine the needs of all schools, government and nongovernment, primary, secondary and technical. The commission's recommendations could be used as the framework for providing Commonwealth money on the basis of needs and priorities. 
The Minister is not enthusiastic about the concept of a schools commission. As I understand the Minister he rejects the analogy of the Universities Commission which has successfully administered Commonwealth finance to universities. He has said that what can be done for 15 or 16 universities is impossible for 10,000 schools in Australia. This argument is somewhat specious. It would be just as relevant to criticise the Repatriation Commission as inadequate because it administers hundreds of thousands of pensions, or the Australian Wool Commission because it handles the product of thousands of wool growers, and in some cases of course, handles it extremely well for the Minister. The Minister's other objection to a schools commission is that it would centralise education under the control of a Commonwealth bureaucracy. He has been quoted as saying that what is needed in education is a greater decentralisation of education authority, so that communities and teachers in particular areas can be more closely concerned with the fortunes and development in the schools in those areas. 
It is not clear how far the Minister would carry this process of taking education back to the grass roots. Presumably the ultimate result would be control of education by local government units. 
This raises the tantalising prospect of a municipal council having some sort of surveillance over Melbourne Grammar. At least it shows that the Minister has some refreshing ideas about education which he should develop in greater detail to show the House how he plans to move control of education outwards and closer to the local communities. I do not think these arguments jeopardise in any way the concept of a schools commission which would be one of the first institutions established by a Labor government. The point about a schools commission is that it could be used to assess inequalities and evolve policies to eliminate them. It could look at the physical environment of schools to cull out those with inadequate buildings and facilities, and insufficient teaching aids. I listened with a great deal of interest to the honourable member for Holt when he spoke of his experience as a member of the legislature of Victoria when he visited one of the small Catholic parochial schools. He referred to the fact that there were a great many children occupying a classroom of this school in which the soil formed the classroom floor. 
If, as the honourable member for Holt believes, these circumstances exist in so many instances throughout Australia in relation to small parochial schools, can it be justifiably argued that there ought not to be a competent authority which could assess and determine where the priorities in education should be directed? I thought that the honourable member for Holt made a very sound case, when dealing with this aspect of education in Victoria, in support of the Australian Labor Party's policy to establish an Australian schools commission. Such a commission could look at the physical environment of schools, as I have already pointed out. It could review the present system of Commonwealth subsidies and find ways of getting funds to the schools so all essential items now supplied by parental contribution could be supplied by the Commonwealth. 
Another important source of inequality is the allocation of teachers. The pattern that has persisted over the years has been for the more inexperienced teachers to be sent to rural areas or to depressed economic areas in the big cities. The better and more experienced teachers tend to go to the more prosperous city suburbs. In part this is a professional process; it has been the tradition for teachers to make their natural progress through the ranks by way of rural and industrial-urban schools. It might be all right for the inexperienced teacher to cut his teeth in this way; it is not necessarily the best thing for pupils in these schools. 
A schools commission could look at ways of getting a better spread of more experienced and talented teachers over the economic and geographic distribution of schools. It could recommend what incen tives were needed to get these teachers to areas of inequality. These are some of the ways in which a schools commission could be used to tackle the manifold inequalities in the education system. Surely not even the Minister himself would deny that these inequalities in education exist in Australia in both the government and nongovernment schools. 
No honourable member on the Government side has stood up to defend the Australian education system as a whole. No honourable member on the Government side has denied the existence of the inequalities to which reference has been made over the years in this Parliament, principally by honourable members on this side of the House, but I suppose more significantly and importantly by educationists and parents and citizens organisations outside this Parliament, who for years now have drawn the attention of this Government to the inadequacies and the inequalities in our education system. So while Government supporters may use whatever methods or tactics are available to them in this debate to endeavour to drive a wedge between the parents of children who attend government and non-government schools in Australia, the fact remains that no-one on the Government side who has spoken in this debate has denied that there is a crisis in education, that these inequalities do exist. 
In his second reading speech the Minister referred to the difficulty independent schools had in imposing higher fees. He went on to say that for boarding schools in particular there were further problems resulting from the current situation of rural industries. It is difficult to escape the conclusion that this is how the Minister sees the inequalities of education in rural Australia: in terms of the difficulties fluctuations in rural incomes impose on boarding schools. With respect to the Minister, it seems that he conceives the education of country children in terms of getting them to boarding school. He may protest, as he did on television the other evening, that he has at various times sent his children to a 2-teacher government school near his home in Victoria. Regrettably this has not sharpened his insights into education inequalities that develop in small rural communities. 
The Government has done nothing to meet the special problems of country children in maximising their education opportunities. This is one of the saddest areas of inequality in Australian education and it is one which should cause the Minister special pangs. There was another example of extraordinary lack of sensitivity in the Minister's approach disclosed in his television appearance on 'Monday Conference'. He claimed that parents who sent their children to private schools had a greater concern for education and therefore encouraged their children to stay at school longer. In the Minister's view much too large a proportion of families with children at state schools didn't give their children the encouragement in their home environment to encourage them to stay at school as long as possible. This line of argument was used to answer a question on why the bulk of scholarships for secondary students went to pupils at the more expensive independent schools. This sort of argument would have much greater force if the Government did anything at all to assist poorer families to keep children at school. 
For example, the Minister's point might have some substance if living allowances were paid, special scholarships granted for secondary education, and text books provided free. In the absence of such assistance it is most unfair to imply that parents supporting independent schools were more concerned with their children's education than were parents of children in government schools. Even the most passionate involvement with a child's education matters little if the cash is not there to provide further education. 
I have dealt with only a few of the inequalities that exist in the education system. Undoubtedly the system could not be transformed overnight or by a stroke of the pen. But it is time that the process of providing a more equal and equitable system of education was begun. The Government is not tackling these problems effectively with legislation of this sort. The Opposition does not oppose the passage of this legislation because it does get much needed funds to the impoverished sectors of independent education. But it achieves this by a most unjust distribution of the resources available for allocation to independent schools. The Labor Party's approach of using a schools commission to redistribute this assistance to areas of greatest need has been made clear repeatedly to the Parliament. 
This is why we on this side of the House urge the merits of an Australian schools commission. We believe that such a commission is acceptable to the people of Australia as a whole. It was made perfectly clear during the campaign for the 1969 elections, when this Government was returned with a greatly reduced majority, that the Australian people favoured the appointment of an Australian schools commission which, under a Labor government, would be responsible not only for dealing with the inequalities in education to which I have referred tonight- 
When I first saw the terms of this matter of public importance I thought that the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  was giving the House a chance to debate the recent statements by  Senator Sim  in Singapore. Honourable members will recall how the senator reflected in the grossest possible terms on the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  because of the stupidity of his China policies. He went on to categorise the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Peacock),  who holds one of the most onerous and responsible portfolios in this House, as a mere boy who could not be sent on the man's job. Not content with rubbishing his own Government in the strongest possible terms, he went on to reflect in a quite despicable and racist fashion on 2 private citizens whose only fault was that they tried to give the Government a hand. 
This is the sort of statement that should be subjected to an analysis in this House. When 1 questioned the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  on this statement he said he would look into it. My colleague, the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen),  raised the matter again in the adjournment debate that night. It was also raised in the Senate where, ludicrously enough,  Senator Sim  holds some form of official position. So far we have heard nothing from the Prime Minister or the Foreign Minister on this scurrilous and offensive statement. This is the sort of statement that ridicules and traduces Australia and makes a mockery of honourable members on the Government side on the few occasions they are allowed out to strut and posture in South East Asia. 
By contrast we have the responsible and responsive conduct of the honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison).  In simple terms, the honourable member was a member of an Australian delegation headed by the Minister for the Navy  (Dr Mackay).  This delegation went to Japan and other countries in the region. On completion of this official mission, the honourable member decided to extend his trip at his own expense. He went to Singapore, Malaysia and Indonesia and spoke to a number of senior members of foreign affairs and defence departments. This visit was made with the full knowledge and confidence of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and myself. We recognised the honourable member's special interest and knowledge in this region. He was for a number of years a very senior officer in the High Commission in Kuala Lumpur, a fact which Government supporters find it convenient to forget.  His  visit was approved by the Leader of the Opposition and myself on the basis that the honourable member knew fully what Labor Party policy is. Indeed the honourable member played an important part in the drafting of key sections of the Labor Party platform as a member of the ALP's Federal Executive Defence and Foreign Affairs Committee. 
AH members of this House who have been interviewed for the Press in Singapore, Kuala Lumpur and Djakarta know there are problems. Only with representatives of the Australian Press and the Australian Broadcasting Commission in these centres does one feel completely familiar with the wavelength. Against this background it is worth looking carefully at the statements attributed to the honourable member for St George. These statements show a remarkable consistency; in each of these 3 countries the honourable member's statements are substantially the same.  His  account of Labor Party policy is perfectly explicit and correct. Where he has gone beyond statement of policy to expound and interpret, his observations are carefully worded. Where he has attributed views to Ministers and officials in these countries, he reports them accurately and these reports can be corroborated and substantiated. 
Some play has been made of the fact that the honourable member has been described as the Labor Party's shadow Foreign Minister. This seems to have resulted from inadequate understanding of the honourable member's role and the purpose of his visit by the news media. The first step the honourable member took on his return was to correct this unfortunate impression which seems to have been disseminated mainly by the Australian Broadcasting Commission. I would like to summarise briefly what the honourable member said and show how it expresses the policy of the Labor Party. He said that Labor policy was not to station Australian troops in South East Asia. Under a Labor Government the present garrison in Singapore and the units in Malaysia would be withdrawn and these withdrawals would be negotiated with the governments concerned. The honourable member stressed that there was no urgency about these withdrawals and that adequate time would be allowed for adjustments to be made. This is a perfectly correct statement of Labor policy; it has been put in much the same form by the Leader of the Opposition and by me on occasions. 
On this subject I would like to refer briefly to a complete and deliberate distortion of Labor policy made by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  in Singapore last week. The Minister made repeated references to immediate withdrawal from Singapore and Malaysia if Labor is elected to office. This simply is not true, and 1 would suggest that this was known to the Minister. Never has there been any suggestion of immediate withdrawal and the lie should be given to this sort of distortion once and for all. The Labor Party did not even stipulate immediate withdrawal from Vietnam. The policy put to the electorate in 1969 permitted an interim period of 6 months for the completion of Australian withdrawal. Despite the Party's complete opposition to the war, it recognised the reality of the situation, that you just cannot pull units out holus bolus. With this attitude to Vietnam surely no-one would suggest that a Labor Government would get out of Malaysia-Singapore immediately. There is no combat situation in this region; Australian troops are engaged in garrison and training duties. 
The honourable member for St George acted properly and completely in accord with policy in indicating that, although the troops would be taken out, there would be a breathing space so that readjustment could be made. It is not possible for an opposition party at least 6 months off gaining government to put a definite time scale on an issue which would have to be negotiated. We do not know precisely what circumstances will confront us when we gain Government; the new disposition of our troops will be determined in accordance with the reality and not what present conceptions of the reality are. The honourable member for St George put this to the governments of Malaysia and Singapore in most rational and responsible terms. 
The next point made by the honourable member was that the ALP's attitude was understood and accepted by the Governments in these countries. This is the point that has been most strongly disputed by the Government. Honourable members who take exception to this statement by the honourable member and contest its accuracy should be warned that he has corroboration from the Government itself. Officers of the Department of Foreign Affairs were present at all the interviews attended by the honourable member for St George. In accordance with customary practice, these officers took very comprehensive notes of what was said by the participants. These notes were recorded in the form of records of conversation which were then sent to the Department of Foreign Affairs. This is traditional practice and all members who have been in a situation similar to that of the honourable member for St George will be familiar with it. I have examined these records of conversation and can only conclude that the honourable member for St George was completely correct in his assessment of the reaction to the views he put forward on behalf of the Labor Party. An example is the statement which appeared in a number of reports quoting the honourable member for St George as saying that Singapore's Foreign Minister had given him the impression that Singapore would not be unduly concerned by an Australian pull-out. This has been disputed by the Government and has been put forward as an example of undermining Australian treaty arrangements. This interpretation is seen as quite absurd if one looks at the record of conversation between the honourable member for St George and  Mr Rajaratnam. 
I do not propose to quote from the document because, unlike the Government the Opposition does not believe in flaunting confidential documents from the Foreign Affairs Department for political advantage in this House. This record taken by a First Secretary in the Australian High Commission confirms the assessment of the honourable member for St George. In fact the words 'not unduly concerned' are used about Australian withdrawal and attributed to  Mr Rajoratnam.  I go no further in reference to this record of a private interview, but I point out that this document is available to the Government, and honourable members can obtain it and scrutinise it for themselves. In short, the honourable member for St George put it that Singapore would not be unduly concerned if Australian forces were withdrawn, provided that military assistance continued and a process of consultation were retained.  Mr Rajaratnam  did not disagree. I do not pretend that the Singapore Government is enthusiastic about Australian withdrawal. But as a pragmatic government it accepts the realities of the situation and under stands the policy stance of the Labor Party. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER  (Mr  Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for the 
Army, upon notice: 
How many former members of the United States of America Armed Services have joined the Australian Army in each year since 1965. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Will he request the Public Service Board to provide the Professional Officers' Association with a copy of the Review Team Report on the restructuring of the Postmaster-General's Department, the Department of Works, the Department of Civil Aviation and the Department of Supply in relation to the employment of engineers; if not, why not. 
Is it a fact that a free flow of information between management and unions plays an important part in the creation of harmonious industrial relations. 
asked the Minister for De  fence, upon notice: 
How many people (a) applied to join and 
were accepted for entry into each of the Services during 1970-71. 
How many applications were rejected (a) on the grounds of education and (b) for medical reasons. 
Has the Minister for the Army considered the statement concerning the Citizen Military Forces made to this House last year by his predecessor? If the Minister has considered this question what action does he propose to arrest the alarming deterioration in the level of enlistments, the lack of suitable equipment and, more importantly, the general status of the Citizen Military Forces? I further ask the Minister: Is he aware of the discontent among senior members of the CMF who regard the Government's apparent lack of interest as a significant factor in the declining morale of the Citizen Military Forces? 
On 9th March I asked the Prime Minister a question without notice in which I drew attention to a statement by  Senator Sim, chairman  of the Senate Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee, that the right honourable gentleman's last statements on China were unwise, in fact a stupidity. The Foreign Minister subsequently answered the question and told this House that he had read the rather inflammatory report but had not been able to check on its correctness or otherwise. I ask the Foreign Minister whether he has now done so. What explanation can he offer for that extraordinary statement? 
 I move: 
That the ruling be dissented from. 
asked the Minister for Supply, upon notice: 
Are there any special difficulties that would prevent the operation of the Project N aircraft in countries where normal facilities already exist for the service and maintenance of light aircraft. 
asked the Minister for Sup ply, upon notice: 
Is the French Government considering the Project N aircraft for use in its foreign aid programme. 
If so, is there any reason why Australia could not make similar use of this aircraft. 
asked the Minister for Sup ply, upon notice: 
In what way has his Department followed up the interest shown in the Project N aircraft by the Indonesian National Development Minister and the Indonesian Army Chief of Staff during the recent visit of President Suharto to Australia. 
asked the Minister for Supply, upon notice: 
What is the (a) range and (b) number of hours flying time of the Project N aircraft. 
asked the Minister for Supply, upon notice: 
Are any other countries known to be interested in producing a similar type of aircraft to the Project N. 
If so will delays in undertaking production in Australia make it more difficult to sell the Project N overseas. 
-I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full  details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to national development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of government education services has established serious deficiencies in education, the most important areas being a severe shortage of teachers, inadequate accommodation, and, as a result, oversized classes. 
That extra Federal finance is urgently required to save the government school system. &lt;c) That while the needs of the government schools are being neglected, large amounts of public money are being given, in various and numerous grants, to private schools. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to make emergency Federal finance available to the States for State school education, and divert the large sums of public money being spent on private schools, to the government school system for which the government is truly responsible. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I direct a question to the Minister for the Army. The honourable gentleman will recall telling the House in a debate on the National Service Bill last year that he thought national service for a period of 12 months would be quite sufficient. He will recall saying also that if everyone possible were called up it would not be terribly effective against an aggressor. Does the Minister still subscribe to these views? If so, how does he justify selective conscription for the Army when it is his own belief that it is not necessary and not effective? 
The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  sees a profound and unbridgeable difference between the defence policies of the Government and those of the Australian Labor Party. There is little evidence of this in the defence review compiled by the Department of Defence and presented to the House by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn).  On the evidence of this document the 2 streams of defence policy are converging very rapidly. Quite plainly this document has been cunningly contrived with 2 basic objectives in mind. In the first place it had to be made more palatable to the government of the day. 
Beyond this it had to take into account the implications of an imminent change of government and the content had to be expressed in terms which would not be overly distasteful to the alternative government. Assessed on the basis of these criteria, it is a very skilful document indeed. The Minister for Defence has been at pains to give to the House his own summation of the paper, playing down certain features and playing up others. This is a valid enough exercise; the Minister has been able to throw into relief what he sees as areas of difference with the Opposition. 
It would be possible for me to perform a similar exercise, drawing out the features of the report which the Labor Party finds most congenial and putting them in frankly political terms. Another alternative would be to put before the House an exhaustive review on the same subject matter. In effect this would mean putting a Labor Party defence White Paper to the Parliament. This is hardly a necessary exercise; wherever one opens this White Paper whole paragraphs hit the eye which could have been lifted intact from the Labor Party platform. In one sense the paper is a compliment to the evolution of Labor Party defence thinking and the work done by the Party un defence and foreign policy in recent years. I do not say that the paper is completely derivative; what I do claim is that the Department of Defence in analysing a vast range of defence policy has got to much the same position as the Labor Party. The Labor Party's implacable opposition to the Vietnam war has allowed it to look at strategic issues and troop deployment through glasses un clouded by Vietnam. Once the Department of Defence lifted its eyes above Vietnam and looked dispassionately at future policy it reached broadly similar conclusions to those of the Labor Party. The only difference is that conclusions reached by us much earlier are only now being grasped and adopted by the Department; the Government is even further behind. This is the basic reason why the review contains so much that is acceptable to the Labor Party. Furthermore, much of what is not acceptable is phrased so reasonably and moderately that it can be used as a framework for sensible debate. An example is a reference to the war in Indo-China contained in the paper. I quote as follows: 
The long war in the Republic of Vietnam, though posing now a reduced threat to national survival, has spread territorially elsewhere in Indo-China. 
The same theme is expressed again as follows: 
The war in Indo-China is likely to go on though perhaps at a lower level of intensity. These are, however, situations which are now, or expected to be, within the competence of local forces or, as in Vietnam, are tending increasingly to be so. 
Implicit in these statements is an acceptance of the policy of Vietnamisation as a remedy for all the ills of Vietnam. A claim of this sort may have had some substance when it was drafted. Its fallacious nature is surely exposed now to the events of the past week in Vietnam. I do not believe for one moment that the Department of Defence is the victim of illusions or delusions about Vietnam. I believe that it understands the dicey character of Vietnamisation and the very strong probability that it will not succeed. But because the Government of the day is wedded to Vietnamisation the Department has to pay homage to the concept and forgo giving it the sort of critical analysis it warrants. There are other examples of shying away from rigorous treatment of cliches dear to the heart of the present Government. I do not blame the Department of Defence for this; the Government has an accumulated record of many years of error and miscalculation to overcome. But this sort of sensitivity to the political dogma of its masters detracts from the overall value of the review. 
In tone the White Paper is consistent enough to warrant the belief that the final draft is largely the work of one man. There is ample evidence that the mass of material contained in the paper has been worked over carefully and put into coherent form by a single guiding and unifying comptroller. The style has a certain tag to it. This does give the report a certain coherence but it does have the disadvantage I referred to - of shaping the material to blend with the prevailing policy patterns of two conservative political parties. The principal defect of the White Paper is that it defers too much to the conventional wisdom of a LiberalCountry Party government. It represents a considerable step towards an objective and impartial view of defence policy but it does not succeed in throwing off the constraints of conventional Government policy. It was probably over optimistic to expect a really hard-nosed look at Australia's defences. Now that a start has been made it should be possible for the Department of Defence to use the White Paper format for regular and objective assessments of defence needs and developments. 
It should be possible to analyse defence without the need to look repeatedly over the shoulder at the responses of the Government. This has been done successfully in other countries, for example, Britain, Sweden, West Germany and Canada. Each of these countries has adopted a different approach. The British White Papers are weighted heavily towards special areas of defence policy and administration which have been the subject of special studies. The West German model organises a mass of descriptive material into a coherent picture of the organisation of the armed foces within the framework of the security of the Federal Republic. The Swedish Ministry of Defence breaks the subject into a number of compartments analysing national security policy, the execution process planning, goalsetting procedures, programming and budgeting techniques. It is by far the most adventurous in content and easily the most demanding in the degree of effort expected from the reader. The Canadian White Papers on defence bear the closest resemblance to the document before the House. The Canadian model is superior in the avoidance of any sort of political comment, overt or implied. It provides the objectivity that the Australian paper strives for without fulfilment. 
I do not want to be unduly critical of this side of the document but it is a White Paper issued by the Department of Defence. It is not a White Paper issued by the Government, the Liberal Party or the Country Party. For this reason the Opposition finds the document defective but by no means without value. If the political bias and content can be eliminated in future reviews it will bc a most valuable innovation for the analysis and debate of defence issues. There is a great amount of work being done within the Department of Defence which in the past few years has built up its special projects and systems analysis divisions. Much work has also been done by interdepartmental committees on specific issues affecting servicemen. Much of this material is never disclosed. The Kerr reports on Service pay and conditions released material which could not have been collated or divulged otherwise. There are repeated references in the White Paper to studies which the Department of Defence is undertaking. Examples are the future role of Australian forces in New Guinea and the development of the Papua New Guinea defence forces. These are issues of defence policy which will have enormous importance as the Territory moves towards independence. It would be reasonable to expect that some account of the progress of these studies be included in future defence reviews or supplementary defence statements. The studies on rationalisation of the services referred to in the paper should also be summarised and included in future instalments. 
Criticism of secrecy in government is extremely relevant to the Department of Defence where far too much is restricted and excluded from scrutiny. In keeping tabs on this sort of material and giving precise information about the progress of special studies the British statement on the Defence Estimates and its supplementary statements provide excellent models for our Department of Defence. With the reservations about form and content I have expressed, the concept of Defence White Papers is a welcome one. The paper before the House shows a marked advance on the last full-scale defence statement made in March 1970 by the then Minister for Defence, who is now the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  In substance this earlier statement was a political comment, although it contained some excellent material. It filled much the same role as that statement made by the present Minister on tabling the White Paper. The divergence between the Minister's statement and the White Paper is a measure of the greater confidence and maturity developed by the Department of Defence in formulating a defence review of this scope. If the present model is further refined it will fill the gaps in our defence structure left by the absence of regular and detailed defence papers. 
I want to concentrate my remarks on specific issues raised by the White Paper on the 3 broad areas of commitments and alliances, manpower and administration, and procurement. On the first topic a most notable source of disappointment with the paper is the emphasis it puts on the moribund South East Asia Treaty Organisation. It says with masterly understatement that some of the signers of the Manila treaty are inactive but the treaty still retains value. The paper is hard put to make any case for SEATO beyond its usefulness as a framework for military exercises. It points vaguely to new directions for SEATO without giving anything of substance. No doubt SEATO exercises have been of value for the countries that have participated, including Australia. But if this is the only justification for maintaining SEATO it should be wrapped up straight away. Joint exercises do not need such an elaborate and empty shell as SEATO; they can be organised on a bilateral basis or through co-operation of a number of countries in the region. lt is true, also, that SEATO has made a useful contribution to defence assistance and economic assistance to a number of Asian countries. Again, this sort of aid is not dependent on SEATO; it can be channelled through other agencies or put on a bilateral basis. These arguments for SEATO do not counter the criticism that it is useless as a vehicle for assuring security. It has never been invoked for defence purposes for the simple reason that even its members acknowledge its impotence. The paper stresses that the Philippines and Thailand are members, and their security is of major strategic significance in the region as a whole. If the security of these major Asian nations were threatened they would face a very grim pospect if SEATO were their only prop. It is acknowledged everywhere in Asia that SEATO has long outlived its usefulness and should be scrapped. The Asian nations are evolving their own treaty arrangements. Even Thailand in particular is putting much more stress on ASEAN - the Association of South East Asian Nations - which is the most encouraging of the regional arrangements in Asia. 
Later this year another SEATO conference will be held in Canberra with all the fanfare the Government can muster. On the evidence of previous conferences, this Parliament building will rival the Kremlin for security, and honourable members and other people who  work  here will be harried in doing their jobs. It will be a futile charade designed to foster the myth that SEATO flourishes and retains meaning and relevance. Ultimately SEATO will have to be dismantled. This is a reality which should have been acknowledged in the White Paper. 
The second commitment I want to look at is Australia's contribution to the fivepower arrangements covering Singapore and Malaysia. The White Paper is somewhat ambivalent on this issue. At one point the Paper refers to the deployment of Australian troops in the following terms: 
Australian military support can be exercised by the selective forward deployment of forces, and indirectly by the existence of  a  credible capacity to deploy forces in the region if required. 
This juxtaposes rather neatly the respective attitudes of the Government and the Opposition. The old policy of forward defence is now labelled the selective forward deployment of forces. The only difference from the old policy of forward defence seems to be that under selective forward deployment we have far fewer troops in the  region.  The once far-flung battle line that carried Australian troops to north east Thailand and the demilitarised zone in Vietnam has contracted remarkably, but the principles remain the same. 
The Minister for Defence puts this up as an area of major difference between his Government and the Labor Party. This is correct but the Minister for Defence should perceive that the area of difference is shrinking very rapidly. It is another example of the time lag built into Government policy. The whole pattern of deployment of Australian troops in the past 2 years has been to concentrate our forces in territorial Australia. Only a handful of men remain in Vietnam as a contribution to the official policy of Vietnamisation. There are Army units in Malaysia-Singapore and the Mirage squadrons at Butterworth in Malaysia, but the trend has been to a gradual return of all Australian military units to Australia. The Government has implemented this policy without fully understanding what it is about. It retains the jargon and the addled logic of discredited commitments while acting in a completely contrary way. 
Because this question of the future of units in Malaysia and Singapore has been the subject of considerable debate in recent weeks I would like to outline briefly Australian Labor Party policy and what a Labor government would seek to do. It has been stated quite falsely by the Minister for Defence that a Labor government would immediately pull out these units from Malaysia-Singapore. This simply is not true. It is a great pity that the Minister for Defence, who claims to show such interest in these matters, is not in the House for the resumption of the debate on the statement which he made to this Parliament and to the nation and which he said was to be an important document. Where is the Minister for Defence? Surely he has sufficient interest in one of the major statements made to this Parliament to be present in this House when the debate is resumed. But with the Minister's usual arrogance and his complete disinterest in these matters he fails to take up his position as any responsible Minister should when an important document is being debated in this Parliament and for which he was responsible. 
As I have already indicated, the trend has been towards a gradual return of all Australian military units to Australia. The Government has implemented this policy without fully understanding the logic or the reasoning behind it. Because this question of the future of the troops in Malaysia and Singapore has been the subject of a great deal of debate not only in this Parliament but also outside it, and as the Minister for Defence claimed that under a Labor government the troops in Malaysia and Singa pore would be returned immediately to Australia, I want to say emphatically that this is not the situation at all. The Labor Party did not even stipulate immediate withdrawal from Vietnam in the 1969 election, campaign. Even honourable gentlemen opposite will recall that the proposal put to the electorate allowed an interim period of 6 months for the withdrawal to be completed and for alternative arrangements to be made. 
In view of this attitude to Vietnam which was a matter of the deepest principle, why should a Labor government get out of Malaysia and Singapore within seconds of the declaration of the polls? These troops are not engaged in combat and there is no likelihood of their being engaged in combat. They are performing routine administrative and training functions in Singapore. To train effectively, the units in Singapore have to go to Malaysia because Singapore has not even sufficient training space for its own Army. This emphasises the futility of the continued stationing of a battalion in Singapore. A Labor government would take these units out but it would negotiate this withdrawal with the governments of Malaysia and Singapore. It would allow an adequate breathing space to readjustments could be made. I could not predict how long this period of grace would be; one solution would be to leave the battalion in Singapore until its term of duty expired and then not replace it. This would give a breathing space of 7 or 8 months after an election. The scheme of non-replacement proposed for Vietnam by the Labor Party in 1969 was subsequently adopted as the basis of the Government's withdrawal. 
The future of the Mirage squadrons at Butterworth is a rather come complex issue. Until the Malaysian Air Force is built to effective strength the squadrons fill a role iri providing air surveillance. Australia has accepted an obligation to assist in forming the Malaysian Air Force and a Labor government would honour this agreement. There are also doubts about the capacity of Air Force facilities in Australia to cope with 2 additional squadrons, and this is an added complication. The removal of Australian units from Malaysia and' Singapore would need careful negotiation with the governments of these countries; it would not be done with a single sharp stroke. The reactions of Malaysia and Singapore have also been overstated. It is our conclusion from a careful testing of opinion in Malaysia that it expects the five-power arrangements to be only transitional. Defence co-operation with Australia would then revert to a bilateral basis. I do not pretend that the Government of Singapore in particular would be enthusiastic about Australia's departure, but I do not think it would be unduly concerned. As a pragmatic Government I am sure it understands the realities of Labor's policies and how they would be applied, even if its acceptance of them was somtwhat grudging. 
With regard to Malaysia the situation is rather more fluid with the development in that country of a strong feeling for the neutrality of South East Asia. This concept of neutrality has yet to be clearly articulated, but there is no doubt that there is a strong feeling, backed by Indonesia, that ASEAN should be developed as a security medium in a context of neutrality for the countries in the region. It is not possible to predict with any accuracy what Malaysia's attitude to Australian troops in the region would be in even a year's time. I would like to make it quite clear that the removal of these units from MalaysiaSingapore would not mean an end of military assistance to the region. In simple terms a Labor government would provide training and technical and logistics assistance to these countries but it would not station permanent forces there. This approach has the added merit that it is capable of extension to other countries in the region beyond the five-power arrangements such as, for example, Indonesia, which the Government wants to help but cannot quite accommodate within its present formula. 
Whatever the character of the Australian Government, it is likely that the five-power arrangements will prove transitional and be supplanted by bilateral defence arrangements with South East Asian countries. A Labor government would give effect to the overwhelming feeling in the ranks of its members and supporters that it is no longer proper for Australian troops to be stationed on the ground in South East Asia. But it would do this responsibly and with adequate time for alternative arrangements to be worked out. One of the arrangements we expect to initiate is regular joint training exercises, possibly of 3 months duration, in which our troops would gain invluable experience in other countries and in our own. 
The White Paper referred at a number of points to Australia's defence links with the United States. The Minister chose to make this the high point of his commentary on the White Paper rounding off with an impressive appeal to American patriotism. The honourable gentleman at this point sounded more like a candidate in an American primary than an . Australian defence minister. He did make certain comments on the imposition of doctrinaire conditions on United States defence policy and somehow or other equated carping and criticism of American policy with treachery. The Minister makes it quite clear, that he wants to exploit the question of American bases and facilities in Australia as one of the few remaining areas of defence policy difference between the Government and the Opposition. 
It is worth asking which is the dogmatic or doctrinaire party: Is it the party which steadfastly refuses to discuss the issue or to make available any information on which a debate could be conducted? Alternatively, is it the party which wants to debate the issue and wants the information on which it can assess its policies, but is hamstrung by the attitude of a Government which contemptuously refuses to inform the Parliament and the public on crucial issues of defence policy? The Labor Party's platform is quite explicit on this subject. It is opposed to the existence of foreign-owned, controlled or operated bases and facilities in Australian territory, especially when such bases involve a derogation from Australian sovereignty. The policy states further: 
Labor is not opposed to the use of Australian bases and facilities in war-time or in periods of international tension involving a threat to Australia, provided that Australia is not involved in hostilities without Australia's consent. 
This is the framework of Labor's policy. At this stage it is impossible to say how these principles would be applied by a Labor government. The main obstacle to making any sort of projection is lack of information about the functions of these bases. 
The present Government has restricted information on Pine Gap and Woomera in particular to people described by the Minister for Defence as 'those with a need to know*. Those with a need to know' do not include the alternative government or members of the Australian Parliament. On the basis of the above principles, it would be certain that no future bases would be allowed on the conditions now applying to Pine Gap and Woomera, by a Labor government. The principles I stated earlier would be rigidly applied. These existing bases are covered by treaty arrangements. Until these arrangements are examined we do not know what could be done to vary the terms covering the bases to make them acceptable to the principles contained in Labor policy. The Labor Party, the Parliament and the electorate were presented with a fait accompli on Pine Gap and Woomera. Quite obviously these bases are related to the United States early-warning and surveillance systems of Russia and China. It is just as certain that Russia at least is aware of what these bases do, and that it has its own early warning and surveillance systems. 
What is not clear is how much the bases in Australia contribute to nuclear stability in terms of mutual deterrence between the United States and Russia. These are questions that would have to be looked at carefully by a Labor government. By stifling public debate on these great issues the Government has done itself and the United States a disservice. It also seems to me to have been a bad blunder in political tactics. By refusing to make available any information on which a logical debate on the bases could be conducted, it has made it impossible for the ALP to be specific on the subject. This absurd and obsessive secrecy can only rebound on the Government. 
There is the other point that developments in the state of the art will make the bases in Australia unnecessary, that more sophisticated early-warning and surveillance developments will be developed. It is possible that space-tracking stations on the ground could become redundant through the development of satellites which would perform their function. As deeper penetration into space is achieved, much greater surveillance of the earth can be made by satellites. The use of synchronous satellites to provide command and tracking information and to relay data from other satellites is a distinct possibility. It would be of immense benefit for the United States to have a world-wide early-warning network that would not involve the cost of maintaining tracking stations outside the- United States and subject to changes in domestic policy. This could bring a voluntary removal of these facilities from Australia so the United States could concentrate all its nuclear deterrent systems within its own borders. 
Another matter on which the Government has signally failed to give any information is whether the Pine Gap and Woomera bases could be adapted for peaceful uses. There are many ways in which satellite surveillance can be used for detection of resources, for agriculture, for geography, geology and hydrology, and for a wide range of other scientific applications. Australia has long passed the stage of sophistication when all that a government needed to do was point to a defence installation, whisper 'Top Secret' and watch the votes pour in. If it refuses a debate on these bases and facilities then it can only blame itself if the old response is not raised in the electorate. Politics in this country no longer runs on the basis of mindless appeals to secrecy and security. If the Government wants to debate this issue then the Opposition is quite prepared to match it. But let us have no more of this assumption that security plus secrecy is a vote-winning combination and that the electorate is neither to be trusted nor informed. 
On the question of manpower there are significant differences within the Government over the future of conscription and what the composition of the Army should be. We have the golden words of the Minister for the Army in this House of 28th September last year when he said that national service could be reduced even further to 12 months. He went on to say that even if everyone possible were conscripted it would not be terribly effective. With reservations of this sort about national service among the Government ranks, the opposition of the Labor Party to conscription is amply reinforced. The attitude to future manpower policies, in particular to whether a volunteer army can be sustained, is a particularly disappointing feature of this White Paper. It is most regrettable that studies of future manpower trends and the composition of the Armed Services have been done mainly outside the Defence Department. This area of manpower projections is an obvious one for the systems analysis techniques the Department has built up over the past few years. 
The Opposition's policy on this crucial issue is quite explicit: A future Labor government would abolish the draft immediately it gained office and would work to establish an all-volunteer army. This is one area of defence policy where a Labor government would be committed to immediate  action. 
Interpretation of the policy statements would not permit of any delay in eliminating the draft as quickly as possible. I shall shortly come to the matter raised by the honourable member by way of interjection. However, I am sure that he will not understand what I have to say. 
The elimination of the conscript element in the Australian Army would leave an Army of 28,000 men, all volunteers. It is an Army that is growing steadily each year, even allowing for an official lack of enthusiasm to voluntary recruitment which has at times amounted to discouragement of voluntarism. According to Army figures the volunteer component of the Army is increasing by around 1,000 a year. Last year the Army cut the draft from 16,000 to 12,000, giving an effective strength of 40,000. 
According to the Government's logic Australia would be vulnerable and undefended if this 40,000 were cut by even a platoon. Forty thousand men constitute defence preparedness and deterrence, 32,000 or 36,000 or even 39,000 are equated with treachery and betrayal. It is overlooked that a substantial part of the volunteer component in the Army is engaged in training national servicemen and servicing and training conscripts. There are many others who are employed in duplicated or redundant jobs. The Government is moving to replace 6 command functions based on the States with a single integrated command structure on the lines recommended in the Hassett Committee Report. If this is done effectively it is obvious that there will be substantial savings in men needed for routine functions. In very many cases one or two men will be doing what 6 did before. 
To take one example, the Western Command which formerly administered the Army in Western Australia had a third of its total strength engaged in command and administration functions. If these jobs were eliminated then more men would be freed to fill combat or specialist functions. This pattern would be repeated with the elimination of the other State commands, particularly the major Victoria, New South Wales and Queensland commands. 
It is Labor's argument that if the need to administer national service were eliminated, and if a proper reorganisation of the Army commands were carried out, then an Army strength of much less than 40,000 would be adequate for our defences. Even if only 4,000 jobs were eliminated in this way, a target strength of 36,000 would be needed. If the rate of present recruitment could be doubled, this would be achieved in 4 years. By setting a modest recruitment rate of an extra 2,000 men a year, we could get an adequate volunteer Army in an acceptable time span. This sort of argument is reinforced by the recent improvement in the recruiting rate which has been conceded by the Minister for Defence. With proper policies an end to conscription would have little impact on the basic strength of the Army, that is the ranks of specialist and combat soldiers. 
In the years ahead there is likely to be much greater movement between the military and the civilian workforce. The United States Army has reached a plateau of organisation where only one man in 10 is a combat soldier. The rest have specialist functions or are absorbed in the long administrative tail which supports the relatively small fighting head. The same pattern is emerging in the Australian Army. There is likely to be much more emphasis on shorter terms of recruitment for the Services. More flexible enlistment policies with men enlisting for a specific task or military project are a definite possibility. 
Much more fluid patterns of service organisation and administration will emerge with much closer inter-relationships between the civilian and the military. It will become increasingly futile to look at the Army in the hard-and-fast pattern of volunteer and national service elements. We want a highly effective professional Army with none of the in-built wastage of manpower and duplication of jobs that survive in the present structure. It is Labor's argument that conscription is not necessary in manpower terms and that an all-volunteer Army is feasible; at the very least it should be given a try. 
According to the White Paper and the Minister, the Department of Defence is currently analysing some 70 major items of defence procurement. It is an old cliche of Government defence policy that only the best is good enough for our defence forces and that we buy only the best whatever the price. Of course this is nonsense; if it were not we would be buying nuclearpowered submarines or squadrons of aircraft carriers or Galaxy transport aircraft at enormous cost. 
For a second string power such as Australia, procurement is a matter of compromise and bargaining; it involves tradeoffs between sets of alternatives and tough analysis of proposed purchases in costbenefit terms. According to the White Paper, decisions would be made on these 70 items in the 5-year period from 1972- 1977. Some of these items can be identified easily; for example the DDL destroyer programme, the Mirage replacement and the requirement for maritime reconnaissance aircraft. Others are listed in the paper. Tn the procurement of defence equipment techniques of evaluation have made giant strides in the past few years. 
It is an instructive exercise to contrast the way in which the Fill was bought with the careful way the Government is now taking the DDL programme along stage by stage. In the area of defence procurement it is possible for an Opposition party to put forward broad concepts of what weapons should be bought. This we have done with the DDL project by putting strongly our view that the Navy would be wise to concentrate on smaller, faster and cheaper vessels armed with missiles.- In our view this is much more in accord with the development of naval equipment and naval strategy than putting resources into a few vulnerable and highly expensive destroyers. This lesson was hammered home in the recent naval exercise when the Singaporean patrol boats theoretically pierced the defence screen of the aircraft carrier HMAS 'Melbourne' and sank it. Beyond these broad concepts of what sort of weapons systems we should be acquiring, it is not the function of an Opposition party to put up shopping lists of defence purchases. 
I would like to refer briefly to an issue raised by the Minister in his comments on types of weapons. This is the suggestion that Australia should acquire some form of nuclear weapons capability. The Minister for the Navy  (Dr Mackay),  in a speech in Perth in January emphatically rejected any acquisition of nuclear weapons on the basis that they were unnecessary and too costly. The Minister for Defence has also rejected a nuclear capability though in less emphatic terms. The White Paper also sees no need for a nuclear weapons capability although it stressed the prudence of watching developments in nuclear technology. The Labor Party policy explicitly prohibits nuclear weapons for Australia and supports the immediate ratification of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. Our rejection of nuclear weapons is based strongly on principle. This is reinforced by our assessment of the diplomatic folly of moving Australia towards possession of a nuclear force. 
There is the other argument of cost which is stressed quite strongly in the defence White Paper. A considerable amount of research work has been done on the cost and possible dimensions of a nuclear force for Australia. But I do not think this research has proved conclusively that a nuclear force is economically feasible for Australia. Nor has it shaken the basis of Labor Party belief that a nuclear force cannot be justified for Australia in any conceivable strategic circumstances. 
The Labor Party policy which prohibits nuclear weapons extends the same prescription to chemical and biological warfare. The Government has always firmly indicated that it is completely opposed to chemical and biological warfare and that it has not manufactured these weapons nor has it trained its soldiers in this sort of warfare. This morning it was announced in the Press that Australia was among 47 countries which had signed a convention outlawing the use of biological weapons. This is completely in harmony with Labor Party policy, and I am glad that Australia was one of the early signatories of this convention. Nevertheless, lingering doubts about the sincerity of the Government on this very delicate topic remain. There have been reports in American journals that members of the Australian military forces have received training in chemical and biological warfare in the United States. I refer in particular to an article in the American journal 'Nation' of 11th October last year which claimed Australian officers had been given training for chemical warfare at the United States Army Chemical Centre and School at Fort McLellan in Alabama. According to the report training in chemical warfare at this school was conducted in the framework of a mock Vietnamese village. 
In raising this delicate matter at this time, I would like to point out that I have had a question on the notice paper on this subject since 24th Febuary. The Minister for Defence has been given ample time to investigate these allegations and clarify them for the Parliament. He has not done so and I have been compelled to raise them in this form in the House. I emphasise that this has not been done for sensationalist purposes. If Australian troops have been trained in chemical warfare it is the clear duty of the Government to explain why, in view of its expressed abhorrence of chemical and biological warfare and its signature of the latest convention. 
In summary, I have tried tonight to express the attitude of the Opposition to the concept of defence White Papers. This is an excellent innovation and the Opposition hopes it can be continued on a regular basis as an objective expession of the thinking of the Department of Defence, irrespective of party politics. In my comments on specific issues raised by the Paper I have concentrated on political differences between the Government and the Opposition which are extremely relevant at the moment. ' There are many other issues raised by the Paper which will concern this House in the months ahead. 
Pre-eminent is the future role of Australian defence units in Papua New Guinea and the development of the independent defence forces of Papua New Guinea. This is a matter of sufficient importance to warrant a debate in this Parliament at the earliest possible opportunity.  I would ask the Minister for Defence whether a supplementary statement on these issues can be prepared for debate before the House adjourns for the winter recess. 
In conclusion we welcome the precedent involved in the distribution of this White Paper. We hope it will open the way for an independent Australian defence policy which will mean that defence policy is chained no longer to the chariot Wheels of the Pentagon and Whitehall. 
asked the Minister for 
Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
How many hours will it take the 'Empress of Australia' to sail from Melbourne to Devonport. 
What is the average speed of the 'Empress of Australia'. 
I ask the Prime Minister whether he has formally complained to the Australian Broadcasting Commission because the Leader of the Opposition was given time on a special edition of 'This Day Tonight' which covered the gallup poll budget. Is the Prime Minister prepared to tell the House the conditions he prescribes for the appearance of the Leader of the Opposition on national television. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
What has been the estimate of unemployment based on the survey carried out by the Bureau of Census and Statistics in the months of February, May, August, and November, expressed as a percentage of the figure for unemployment obtained from records kept by the Commonwealth Employment Service for each of these months during the last 5 years. 
asked the Minister- for 
Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
For which Australian National Line services have reimbursements been made by the Commonwealth under section 17 of the Australian Coastal Shipping Commission Act. 
What amount has been reimbursed in each case. 
I ask a question of the Minister for the Navy. Is the Minister aware of advertisements placed by the Department of Supply and calling tenders for the supply of steering gear and control systems for the DDL light destroyer programme? Has a Cabinet decision been made to go ahead with this project? If so, why has the Parliament not been informed? If not, why is the Department of Supply calling tenders, which implies that this project will be undertaken? Having listened to the fatuous reply given by the Minister for Defence to the last question on the Fill, the Minister will appreciate the importance of a full and frank statement to the Parliament on this matter. 
I do not want to go into detail on the material, much of it highly technical, put to the House by the Minister for Supply  (Mr Garland).  There are one of two points on radioactive fallout and the monitoring programmes which measure this fallout. The first is that it seems an unusually cumbersome process to split responsibility for these monitoring programmes between two committees, one of which reports to the Minister for Supply and the other to the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts,  (Mr Howson).  Surely there is not a sufficient degree of difference between the work of these groups to warrant the administrative division. Even allowing for the closeness of co-operation between the two committees, there seems an obvious case for the rationalisation of their functions. 
The second point I want to look at is (he Minister's insistence on amounts of radiation which present no health hazard. His tactic is to state the lowest accepted limit of harmful radiation and give the monitoring evidence which shows that fallout detected in Australia is well below these limits. I do not criticise the Minister for this; from his standpoint it is a valid enough exercise. It should be pointed out, however, that there is a large amount of scientific opinion which holds that there is no such thing as a floor to harmful doses of radiation. According to this sort of thinking radiation in even the most minute quantity is potentially harmful. 
The late  President  Kennedy was one statesman who supported those who contended there was no such thing as a minimum acceptable dose. In the President's view only a small number of individual tragedies might be involved in this sort of approach, but nevertheless these were tragedies that cast a long shadow in human and moral terms. He added: 
There is still much that we do not know - and too often in the past we have minimised th:se perils and shrugged aside these dangers,  only  to find that the estimates were faulty and the real dangers were worse than we knew. 
There has been a consistent tendency for safety levels to be cut back. For example, the International Committee on Radiological Protection has cut the maximum permissible dose for people working with radioactive materials to a fifteenth of what it was in 1924. Research work at the Lawrence Radiation Laboratory in California has produced a thesis that radiation can cause more harm than was suspected when standards for acceptable doses of radiation were prescribed. According to this research work chromosomes are damaged more severely by radiation than was thought initially. This increases the chances of a greater incidence of cancer, and other diseases and forms of debility in future generations. 
It can be argued on this basis that standards should be abolished or reduced still more drastically to eliminate even the slightest chance of danger. A United Nations Committee has drawn attention to this latest scientific evidence. In August last year the United States Public Health Service issued a warning that there was no lower level to harmful doses of radiation, either to the individual or for future generations. It is disappointing that the Australian Atomic Weapons Tests Safety Committee has not referred in its report to these developments and that the Minister has not put this material before the House. I feel that the Minister has been much too complacent in his account of amounts of radiation detected in Australia measured against acceptable standards of radiation. If there is no lower limit of safety for doses of radiation, then every additional atomic test in the atmosphere adds to the number of deaths and deformities. It is in this context that we should look at the Minister's remarks about 'needless concern' over fallout from French nuclear tests in the Pacific. Because of weather conditions, Australia may be less affected than other countries in the Pacific by the French tests. Undoubtedly, there is still a measure of fallout which in the light of contemporary evidence could well prove to be harmful. This should reinforce the strength and sincerity of our protest against the resumption of these tests. Above all, we must not give the impression that our protests are mere formalities. 
I conclude by again stressing that it is important that the Australian Government, as a responsible body, should ensure that these protests against the testing of French nuclear weapons are made forcibly. I believe this is a responsibility which the Government has not only to the people of this country but also to the people of other countries in the South Pacific area. The Government has a grave responsibility and, as I have already stated, if there is a weakness, apart from this one in the Minister's statement, it is that the Minister to my mind - I am sure that this would be the opinion of honourable members on this side of the House - has not stressed sufficiently the grave concern that all Australians would have at a continuation by the French Government of nuclear testing in our area. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Giles)  adjourned. 
What special action has the Minister for Labour and National Service taken to see that migrants and persons unemployed for the first time in their working lives are encouraged to register with the Commonwealth Employment Service and to apply for the unemployment benefit to which they are entitled? Is he satisfied that current unemployment figures for these groups represent accurately the extent of unemployment within them? 
It is refreshing to see the Government initiating a second Vietnam debate in as many weeks. Obviously it thinks there is political capital for it in the massive resurgence of the Indo-China war. If it sticks to this tack it will prove to be as wrong and misguided about the war as it has been in respect of other elements in the Australian political structure. I want to start by looking briefly at the written platform of the Australian Labor Party on the Indo-China war. At the Launceston Conference of the Party held last year this policy was refined to a simple 3-paragraph declaration. The first paragraph pointed to previous policies on the war adopted by the Federal Conferences in 1965, 1967 and again in 1969. It emphasised that these policy declarations had been proved to be substantially correct, despite the fact that in 1967, as a result of the deliberations of the Party in Victoria at that time, it was determined that there should be a definite policy in relation to the Vietnam situation and we laid down 3 guiding principles. 
The principles were, firstly, that there should, be a cessation of bombing in North Vietnam. Secondly, that the National Liberation Front should be recognised as a party to any negotiations for peace in that country. We were told by the then Prime Minister that this was treachery, that it would never be accepted by the United States of America and it would not be accepted by an Australian government. We were subsequently proved to be correct. The bombing did stop; the National Liberation Front was accepted as a party to the negotiations. Whenever this Government has made a statement in relation to Vietnam, it has been proved to be substantially incorrect. 
At the last Conference of the ALP it went on to recapitulate an important element of the previous policies, namely, that international arrangements should be made for the economic and social recovery of Indo-China and the territorial integrity of Vietnam, Cambodia, Laos and Thailand. Finally the declaration stated that an Australian Labor government would stand ready to work with the Geneva participants or the United Nations or any other agency established for the purpose of re habilitating and neutralising Indo-China. This is the full extent of the Labor Party's official policy on Vietnam. Any declaration that goes beyond these principles is not Labor policy. 
Much has been made of the resolution adopted at the meeting of the Victorian Australian Labor Party Council on Sunday which passed by a narrow majority a resolution on Vietnam. It cannot be stated too emphatically that this declaration was not Labor policy and in framing it this Council exceeded its constitutional authority. 
One could go on for hours about how this decision was. reached and the chapter of accidents that led to its adoption. But this would be a pointless exercise; the fact is that it is not an expression of Labor policy and it was immediately repudiated by the Leader of the Opposition. It was again repudiated by him in this debate this afternoon. This repudiation was promptly echoed by the Federal President of the Labor Party who, as Chairman of the Party's Federal Conference, is in a position to know exactly what the Party's policy is. It is likely that there will be further repudiation of the declaration from the Victorian Branch. This puts the whole episode in its proper perspective as a foul-up in the internal machinery of the Labor Party. 
To draw an analogy, the Government parties often find themselves in the same position. I have lost count of the number of times the Young Liberals Have passed motions and issued policy declarations in direct opposition to their seniors who run the Government. This causes momentary discomfiture and embarrassment but that is all. All parties accept that this sort of thing happens fairly frequently to each of them. If honourable members want another example there is the call by the Australian Country Party in Victoria last week by a margin of 600 to 3 that the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  should be replaced by the Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Anthony).  Who doubts that the Country Party will raise a matter of public importance in this Parliament in order to deal with this question. Undoubtedly, honourable members on this side of the House will support the proposal. 
These incidents elicit partisan amusement when they happen, but they are accepted parts of the political process. Noone would seek to muzzle or stifle the operation of component parts of the political machines of the various parties because of isolated foul-ups of this sort. This is the perspective in which an incident of this sort should be placed. The Labor Party had been singularly free of this sort of incident in recent months and perhaps it had exceeded its reservoir of good luck. 
Turning to the question before the House, I must express my disappointment at its content. To my mind it has precisely the same faults as the resolution passed by the Victorian Branch of the Labor Party. The question is partisan, it is narrow and it glorifies the Vietnam war and the continuation of the war until one side or the other prevails. The point is that the war in Vietnam cannot be looked at in the crude terms of black and white favoured by members of the Government Parties. According to this line only one side has transgressed the Geneva Conventions; only one side has committed acts of invasion, only one side is evil. This sort of primitive logic just does not wash with the facts. 
I do not want to go through the whole course of events in Vietnam since the Geneva Conventions were signed. Both sides have repeatedly breached the provisions of the Conventions. Both sides have committed appalling acts of aggression. The Government claims that the North Vietnamese have invaded the south. 
This ignores the fact that South Vietnam and North Vietnam are not legal entities. Their legality has never been established by any international body. 
The Government accepts without any quibble an arrangement which cannot be justified by any principle of international law. This allows it to put the specious argument that there has been an invasion because military elements have moved from the north of the demilitarised zone to the south. According to this sort of logic, it is not an invasion, however, when United States and South Vietnamese units strike into the supposedly neutral country of Laos. I agree that North Vietnamese troops have also transgressed Laotian neutrality but let us get our terms correct. Nor is it on invasion under this line of argument if 
American planes enter airspace of the demilitarised zone and bomb that part of Vietnam. 
This whole question of double standards was put very lucidly in last week's urgency debate by the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns).  He made the point that gaping holes would be left in the South Vietnamese armies and administration if all the people from north of the demilitarised zone were repatriated to their homes. This shows the fallacy of dividing the country into 2 watertight compartments and labelling South Vietnam as a small and independent country. . 
If we want to analyse the Indo-China war let us accept the fact that blatant breaches of borders and terrible wrongs against humanity have been committed by both sides. Going beyond this I want to stress again the illusions produced by the official policy of Vietnamisation. All that Vietnamisation has done is to pit two huge and powerful armies against each other on the ground. One side has the benefit of unlimited American air and naval power. The other has the benefit of very effective military equipment supplied by Russia. As this titanic conflict builds up, Australia can sit safely on the sideline and look on secure in the knowledge that it has done its bit for Vietnamisation, even if it has done nothing to end the war. ' 
Of course it was wrong for the communists to intensify the war at a time when negotiations were still possible. Even from a purely military sense it is difficult to understand the timing of these renewed military drives by the communists. But it would be wrong to leave our condemnation at the level indicated by. the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street).  It is also true, as pointed out by the honourable member for Lalor last week, that the communist and nationalist cause in Vietnam has been provoked and persecuted in a manner unparallelled in history. 
If we are to distribute blame and compassion let us do it justly to both parties. Above all, let us not glorify the supremacy of either side by victory in the field. It should be obvious that neither side can win a military victory without many years of ferocious warfare, many years of terrible slaughter, and the destruction of Vietnam. I am sure that the overwhelming majority of members of the Labor Party support the cause of compromise and humanity as outlined clearly in the official policy of the Australian Labor Party and supported this afternoon by the Leader of the Opposition. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
In relation to his answer to question No. 4398 (Hansard, 2 December 1971, pages 4112-3), what were the income groups for each of the categories listed forthe years 1953-54 and 1968-69. 
When will later figures be available. 
asked the Postmaster- 
General, upon notice: 
What country post offices have been closed in each Federal electoral division in Tasmania in the last 10 years. 
What country post offices are likely to be closed in each Federal electoral division in Tasmania in 1972. 
Has the Minister for Shipping and Transport seen a reported statement that a large volume of cargo is being redistributed from the port of Launceston to a north-west coast Tasmanian port for shipment? Is the Minister aware that if the report is correct - and it involves the Australian National Line - it can result only in higher freight charges? Will the Minister institute inquiries to ensure that this practice is discontinued? 
The Opposition does not intend to oppose the passage of this legislation. I want to make it clear at once that some increases in repatriation benefits are to be granted to certain recipients and the Opposition would not want to see those increases delayed. However, I intend to take the opportunity to deal with certain omissions by the Government and the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  in the repatriation field. I believe that this will be a decisive year for the functioning of the Repatriation Act and for future repatriation policy. The Toose Committee is making steady progress in its examination of the terms of reference handed to it by the Government and a Senate committee has also made an extensive examination of the repatriation structure. We can except its report later this year. 
The operation of the Act and the future administration of repatriation are also under the microscope within the Repatriation Department. The impact of this process of close scrutiny can only benefit a very important area of welfare policy. It is probable that very substantial changes will flow through the system from this process of examination. Traditional concepts of repatriation assistance are under challenge and it is extremely likely that the system of the future will be substantially different from the familiar structure which has served war veterans so well in the years since 1945. In such a fluid context we must be prepared to accept change and radically different concepts in assistance to veterans. Change and reform are welcome and desirable as long as we retain the basic principle of succouring those people disabled by war and compensating those people who have suffered physically and mentally from war caused injuries. 
There are the added duties of sustaining and assisting war widows and ensuring that war veterans can end their lives in dignity and be buried without imposing onerous burdens on their estates and survivors. This is a brief statement of the basic principles of repatriation policy. They are principles which have been sanctioned by time. The main problem confronting repatriation assistance in the year ahead is the basic problem that will affect welfare services in all areas of government spending. This is the increasingly intense competition for scarce resources. 
With the entry of the Commonwealth Government into a host of areas not envisaged in previous years there will be much greater pressures on the repatriation structure to justify its spending and to ensure that its administration is conducted with the maximum efficiency. There have been indications of this sort of approach to repatriation in some of the submissions put to the various committees. Some quite bitter criticisms have been made of the repatriation structure and the ways in which it can be abused. Any welfare policy which aims at a broad coverage is liable to abuse. If the net is cast wide, obviously some people will get through the holes and will obtain unjustified benefits. This flaw applies not only to the repatriation system but also to all sorts of government assistance to individuals. 
It is unfair to concentrate this sort of criticism on the repatriation system. At the same time it must be recognised that there is a duty imposed on the repatriation system to improve its efficiency, to eliminate any vestiges of waste and to make desirable economies. With any welfare system the crucial result is what actually goes into the pockets of the persons receiving the benefits. This is the acid test - to divert the maximum resources to the areas of need. With this objective the crunch falls on the administrative side of the balance sheet to make its spending as effective as possible. 
Against this background I want to look at the increased benefits contained in the so-called mini-budget. It must be conceded at the outset that the increases perceptibly improve the subsistence income of the TPI intermediate rate and the war widows' pensions. The TPI pension has been increased from $42.50 to $44.50 a week. This raises it from 46.15 per cent to 48.21 per cent of average weekly earnings. This is based on estimated average weekly earnings of $92.30 for 1971-72- a projection made on the basis of the last Budget Papers. 
The trend of constant erosion of the TPI or special rate pension as a proportion of average weekly earnings has been reversed and a small but hopefully significant improvement made. It should be pointed out. though, that the present level of TPI pension is still below the proportion of 54.64 per cent of average weekly earnings which applied in 1949-50. The relative value of the pension was allowed to dwindle from a peak of 55.67 per cent of average weekly earnings in 1959-60 to just over 46 per cent in 1970-71. The increases given in the last Budget and the recent mini-Budget have reversed this downward trend. This is an encouraging development and I hope that the Government will take further measures to improve the relative value of the special rate pension in the next Budget. All parties should accept as an important policy objective an early restoration of the TPI pension to the relative levels which applied from 1946 to 1960. 
As I have just indicated to the House, the special rate pension or total and permanently incapacity pension is, under the terms of this legislation, to be increased to $44.50 a week. Clearly in the opinion of not only honourable members on this side of the House but also those who represent returned servicemen in this country - that is, the Returned Services League of Australia and the TPI organisation - the special rate pension should not be below the minimum wage paid to a worker in this country. The Minister will remember that in March 1971, I think it was, the RSL put to the Government its pension plan. This was before the last Budget. In that 1971 pension plan the RSL asked that the special rate pension be increased to an amount equal to the current minimum wage. Thus, one of the requests was that the rate should not be below the minimum wage paid to a worker in this country. The minimum wage is now $47.10. I am quoting the last available figure, which is based on the Commonwealth minimum wage for Sydney. 
So, it is quite clear that the special rate pension has been allowed to fall below the minimum wage in this country. The RSL contends and the Opposition has consistently advocated in this country, both in its policy speeches and whenever I have had the opportunity to speak in reply to the Minister for Repatriation, that the special rate pension, because of the special dis abilities suffered by these people, should not be less than the minimum wage that is paid in this country. The Government has not been prepared to accept this proposition. 
I have just indicated to the House that some improvement has been made. I restate that this is one of the reasons why we do not intend to delay the passage of this legislation. We believe that any increase ought to be granted immediately, having regard to the deterioration of repatriation pensions generally. But, in dealing with the special rate pension, I want merely to point out, as I have stated in this House on previous occasions, that here we are dealing with a special class of pensioner, one who has served his country in time of war and who as a result of his service is now classified as totally and permanently incapacitated. I do not believe that any responsible person in this Parliament can argue that anyone placed in this category as a result of his war service should be allowed an income that is less than the minimum wage paid to a worker in this country. So I point out to the Minister that it would be hoped that the RSL will again submit to the Government its request that the special rate pension be raised as quickly as possible to the minimum wage level. 
The intermedate rate pension also has been increased by $1 and its value has increased relative to average weekly earnings. I do not want to deal with the intermedate pension at any length because it is a comparatively recent innovation. Its relative value has been kept at a fairly stable level. Comparatively few repatriation pensioners are on the intermediate rate and it is not a significant part of the pension structure. I regret that time will not allow me to deal specifically with the question of the intermediate rate. The Minister knows my views on this. 
Yes, but I have a great deal to cover because the honourable member needs to be educated on repatriation matters. Therefore, I will confine my remarks in relation to the intermediate rate merely to pointing out to the Minister the situation since this intermediate rate pension was granted. If I remember correctly, the Minister said in his second reading speech that there are some 1,800 persons in receipt of the intermediate rate pension. If I may quote from the 1970-71 report of the Repatriation Commission, the precise number on the intermediate rate for that year was 1,542. There are an additional 212 recipients of the intermediate rate. They receive the pension as a result of the classification of tuberculosis class B. So, in fact, this will cost the Government, on these figures, $1,754 a week extra or, if the Minister likes me to put in more round figures, this generous increase in the intermediate rate will cost the Government, in terms of expenditure, $82,784 a year. 
What a magnanimous gesture to a group of ex-servicemen who, as a result of their war injuries, are not in a position to engage continuously in employment! The intermediate rate was introduced for this purpose. It was introduced by this Government. I would like to have had the opportunity tonight to point out how difficult it is for any ex-serviceman to qualify for this rate of pension. I do not have to develop this argument. I merely point out to the Minister that there are 218,355 pensioners in the 100 per cent category, whereas there are, as I have just quoted to the House, fewer than 1,800 persons in receipt of the intermediate rate pension. So I say no more about that category. The Minister has conceded that the intermedate rate pension should have been increased and the Government has now moved to increase it by $1 a week. 
The major defects in the new benefits announced by the Minister for Repatriation relate to the general rate pension and to wives' and children's pensions. The general rate pension has remained at the present level of $12 a week since 1964-65. An increase of 50c in the general rate pension was made in the Budget of that year. In the subsequent period of 7 years the relative value of the general rate pension has deteriorated quite disastrously, whatever yardstick is applied. In 1949-50 the general rate pension was 28.35 per cent of average weekly earnings. Today it is 13 per cent of average weekly earnings. It is pointless to trace out this tragic decline in greater detail. 
I will come to that in a moment. If the Minister for Repatriation wants to engage in a debate about those pensioners in the 75 per cent to 100 per cent category, I will be happy to accommodate him, because it does not matter what yardstick is applied to the figures relating to the general rate pension, it can be seen at once that this Government has allowed the value of this pension to decline. I should like the Minister to challenge me on that statement. I have just pointed out that today the general rate pension represents 13 per cent of average weekly earnings. In 1949-50, when this Government came to power, it represented 28.35 per cent of the then average weekly earnings. So it lias declined by more than half in that period. 
The Government's usual defence against criticism of its treatment of general rate pensioners is to point to the introduction of the special compensation allowance. Some general rate pensioners assessed at 75 per cent disability or more are entitled to some additional benefit from the special compensation allowance. I say 'some general rate pensioners' because again the Minister knows that not all pensioners in the 75 per cent to 100 per cent category receive the special compensation allowance. 
The Minister says that 80 per cent of them receive the special compensation allowances. That means that 20 per cent of them do not receive it, and that is quite a significant figure. This Government holds the belief that if a war pensioner has a disability such as defective hearing or failing eyesight, the defective hearing can be corrected by a hearing aid or the failing eyesight can be corrected by spectacles. 
Of course,' the Minister is completely wrong. In a great number of cases defective hearing cannot be corrected by hearing aids. But the Repatriation Department has ruled that in these cases the pensioners are not ' eligible to receive the special compensation allowance. The Minister should not argue about this matter if he is not familiar with departmental policy or, perhaps I should say, with Government policy in this respect. The plain fact is that on the Minister's own admission, 20 per cent of pensioners in the 75 per cent to 100 per cent category do not receive the special compensation allowance. During its period of office the Government has allowed the 100 per cent general rate pension to deteriorate, despite the fact that the Returned Services League, in its war compensation plan to which I have already referred, requested in March of last year that the general rate pension should be increased to at least 50 per cent of the minimum wage. In point of fact, the rate has not been increased for 7 years. Even in this mini-Budget the Government has again completely neglected the general rate pensioner. 
As we all know, the compensation allowance was introduced by this Government for the specific purpose of being able to grant the smallest possible benefit to those who are in receipt of a war pension. I have just referred the House to the number of war pensioners in Australia. They total 218,355, of whom 194,414 receive the general rate pension, from a maximum of 100 per cent down to a minimum of 10 per cent. That means, in effect, that only 23,941 repatriation pensioners do not receive the general rate pension, if one excludes war widows, and I do so. So one can see that by granting an increase to only a small group of repatriation pensioners the saving for the Government is considerable. 
The Government completely ignores the great majority of war pensioners in Australia. I hope that at some time the Minister will take the opportunity to refer to general rate pensioners when he is making a second reading speech on repatriation legislation. He has not done so since he has been the Minister for Repatriaton Indeed, reference has not been made to general rate pensioners in second reading speeches on repatriation legislation for 7 years because there has been no increase in the general rate pension in that period. Of course, the only change that has taken place has been an increase in the special compensation allowance, to which the Minister has referred. I say no more about the general rate pension. But it should be noted that pensioners in this category are dissatisfied with the attitude and the inaction of the Government in relation to this important part of the repatriation pension, legislation. The constant erosion of the TPI pension as a proportion of average weekly earnings has been reversed, as I have already pointed out. Therefore, I suppose it can be argued and, I suppose, successfully argued, by the Minister that some slight improvement has been effected in this rate. But the Government has completely overlooked, not only in the miniBudget, but indeed in the last Budget and the Budget before that, all of the groups to which I have just referred - that is, the general rate pensioners, the wives of pensioners and the children of pensioners. The Minister for Repatriation shakes his head. I will be happy to give him the figures. 
This Bill gives war widows, for example, a pension increase of $1 a week, that is, from $17.25 to $18.25 a week. Unlike general rate pensioners, war widows have been given increases at fairly regular intervals. But the increases have been too meagre to maintain the relative status of war widows' pensions. Measured against average weekly earnings, the pension for a war widow has declined from 30.93 per cent in 1949-50 to 19.77 per cent with the latest increase. To be fair, the latest increase does bring a slight improvement to the relative value of war widows' pensions. But again I come to the point upon which there is obviously some disagreement between the Minister and myself. 
War pensions paid to dependants of incapacitated ex-servicemen represent another area of neglect in the repatriation structure. According to the latest report of the Repatriation Commission, these pensions are paid to wives of incapacitated exservicemen and to children under the age of 16 years. These pensions are paid at rates varying with the assessed degree of the particular ex-servicemen's incapacity. The weekly rates for the wife and each child of any ex-serviceman receiving a pension at the 100 per cent general rate are $4.05 and $1.38 a week respectively. What the Commission's report neglects to mention is that the rate of war pension for wives was last increased in September 1964, when it rose from $3.55 to $4.05 a week. As I have already pointed out to the Minister, that was more than 7 years ago. Neglect of pensions for children is even more reprehensible; the last increase of 23c a week was made almost 20 years ago, in October 1952. The rate has not been increased since. The Minister shook his head in disagreement when I suggested a moment ago that there had been no increase for this category of pensioners under the repatriation legislation. In October 1952 the pension for children of ex-servicemen was lifted from $1.15 a week to the princely level of $1.38 a week. I believe that this makes a mockery of the Government's persistent claim that it is directing attention to the areas of greatest need. 
Finally, in the time available to me, I want to refer to the war widows' pension. If one carefully considers the Minister's second reading speech one can see at once that right through the speech the Minister has deliberately endeavoured to prove that special rate pensioners, war widows and others who will benefit under the repatriation legislation which was the subject of the Minister's second reading speech will receive a higher amount because they qualify for service pension payments. Let us consider the case of the war widow. In his second reading speech the Minister said: 
A war widow will receive an additional $1 a week in her basic payment and, together with domestic allowance and age or invalid pension, could receive a total of $36.37 a week. . . . 
The Minister must accept responsibility for this statement. The Minister knows as well as I do that 97 per cent of war widows today receive the domestic allowance; there are 3 per cent who do not. They could not qualify for the age pension or any other class of pension because, as the Minister knows, they must be over 50 years of age to receive the domestic allowance. 
It is fatuous for the Minister to present these kinds of figures to the House and claim that it is possible for someone to get the amount of pension he claims. The 
Minister should quote what the war widows rate is  -  $18.25 a week. That is what is paid to someone in Australia whose husband has been appropriated in the service of his country  -  $18.25 a week. The Minister went on to point out that a war widow with her basic payment, together with the domestic allowance and an age or invalid pension, could receive a total of $36.37 a week as against $33.12 a week previously. This is very good and some improvement. The 
Minister continued: 
A war widow with 2 children will now receive $40.25 a week. 
This is to be compared with the payment of $36.37 a week for a widow with no children who qualifies for the age or invalid pension. What sort of justice is this? A war widow with 2 children will receive an amount just in excess of that received by a war widow with no dependants at all. 1 believe that this kind of fatuous argument shouldnot be presented to this Parliament. I have said enough about the war widow's rate, which stands at $18.25 a week. This is the figure at the moment, not what it could be. On the Minister's own admission 3 per cent of the war widows in Australia - 3 in every 100  -  will be confined to $18.25 a week. These are the figures the Parliament is presented with by the Government. The Government claims that it is being generous to the Australian war widow. The Minister may not be wholly responsible for this situation. 
I am saying it now. I believe there is no more appropriate time than this to say it. 1 have dealt with the omissions in this legislation - the general rate pension, the Government's complete neglect and inactivity and, indeed, its arrogance towards those who claim to represent the ex-servicemen of Australia. The Government has ignored the claims of the general rate pensioners for more than 7 years and one would expect, hope and, indeed, demand that there should be some improvement in the next Budget. 1 have pointed out already that the Opposition is prepared to pass this legislation immediately to enable the proposed increases to be paid as soon as possible, but I must place on record the Labor Party's opposition to some aspects in this legislation and therefore I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: 'while not opposing the provisions of the Bill, the House condemns the Government's failure to restore the relative value of repatriation pensions, in particular the general rate pension'. 
The Government seems bent on hitting the Veitnam gong hard and often. It has only itself to blame if the sound emitted has a hollow and discordant tone. There was a full-scale debate in this House on a Vietnam statement by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  on 23rd March. This allowed members to look at the Australian contribution to the war and to the policy of Vietnamisation used to cloak American and Australian withdrawal. 
Last week Government back-benchers moved an urgency motion directed at statements made by the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns).  This was debated fully by the House and included a most comprehensive outline by the honourable member for Lalor of his attitudes to the Vietnam war. On Tuesday another urgency motion was moved by the Assistant Minister assisting the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Street).  This was designed to exploit a resolution moved at the weekend by the Victorian Branch of the Labor Party. The issue was dealt with very thoroughly during the debate that followed. 
By popular consensus around the lobbies and in the Press, the Government got decidedly the worst of the debate. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  in a very fine speech put the Victorian resolution in its context as a violation of Labor's platform. In so doing he assailed the Government's Indo-China policy in terms which ripped it to tatters. If any doubt remained in the minds of Government supporters about what is official Labor policy on this issue, they should note that yesterday's meeting of the Federal Parliamentary Labor Party passed a resolution in unanimous terms supporting the Leader's speech. There was not a single dissenting voice. 
This should leave no doubt in the minds of even the most impartial people opposite about the attitude of every member of the Labor caucus to the erroneous motion passed at the week-end by the Victorian State Council of the Labor Party. In the light of the exhaustive examination of issues deriving from the IndoChina war in this House in recent weeks it is impossible to justify this statement today by the Minister for De fence. Certainly it is directed to the urgency motion moved on Tuesday by the Assistant Minister assisting the Minister for Labor and National Service. 
This motion was phrased in the following terms: 
The need for the Government as a matter of urgency to make a statement on the plight of the people of South Vietnam in their courageous defence against the blatant invasion by North Vietnam and its serious implications for the security of Australia.' 
This has been the most remarkably successful urgency motion to have been debated in this House in recent years, because it had the effect of getting the Government to decide to allow the Minister .to make a statement on Vietnam to the House today. So, it has elicited an almost immediate response from the Government. Two days after a statement was sought as a matter of urgency, the Minister has bobbed up with this statement. 
The Opposition has put up scores of similar urgency motions in recent years. I recall sessions of this House where the Government could not have sustained even a barely respectable programme of parliamentary business without the assistance of these urgency motions. Invariably these motions are talked out before interment in Hansard. Never in my experience has the Government acted promptly to implement any of the matters of urgency raised on this side of the House. When Government supporters raise Vietnam as an issue of urgency, the Minister of Defence has no trouble in getting the cooks in his Department to whip up the confection he has put before the Parliament today. 
This statement would have been justified if it contained some fresh information about the present campaigns in Vietnam. It would have been justified if some new insights into the course of the war could have been provided by the Minister. In particular it would have been justified if some comprehensive analysis could have been supplied to the House on the strategy of the North Vietnamese and the short-term objectives of their latest military moves. The Minister's statement is not justified on any of these counts. 
This is disappointing because the amount of hard news coming from the combat areas in South Vietnam in recent days has been very meagre. No blame can be attached to the news agencies for these deficiencies;  in  particular the Australian Broadcasting Commission's correspondent has done an excellent job in getting news reports out in very difficult circumstances. But obviously problems of access to combat areas and problems of communications are hampering the flow of accurate news from Vietnam through regular news channels to Australia. In the past week we have been left largely in the dark about what is happening in the field in Vietnam. We do not have a clue on what is happening in the vital northern provinces below the demilitarised zone. 
There have been quite irreconcilable reports of what is happening in the fighting west of Saigon. Some reports have put communist tanks within 30 miles of Saigon. In this confused context the Minister for Defence should have been able to give us a clearer assessment of what is happening in Vietnam. A lot of effort in recent years has been directed to building up Australia's intelligence services. A Joint Intelligence Organisation has been operating in the Department of Defence for some years now. In addition the Department of Foreign Affairs has intelligence facilities in Vietnam. The Army retains liaison with the headquarters of the ARVN in Saigon. Yet the best the Minister for Defence has been able to give us about the course of the fighting is a few pitiful scraps which could have been culled from the pages of the Press a week ago. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  has been able to do a little better. Outside the Parliament earlier this week he assured the people of Australia that little could be said at this stage about the war, but he expected fighting to continue for some years. This recalled the immortal assessment of the former Prime Minister that the situation in Vietnam plainly was that fighting was continuing. One feature that does emerge clearly is that our intelligence services as measured by the amount of hard information in the Minister's speech just are not up to scratch. We are entitled to much more detailed information and a much more profound level of analysis about what is happening in Vietnam than was revealed by the Minister. It seems pointless to build up our intelligence services within the Department of Defence when at a time of crisis demanding top class intelligence, all the Minister can do is recapitulate superseded Press reports. Perhaps the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  will do a little better, but I suspect be is as much in the dark as his colleague. 
When the last full scale debate on Vietnam was held on 23rd March I made some forecasts that proved remarkably prophetic. It is true that these forecasts were fulfilled much more quickly than I expected. In particular I said that the crucial test for Vieinamisation would come only when the Army of the Republic of Vietnam had to meet the full onslaught of the North Vietnamese and Vietcong forces on the ground without American support. In the absence of information it is difficult to make any hard and fast assessment but I do not think this vital phase of the war has arrived. An offensive of the sort conducted by the communists had been predicted for March. When this offensive failed to eventuate, the inevitable reassessment was that the communists had stayed their hand until after more United States withdrawals or even until after the United States presidential elections. These theories were quickly dispelled by the rapidity and ferocity of the communist offensives. 
Various assessments of communist objectives have been given. One theory is that they are seeking to detach the northern provinces of South Vietnam so a provisional government can be set up, possibly in the old imperial capital of Hue. There is even some suggestion that they might be trying to hold An Loc as a centre for provisional government. It is difficult to see how An Loc, which is vulnerable on 4 sides, could be retained as a communist stronghold. More probably, the communists are testing the ARVN, probing for weaknesses and waiting to exploit any weaknesses that are thrown up. Despie reports that the major part of the North Vietnamese Army is outside North V'etnam, it is obvious that only a fraction of this powerful army is engaged in South Vietnam in these operations. 
The other important aspect of these operations is the propaganda aspect. There seems a determined attitude on the part of North Vietnam to prove to the United States and China that it can go it alone for an extended period if need be. Another factor is the impact of renewed fighting on public opinion in the United States as politicking hots up in the run through to the presidential elections. For these reasons it seems that the latest communist drives have limited objectives; they are not intended as a once-and-for-all effort to crush the South Vietnamese army in one hit. There is the added ingredient that the communists want to try out new weapons supplied by Russia and new tactics to exploit these weapons. They have shown in the past that they are prepared to take heavy casualties to achieve similar objectives. The present outbreak of fighting seems to have been provoked by a combination of the objectives I have listed. 
The next question that needs to be asked is: Has the ARVN performed well enough to account Vienamisation a success, and has it proved its ability to hold the communists off without substantial American assistance? The best answer that can be given is that the case on behalf of the South Vietnamese army has not been proven on either count. The ARVN'S performance has been as patchy and unpredictable as it has always been in the past. Undoubtedly there are some very high calibre units in the ARVN and these have fought bravely and effectively, as they did in earlier campaigns. It is doubtful whether the calibre of the whole Army has been lifted to an extent sufficient for th:m to defeat the communists in decisive terms. 
At the risk of being proved monumentally wrong by the course of events, I should like to sum up the points I have sought to make in looking at the recent campaigns in Vietnam. It is unlikely that these latest offensives constitute the final supreme effort of the communists in South Vietnam. If the communists gain more local successes in the days ahead, it is probable they will continue the offensive and perhaps stiffen it with more men and equipment. The other alternative is that they will accept the limited results they have gained and withdraw and regroup. It is unlikely at this stage that they have any real hopes of securing and holding down large areas of South Vietnam. Such a scaling down of the fighting would be interpreted in some quarters as a success for Vietnamisation and the South Vietnamese. It would be wiser to look at Vietnam in the longer term; there are still many more battles to be fought before even a tentative conclusion can be risked on this issue. 
At this stage it is difficult to see how either side can win a decisive military victory on the ground in Vietnam. The fallacy of Viemamisation was that the communists would wait passively until the South Vietnamese forces were strong enough to defeat them. By some sort of application of the principle of the inverse ratio, the communist forces would shrive] away as the ARVN was built up step by step. Of course, there was talk of the acceptance of an honourable settlement by the communists. When this was reduced to the bare bones it usually turned out to mean total surrender by the communists. Quite plainly the scenarios for Vietnam written by  President  Nixon and  Dr Kissinger  will not be acted out in this way. After years of sustained military effort there is a chance that the communists could be defeated in the. field. But the latest offensives prove they will not desist; they will not let the United States and the regime in Saigon succeed by default. There is not the slightest sign that they intend to moderate or abate in any way the effort they have sustained for almost 30 years. 
Another aspect of the statement raised by the Minister is its implications for Australian security. The Government takes the threat so seriously that the Minister for Defence has announced in quite unequivocal terms that Australia will not re-commit troops there, however grave the risk to South Vietnam. The one paragraph statement in which he announced this decision contained an infinitely saner appreciation of the course of the war than the 11 pages of text he has put before us this afternoon. The official wisdom is that the success of Vietnamisation justified the withdrawal of troops by the Australian Government. Now that this interpretation has been very seriously challenged and perhaps even destroyed, there is no suggestion thai the Government will revert to its previous role. 
In the terms of the logic it has put repeatedly and as reiterated yet again in the Minister's statement this afternoon, it should immediately restore the Task Force and all the units withdrawn in the past 2 years. The Government is aware of this. It knows the fatal flaw in its Vietnam argument. Put simply, it just cannot sustain the argument of a threat to Australia when it has withdrawn all combat troops and has no intention of returning them to Vietnam. Its duty in terms of its traditional approach to Vietnam has been clearly pointed out to it by the Democratic Labor Party and the Friends of Vietnam Association. 
These groups are not squeamish about expending more Australian blood in the slaughter pen of Vietnam; nor should the Government, if it believes its Vietnam policy justified and that the latest eruption of fighting represents a threat to Australia. The Government is completely hooked on this line. It knows the logic of its arguments demands the return of Australian troops to Vietnam. But it knows also that this would not be acceptable to an electorate which has wearied of the war and is disillusioned with the leaders who committed Australia to it. There is no other step the Government could take if it is concerned about the threat to Australia in the latest fighting in Vietnam. 
The Prime Minister is to make a South East Asian visit in June. Why not extend the compass of his trip to include a firsthand assessment of the alleged threat to Australian security from renewed fighting in Vietnam? If my memory is correct, the right honourable gentleman's last visit to Vietnam was in 1970, nearly 2 years ago. During that visit he went to Quang Tri province which is the centre of the present heavy fighting. Here is an excellent opportunity for the Prime Minister to revisit this part of Vietnam and assess the changes since he last put it under his microscope. If there is a threat to Australian security as suggested by the Minister this afternoon and by Government backbenchers on Tuesday, then there is a clear duty on the Prime Minister to assess the threat at first hand and take appropriate action. 
In summary, it is tragic that the debate On defence should again be reduced to the primitive and stupefying level put by the Minister for Defence this afternoon. I had hoped that recent constructive speeches by the Minister for Defence and the Minister for the Navy indicated an elevation of defence debate to a plane of sense and sanity. These hopes have been rudely dashed by the vainglorious ranting of the Minister this afternoon. Undoubtedly the Government intends to reduce the defence debate to the level described in American politics as waving the bloody shirt. Quite plainly on the evidence of contributions from 3 Ministers in this Parliament today, the Government plans a dirty and vicious election campaign. This sort of debasement of the political process is a tragedy for Australian politics which can only be resolved by decisive rejection of this nauseous Government at the polls. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
Can he say what power the United States Federal Maritime Commission has covering freight rates? 
I ask the Prime Minister whether consideration has been given to increasing both the Canberra allowance and the travelling allowance paid to honourable members of this House. The Prime Minister will be aware that the Canberra allowance has remained at the rate of $15 a day for some years. No increase has been granted to honourable members and a recommendation was made, as the Prime Minister will recall, some months ago that these allowances be increased. I ask the Prime Minister whether this matter has been considered by the Government and whether it is proposed to take any action. 
The Minister for Defence will be aware that a review of the code of military law has been in progress for almost 10 years. Can the Minister tell the House the stage this review has reached? Is there any prospect of a uniform military code for the armed Services being implemented in the not too distant future? 
My question to the Prime Minister is supplementary to the question which I directed to the Minister for Defence and also that asked by the honourable member for Berowra. Has the Prime Minister yet consulted his Party, as promised, on the attitude it will take on the Death Penalty Abolition Bill on which the House has been waiting to resume debate since 21st March? If so, what was the decision? 
asked the Minister for 
Social Services, upon notice: 
How many age pensioners have suffered a reduction in pension due to selling their homes in each of the last 3 years. 
I take this opportunity of welcoming the Postmaster-General back to the House, and ask him whether the Solicitor-General,  Mr Ellicott,  stood unsuccessfully for Liberal Party pre-selection for the federal seat of Berowra. Was this done without prejudice to his high office and without recriminations from the Australian Labor Party? Has the Minister noticed a parallel case of an Australian Broadcasting Commission employee who stood unsuccessfully as an Australian Labor Party candidate in the Tasmanian State elections and who was subsequently restored to his former job? Is the Minister aware that attempts have been made to put pressure on the ABC to revoke its sensible and just decision to reinstate this employee? Will the Minister act to safeguard the political rights and right to reinstatement of public servants who unsuccessfully seek public office? In particular, will he ensure that these principles are applied fairly to members of all political parties? 
I ask the Minister for Supply a question without notice. Has any progress been made in plans for the rationalisation of the Australian aircraft industry? Will the Minister be able to inform the House before the Parliament rises of the Government's plans to rationalise the industry? What substance is there in reports that the Government is looking at plants to form a consortium for the industry, using overseas capital and knowhow? 
I ask the Minister for the Army: Is there a housing shortage in Townsville due in part to the impact of last December's cyclone? Has this shortage been accentuated by demands of army personnel for housing in the civilian sector of the city? If so, can anything be done to relieve these strains by providing more army housing in Townsville? 
asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
What was the overall balance of Australian trade with - 
Asian countries excluding Japan; 
African countries excluding South Africa and Rhodesia and 
South American countries during the latest financial year for which figures are available, and for the financial years 5 and 10 years previously. 
1 preface my question to the Minister for Shipping and Transport by reminding the Minister that about a fortnight ago I asked him a question concerning the uncertainty that existed in relation to shipping services from northern Tasmania, particularly from the port of Launceston. I ask the Minister: Have inquiries been made and, if so, can he let me have the result? I further ask the Minister whether, having regard to the long term problems involved, he will favourably consider an interdepartmental inquiry into all aspects of shipping services in this area to alleviate existing problems and to ensure that there is long term planning. 
I ask the Prime Minister a question. Has he any information on reports that certain overseas companies are taking advantage of the depressed state of the stock exchange to make a takeover bid for Travelodge Australia Ltd? Does he believe that such a takeover of a remarkable example of Australian enterprise would be in Australia's interest? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Defence. Last week, in reply to a question asked by the honourable member for Wentworth, the Minister indicated that he had received a report concerning Project N, the light aircraft being produced by the Government Aircraft Factories, and that he would soon be in a position to make a statement. I now ask the Minister: Has the report been considered by the Government and, if so, when will the Parliament be informed of the intentions of the Government in relation to Project N? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Is he now able to answer part 3 (b) of Question No. 4739 (Hansard, 9th December 1971, page 4620) which asked what was the percentage of paid up capita] actually subscribed by Australians, compared with the percentage equity obtained by Australians, in each overseas owned company operation in Australia which has made some degree of Australian equity participation available by an offer of shares to the Australian public during the last 5 years; if so, what are the percentages. 
If not, why is this information not available. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice : 
What is the amount of tax for which assessments have been Issued against provisional taxpayers for the income year ended 30th June 1971. 
How much of that amount remained unpaid at the end of February 1972. 
What are the corresponding figures for (a) the year ended 30th June 1970 and the end of February 1971 and (b) the year ended 30th June 1969 and the end of February 1970. 
What is the State breakdown for these figures. 
asked the Minister for Repatriation, upon notice: 
What has been the living-away-from-home allowance for tertiary education for (a) a single person, and (b) a married man with a wife and one child, under the Soldiers' Children Education Scheme, in each of the last 10 years. 
What were these allowances expressed as a percentage of average weekly earnings in each of those years. 
MrHolten- The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
asked the Minister for Repatriation, upon notice: 
What is the allowance given to patients at Repatriation psychiatric hospitals for (a) week-end leave and (b) such things as cigarettes, magazines and toiletries. 
I ask the Prime Minister a question which is supplementary to the one asked by the right honourable member for Higgins. The Prime Minister will recall that on Tuesday I asked a question about a proposal to take over Travelodge Australia Ltd. He will recall also that he indicated in his answer that the Attorney-General's statement on monopolies and mergers would make explicit the Government's attitude to takeover bids such as the bid for Travelodge. ls it a fact that the new trade practices legislation will not come into operation for at least 3 months? Further, is there a distinct possibility that this legislation will remain on the Notice Paper during the whole of the Budget session? Will this be far too late to have any impact on the takeover offer for Travelodge Australia Ltd? If so, I support the proposition of the right honourable member for Higgins and query the 
Government's attitude to the Travelodge takeover in the light of  Senator Greenwood's  statement yesterday. 
 I seek leave  to  make a short statement on the same subject. 
As I said a few moments ago, this is a very serious matter indeed. 
You may adopt that attitude, but the plain fact is that it is a recognised principle in this Parliament that no-one sets aside a request by a Minister that an embargo be placed on a Press release. That is exactly what has happened on this occasion. I do not know how I stand in relation to procedure, but I intend to move that this matter be referred to the Committee of Privileges. 
You can have your say in a minute. 
All right. I am quite happy to do that. I gave way to the honourable member for Angas. (Honourable members interjecting) 

 - Mr Speaker, you have ruled that this would be in order as a separate motion? 
I will take that opportunity. 
 I indicated to the House earlier that in view of what had been said in the Parliament in relation to this matter I intended to move that the matter be referred to the Committee of Privileges. In moving this motion I am not proceeding against the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  because quite frankly I am not satisfied that he is the guilty person. The person involved in this is the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  I have listened very carefully to everything that has been said in this 
House by both the Minister for Primary Industry and the honourable member for Angas. 
Yes, I listened to the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  earlier today. I am quite satisfied as a result of what was said by the honourable member for Riverina that there has been a deliberate attempt by the Minister for Primary Industry to give to the honourable member for Angas information that would be denied to other members of this Parliament. I do not set aside what was said by the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen).  I respect his views in these matters. I certainly do not reflect on the integrity of the honourable member for Angas, but I believe that he has been placed in a most invidious position. What has happened in this Parliament today and what has happened in relation to this statement is a set of circumstances that would not be tolerated in relation to, for example, excise duties imposed during a Budget session and would not be accepted by any government in this country. But that is exactly what has happened on this occasion. I want to put to you quite plainly,  Mr Speaker,  what happened in relation to this matter. The honourable member for Angas had the statement on his desk before the Minister delivered it. 
It is common knowledge. The honourable member for Angas had this statement on his desk. 
Your statement. 
The honourable member for Angas had it on his desk before the Minister delivered it. 
If the honourable member for McMillan wants me to prove it, I can prove it. 
What is involved in this question? 
I put it to the House that there has been collusion between the Minister for Primary Industry and the honourable member for Angas which involves a principle long accepted in this Parliament that knowledge of any matter involving excise duty will not be made available to the public before the opportunity has been given to the Minister to deliver this information to the Parliament. However, on this occasion, because of the attitude of the Minister for Primary Industry, and no doubt because of what happened earlier this afternoon as a result of the initiative shown by the honourable member for Riverina, there was collusion between the Minister for Primary Industry and the honourable member for Angas. I do not attach the blame for this to the honourable member for Angas. I think the guilty person is the Minister for Primary Industry. 
The Minister will have an opportunity to prove it if he is prepared to support my motion. If I am proved to be wrong I will apologise to the Minister. What I am suggesting to this House in all seriousness is that this matter should be referred to the Committee of Privileges. If the Minister has nothing to hide he will support the motion. If the honourable member for Angas has nothing to hide he will support this motion. I believe that a well-established principle of this Parliament has been set aside this afternoon as" a result of the attitude of the Minister for Primary Industry and that the matter should be referred to the Committee of Privileges. Therefore I move: 
That the matter be referred to the Committee of Privileges. 
asked the Minister for 
Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Has his Department conducted studies to determine the level of hidden unemployment in country areas, apart from the New South Wales Study referred to in the Commonwealth submission in the 1971-72 National Wage Case. 
If so, what are the results of these studies. 
If no studies have been made, will he arrange for studies to be undertaken in each State and the result published as early as possible. 
asked the Minister for Ship  ping and Transport, upon notice: 
Is there any requirement in Australia that car bumper bars be a certain height from the ground. 
If so, what is this height and which car models comply with this requirement. 
I ask the Prime Minister a question. I direct his attention to a statement by the Prime Minister of Singapore,  Mr Lee,  at a National Day celebration on Sunday.  Mr Lee  stated that his Government would accept a policy of troops withdrawal from the South East Asian region if the Labor Party became the next government of Australia. He confirmed also Singapore's military ability to defend itself and stand on its own 2 feet. I ask the right honourable gentleman: Does not this statement make a mockery of his Government's claim that Labor policy would be unacceptable to Singapore? Finally, has not  Mr Lee's  affirmation of Singapore's independent defence strength destroyed the last remnants of the Government's forward defence policy? 
I wish to ask a question of the Minister for the Army. Are several of the Army's 9 battalions substantially under strength? With recruiting running at a high level and conscription continuing at a rate of 12,000 men a year, why can the Government not get the battalions up to strength? Would it not be advisable for the Government to scrap conscription, as recommended by  Sir  Roden  Cutler and supported by the Minister outside the Parliament? Finally, if this were done would it be possible to reorganise the Army in a realistic way with fewer battalions but all at full strength? 
asked the Minister for Repatriation upon notice: 
How many National Servicemen have been assisted with some form of full-time training after discharge in each year since 1967. 
For what types of training is assistance provided. 
What is the period of time for which assistance is provided for each type of training. 
How many former National Servicemen have undertaken each type of training in each year since 1967. 
MrHolten  -  The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I want to raise as a matter of urgency this morning some further developments in what I would describe as the melancholy saga of Tasmanian transport. In particular I want to refer to substantial freight increases imposed by the Australian National Line on the Tasmanian trade. The latest round of freight increases became effective from Monday, 14th August. The ANL lifted freights by almost 20 per cent on 5 categories of cargo carried on the Bass Strait ferry service. These freight increases followed increases of up to 50 per cent on the Line's vehicle and passenger services across Bass Strait. According to the Tasmanian Manager of the ANL the freight increases were designed to eliminate anomalies in cargo rates. 
It would be an understatement to say that this latest series of freight increases has aroused a tempest in Tasmania. There have been widespread threats of industrial action against the hapless ANL which also has been denounced by commercial interests. The only defender of the Line to be found appears to be  Senator Rae  who seems concerned that any subsidy of Tasmanian shipping would ruin Tasmania's economy. The  Senator does  not seem clear how this catastrophe would flow from action to reduce the crippling burden on Tasmania of excessively high shipping rates.  His  stand seems a peculiar one for a  Senator from  a State which depends almost completely on shipping transport. 
The scenario for the latest round of increases was set in the 1971 annual report of the Australian National Line. Admittedly the Line had a wretched year in 1970-71 with an extended strike by marine stewards and other industrial trouble. In its report the Line made the point that a freight rate freeze had been imposed on the coastal sector of the trade for a number of years. This had been lifted early in the 1970-71 year when ministerial approval had been given to a 12) per cent rise in general cargo rates. The Line hinted that further freight increases would be necessary and argued that if reasonable profit margins were to be maintained, periodic adjustments of freight rates were unavoidable. 
The basic economics of this contention are sound enough. The question is whether the profit motive should be enforced so strictly on ANL services to Tasmania. The Line puts responsibility for this squarely on the Commonwealth Government and on the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon).  The relevant section of the report reads as follows: 
Since the close of the period under notice a more realistic general cargo freight structure has been applied with the approval of the Minister so that given reasonable freedom from industrial stoppages and assuming that costs can be kept within bounds, a return to profitability in the current financial year seems possible. 
The Line had a much better year industrially in 1971-72; it also had the benefit of higher freight rates. On all indications the ANL should have returned to profitable operation in 1971-72, but we will not know until the report is tabled. It is most disturbing to find the Line acting quickly to raise freight rates so early in the 1972- 73 financial year. Undoubtedly these latest increases have been sanctioned by the Minister for Shipping and Transport. They appear to have been made in accordance with section 18 of the Australian Coastal Shipping Commission Act. This section hands the Line 2 tasks which it is almost impossible to reconcile. It charges the ANL to pursue a policy which would allow it to secure enough revenue to cover operating costs and permit a reasonable return to the Commonwealth. In the next breath the Act directs the Line to make its shipping services available at the lowest possible rates of charges, subject to the proviso I just mentioned. As the embattled ANL has found, this is an almost impossible charter of duties to achieve. 
There is another interesting aspect of this part of the Act which is extremely relevant to the current contretemps between the Line and its Tasmanian services. The direction under the Act for the Line to make a reasonable return on capital and cover its expenditure is made subject to its obligations under the preceding section of the Act, section 17. It is worth looking closely at this section because its implications have been largely overlooked. The section empowers the Minister to direct the 
Commission to establish, maintain and operate shipping services to meet the requirements of a particular area where it is desirable in the public interest for such a service to be provided. Furthermore, the section states clearly what can be done when such a service is established and it operates at a loss. If the service operates at a loss and in the same year the ANL records an overall loss, the Line is entitled to be reimbursed by the Commonwealth. The amount of the reimbursement is defined as the amount of the loss of that particular shipping service or the overall loss of the ANL whichever is the less. 
Earlier this year I asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport a question on notice about the operations of this section. His reply revealed that the section had never been invoked and that no reimbursements had ever been made by the Commonwealth under the section. It would seem that the original intention of this section was to cover exactly the sort of situation that now applies in Tasmania. Because shipping is vital to Tasmania and the ANL services are vital to Tasmanian shipping, the Minister should direct the Line to treat Tasmania in accordance with the provisions of section  17.  If the Line then lost money in a particular year and showed that this loss was due to losses on the Tasmanian services, then it could be reimbursed by the Commonwealth. In effect this would be a disguised subsidy; the Line could stabilise freight rates for Tasmania without having to operate in perpetual fear of the impact of the lack of profitability on the Tasmanian run. 
Successive Governments and the ANL have always skirted the obligations imposed by this neglected part of the Australian Coastal Shipping Act. Enforcement of these provisions would make it unnecessary to amend section  18  of the Act to remove insistence on a reasonable return on capital. This is important because there have been strong moves in Tasmania for a High Court challenge to the latest freight increases based on an alleged breach of section  18.  Such a challenge would not be necessary if the Commonwealth accepted its obligations under section  17  of the Act as affirmed in section  18.  In fact the duties of the Line as listed in section  18  are made subject to its obligations to provide shipping services in the public interest under section  17.  Any reading of this part of the Act makes it clear that it opens the way for the Commonwealth to subsidise ANL shipping services to Tasmania. In fact there is a clear duty imposed on the Commonwealth under the Act to reimburse the Line for losses it might sustain on the Tasmanian services. 
The case for Commonwealth assistance is reinforced by the continual flow of assistance for transport in other States. There are further examples in this year's Budget - the provision of $2.5m for the sealing of the Eyre Highway and the construction of the Tarcoola to Alice Springs railway at an estimated cost of $54m. This assistance is not begrudged but it is disappointing that so little flows to Tasmania whose economy is completely dominated by the transport mechanism. If the Government does not intervene, further freight increases are inevitable for shipping services which are the lifeblood of Tasmania. Ultimately the burden of ever-increasing freight rates must stifle the State's remaining vitality unless Commonwealth assistance is assured. It is impossible to express adequately the sense of despondency these latest freight increases have aroused in Tasmania. Combined with low per capita income, high unemployment, vanishing industries and low population growth Commonwealth indifference to the savage impact of shipping freight increases can only accentuate the economic stagnation of Tasmania. 
One may say that this morning I have drawn rather a desperate picture of the situation in Tasmania. I appreciate the fact that the Minister for Shipping and Transport has been good enough to come into the House, but I can only emphasise again that unless some assistance is given to Tasmania in its only means of contact with the rest of Australia, the State will continue to stagnate irrespective of what Government is in power at both Commonwealth and State level. These are real problems and the Minister is fully aware of the situation that I have put to him on a number of occasions. The fact that a deputation is to meet the Minister in the near future, a deputation representative of all sections of Tasmanian commerce and industry and of both sides of the Parliament of that State, is a clear indication of the seriousness of the problem. 
I ask the Minister to look sympathetically at the proposition I have put to him this morning. 
The Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  has announced a 5-year defence programme which is dominated overwhelmingly by the requirements of one Service - the Navy. In turn the requirements of the Navy are dominated by provision for one massive weapons system - the DDL destroyer programme. I do not object to this concentration on the Navy. In many ways the Navy has been neglected in the defence policies of recent years. The commitment to Vietnam put the major stress on the Army and the Air Force, although the DDG destroyers did participate in the war. 
The most spectacular area of defence procurement in this period was the Royal Australian Air Force with the protracted controversy over the Fill purchase. In retrospect the cost escalation of the Fill seems almost modest in comparison with what has occurred with the DDL and what can be expected from the destroyer project in the next few years. There are many implications of the DDL programme which disturb the Opposition and I will deal with these at some length later in my remarks. 
I want to make some general comments about matters raised by the Minister for Defence in his statement. The first criticism that needs to be made is that the so-called rolling programme as described by the Minister does not constitute an adequate programme budget for defence over the next 5 years. The essence of a defence programme budget is that it projects cash flows on elements of defence spending over a number of years; the usual time span for such a programme is 5 years. With such projection it is possible to identify elements of the programme and follow projected spending on them over the period of the programme. For example, if this were a genuine 5-year' programme budget it should be possible to isolate the DDL programme and follow through projected spending on it year by year. Obviously these projections cannot be 100 per cent accurate; they are intended as guides to future spending so that the impact of a particular element of the programme can be assessed and necessary adjustments made. A programme budget of this sort is not intended to be infallible; its objective is to supplement traditional budgetary procedures by projecting spending over a longer period and analysing the components of a particular area of public spending. In this way we can see how spending on a particular defence project or on functional elements of a defence budget vary from year to year. 
The projections of defence spending contained in the Minister's statement are extremely inadequate. There is no attempt to provide an estimate of the total cost of the programme. We are told that using defence spending of $l,217m in 1971-72 projected defence spending in 1976-77 would be $J,530m. Using the sophisticated mathematical technique of averaging these figures and multiplying by 5, we get an estimate of S6,865m as total spending over the 5 year period. It is even not possible to get from the Minister's statement any estimate of the cost of the main components of the plan over 5 years. Using the complex technique described above, it is possible to project these figures over 4 years. If one wants them for 5 years it is necessary to hunt through the budget papers and add the figures of 1971-72 to what the Minister has made available. Presenting such a sloppy piece of work as a budget for a 5-year defence programme would be laughed out of any other Parliament in the world. There is no reason why the Australian Parliament should stomach such a presentation. 
Undoubtedly an immense amount of forward projection of defence costs has been done by the Department of Defence. This is information on public policy and public spending; ultimately this Parliament will have to account for this spending and it should have these projections put before it in detailed form. Furthermore they should be made available to the alternative government of Australia. There is far too much by-passing of the Parliament and the alternative government on this vital area of defence policy. I cite as an example the performance of the Minister for the Navy  (Dr Mackay)  outside this House yesterday. The Minister gave a very detailed Press briefing on the DDL destroyer at 5 p.m. yesterday afternoon. Initially this was scheduled for 1 p.m. but this was abandoned when the Minister for Defence learned it would pre-empt his statement. Another detailed technical briefing on the DDL project was held at the Navy Department this morning. At yesterday's briefing the Minister distributed a lengthy paper on the DDL destroyer couched in descriptive and analytical terms; it did not contain any material of a security nature. My office applied to the office of the Minister for the Navy last night for a copy of this document and the request was rejected. 
Yes, it was. The paper was finally supplied to me by the Minister for the Navy during the sitting this morning. There was no reason why it could not have been supplied previously. 
My office might have been informed that this was the position. This information was not conveyed to my office. I make the point that it should be possible to make such material available to the alternative government at an earlier stage of the process. It should also be possible for the alternative government to be briefed on a defence issue of such magnitude. The decision on the future of the DDL programme will not be made by the mass media; it will be determined in this Parliament and it may very well be made by the alternative government. It should not be necessary for the alternative government to have to scratch around for this sort of essential material. 
To return to my initial point, the cost details disclosed by the Minister for Defence are completely inadequate for the requirements of this House. Only a cursory attempt is made to project spending and this is done on the basis of August 1972 costs. There may be difficulties in projecting spending on the basis of an index of defence spending. Certainly projection in terms of  the  consumer price index would be a  rather  crude exercise. I refuse to believe that this sort of analysis has not been undertaken bv the Defence Department planners. It gives a totally misleading idea of the nature of spending under the programme to project spending on capital equipment in 1976-77 in terms of 1972 prices. 
The fallacy of this concept of a 5-year rolling programme is exposed in the Minister's insistence on announcing only new equipment decisions for 1972-73. As I have stated previously in this House, the 5- year rolling programme is merely a variation on the technique of annual budgeting for defence spending. The use of the 5- year time scale is a misnomer because the programme is still projected substantially on a year-to-year basis. The 5-year rolling programme as announced by  Sir Allen  Fairhall was intended as a transformation of traditional planning of defence spending and procurement. However subsequent statements have revealed that programme budgeting has not been applied as a revolutionary technique on the lines of the defence budgets of the United Kingdom, Sweden, West Germany and a number of other countries. The 5-year concept has added little to the overall effectiveness of Australia's defence planning. It just rolls on year by year on traditional lines. 
The crude breakdown of projected spending on functional lines made in the Minister's statement does, in this case, make one valid point. In the conventional budget framework defence spending is broken up in terms of the 5 Defence departments. In the Minister's analysis, aggregate spending is allocated on the basis of the function it is intended to perform. We have the following headings: Capital equipment for the Services, defence facilities, pay and allowances of Service personnel and civilians, running costs, research and development and foreign defence aid. The logic of this sort of breakdown is infinitely superior to itemising defence spending under departmental headings. Whatever disappointments one might feel with the Minister's statement, this, at least, is an improvement. Such an analysis leads to the inescapable conclusion that the present structure of the Defence departments on individual Service lines is old fashioned and inadequate. The present cumbersome structure of individual Service departments is unparalleled in any contemporary democracy. It is a corollary of the organisation of the defence budget on functional lines that the Defence departments should be organised on functional lines with the abolition of the individual Service departments. This is an inevitable reform and it is appropriate that even the meagre analysis in the early part of the Minister's statement should have reinforced the case for re-organisation. 
If there is any innovation in the Minister's approach, it lies in the recognition of the share of the Budget absorbed by basic housekeeping costs. This is a trend which has been apparent for a number of years; I stressed it in this House as early as 1967. lt has been obvious for several years that if resources are to be freed for reequipment of the Services or if we are to query equipment required by the Services, savings would have to be made in other areas. Obviously it is impossible to cut back on pay and allowances; it may be possible to stabilise spending in this area although this is doubtful. The key area is restraint in the growth of operating costs. The Opposition has frequently suggested that the only way of doing this is by much greater efforts to integrate common services. The pace of the removal of duplicated and even triplicated services has been disappointingly slow. This is the only way in which the pattern of defence spending can be changed and re-allocation of resources made away from basic housekeeping costs. The curbs on costs of running the Services will maintain only the present status quo and this will not allow more resources to be diverted to the capital equipment programme. 
Implicit in the Minister's emphasis on restructuring the pattern of spending is restraint in the growth of manpower for the Services. This is particularly significant for the Army. The Minister did not develop this theme in any way but there are a number of very strong hints between the lines of his text. He gave the projected strength of the Army permanent forces at about  40,000  and went on to make the observation that actual strength would fluctuate around this figure because of variations in recruiting and re-engagement rates. This is important because the net gain in Army strength is running at a high level at the moment. The excess of volunteers and re-enlistments over loss of men is running at quite a high annual rate at the moment. There is no sign of any reversal of this trend: it may even be strengthened in the present economic climate. With the number of permanent volunteers rising and a stable component of nation.il servicemen the Defence Minister is working himself into a very serious predicament. Obviously he wants to maintain the Army level at around  40,000  as part of restraints on running costs. However, with the number of volunteers rising the net strength of the Army is over  41,000. 
If present recruiting trends continue the Minister could find himself with an Army of  43.000  or even more. This is embarrassing on  2  counts. Firstly, it is not possible to restrain costs if there is a substantia! growth in the number of men enlisting. Secondly, it means that the only way of getting the Army back to the  40,000  mark is to cut national service. It is impossible to see any sort of rational compromise between the Government's wish to retain national service, its insistence on a maximum component of volunteers, and the desire expressed by the Minister for Defence to restrain the growth of manpower costs. The lack of logic and consistency in the Government's military manpower policies is forcing it into a very sticky position on the future strength of the Army. If its objectives are not rationalised in some way the whole basis for the present mix of volunteers and national servicemen could be destroyed beyond rpeair. 
There was recognition of this dilemma in a terse reference in the Minister's report. He said explicitly that any limitation in Army manpower must be compensated for by technologically advanced equipment. This hints very strongly at possible replacement of a labor intensive Army as we have now by a capital intensive Army with fewer men and much more advanced equipment. 
The end result would be an Army on similar lines to the present Navy and Air Force with emphasis on minimum manpower and maximum advanced equipment, lt is ironic that this concept of a capital rather than a labor-intensive Army has been advanced by the Government's Minister for Defence. The Labor Party has been accused of trying to destroy the Army by insisting that national service be abolished. The concept of the Minister for Defence goes way beyond the abolition of national service, lt implies a sharp reduction in the number of volunteers in a switch to a capital intensive Army. 
This exposes the misleading nature and the often hypocritical attitudes of the Government on this question of the size of the Army. On one hand it insists on a target strength of around  40.000  and claims that any reduction would destroy the effectiveness of the Army. On the other the Minister has made it quite plain that the Government has plans for moving away from a labour-intensive army to a capitalintensive army based on fewer men and more advanced equipment. In the same breath the Government is putting restraints on the growth of manpower and maintaining the strength of the Army at an inflated level by the conscription of  12,000  men each year. 
A notable omission from the discussion on manpower is any reference to the Citizen Military Forces. This is surprising because the Government spokesmen have put particular emphasis on the impact of Labor's abolition of national service on the future of the CMF. On the evidence of this statement the Government is not unduly perturbed about the future of the CMF and its essential role in the defence structure. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, yesterday in this Parliament I sat through the statement made by the Minister for Defence which lasted for 45 to 50 minutes and it seems incredible to me, as I am sure it must to those honourable members and people outside the Parliament who concern themselves about the problems of defence in this country, that in a 5-year plan there could be not one reference to probably one of the most important aspects of defence in this country, the future of the CMF. There has been a considerable number of debates in this Parliament on defence matters, normally raised by honourable members on this side of the House and sometimes supported by the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess).  I acknowledge the honourable member's support. 
I remember that last year we asked the former Minister for the Army whether he would be prepared to make a statement in this Parliament on the future role of the CMF in Australia. A statement ultimately was presented, as a result of further questions asked by the honourable member for La Trobe, I think, and others in this Parliament, but it told us exactly nothing. It told us no more than any person who serves in the armed forces in this country could have told us, A very quick discussion with anyone who has some concern for the voluntary branch of the services in this country could have given us more indication of what the Minister would be expected to say in his statement on the future of the CMF at that time. 
There is great concern in this country about the future of the CMF. How often have I heard in this Parliament honourable members on the Government side of the House say, when we have been discussing the problems of national service, as well as the Minister for Defence, the Minister for the Army  (Mr Katter)  and others in answer to questions, that young men have the alternative of joining the CMF. The Minister for Defence must know that one of the problems of the CMF today is that it has been expected to absorb those people who are not prepared to accept responsibility as national servicemen in this country. Is it any wonder,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that there is this great concern throughout the community about the deterioration of the role of the CMF in Australia and the complete disregard for the CMF by the Government and those on the Government side of the chamber who accept responsibility in this Parliament for matters of defence? 
The Minister made a 50-minute statement without once referring to the CMF. Surely one can expect that this is an integral part of the defence system of this country. Does the Minister for Defence not believe or would he not be prepared to concede that at the time of the outbreak of the Second World War in 1939 the CMF made a very significant contribution indeed? Had it not been for the cadre of officers, non-commissioned officers and other ranks who enlisted at that time there would have been great difficulty in raising the initial defence force in this country. Therefore I say to the Minister for Defence that if this was a deliberate omission, or even if it was an oversight, I hope he will take the earliest possible opportunity to correct it. 
I assure him, as I assure honourable members on the Government side of the chamber, that there is great feeling in this country about the deterioration of the CMF. I believe that those who are prepared to serve in this way on a voluntary basis are entitled to be told by this Government what the future of this force is to be. Is it to be allowed to wither away altogether? One could hardly blame these people if they adopted the attitude that the Government is interested no longer, and, even worse, that it is no longer concerned. On the evidence of this statement, as I said, the Government appears to be not unduly perturbed about the future of the CMF. I hope that what I have said will at least ensure that some responsible Minister in this Parliament, one of the Service Ministers, will again make some positive statement about the future of what we regard as one of the most important parts of the defence system in this country. 
The new equipment announced for the Army in 1972-73 is limited to one item - the procurement of the Nomad observation aeroplane. This is hardly new; it was announced some weeks ago. Once again it is worth pointing up the uselessness of a 5- year programme which can provide only one important item of procurement for the Army - and that a very familiar piece of equipment. The only other reference to Army equipment is one vague mention of the need for greater self-reliance in artillery and close air support. 
This is the sum total of what the Minister can tell us about the future needs of the Army over the next 5 years. Not only does the programme fail to tell us how much will be allocated to capital reequipment for the Army; it does not even go beyond indicating in the vaguest terms the areas where re-equipment is needed. This seems to amuse the Minister for the Navy (Or Mackay). If his understanding of the Army is no better than his understanding of the Navy, I can appreciate his amusement. 
Turning to the Royal Australian Air Force, the  amount of  revelation in the programme is just as unsatisfactory. On the strategic side the Minister says the concept of air warfare is not confined to the defence of the Australian continent, hi his view Australia's strategic strike force with its long-range capability is intended as a deterrent. He neglects to mention that this alleged deterrent is not yet in existence as a viable force in Australia. The Australian deterrent is still in the hangars at Fort Knox where it is deterring no-one from mounting an attack on Australia. Even when the so-called deterrent is assembled and fully effective in Australia it is absurd to suggest that a potential enemy would be deterred from any aggression to Australia by its existence. 
A delivery system in itself is not a deterrent; the deterrent lies in what the delivery system delivers. A deterrent based on strategic bombers armed with conventional weapons is not viable; it would not deter any country with the potential to assault Australia from going ahead with its plans. An Fill making a hazardous flight of several thousand miles with in-flight fuelling to drop a load of conventional bombs on a potential aggressor just does not constitute a deterrent. This raises the rather sinister implication that some sort of nuclear deterrent using the Fill as a delivery system exists somewhere in the Government's consciousness. The Minister goes on to say that if deterrence failed, air defence would involve all 3 Services. 
This raises the questions of the Navy's review of its air power needs and the future of the fleet air arm which I will refer to when discussing the DDL project. lt means, also, a substantial increase in the air capability of the Army. This points up the blurring of distinctions between the individual services and the increasing integration of their roles. The announcement of new equipment for the RAAF is confined to reiteration of the decision to buy 37 basic air trainers from New Zealand. Much more important items of defence equipment, such as the replacement of long-range maritime patrol aircraft and the replacement of the Mirages, are ducked completely. 
Although the RAAF has announced its requirement for the Mirage replacement and submissions from potential suppliers have been sought, the Minister stated quite blandly that commitment to a new air defence aircraft would not be required for some years. This attitude contrasts quite dramatically with previous statements that an early decision on a Mirage replacement would be necessary because of the long lead-time in obtaining a new aircraft. The only contribution the Minister made to resolving these issues was to state that the future of the Phantoms on lease from the United States Air Force was under consideration. 
I turn now to the core of the Minister's statement, which is the new equipment programmes announced for the Navy. It has become a cliche of defence analysis and commentary in the past few years that the Navy will be the decisive service in th remaining decades of this century. Once the doctrine of forward defence was scrapped and it was recognised that Australian defence was essentially continental defence, even the present Government recognised this basic truth. The Department of Defence has even coined the dreadful label maritime-archipelago environment' to describe the new area of Australia's defence interest. The paramount position of the Navy in this sort of defence environment has at last been recognised. However, it is far from clear how the Navy should be equipped and deployed in the most effective way to assure the security of the Australian continent. The supremacy of the Navy is revealed in the lion's share of capital equipment costs allocated to it in the sketchy outline of future procurement contained in the Minister's statement. What is absent is any recognition of the need to integrate the expected role of the Navy with the equipment necessary for that role. 
There is an immense propaganda campaign in progress at the moment to promo:e the DDL destroyer concept. Previously in this House I have expressed doubts about the relevance of the DDL concept measured against its prohibitive cost. I have not been alone in questioning some of the assumptions underlying the DDL; Government members including the honourable members for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  and Wentworth  (Mr Bury)  were rather more critical of the programme than I was during last year's defence estimates debate. It will be interesting to see whether their attitudes are still the same. Let me state at the outset that it is not irresponsibility or mere bagging to question these defence programmes. It is not intended as a reflection on the Navy to make this sort of critical analysis; I know its keenness to get its destroyers and the blow it would be to naval morale if anything went wrong with the project. But there is a higher duty that before such a vast and costly programme is undertaken it be thoroughly justified in cost-effectiveness terms. Despite the lengthy analysis given to the DDL by the Minister for Defence and outside the House by the Minister for the Navy, I am not satisfied that this has been done. 
The first thing that concerns me is the small number of vessels involved. In effect, the Navy will be replacing 6 destroyers with 3 at the end of the decade. The statement made by the Minister for the Navy abounds with optimism that these 3 destroyers will be only the first batch of a number of new destroyers based on the DDL format and designed to fulfil more specialised roles. In plain terms the Minister would have to be joking. If these 3 destroyers are built they will be a onceandforali effort, whatever the government. With the estimated unit cost now exceeding $100m and certain to be much higher, the project is way beyond the stage where 12 destroyers would be built. With the bulk of resources for new capital spending for the Navy going to these 3 destroyers we would have a situation at the turn of the decade when our naval capability would be substantially below what it is now. 
By 1980, 6 of the older destroyers will be too old for service, the 'Melbourne' will have finished its effective life and it is likely that a replacement for its fleet air arm capability will be still in the offing. The 3 DDLs would not be in effective service before 1984 at the earliest. In effect, there would be a period of at least 3 years during which Australia's naval strength would be at a very low ebb. We would have fewer ships instead of more; even if the 3 DDLs came into service and some form of fleet air capacity were provided, our naval capability would barely match what it is now. 
This is the basic flaw of the DDL concept: It concentrates too large a share of available resources on too small a part of the naval capacity we need. In ideal circumstances the DDL may be the only vessel that meets Australia's requirements. It is a simple enough exercise to put the DDL up against a smaller and cheaper ship and demonstrate the marked supremacy of the DDL. But does this sort of ship-to-ship comparison assure the overall weapons mix that is the most suitable for the naval defence of Australia? Obviously there are very serious limitations to what even 3 highly effective general purpose destroyers would achieve in the immense area of ocean surrounding Australia. 
Take one hypothetical example of the possible deployment of these 3 destroyers in a situation of potential threat. I refer to the escort role. With 3 destroyers it would be possible to have one escorting a convey from Sydney across the Pacific, another from Brisbane through the Strait of Malacca, and the third from Perth across the Indian Ocean. What else could these 3 destroyers achieve in a situation of war? If one were diverted to some other role such as area air defence or interdiction of enemy shipping, the escort capability for one major trade route would be obliterated. It can be argued that this only proves that we need many more DDL's but how can we afford them at the estimated unit cost? 
The second point I want to make about the destroyers is their vulnerability. The Minister for Defence stressed repeatedly that the DDLs would have the capacity to operate in an independent role far from Australia's shores. He expressed it as follows: 'We must be able to deploy destroyers which, if need be, can act in a hostile environment, without the support of our allies'. This envisages a roll where the DDL operates independently in a hostile area without air cover. It assumes that the DDL in such a role would have the ability to defend itself against air attack, presumably by surface to air missiles. When the DDG guided-missile destroyers were bought it was claimed by the Government that they would give the Navy protection from air attack; accordingly the fixed-wing element of the fleet air arm was dismantled. This assumption was exposed as fallacious when the Skyhawk aircraft were bought to provide a new fighter-bomber capability for the 'Melbourne'. 
The same doubts about the effectiveness against aerial attack would apply to the DDL. It is doubtful whether the DDL would be able to operate safely when deep in hostile territory without some sort of air cover. Missile defences have been shown to have flaws, particularly with low flying aircraft and surface to surface missiles which skim the sea. This raises also the question of the vulnerability of the DDLs to missilearmed fast patrol boats when operating in an independent role. This point is best illustrated by the theoretical destruction of the aircraft carrier 'Melbourne' by missiles from Singaporean patrol boats in a recent exercise. The 'Melbourne' had its own air cover but this did not save it from being killed'. On this and other evidence of the vulnerability of destroyers to this sort of craft, it would be foolhardy for the DDLs to operate by themselves at any distance from air cover. 
It is true that the DDL is designed to carry helicopters big enough to carry heavy missiles capable of knocking out a fast patrol boat. But the helicopter is vulnerable in its own right to effective anti-air defence; furthermore a single helicopter on station needs a considerable amount of luck to pick up a fast patrol boat before it fires its missiles. The Minister for Defence insisted that this area-air defence role was one of the three significant roles of the generalpurpose DDL. The others were escort and surveillance duties. There must be very grave doubts about the effectiveness of the DDL in this area-air defence role without adequate air cover. This exposes another anomaly in the Government's assessment of the role of the DDL. A study of Navy air power is being made at the moment to determine the future of air capability once the 'Melbourne' finishes its effective life. Presumably this will also evaluate whether the 'Melbourne' should be replaced by another conventional aircraft carrier or whether the Navy should switch to throughdeck cruisers or some other form of helicopter carrier or Harrier carrier. The conclusions of this study are extremely relevant to the future of the DDL yet the Government has gone ahead without waiting for the results of this study. 
In summary, neither Minister has shaken my belief that Australia's naval defences would be better served by a mix of vessels giving the greatest capability across the whole range of naval requirements and justified in cost-effectiveness terms within the limits of available resources. This capability could perhaps be achieved by providing a fleet of 20 DDLs, which seems to be the sort of fleet the Minister for the Navy has in mind. Alternatively it could be provided by a greater number of more modest vessels selected on the basis of contribution to an overall force structure. It is understandable that a single DDL would have immeasurably greater capability than a single fast patrol boat, a frigate or some other vessel. This comparison has never been made, although the Minister seems to suggest that this is mv belief. The cost-effectiveness of the DDL is not measured in terms of comparison with a single smaller and less elaborate vessel. What is significant is the contribution a mix of a number of these less elaborate vessels can make to Australia's defences measured against what 3 DDLs could do. The supremacy of the DDLs in costeffectiveness terms in such a comparison has been proven neither by the Government nor the Navy. This is an immensely important question and the Parliament will have further opportunities to discuss it during the Budget debate and the Estimates debate. 
In summary, many interesting facets are contained in the Minister's statement and I hope I have touched on most of them. What the Minister has put to the House falls down seriously as a comprehensive and coherent statement of a 5-year defence programme. The amount of financial data contained in the document is extremely disappointing. But I suppose as a stimulant to debate of defence issues the statement has its merits. Its implications will be considered by the Opposition in the next few weeks. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Mackay)  adjourned. 
I ask the Minister for the Army a question. He will have noted that the document 'Estimates of Receipts and Summary of Estimated Expenditure', which was tabled with the Budget, at page 173 shows that the estimated number of males in the Army will fall by 969 in 1972-73; that is, the actual strength in 1971- 72 was 41,439 and the estimated strength in 1972-73 is 40,470. Can the Minister explain why the strength .of the Army is expected to fail at a time when net recruitment is exceeding wastage by a substantial amount? Is this a hint of a further decrease in the period of national service? Alternatively, has the Government decided to reduce the overall number of volunteers in the. Army? Finally, how does this square with the Government's statement that it insists on a maximum component of volunteers in the Australian Army? 
1 am sorry that I missed the first part of the statement made by the Minister tor Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp).  ] presume that he has moved a motion that Government business take precedence over general business. I did not hear all the Minister's speech on the motion, but I want to say at the outset on behalf of the Opposition that the Opposition opposes the motion in the terms moved by the Minister, that is, that Government business take precedence over general business. 1 shall come back to that point in a few moments, i heard the Minister at the end of his address make a plea concerning the adjournment debate. This is a matter I discussed with the Minister earlier today and he knows the point of view of the Opposition in relation to the adjournment debate. The Opposition believes that there should be at least an hour's adjournment debate; that is to say, if the motion that the House do now adjourn is put at 1 1 p.m. then the adjournment debate should continue until at least midnight and there should be an opportunity for a minimum of 4 honourable members from this side of the House to speak during that debate. I believe this is fair and reasonable, particularly now that the Minister has moved this motion that Government business will in future take precedence over any general business which might be brought forward by honourable members on this or the other side of the House. 
If that is to be the position there should not be any curtailment of the opportunities for honourable members to express their point of view on matters that concern them individually in their electorates or matters of a national character. When an honourable member, not being a member of the Government parties, has such limited opportunities to bring forward matters of national importance, his opportunity to speak on the adjournment debate or on general business day. or perhaps even more importantly, on grievance day should not be limited. This Parliament has been in session now for slightly more than one week. There were 3 sitting days of Parliament last week and we are now into the second sitting day of this week. So there have been only 5 sitting days so far this session. We are now told at this early stage that in future Government business will take precedence over any other business that any member of this House might want to bring before the Parliament. For this to be proposed after only 5 days there must surely be some very good reason. 
Everybody knows that there is to be an election some time before the end of this year, in fact a challenge was issued last night to hold an election immediately; of course, the Opposition will meet the Government's wishes in this respect. The sooner the better. But while this Parliament remains in session there should be a very good reason for curtailing the opportunities of honourable members to speak. One of the few opportunities they have is on grievance day. I do not believe that any honourable member on the Government side, any more than any honourable member on the Opposition .side, would argue that grievance day - a time honoured custom in this House - does not present an opportunity for members to express a point of view about the matters to which I have referred, that is, matters affecting their electorates or matters of a national character. Yet today, after only 5 sitting days, as I have said, the Government comes in with its normal dictatorial attitude and informs this Parliament that in future there will not be any discussion of general business at all and that Government business will have to be given first priority. ] said a few moments ago that I did have a discussion earlier today with the Leader of the House, the Minister for Customs and Excise. So far, we have not had a quarrel but I would not guarantee that this will continue if this kind of situation arises in which the opportunities of honourable members to speak are brushed aside merely because the Government determines that it will decide what business will be discussed on Thursdays. That is a day that is traditionally set aside for honourable members in this Parliament to be able to express an opinion of their own, irrespective of whatever Government business may be listed for that day. So, we emphatically protest against the Government's attitude in this respect. Surely there is no reason for this procedure to be adopted at this early stage, particularly in view of the fact that no honourable member on the Government side so far has suggested when the general election should be held. I can only repeat that, as far as we are concerned, the sooner it is held the better. However, no honourable member opposite has suggested whether the election is to be held in October or November. Personally, I hold the opinion that the election is more likely to be held in November and if it is to be in November, why this haste to curtail the opportunities of honourable members to speak? 
Well, it would nol have been explained adequately to me. Surely the Leader of the House has had the opportunity to explain this to me before. 1 did apologise. I said that unfortunately 1 missed the first part of the Minister's statement. 
1 do not agree with it. 1 do not agree that the Minister should take this offhand attitude. 
1 think that the Minister for Customs and Excise is putting forward a case for the Government. What I was about to say when I was interrupted by the Minister was that we had a discussion this morning about providing additional debating time and the Minister put to me a proposition which would involve the House sitting earlier on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays. I did not disagree with the Minister on that point because it has always been the attitude of the Opposition that there should be greater opportunities for honourable members to engage in debate in this Parliament - that debating time should not be lessened. So I said to the Minister: 'If you put this proposition to me, I will put it to the honourable members on my side of the House and 1 am sure that there will be general agreement about the amended sitting hours'. I think that the Minister should concede that this was my attitude in relation to that matter because honourable members should have the maximum opportunity to debate matters in this Parliament. 
During that same discussion I said that I did not believe that the House should sit later than, say, 11 p.m. However, on the question of Parliament sitting earlier each morning the Minister for Customs and Excise reminded me at the time that his proposal would gain approximately  6i  hours of additional debating time each week. As far as I am aware, there will be no opposition from honourable members on this side of the House to this proposal. We agree that there should be more opportunities for debating. In these circumstances, having presented to me what he believed was a reasonable proposition for increasing the debating time in the Parliament to which I agreed, I can see no justification whatsoever for the Minister moving a motion of this nature at this time. 
Having put this argument on behalf of the Opposition, let me again refer to the importance of the grievance day debate. I said initially that it is a time honoured custom in this Parliament for honourable members to be able to take the opportunity once each fortnight on Thursday morning, immediately after question time, to raise matters of a local or, indeed, even of a national character. On alternate Thursdays there is general business day. If honourable members were to look at the notice paper for today, they would see that, under the heading 'General Business', there are about 15 notices of motion. Those notices will all be taken off the notice paper at the end of this Parliament. The Government will dissolve the Parliament. We will go to the country and, of course, the notice paper will be wiped clean. There are 15 notices. They may not be important to honourable members on the other side of the House but to the Opposition members who have proposed these motions they are important. However, we are to be completely ignored. 
Very good. Of course, the honourable member for Moreton is one of the few discerning members on the other side of the House. He does think for himself and occasionally he comes up with a proposition that we support. I have not had a look at the notice to which he has referred but I probably would support it. So, I expect that the honourable member will vote against this motion. Having said that, let me refer to the problem of Thursdays. On Thursday of this week general business item No. 15 was due to have been discussed. Under normal circumstances, that item would have been due for debate this Thursday. The notice of motion was given by the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  and reads: 

 Mr Scholes: To move: that this House disagrees with the announcement by the Prime Minister that Camp Hill will be the site for the New and Permanent Parliament House and is of the opinion that the site should be on Capital Hill. 
This is an extremely important question for discussion as general business. How many honourable members who sit on the other side of the House would be prepared to argue that this is not a matter of great contention in this Parliament? The situation as we know it at the moment is that a motion has been carried in the Senate which reflects a completely opposite opinion to that expressed in the House of Representatives on where the new Parliament House should be located. A third opinion has been expressed by the Joint Select Committee on the New and Permanent Parliament House. Three different opinions have been expressed on this matter and this notice has waited on the notice paper. It would have been due for discussion on Thursday of this week but now, according to the Government, it is not to be debated at all. This Parliament will be dissolved and we still will not have had a decision from the House of Representatives on the site for the new Parliament House. 
I think that I have said enough to indicate that there is genuine opposition on the part of honourable members on this side of the House, particularly at this early stage of the new sessional period, to the dictatorial attitude adopted by the Government in setting aside what, after all, are the traditional rights of honourable members in this Parliament. That is, the right to be able to raise matters that concern them and their electorates on Thursdays. On alternate Thursdays they have (he right to deal with matters of a national character such as the one to which I have just referred. 
I conclude by again expressing my regret that I did not hear the argument put by the Minister, lt would have to be a very good one to convince me that there is a genuine need to bring forward a motion of this kind 5 days after the Parliament has begun a new session. So I indicate to the Minister and the Government that we are firmly opposed to the proposition that he has put before this House. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Now that the Prime Minister has given us the benefit of his thoughts on an early election, I ask the Deputy Prime Minister whether he will make a frank statement of his thoughts on the same subject. 
The Opposition does not oppose the motion. I indicated our attitude to the House yesterday when we opposed a motion introduced by the Leader of the House, the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp),  relating to government business taking precedence of general business. At that time 1 foreshadowed that the Opposition would not be opposing the alterations to silting times now moved by the Minister. As I indicated to the House we believe that if it is necessary to provide additional opportunities for honourable members to debate the legislation that will be coming before this Parliament, it appears to be a reasonable way in which to approach the problem. For this reason we do not oppose the motion. 
In explaining his motion to the House today the Minister did not take the opportunity to indicate to members on this side of the House whether he would be giving them an opportunity to speak on Grievance Day. As I said yesterday, this is one of the traditional means by which members can raise private matters in this House. The Minister also did not indicate whether members would have an opportunity to discuss general business matters after the Budget debate has been terminated. The Minister will remember that he said yesterday that it was necessary to suspend Grievance Day and general business debates until the discussion on the Budget had been concluded, an argument I did not have an opportunity to hear at the time. 
I am hopeful that the Minister will indicate to the Parliament that when the Budget debate has ended an opportunity will be presented again to members of this Parliament to participate in Grievance Day and general business debates. 1 have already indicated that the Opposition does not oppose extension of the sitting hours. I can only reiterate what I said yesterday in relation to the impending election, to which the Minister referred. We hope that the election will be held as soon as possible. Indeed, I indicated to the honourable member for Mallee  (Sir Winton Turnbull)  that if the Government was good enough to bring down in one day legislation to amend the social service, repatriation and taxation laws we would be happy to pass that legislation as soon as possible. 
The honourable member for Mallee had his opportunity yesterday. He concurred with me at that time that the legislation which was brought into the House ought to be given a swift passage. We will be looking forward to the election as soon as possible. The Minister may be able to gain some satisfaction from what I have said in this respect. Any legislation coming before this Parliament that will provide additional benefits for the people outside will be given as swift a passage through the Parliament as is possible for members on this side of the House to provide. 
I hope that the Minister will give an assurance about the points I have raised in relation to Grievance Day and general business. We raise no objection to amending the sitting hours. If the Parliament must rise for an election at some time in the near future, any additional time which can be made available to honourable members to debate legislation in this Parliament ought to be made available to them. We have never opposed this practice in the past and we do not oppose it on this occasion. I agree with the points that the Minister made about 2 other matters. We do not consider it necessary, at this stage anyway, for the House to meet on either Mondays or Fridays. Further, we will resist any pressure by the Government to extend the sitting hours beyond the normal rising time of 1 1 p.m. each day. 
If the Minister has in mind introducing a motion later in the session to suspend the 11 p.m. rule, I give notice at this stage that we will be opposing any such move. 
I repeat my assurance that as to most of the legislation honourable members on this side will co-operate. We are anxious that any benefits that will accrue to people outside the Parliament will be available to them as soon as possible. We support the motion moved by the Minister for Customs and Excise. 
J ask the Minister for Defence a question. He is well aware that a. review of the code of military law has been in progress now for almost 11 years. He will recall also that one of his predecessors,  Sir Allen  Fairhall, said 5 years ago that quite exceptional progress was being made in completing the report. Can the Minister tell the House what stage the review has now reached and when it will be completed? Is the main problem still the insistence of the Navy on retention of traditional aspects of the law applied on ships at sea? Is there any prospect of a uniform military code for the armed Services being introduced in the not too distant future? 
In the Budget debate I usually examine the incidence of the Government's fiscal policy on defence spending. This year I want to make some general comments about the economy and the impact of the Budget. The attention of this Parliament to the Budget has been distracted by a highly emotional debate about the valuation of Australian currency. In many ways, economic policy has supplanted defence as the most emotive issue concerning members of the Government parties. Ironically, it seems that we have succeeded in directing the defence debate into responsible and rational channels at the expense of generating hysteria over economic policy. Australian Country Party Ministers in particular have reached heights of vilification in reaction to expressions of opinion about the proper value of Australian currency. Accusations of treachery and felony have been levelled at the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  for expressing an honest opinion about the future of Australian currency. The Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  has been in the forefront of this very dubious activity with a blanket condemnation of the expressions of intellectuals. Apparently his definition of 'intellectual' is anything that is. anti-Country Party. This crude approach debauches what should be ' a significant debate' oh a very complex matter. 
Surely it should be possible' to conduct a vigorous and even partisan debate on this question without resorting to the excesses which have disfigured the defence debate in recent yeaTS. In no other country is economic debate conducted on the level of charges of treachery and felony- based on the expression of an opinion on the proper level of the national currency. This is a question which above all demands skilled and sophisticated analysis. It is a question, moreover, where the parameters of decision change from week to week and even from day to day. No exchange rate is inflexible. A notorious example is the deutschmark whose value a German chancellor once declared as being immutable forever. A few months later the deutschmark was allowed to float, and was then upvalued - an action which effectively made a mockery of the chancellor's boast. 
Only a fool would make a hard and fast prediction about the future of the Australian dollar. There are a host of international factors beyond the control of the Australian Government to influence. It is obvious that Australia's reserves are at a high level, the inflow is continuing and important inflationary implications are in this build up. The Government effectively has rejected all traditional ways of dealing with this situation, including currency adjustment and exchange controls. Either it has some innovations in standard monetary techniques up its sleeve or it has accepted the inflationary impact and is content to let it flow through the economy. Undoubtedly this is a very important issue and it should be debated publicly without prejudice. It is not a question on which the Opposition has formed a strict policy attitude; accordingly it is inevitable that there is a wide range of opinion and conjecture within the Labor Party on this issue. There is just as wide a range of opinion among members of the Government although the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  has done his best to stifle this in typical opportunist fashion. 
I do not know what the proper level of the Australian currency should be. This is a decision which must be the prerogative of the government of the day in the light of prevailing circumstances. An example was the readjustment of the currency made in December last year when the Government, after 3 days of meeting, reached a compromise decision designed to placate both the Treasury and the Country Party. In the light of subsequent developments it succeeded in neither objective. It is common knowledge that the Prime Minister, who already has adhered slavishly to the Treasury line, devised this compromise as a face saver although he and the present Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  at the time favoured a higher valuation on the Australian dollar. 
The head of government most plagued by the activities of the international money bandits, as the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  chose to call them, was  Mr Harold  Wilson.  Mr Wilson,  as British Prime Minister, had only to make a departure from his daily routine to start ripples of speculative monetary movements. Despite the intensive speculative pressures his Government sustained  Mr Wilson  did not try to inhibit in any way his opponents from expressing contrary attitudes on international monetary policy, in particular on the proper value of sterling. This is an example which could well be emulated bv our  Deputy  Prime Minister who has displayed yet again his immaturity and his lack of the proper qualities necessary for the leadership of an Australian political party. 
In isolation this Budget has many interesting features and many measures which warrant praise. Unfortunately it is not possible to separate consideration of this Budget from the previous disastrous Budget nor is it possible to consider it without premonitions about the next Budget if the Government is returned to power. Since the 1971-72 Budget was delivered there has been a marked easing of monetary policy in a vain effort to get the economy moving again. This has been supplemented by a series of fiscal measures, most notably the grants to relieve rural unemployment late last year and the so-called mini-budget in April this year. This combination of restorative measures failed to work and unemployment continued to mount. Often these decisions have to be made in quite a hurried fashion in response to swift developments in the international monetary scene. 
Now this present Budget has been introduced in an effort to stimulate consumer spending. There are grounds for extreme scepticism about whether the Budget will have the effect of loosening the purse strings for consumption. The basic Saw in this approach is that with unemployment still rising the impulse to spend is very low. Consumers have been warned so often about the onslaught of inflation and its harmful consequences that they are afraid to spend. Moreover, they have before their eyes the evidence of the queues for jobs. Extra purchasing power is not being used; resources are being diverted to savings. Undoubtedly there is plenty of scope in the economy for a substantial increase in consumption which would lift the economy. It is doubtful whether the necessary increase in consumption can be produced in the present economic climate. The danger is that people will by-pass consumption and savings and put their resources into speculative investment. 
The feeble reaction of the stock market to the Budget shows there is little scope here for the absorption of excess resources. Besides, the recollection has not faded of fingers burnt in the mining boom of the late 1960s. However, there exists a very real danger that these resources will be diverted to a speculative land boom on the lines of the early 1960s. This would only accentuate the severe difficulties of economic management now bedevilling the Government. The Government has created a cyclical effect in which people are shying off consumption while unemployment is  increasing and unemployment will remain high while consumption is languishing. Whatever the merits of this Budget, it does not seem to have the cardinal virtue of prising money for consumption out of the pockets of people who are scared to spend. Perhaps the only solution to this sort of economic log-jam would be the restoration of confidence produced by a change of government. 
Turning to the defence provisions of the Budget we find that the vote proposed is 1,323m. As the Treasurer pointed out, this is an increase of SI 06m, even allowing for the reduction of 4,000 men in the national service component of the Army. The Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  made an extensive statement on the 5-year rolling programme after the Budget papers were tabled. This allowed a reasonable defence debate which contained some flashes of enlightenment. We will again have the chance to debate some defence issues in the Estimates debates which grow more truncated every year. 
I want to look at some aspects of the defence budget, particularly at changes in the balance of spending within the overall appropriation for defence. In broad terms it seems that spending on defence as a percentage of the gross national product will be fairly static in 1972-73. It will probably be around 3.3 per cent if we project a gross national product of around $40 billion. This should be possible if the Treasurer's claim of a growth rate decisively strengthened is sustained. A level of defence spending of this order would be virtually the same as the proportion of national resources flowing to defence in 1971-72. Defence spending has been declining in recent years and it seems to have settled to a steady level of around 3.3 per cent. 
The defence budget built up from a trough of 2.5 per cent of gross national product in 1963-64 to 4.6 per cent at the height of the Vietnam war in 1967-68. In the following years it has dwindled from 4.3 per cent in 1968-69 to 3.7 per cent in 1969-70, to 3.4 per cent in 1970-71 and to 3.3 per cent in the last year. It is difficult to see any further reduction in the share of national resources allocated to defence maintenance. Already there is a huge commitment to pay and administration. In 1971-72 these components of the defence budget absorbed about  76  per cent of the defence vote. Any savings brought by the cut in Army strength are likely to be more than offset by the flow-on from the Kerr Committee reports, so it seems that we can look forward to at least three-quarters of the defence vote going on basic housekeeping costs. This makes the rock-bottom level of defence spending without any consideration of new equipment about 2.5 per cent of the gross national product, so an allocation of resources around 3.3 per cent of the gross national product seems probable in the years ahead, whatever the complexion of the Government. 
There has been a world-wide trend to lower defence spending in recent years. Some quite spectacular results have been achieved. For example, Canada has cut defence spending by something like 350 per cent, and no one would describe it as a negligible defence power. Australia has followed this trend more modestly, but it seems defence spending has now levelled out. lt is worth analysing these figures a little further to show how the reduction in relative resources for defence has been achieved. 
The Army has sustained its share of the defence vote pretty well despite the end of Vietnam. The Navy has shown a slight decline but it has held fairly steady in its demand upon resources. ' The most significant trend has been wilh the Royal Australian Air Force which got the same share of the vote in 1967-68. as the Army. In the subsequent years its share has been effectively halved, so quite obviously the main weight in the cut-back of defence spending has fallen on the Air Force. This may reflect the completion in substance of payment for the Fill but, nevertheless, it is a most significant trend. 
The future balancing of resources available for defence among the 3 Services will be a very delicate exercise. Obviously, more resources will have to be found for the Navy; the Opposition has not questioned this, although it has expressed uneasiness about the cost-effectiveness of the Navy's plan for capital spending. There is very little room for manoeuvre in restructuring defence spending in line with the trends disclosed in the Government's 5- year rolling defence programme. Unless resources can be freed from the administrative side of the defence budget it will be  very hard indeed to free resources for the capital equipment items delineated in the 5-year programme. 
It would be utter futility to have defence forces in which all spending was absorbed in administrative costs, yet this is the sort of 'marking-time' situation we are approaching. This makes it disturbing that so little has been achieved in the reform of the defence structure to make it cheaper and more effective. The Australian defence structure is one of the most intensively administered in the world and there is no sign that the process is being reversed or even halted. Countries with much more elaborate defence systems get by with fewer administrative units and a much greater level of integration of defence functions. 
Very little has been achieved in reforming our defence structure since the pioneering days of  Sir Allen  Fairhall and  Sir Henry  Bland in the Department of Defence. In fact, gains made in this area may well have been sacrificed in the subsequent years. This is not intended as a criticism of the individual defence departments: quite obviously, impetus for substantial reorganisation of the existing structure must come from the Government. Any sense of the urgency of rationalisation of the defence structure is completely absent from the policy planning of the present Government. I have dealt with this question at some length in previous speeches in Budget debates and it remains a source of extreme disappointment that so little has been achieved. When we look at the dollar outlay we are putting into defence it often seems that the tangible results fall far short of expectations. Admittedly, there are difficulties in maintaining an adequate defence of Australia which are not experienced by comparable defence systems. Even making allowance for these difficulties, it is hard to escape the conclusion that too much of defence spending is not getting through to the crucial task of giving more muscle to the fighting Services. 
This is a job that will have to be done in the context of an allocation of national resources for defence spending at much the same level as now applies. Any sharp increase in the volume of defence spending would not be acceptable in a period of low- threat and with very heavy demands on Government spending. The only solution is a redistribution of resources within the limits of the present budgetary allocation for defence. I would like to support these observations by looking a little more closely at the defence vote of the Army. 
The statement by the Minister for Defence on the 5-year programme referred to investigations and evaluations being made for basic items of Army equipment. These included fighting vehicles and artillery. What needs to be emphasised is the difficulty of financing new capital equipment from the resources allocated to the Army. Despite the end of Vietnam and the reduction in the national service intake, the trend of spending on pay for servicemen and civilians with the Army is still absorbing more than 20 per cent of the total defence spending. This manpower cost is more than half of the total Army vote. Administrative costs absorb another quarter, leaving a bare 20 per cent for arms, armament and equipment. This was the way the Army allocation was spent in 1971-72, and it is very likely that a similar split-up will apply in the present budgetary year. This discloses that even the present modest re-equipment programmes conducted by the Army are putting a strain on resources with manpower costs still rising. 
The Army has had no major procurement programmes in recent years, but it seems one is imminent from the hints contained in the Minister's statement. By any token the programmes foreshadowed by the Minister for Defence are important ones. The Centurion, which is the current battle tank, is more than 20 years old and has been superseded by advances in tank design. All of the Army's 100 or so tanks have been used extensively in training and about 40 were used in Vietnam. The Minister did not refer to armoured personnel carriers, but presumably the Army's projections provide for replacement of these important items of equipment. Neither tanks nor armoured carriers are made in Australia, so the Army is evaluating 2 foreign tanks, the United States Army's new battle tank and the German Leopard. Artillery is not made in Australia, so it will have to be procured from abroad. These are 2 major items of equipment which will impose strain on the Army's defence spending which cannot be accommodated within the present pattern of resource allocation. It emphasises again the folly of not encouraging our own defence industries for items which could easily by manufactured in Australia. These are relatively simple pieces of equipment, well within Australia's industrial capability. 
Another source of pressure for increased spending for the Army is the Citizen Military Forces. With Vietnam out of the way the future of the Citizen Military Forces should be one of the major preoccupations of the Department of Defence and of the Army. There is little sign that the importance of this aspect of Army policy has been recognised. The Minister for Defence managed to deliver a lengthy statement on the 5-year rolling programme without a single reference to the CMF. 
Did the  Deputy  Prime Minister tell the National Press Club on 1st November last year, at a time when he was Acting Prime Minister, that the Australian Country Party favoured devaluation of the Australian dollar? On the following day, in answer to a question from the honourable member for Chifley, did he say that farming interests would like to see a depreciation of the Australian dollar because they would get an advantage from it? Were these statements made in the context of intensive reassessment of international currency values at a time of rapid velocity of international currency movements? Does the  Deputy  Prime Minister not agree that these 2 rash statements by an acting head of government in such a delicate economic climate could have exposed the Australian Government to attack by the international monetary bandits? Further, does the right honourable gentleman not agree that it must be a cardinal rule that any person holding a responsible position in a government that can influence the value of the Australian dollar should not speculate on anything that might alter the value of the currency? 
I seek leave to make a statement on this matter. 
I am sorry that this has happened. Had I known (personally that the Leader of the House  (Mr Chipp)  had not intended to introduce a tariff proposal and that this matter would be handled by the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  I would not have given my personal approval to the introduction of the proposal without ensuring the opportunity for further debate. This sort of arrangement will not happen again. I assure the Leader of the House that unless he is prepared to allow the debate to continue now that the Minister has opened this very important subject, thereWill be no agreement between the Leader of the House and myself in the future. I suggest that because of the importance of this subject the debate ought to continue. This is up to the Leader of the House to decide. Apparently this matter was put to someone in my office just before the suspension of the sitting for dinner. I think that the Leader of the House ought to understand that this is a very important subject which has been introduced by the Leader of the Australian Country Party and Minister for Trade and Industry. Because of the importance of this matter to honourable members on this side of the House, the debate ought to continue. I am putting it to the Leader of the House that that ought to be done. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  has indicated that he wants to speak on this subject. Therefore I ask that the debate be continued.. 
 Mr Speaker- 
Quite frankly, I wonder what is happening. This matter is not listed on the blue sheet and I think that, in all fairness, the Leader of the House  (Mr Chipp)  should have given some indication that he proposed to move this motion. If matters are to be raised in this Parliament, the Opposition is entitled to know what is happening. Quite frankly, I am disgusted with the attitude of the Government in relation to these matters. This is the second such matter to which I have referred this evening. A few moments ago the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  introduced a Tariff Board report, and now another matter which does not appear on the blue sheet has been introduced. Unless the Leader of the House can offer me some explanation for this peculiar attitude on the part of the Government, no permission will be given for statements to be introduced into this Parliament. 
Then perhaps the Minister could offer an explanation that would satisfy me. 
All right. I will leave it at that. I want it to go on record that I am not satisfied with the procedure adopted by the Government on this occasion in relation to both of these matters. 
I ask the Minister for Defence: What progress has been made in assessing Service attitudes to the proposed new defence forces retirement benefits scheme? What have been the main sources of objection, if any, to the proposals? Will the Government introduce legislation to provide a new defence forces retirement benefits scheme based on the recommendations of the Jess Committee before the endof thissession? 
Does the Minister for Supply recall telling the Parliament on 1 1 th May 1972 that he conceived it as his duty to keep the House informed on the rationalisation of the Australian aircraft industry? If so, why did he dishonour this promise, by making outside the House, at a time when Parliament was in session, an important statement on the aircraft industry? Was this done to duck a debate in this 
House on this crucial issue? Will the Minister rectify his abuse of the Parliamentary process by now making a statement on the aircraft industry which can be properly debated in this House? 
I ask the Minister for Supply: Have quantities of radioactive waste from British nuclear establishments been dumped in Australia? In particular, were lead-lined boxes of radioactive waste flown from Britain and buried on the Maralinga testing site? If so, how much of this material was dumped? When did the dumping start and when did it cease? Why was this practice not disclosed to the Australian public? 
I ask the Minister for Primary Industry a question that is supplementary to that asked by the honourable member for Hawker. Are national servicemen and members of the volunteer forces who servied in Vietnam eligible for war service land settlement re-establishment? If they are not eligible, will the Minister confirm that ex-servicemen of the First World War, the Second World War and Korea were given this advantage? If those who served in Vietnam are not entitled to the same consideration and assistance in this respect will the Minister say why the Government has adopted a discriminatory practice against those who served in Vietnam compared with those who served in other wars in which Australia was involved? 
I have no desire to engage in any controversy on this issue with the Minister for Supply  (Mr Garland).  What I want to do at this stage is to take the opportunity to thank the Minister for at least a very prompt investigation of this matter. I think I ought to point out that I believe the Minister has misunderstood the basis upon which I asked the question because he has used the term allegations and has suggested that allegations were implied in the question. Anyone who reads in Hansard the question that I asked this morning will, 1 think, see at once that I did nothing more than ask for information. I made no charges against the Australian Government, or the British Government or any State department. I simply asked for information. 1 still think there are one or two aspects -of this matter that may need further investigation. As I have said, I wish to express my appreciation to the Minister for his prompt investigation. On some aspects of it I am now satisfied. My information came from a very high source. Naturally I am hot prepared to divulge the. source of that information and I do not think that the Minister for Supply  (Mr Garland)  would want rae to. do so. In any case I have a very vivid memory of what the Government can do to those who it believes have broken the. law, as exemplified over the last two or three days. But my information came from a. source which so far as I was concerned placed me in a position where 1 believed this matter should have been further investigated. For this reason I asked questions seeking information - nothing more. Therefore, I am disappointed that the Minister has chosen to use the expression that I had made certain allegations. In no circumstances can it be suggested that allegations were implied in my question. I asked for information. 1 think if one reads the questions I asked, which will appear in the Hansard tomorrow, it can be seen at once that at least 2 of the questions certainly contained a substance of truth. The Minister has subsequently admitted that lead lined boxes were used to bring to Australia the materials that were subsequently used in the explosion and that these materials would be radioactive after the explosion had been conducted. They were subsequently buried at Maralinga. Apparently they have been buried in an area that was used during the testing by the British Government. The Minister said this morning - this has been proved to be correct - that the area had been covered with thick layers of concrete. I notice that the Minister did not suggest again tonight that radioactive material would last for period of only 20 years. If I quote the Minister correctly he said: 'The danger period would be about 20 years'. 
I accept the Minister's explanation in that respect because this is a matter of controversy upon which there would be difference of opinion by those who are regarded as experts in this field. The material could remain radioactive over a very long period. This material has been buried under very heavy concrete. I suppose if the Minister is satisfied that this meets the normal requirements of safety in this respect one must accept his assurance which, I suppose, he has received from his advisers. But 1 believe that it was a matter, in view of the situation that has developed now in that area, particularly in relation to the future of Maralinga, about which a question should have been asked of the Minister. It has been partly cleared as a result of the Minister's explanation tonight. I am not suggesting that the Minister has not supplied an answer that would satisfy this Parliament and the nation. But I warn the Minister that if there are some aspects remaining which I believe are in conflict with what the Minister has said and what I believe to be the real position, I will direct further questions to him. I repeat that I appreciate the prompt attention the Minister gave to what I regard as a very important issue. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
In which of the Services are numbers required to pay for the entertainment of official guests visiting Service bases? 
Will he consider changing this practice so that these expenses are charged to the Services involved? 
I ask the Minister for Defence: What precautions is the Army taking to prevent arms and explosives from falling into the possession of terrorist groups? Is there any evidence that such materials have been obtained for terrorist activities by thefts from Army property? 
For the third consecutive year the Opposition has moved a motion calling for a select committee of inquiry into the war service land settlement scheme in Australia. This motion has been rejected previously by the Government for a number of reasons. It is quite plain from the second reading speech of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  that there has been a considerable amount of reassessment and reexamination of the scheme within the Department of Primary Industry. The Minister refers to a comprehensive review of the scheme undertaken by his Department. If there is a report based on this review, then the Minister should share its contents with the Parliament. In particular any examination of the scheme made by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics should be made public. The Minister has not made it clear whether the Bureau participated in the review he referred to in his second reading speech. 
The House should not have to reconstruct the nature of a major review of the scheme from a trickle of adjustments made in a series of Bills of this sort. The case for an examination of the operation of the scheme seems to me to be so overwhelming that it should be agreed to by the Government. The main reason for such a review is lack of information about the overall operation of the scheme. It is possible to get a considerable amount of information about the workings of the scheme in the  3  States which come under the authority of this Act. These are the  3  agent states of South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania. In addition, a comprehensive review of the administration of war service land settlement in Tasmania was made by a select committee of the Legislative Council of Tasmania. In the other  2  States there is a considerable amount of information available on the operation of the scheme but it is a major exercise to get this information and draw it together in any sort of coherent form. The amount of information available at the Commonwealth level is extremely disappointing although the Commonwealth is responsible for policy guidelines and the general supervision of the scheme. There is no statutory body administering the scheme and consequently no responsibility for an annual accounting to the Parliament of its operation. The Department of Primary Industry does not make regular reports on the operation of the scheme, presumably because it has the same difficulties as members of the Parliament in drawing together the relevant material. 
Another reason for appointing a select committee to look at the operation of the scheme is to fulfil the review requirements of this Parliament. This scheme which has extensive economic and social implications has been in operation for  27  years. Surely a piece of legislation which has been in operation for this length of time without substantial amendment should be reviewed by the legislative body which brought the scheme into existence. A comparable example is the repatriation legislation. The Opposition pushed for many years the case for a similar review of this legislation. Despite its logic the case for a parliamentary review of the repatriation legislation was rejected by the Government, although it has now appointed an independent inquiry into the Act under  Mr Justice  Toose. A Senate standing committee is also looking at repatriation. In many ways the legislation before the House is related to the Repatriation Act; both were designed to assist ex-servicemen to re-establish and rehabilitate themselves after  5  years of warfare. Surely it is appropriate that the war service land settlement scheme be reviewed now that the repatriation legislation is under intensive scrutiny. 
Turning to the measures announced by the Minister for Primary Industry in his second reading speech, it is obvious that the legislation before the House denotes a radical change in policy. For the first time a comprehensive scheme of assistance is to be provided to a particular area experiencing difficulty. The implications of this decision should be looked at very closely. It is undeniable that there is a very strong case for assistance to Kangaroo Island. The point at issue is whether this comprehensive assistance should have been given to the island under this particular piece of legislation. The case for Kangaroo Island has been made very strongly in this Parliament on a number of occasions. 
Looking back over the debates in both Houses of Parliament the first analysis I can find at length of the peculiar problems of Kangaroo Island was given by  Senator Cavanagh  in the Parliament  3  years ago. Government members and senators have also raised the difficulties of Kangaroo Island on a number of occasions. This seems to have prompted the examination of Kangaroo Island by the Department of Primary Industry which produced this substantial increase in the volume of loan funds going to South Australia. The Minister describes in some detail what he calls a unique combination of circumstances affecting soldier settlers on Kangaroo Island. He builds up a strong case in justification of the assistance, although I doubt whether many members of the House would be able to give any sort of critical analysis of ecological factors he has raised. 
The Minister made the important point that there are other islands carrying soldier settlers. He referred particularly to Flinders Island. He could also have added King Island to his list. He went on to say that nowhere else in or around this continent did there exist the unique set of difficulties confronting soldier settlers on Kangaroo Island. Without disputing this contention by the Minister I feel he should have put greater stress on the peculiar environmental conditions of the rural islands off Australia's coast. Each of the 3 large islands which are important rural producers and are farmed largely by soldier settlers is confronted by a unique set of environmental conditions. Each island has in common transport difficulties and higher than average production costs. Apart from these joint problems there are physical and biological problems produced by the distinctive character of an island environment. 
The Minister referred to the prevalence of clover disease on the western part of Kangaroo Island. This may put Kangaroo Island in a rather more unfavourable position than either King Island or Flinders Island. However, I believe the problem is one of degree rather than kind. If the Minister wants evidence on the difficulties experienced by soldier settlers on King Island and Flinders Island he will find it abundantly clear in the report of the select committee of the Tasmanian Legislative Council. While I agree with the special assistance given to Kangaroo Island I have doubts about whether it should be done under this piece of legislation. This assistance establishes the precedent that if a particular soldier settler area gets into difficulties because of physical, biological and economic problems - what the Minister has described rather diffidently as a unique set of circumstances - it should be assisted under the Act. The question then arises of whether an area which got into difficulties of this sort would get assistance if it were not a soldier settler area. It would have been more consistent to have provided the assistance in some other form, perhaps by a straight-out grant to the State Government in South Australia for assistance to Kangaroo Island. The range of difficulties experienced by Kangaroo Island seem to go beyond the boundaries of the war service land settlement legislation. It is a measure of the unsatisfactory nature of the Government's regional development and decentralisation policies that a major scheme for rehabilitation of Kangaroo Island should be implemented through the war service land settlement legislation. What this programme amounts to is a very substantial ecologial and economic programme to revive and stimulate an important region of Australia. I do not question that this scheme is desirable; it is questionable whether this sort of project should be done through this particular piece of legislation. If the logic of this plan for Kangaroo Island is followed through it means that other areas which get into difficulties and have important soldier settler components should be accorded the same measure of assistance. 
Looking at the programme for Kangaroo Island in more detail, it breaks down into 2 principal strands. The first is a scientific examination designed to conquer environmental problems produced by imbalances between soil, plant and animal relationships on the island. This is the long-term strand. Until this research project yields results the programme provides for rental concessions and credit facilities for soldier settlers on the island. In addition, repayment obligations are to be eased in certain cases and soldier settlers whose credit status is good are to be given access to departmental finance. It is not possible to predict the future prosperity of Kangaroo Island but these measures must stimulate the rather depressed level of economic activity on the island. 
Again I stress that I support this sort of assistance; I hope that similar comprehensive programmes of assistance will be worked out for other regions which may suffer from the incidence of a harmful combination of economic and environmental factors. If this principle is conceded, the main remaining source of uneasiness must be whether areas outside the soldier settlement scheme would get the benefit of similar treatment. This raises policy issues way beyond the rather narrow area of soldier settlement. It has policy implications related to decentralisation on which the Country Party is putting a lot of work in the run-up to the elections. Obviously it has relevance to the broad question of improving credit facilities for all farmers, whether soldier settlers or not. 
The Minister pointed to the relation between the Kangaroo Island programme and broader rural policies such as the rural reconstruction scheme, the emergency assistance scheme for wool growers, wool deficiency payments and the tree-pull scheme. It is in this broader context of rural policy that this Kangaroo Island improvement programme which has several quite innovatory aspects should be put into perspective. Now that the precedent has been established for Kangaroo Island under this legislation, there are logical reasons for hoping that similar programmes could be implemented for the Bass Strait islands of King Island and Flinders Island which are important soldiersettler areas and also share many problems in common with Kangaroo Island. 
Another feature of the Bill is in the extension of access to departmental finance for other soldier settlers in South Australia. This is conditional on these settlers being deemed good credit risks. The Minister points out that this is an extension of facilities already given to soldier settlers in Tasmania; in the interests of consistency this extension of the scheme seems reasonable. The Minister concludes his outline by describing the war service land settlement scheme conceived by the Commonwealth and Slate Governments as an excellent scheme. Unfortunately there is a world of difference between theory and practice. Many soldier settlers have done very well; their problems are the same as their peers outside the scheme who suffer setbacks not through lack of farming skills and effective management but through the uncertainties of rural markets and the inevitable reconstruction now being forced on many rural industries. There are many soldier settlers who are in difficulties because of defects in the soldier settler scheme; perhaps their blocks were too small or the land they were allocated was marginal in character. Individual settlers were launched into rural production with inadequate capital or the rentals charged them were too high and did not assure them of an adequate living in the terms of section 18 of the Act. 
It is difficult to generalise about the operation of the scheme because of the host of vastly different physical and economic conditions confronting the individual producer. The Minister has said rightly that it is wrong to attribute broad economic difficulties which are common to most rural producers to defects in the war service land settlement scheme. It would be just as wrong to explain all difficulties experienced by soldier settlers by these industry-wide problems. Obviously many farmers are in trouble because of defects in the scheme; this is the lesson which emerges very clearly in the Tasmanian report, which lists many problems exclusive to Tasmania and the Bass Strait islands but also covers many problems common to all soldier settlers. If I remember correctly this very comprehensive report which was prepared by a select committee of the Tasmanian Legislative Council was submitted to the Commonwealth Government about 2 years ago. There has been no comment from the former Minister for Primary Industry, now the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony),  or from his predecessor on the recommendations of that select committee. The select committee investigated war service land settlement schemes in Tasmania. It may be argued that what was applicable to Tasmania would also apply particularly to Victoria, South Australia and New South Wales. But there has been no indication on the part of this Government that it either considered the report or intends to give effect to the recommendations of the committee. 
If there has been disinterest on any matter in this Federal Parliament that comes within the jurisdiction and responsibility of the Minister for Primary Industry, it is the complete neglect and failure to face up to the problems of war service land settlement schemes. I acknowledge during the course of my remarks that some improvements have been effected on Kangaroo Island in South Australia. What has been done as a result of the terms of this legislation will no doubt provide a greater opportunity for more viable properties on Kangaroo Island. But the Minister admits that a mistake has been made in relation to Kangaroo Island, and if that mistake applies to Kangaroo Island it also applies to the other claimant States in relation to war service land settlement. 
I have always acknowledged in this Parliament that individual cases ought not to be dealt with in a second reading debate. No doubt there are occasions when one can take the opportunity to refer to individual cases. If I were to set aside this principle and refer the Minister to individual cases on Flinders Island and King Island, I am sure that the Minister would be more interested than he appears to be at the moment. Unquestionably, in relation to soldier settlers on Flinders Island there are individual problems. I know that the same applies to King Island. No doubt the same situation would apply to soldier settlers in the other States. The Minister has acknowledged this by virtue of the Government's decision to provide some improvement and some relief for the soldier settlers on Kangaroo Island. We acknowledge this. Whatever .the time factor is - after 23 years or 27 years, as the case may be - this scheme has been allowed to deteriorate for far too long because there has not been a government that has been prepared to accept the responsibility for determining, as a result of the investigations of a select committee of this Parliament, who would have the opportunity to investigate the problems of the war service land settlement schemes in Australia. 
Surely the Minister must be aware of these problems. No doubt he has received representations on many occasions. 1 have spoken about Flinders Island, referred to King Island and pointed out that the Minister might have taken the opportunity to refer specifically to King Island in his second reading speech, and I have no doubt that the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Davies)  who has consistently argued in this Parliament about the deficiencies of war service land settlement, particularly in relation to King Island which comes within his responsibility, will be able again to give some indication again to the Minister in confirmation of what I have said about the failure of this scheme in many ways. There has been no indication on the part of this Government that it is prepared to face up to its responsibility in this way. I need hardly refer to the very large investment the Commonwealth has in the field of war service land settlement. Therefore, I sincerely hope that this Parliament, having some indication from the Minister that there are problems in relation to war service land settlement, will at least on this occasion accept the motion that has been moved consistently on this side of the House for a joint parliamentary select committee to look at these problems. 
Finally, I want to refer to the possibility of extending the benefits of the scheme to veterans of the Vietnam war who want to become rural producers. 
I listened with a great deal of interest to what was said by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  I am completely dissatisfied with the attitude adopted by him, particularly in relation to the question of the rehabilitation of those who have served this country, in the words of the Minister, in Korea, Malaya and Vietnam. The Minister gave no reasonable explanation and certainly no answer to the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  particularly in relation to the resettlement under the war service land settlement scheme of those who have served in those areas. 
If I remember the Minister correctly he said that the period of service of men who served in these areas was not as long as that served by men in the First and Second World Wars. Surely the Minister is not representing a government which told this Parliament that those who served in Vietnam would be given all the privileges that had been accorded to those who served in the First and Second World Wars. Why is there discrimination? There has been no answer from the Minister to this question. Let us have an answer from the responsible Minister. 
We are now dealing with a subject which is very close to those who have some sense of responsibility for this country. A few days ago I asked the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  a question supplementary to one asked by the honourable member for Hawker. Here is a responsible Minister who does not know his Act. He does not know that those who have served in Vietnam are not entitled to full repatriation benefits or rehabilitation privileges that are accorded to those who served in the First or Second World Wars just as they are not entitled to the privileges of the war service land settlement scheme accorded to those who served in the First and Second World Wars. It is incomprehensible to me that a responsible Minister in this Parliament does not know the provisions of an Act he administers. The plain fact is that those who served this country in Vietnam on a voluntary basis are not entitled to the benefits of war service land settlement under the same conditions as applied to those who served in the First World War and in the Second World War. The only excuse the Minister has to offer is that in the First World War and in the Second World War they served longer. How can the Minister say that those who volunteered to serve in Korea might not have been there for 4 years, 5 years, 6 years or even longer? This is the Government which said that those who went to Vietnam were serving their country and would be entitled to all of the privileges accorded to those who had served their country in previous wars. 
Let us look at the situation. The honourable member for Hawker raised this matter only last week. The Minister for Repatriation was not interested then and he is not interested now. He does not know his Act and he could not supply the answer. What is the discrimination that the Government has applied to those who served this country in Vietnam? It has determined that those who served this country on a voluntary basis are not entitled to any of the benefits that applied to those who joined the Services in the First and Second World Wars. The only excuse that I have heard from the Minister tonight is that the Vietnam war did not last as long as did the others. How could the Minister know that it would not. This Government determined that young people should go to serve this country in Vietnam - so surely anyone who served should be entitled to the same privileges as were accorded to those who served in the First World War, the Second World War and, as the Minister corrected himself tonight, in Korea. Why should they not be entitled to the benefits of war service land settlement? 
I heard the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  and other honourable members tonight detail the problems connected with war service land settlement schemes generally. The Minister agreed that there are people, such as those who have lost their properties who have problems. What is happening to those properties today? The Minister knows that they are not going to ex-servicemen. They could go to those who served in Vietnam but they are not. They are going to private individuals, and the Minister knows this as well as I do. How can one accept the policy of a government that discriminates against those who served in the First and Second World Wars and against those who served in Vietnam? The Minister is speaking on behalf of the Government. He has heard the proposition put to him tonight in relation to those who served in Vietnam. How can anyone justify the actions of a government that discriminates against those who served on a voluntary basis and those who, in the words of the Government, ought to be conscripted into the Army? This discrimination exists. If a man serves on a voluntary basis in the armed forces today he is not entitled to the benefits of war service land settlement or, in fact, to any of the benefits that ought to be accorded to an ex-serviceman of this country. But if he is a national serviceman and serves for 2 years, he is entitled to all the rehabilitation entitlements. Why is there this discrimination? That was the question put to the Minister for Primary Industry by the honourable member for Hawker. The Minister has not supplied a reasonable answer. 
I come back to the question of war service land settlement. The Minister in his reply tonight acknowledged that there were a great number of problems in relation to war service land settlement in Tasmania, Victoria, New South Wales and Kangaroo Island. The context of the motion moved by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  was that a joint select committee of this Parliament be set up to investigate those problems. The Minister dismissed this on the basis that the problems that might accrue to those who served in the Second World War could not be compared with the problems accruing to those who served in the First World War. The Minister referred to the problems that have been acknowledged by the select committee of the Upper House of the Tasmanian Parliament in relation to war service land settlement. However, that committee had the opportunity to deal only with problems in relation to Tasmania. It is clear that the Minister, although he is unable to deal with the report of the select committee, acknowledges that in Tasmania there are problems. If he is sincere in relation to war service land settlement, he should make available to this Parliament the report of the select committee of the Tasmanian Parliament and he should deal with it. The Minister acknowledges the report but he has said nothing in the debate tonight to confirm that what it contains is correct. The Minister dismissed it. The Opposition believes, in terms of the motion moved by the honourable member for Dawson, that there should be a joint select committee of this Parliament to look into the problems of war service land settlement. 
I listened very carefully tonight to the Minister for Primary Industry giving his reply to the debate on the war service land settlement scheme generally. It was very disappointing on all aspects of the war service land settlement scheme because he told this House nothing, and he did nothing to alleviate the fears of the people of Australia that problems exist in relation to this scheme.  His  reply in relation to those who served in the Vietnam war did not do him or his Government credit. I say that with great sincerity, because this Government has for some years now talked to this Parliament about the rights of those who have served this country in Vietnam. In the words of the honourable member for Hawker - probably some excuses ought to be made for the Minister for Repatriation - it is quite obvious that the Government has no regard for the rights of those who served this country in Vietnam. Let the Minister for Primary Industry or any other member of the Government stand up in this Parliament and justify their exclusion of those who served this country in Vietnam from the right to receive the privileges accorded to those who served this country in the First and Second World Wars. The Minister cannot do it. I challenge the Minister to stand up and justify himself and his Government to the nation on this question. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Corbett)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Motion (by  Mr Giles)  put: 
That the  question be now put. 
Has the Minister for the Army seen reports from New Zealand that New Zealand Army instructors in Vietnam had trained Cambodian boys aged between 9 and 12? If so, is it a fact that these reports have not been denied by senior members of the New Zealand Government including the Minister for Defence? Has the Minister any indication that Australian Army instructors in Vietnam have been required to train children for war? What criteria are applied by Australian Army instructors in accepting Cambodians for training? Is it a case of 'just accepting anybody who steps off the plane' as a New Zealand Army spokesman is reported to have said? Finally, will the Minister make an urgent check of Australian Army practices in Vietnam to ensure that there is not the slightest chance of such highly objectionable practices occurring? 
MrKATTER - This matter has been brought to my notice. I can assure the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition that there is no question whatsoever of the Australian training group in Vietnam deliberately setting about the training of Cambodian children. No doubt as part of the general troops who do come along there could be people of an age younger than we are used to in this country, but in no circumstances would we deliberately set about to train young people. I assure the honourable gentleman that I will go into this matter much more closely and inform him subsequently. 
These Bills are introduced into the House against the backdrop of 2 intensive inquiries which are being conducted into the Repatriation Act. At the outset I make it clear that the Opposition does not oppose these Bills. Indeed, we have moved to proceed immediately with the second reading debate on them to ensure that the benefits which they provide and which have been referred to this afternoon by the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  will be made available, as soon as the Bills receive the royal assent, to those who will benefit under the terms of this legislation. One of the inquiries to which I just referred is in the hands of the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare. The other is the independent inquiry into the Repatriation Act being conducted by  Mr Justice  Toose. When these 2 inquiries are completed we will all be infinitely the wiser on the subject of repatriation. In the meantime we have to make do with the material contained in the annual report of the Repatriation Commission, the Bills we are debating and the Minister's comments in his second reading speeches. 
Before looking at the Bills before the House and the repatriation provisions of the Budget which, in the main, are quite generous and constitute an improvement in the relative level of benefits, I want to look at some general matters affecting the repatriation legislation. These comments have been prompted by the considerable volume of ill-founded criticism levelled at the repatriation structure in recent months. This criticism culminated in recent weeks in a most intemperate and, in my view, injudicious submission to the Senate Committee on behalf of the Australian Medical Association. The AMA has been notably dogmatic in other areas of public policy; now it has extended this dogmatism to the repatriation system. The intention of the AMA seems to be to destroy the repatriation system or to water down its welfare provisions to such a degree that it forfeits all meaning. 
I do not deny that there are flaws, perhaps even very serious flaws, in the repatriation system; that is why the Toose Committee was appointed and that is why the Senate Committee is looking at the Act. If a piece of legislation is perfection, then obviously there is no need to put it on the dissecting table. Undoubtedly the repatriation legislation can be improved. After all, its main provisions were drafted in the social and political context of a major war. It would be remarkable if they were still spot-on after a period of almost 30 years. It is also beyond dispute that there are anomalies which allow the Act to be exploited. All social welfare systems are open to abuse. Some have greater checks to prevent these abuses than others have. I will try to show that the Repatriation Act is one of the most stringent in its constraints on potential abuse. The sad fact remains that the Repatriation Act is being widely painted in the community as some sort of benefit bonanza. According to this line, all a man with any war service at all on his slate has to do is stroll into the nearest Repatriation Department office, fill out a few forms and hang his hat on a pension for the rest of his life. This is fallacious nonsense and it is a fallacy which is very easily punctured. 
The simplest way of exposing this fallacy is by analysis of the annual figures for claims and appeals under the provisions of the Repatriation Act. The initial claim for benefit under the Repatriation Act is made to a board and this determination is then confirmed by the Commission. In 1971-72, of the claims determined under the Act, 19,394 were rejected and 9,712 were accepted - a ratio of roughly 2 to one. These are not bad odds, but they are a long way from a certainty. An applicant for a benefit has a 2 to one chance of being rejected. 
Let us take the process a step further. The next source of appeal is to the Repatriation Commission in regard to incapacity or death being related to war service. Looking at the figures for these appeals, we find that 13,837 appeals were rejected and 900 were allowed. In other words, the odds are stacked 15 to one against an applicant getting his appeal accepted by the Repatriation Commission, ls this the record of an organisation dedicated to putting old diggers on easy street for life? A solicitor who achieved this level of failure in his court appeals would go broke. I suggest further that such a savage rejection rate would not be acceptable in other areas of administrative appeal - for example, taxation tribunals. If the same rejection rate were applied in the courts or in other areas of administrative appeal, the whole structure would be torn apart by angry appellants. 
The next source of appeal is to an entitlement appeal tribunal if an appeal is disallowed by the Commission where, as I have pointed out, the chances of success are one in 15. For the entitlement appeal tribunal the figures for 1971-72 were 1.587 acceptances to 7,915 rejections - about one in 5. This is better than the appeals to the repatriation Commission but the record of acceptance is still far from lavish. The final source of appeal is to an assessment appeal tribunal against assessment of a disability. Of course, the assessment appeal tribunal is distinct from the entitlement appeal tribunal, but I am now referring to the assessment appeal tribunal in a case where there is an accepted disability. At this level, 4,382 were allowed and 7,529 were rejected in 1971-72. This is the best rate of acceptance in the whole structure of claims and appeals provided under the Act, but it is still not a lay-down misere. 
If we look at this process of claim and appeal from a global viewpoint, it emerges as a very stringent one. The system contains more checks and balances than any other welfare system operating under any welfare law in Australia. Yet this is the system that critics have tried to depict as the generator of well-paid indolence in the ranks of Australia's ex-soldiers. This slovenly sort of criticism just does not square with the facts. Contact with a few malingerers - certainly there are malingerers under this Act - is linked in the medical mind with resentment against the standards of proof applied under the Act. Such a combination of factors leads the Australian 
Medical Association to damn the whole system as wasteful and extravagant. This is most unjust and unsubstantiated criticism and it is time it was rejected. 
It is easy to seize on one spectacular example and push this forward as representative of the whole system. For example, a lot of play was made in the recent spate of criticism about the case of an 80- year old man on the basis of war-caused impotence because obviously all 80-year old men were impotent. It is easy to sensationalise cases of this sort. I doubt that many people would begrudge some sort of compensation to a man who lost his generative powers through war injury in World War I and suffered considerable deprivation throughout his mature life as a result. There are delicate aspects of compensation which should be considered in such cases. If in such a case the pension was granted only in the past two or three years, then this is anomalous and such a pension should not have been granted. I refuse to believe that cases of this sort are commonplace. How could many of these get through the strict system of determination 1 have outlined? 
Another form of criticism of the repatriation system is that it is absorbing scarce resources which would be better employed in other sectors of public policy. According to this approach, repatriation is wasteful and unnecessary - it should be dismantled and the money spent on it diverted to other welfare schemes. If we look closely al this contention we find it is just as fallacious as the first one. Let us be hypothetical - abolish the repatriation structure and see what savings would result. In the first place, the service pensions abolished would go over virtually in toto to the age pension system. Many of the exservicemen, widows and dependants getting war pensions would become eligible for existing social welfare benefits. Certainly the special rate and intermediate rate pensioners and widows would be entitled to social welfare benefits. The elimination of general rate pensioners would make some cuts but this is the smallest component of the amount going annually to war pensioners. 
The abolition of repatriation hospitals and medical treatment would throw an intolerable burden on existing health and hospital services which are already overstrained. The only possible sources of savings would be in administration and such savings would be only a temporary factor. Staff displaced would be transferred to other departments, would undertake retraining schemes or swell the number of recipients of unemployment benefits. Any savings on paper would be completely obliterated when social costs were added to real costs. The abolition of the repatriation structure would almost certainly turn out to be more costly than retention of the existing system. 
It is also indisputable that the administration of the Repatriation Department is probably the most effective and economic of any of our Government departments. This is revealed by looking at the annual amount spent on administration of repatriation and expressing it, firstly, as a percentage of annual spending from consolidated revenue and, secondly, as a percentage of gross national product. Using the first indicator we find that in 1971-72, administrative costs were 0.22 per cent of Government spending, a slight rise from 0.21 per cent on the previous year. The comparative figure for 1951-52 was 0.26 per cent of spending, so quite clearly the administration of repatriation is absorbing a significantly smaller proportion of Government spending from consolidated revenue than it was 20 years ago. The same trend is revealed when administrative costs are expressed as a percentage of GNP. The figure has held steady at 0.05 per cent for the past 15 years; it was 0.07 per cent in 1951-52. This is a record of efficiency and economy in administration that any government department would envy. There may be. rivals in the present Commonwealth structure but they do not spring immediately to mind. 
I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard a table showing a breakdown of repatriation spending over the past 20 years which amplifies the points I have tried to summarise in the figures I have given to the House. 
It is very rarely that I rise to speak in a third reading debate, but this is the second occasion I have done so this week. I would not be doing so if it had not been for the reply given by the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten).  He made a definite statement during the course of his reply in the second reading debate that he was not sure and the electors of this country would not be sure where a Labor government would stand on the question of repatriation pensions. I thought I dealt with this matter very adequately this afternoon. If the Minister wants to issue a challenge I will repeat what I said this afternoon. Since I have been in this Parliament - at least since 1954 - the Labor Party has consistently made statements concerning special rate pensions which have been repeated in every subsequent policy speech by this Party. We have said that we will increase the special rate pension to totally and permanently incapacitated persons to at least the equivalent of the minimum wage in this country. As I demonstrated to the House this afternoon the special rate pension has been allowed to deteriorate while this Government has been in office. In 1949 it was equivalent to the basic wage. 
There is no justification to accept a situation where certain persons whose disabilities qualify them to receive a special rate pension - that is a total and permanent incapacity pension - as a result of service to their country receive an income that is less than the minimum wage paid to a worker. The Government accepts this situation. If the Minister issues a challenge to me as the Deputy Leader of the Australian Labor Party to state what the rate would be for a special rate pensioner I say to him without any equivocation at all that it will not be less than the minimum wage. 
I turn now to the other important aspects of repatriation pensions. I refer to the 100 per cent general rate of pension which is paid to ex-servicemen for partial incapacity. I do not think that I have to deal with the circumstances in relation to the general rate of pension. It is implied that, as they are not permanently incapacitated, exservicemen in receipt of the general rate oi pension are entitled to supplement their income by employment. What has happened to the general rate of pension under this Government? The plain fact is that the general rate of pension under this Government has been allowed to deteriorate to the point where it represents approximately 19 per cent of the minimum wage. When this Government came to power the general rate of pension was about 50 per cent of the minimum wage paid to a worker in Australia. The same situation applies in relation to the widows' pension. That pension has been allowed to deteriorate in terms of purchasing power under this Government. 
So, these are the 3 rates of pension - the special or TPI rate for the totally and permanently incapacitated, the 100 per cent or general rate pension and the war widow's rate pension. If I may recapitulate what I said in this House this afternoon, a Labor government would look at these  3  payments for ex-servicemen and their widows on the basis that the TPI rate would no: be less than the minimum wage, and we would state that it was our objective to bring the general rate pension and the war widow's rate pension at least somewhere near  50  per cent of the minimum wage paid in this country. 
If the Minister questions me on this, I say yes, this is our objective. The great problem in relation to the general rate pension - the Minister ought to appreciate this - is that when this Government came to power it was approximately  50  per cent of the minimum wage but it has been allowed to deteriorate to the extent that it would not be possible for any government in one Budget to lift that pension rate back to approximately  50  per cent of the minimum wage. Let me re-state our position so that there will be no misunderstanding on the part of the Australian electorate and, I suppose, more particularly, so that there will be no misunderstanding on the part of the RSL and those who represent returned servicemen's organisations in this country. The Minister may smile. He has met the National Executive of the RSL: so when I mention the RSL I see no reason why he should smile. The fact is that the RSL represents approximately  270,000  ex-servicemen in this country, and it is entitled to put the point of view of the ex-servicemen of this country to this Government. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Cope)Order! I remind the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition that this is a third reading debate and that he should keep within the schedules of the Bill. This is not a second reading debate. 
Thank you,  Mr Deputy  Speaker; but the Minister has been provocative. I was referring to the RSL and merely pointing out that when I spoke of the National Executive of the RSL the Minister smiled. Quite frankly, I have had meetings with the National Executive of the RSL, as has the Minister, and I believe that it is entitled to put the point of view of ex-servicemen in this country. The RSL has put it to the Minister that the Government ought to be able to provide a reasonable explanation for the deterioration in the rates of pension paid to ex-servicemen in this country. How does the Minister justify the fact that this Government has not increased the  100  per cent or general rate of pension, for example, for the last  8  years until this Budget? 
The Minister may argue that in the interim the Government has provided the special compensation allowance. I have dealt with this matter in the House before and asked: 'Why is the special compensation allowance paid?' The special compensation allowance which was introduced by this Government is paid to those exservicemen on a pension rate between  100  per cent and  75  per cent. The report of the Repatriation Commission shows that the great majority of ex-servicemen in this country who are in receipt of a repatriation pension receive a rate below the  75  per cent rate. I have put to the Minister on other occasions that in order to reduce ils expenditure on repatriation the Government applies an increase to the general rate of pension for those on rates between  75  per cent and  100  per cent. Let there be no argument about this, because it will not be very long before the Government determines that the intermediate rate pension no longer has a reasonable application in the pension system of this country. As I have demonstrated, the intermediate rate ultimately will be eliminated by this Government. If it is not, then I indicate at once that it will be eliminated by the next Labour government. I have dealt with these  3  rates of pension and I think I have given to the Minister some indication of what will be the attitude of the next Labor government. 
I ask the Prime Minis ter a question. The right honourable gentleman will have noted that the New Zealand election has been announced for 25th November. Is there any truth in reports that he has made a deal with the New Zealand Prime Minister to hold simultaneous elections? If so, will he confirm that the Australian election will be held on that date? If not, why is the Prime Minister persisting with a conscious policy of deferring a decision on the election until the last possible moment? Has the right honourable gentleman confirmed that the last date on which an election can be held is 20th January? Does he favour an election in the apolitical atmosphere of the Christmas-New Year holidays? Finally, did the Prime Minister abandon plans to have an election on 28th October because of the bad unemployment figures? 
In directing my question to the Minister for the Army I refer him to the high rejection rate of volunteers for service in the Army. Are the same exacting standards applied to the admission of national servicemen? If so, how is it possible for young men with previous records of mental instability to be admitted to the Army as national servicemen? Has the Minister investigated allegations made about recent incidents at Puckapunyal and Kapooka military camps? The Minister will remember that one of his departmental officials or Army public relations officers reported that there had been 5 incidents of attempted suicide. If the reports are correct, what action has the Minister taken? 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister. In answer to a question from the honourable member for Reid on 23rd August did the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts reject the principle of making environmental impact statements public on the grounds that these reports were for Government information only? Has the Prime Minister now accepted the principle of disclosing these reports as essential documents for informed public debate on environmental issues? If so, will he overrule the Minister and make these important studies available to facilitate consideration by the House of the estimates for the Department of the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts? 
asked the Minister for Educa tion and Science, upon notice: 
VVhat is the formula by which the Australian Universities Commission allocates the Special (A.U.C.) Research Grant between universities. 
Does the formula distinguish between postgraduate degrees according to whether they received Pass Bachelors degrees or Honours level Bachelors degrees. 
Does the formula distinguish between postgraduate degrees according to whether they are enrolled in course-work degrees or degrees entailing only the submission of a thesis. 
Is the grant made available to theuniversities for the support of course-work type higher degrees. 
If not, will consideration be given to tin provision of a supplementary grant to support the training of post-graduate students enrolled tor course-work degrees in keeping with the provision of a new class of awards to the students themselves. 
I wish to refer to certain aspects of the war service homes legislation which have been hanging over this House for a year. In particular I want to refer to what seems to be a breach of a firm undertaking given by the Government on an important feature of this legislation. As this breach of faith involves in particular the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  and the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  I hope they will renew pressure on their Government to rectify this notable piece of backsliding by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns).  Honourable members will recall that an amendment to the war services homes legislation was debated in this House at the end of November of last year. The purpose of the amendment was to raise the maximum loan under the scheme from $8,000 to $9,000. In the course of debate the Labor Party's shadow Minister, the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  moved an amendment designed to extend the range of those persons eligible for benefits under this legislation. In effect, his amendment was designed to define those people eligible as including a serving member of the armed forces or a member who had been honourably discharged from the armed forces. 
The existing eligibility was based on service overseas in a war zone. The Labor Party argued that if a man was prepared to join the forces he was entitled to services and amenities such as those provided by the War Service Homes Act. In discussion of this amendment the honourable member for La Trobe made it clear that if the amendment were adjusted to provide that the servicemen of today, serving under today's conditions, should be entitled to war service homes, he would support it. I believe this is a fair paraphrase of the honourable member's statement to the Parliament. Accordingly the Opposition adjusted its amendment to define an Australian soldier in the terms of a serving member of the armed forces. 
Quite clearly this was a genuine attempt to provide for members of the forces the benefits of war service homes finance. On behalf of the Opposition I moved a later amendment to include a serving member of the permanent forces in the ambit of those eligible for war service homes. This was designed to meet the tacit support indicated by the honourable members for La Trobe and Moreton for the principle of making home loans to present servicemen. In the event assurances were given on behalf of the Prime Minister and by the Minister for Housing that the Government would look closely at what could be done to give housing benefits to regular servicemen outside the framework of the war service homes legislation. 
The honourable member for La Trobe reminded the Prime Minister of this undertaking at question time on 22nd February of this year. He asked whether an assurance had been given that Cabinet would give urgent consideration to the introduction of a home finance scheme for regular servicemen not eligible for war service homes. The Prime Minister said that the undertaking had been honoured and Cabinet had considered the suggestion. He deflected the question to the Minister for Housing for further illumination. A fortnight later I questioned the Minister for Housing about the Government's attitude to service housing. 
The Minister said that the matter had been considered, presumably by Cabinet, and that its details were under current examination and would be announced when appropriate. During the recess there were a number of Press reports about new housing schemes for the housing of servicemen. One report published in the National Times' on 12th June claimed that Cabinet was considering a revolutionary new plan for the housing of servicemen and senior members of the CMF. Under this scheme housing loans at up to 3i per cent interest would be available to these servicemen under a scheme administered by the War Service Homes Division. A scheme of this sort would be virtually an extension of the present war service homes legislation to servicemen and senior CMF members. According to the report this plan had been brought before Cabinet by the Prime Minister himself. 
A modified report of the Government's proposal appeared in the 'National Times' a few weeks later, on 31st July. According to this report the scheme would be known as the servicemen's loan scheme and would provide up to $9,000 for servicemen, whether or not they had served overseas. The suggestion that CMF men be eligible for the scheme had been vetoed by the committee drawn from the Treasury, Housing and Defence Departments. The committee had recommended an interest rate of  6i  per cent or 21 per cent above the war service homes rate but rather lower than interest rates in the market. There is no reason to doubt the general accuracy of this report which predicted that the new scheme would be incorporated in the next budget. 
Similar reports appeared in a number of other newspapers which were substantially the same in detail, although one report in the 'Age' on 1st August suggested that the interest rate would be about 5 per cent. This scheme was not put forward in the Budget and nothing more has been heard of it since this series of Press reports until this week. In the past few days there have been new rumours that the scheme is to be revived, presumably with the elections in mind. That is not the only reason why this issue was raised at this time. The honourable member for Reid, who is the Labor Party's shadow Minister for Housing, will clearly recollect that during the course of that debate 1 referred to some of the anomalies in the war service homes legislation for which this Government was responsible and which apparently the Minister for Housing had misunderstood or deliberately ignored. The first reference I made was to those who travelled on a troopship to Vietnam, as a result of Government policy, to support the troops that had been committed by this Government to that area. I pointed out on that occasion that those who travelled on those troopships were not eligible for war service homes benefits. If they served in Vietnam for 24 hours they would be eligible. I further pointed out on that occasion that those who flew into Vietnam on a special flight again were not considered to be eligible under the terms of the war service homes legislation as administered by this Government. They were 2 anomalies. 
In my proposition that the regulation should be amended to provide that those people who were serving their country, who were subjected to the risks that would apply to any serviceman in Vietnam at that time, ought to be accorded the benefits of the war service homes legislation, I was supported by the honourable member for Moreton who had received representations from me when he was Minister for the Navy and who agreed that the regulation or the Act ought to be amended. On that occasion it was pointed out that the Australian Labor Party, under its policy, would be extending the benefits of the war service homes legislation to every person in this country who served in the armed forces on a volunteer basis. As a result of an amendment moved by the honourable member for Reid and the subsequent amendment moved by me, the honourable member for La Trobe, the honourable member for Moreton and one or two other honourable members on the Government side indicated that the Government ought to accept our proposition. 
What happened on that occasion was that the Minister for Housing, who now sits at the table, promised - he was subsequently supported by the Prime Minister - that the Government would introduce legislation which would give effect to our proposal on that occasion. I have been very patient in this matter. I have asked a question, and so has the honourable member for La Trobe, and the Minister for Housing has  done nothing about it. No explanation has been given to this Parliament, but more importantly no explanation has been given to the people of Australia and certainly none to those people who have been discriminated against by this Government. This Government cannot justify in any circumstances a situation in which those who have served this country in Vietnam - whether for only a short period or not - are not entitled to the benefits of the war service homes legislation. Let the Minister stand up in this Parliament and justify these procedures and the attitude of the Government in relation to this matter. I hope that when the Minister has the opportunity to reply he will be able to justify the Government's actions or, alternatively, I hope that he will give some indication to this Parliament that the proposition that was put to him on an earlier occasion which was subsequently accepted by the Prime Minister, and the report which was promised to this Parliament will now be made by the Minister for Housing. This is the opportunity for him to do so. There are people outside the Parliament who are interested in this question and who expect a reply. 
-I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the honourable member for Bass from dealing immediately with the subject of his visit to Holland. 
Be decent about it. 
I refer the Prime Minister to the statement made by his predecessor to the Five Power Conference held in this Parliament House on 19th June 1969, when the right honourable member for Higgins said that the Australian forces in the Malaysia-Singapore region have 'the objective of assisting - and I emphasise the word "assisting" - in defence against external aggression or subversion which can be clearly seen to stem from without the region and can be clearly seen to be supported by external regimes. And our forces are there for no other purpose'. I ask the Prime Minister: When did the Government make the decision to depart from the policy on the role of the Australian battalion so unequivocally laid down by his predecessor in that statement? 

 - Mr Speaker, I ask leave to make a statement. 
-Did the Minister for Repatriation approve the statement issued by* his Department which was sent to wives of special rate totally and permanently incapacitated pensioners confirming that, as a result of an increase in the service pension, medical entitlement cards would be withdrawn from them? Has the Minister conferred with the Prime Minister, who indicated last week to the honourable member for Kingston that the matter would be investigated and an immediate reply made available to him? Will the Minister say how many wives of special rate pensioners have been affected in this way and whether a decision has been made, in tine with the reconmendation made by the National Executive of the Returned Services League and the Totally and Permanently Disabled Soldiers Association, to provide medical and hospital treatment for the wives of TPI pensioners? Does the Minister further appreciate that in these circumstances the benefit would be much more advantageous to them than the small increase given to these people as a result of the Government's amendments to the Act foreshadowed in the Budget and would be of greater advantage to them in terms of purchasing power? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What is the estimated proportion of (a) total gross income and (b) after-tax income earned by each 10 percentile group of taxpayers during 1949-50, 1954-55, 1959-60, 1964-65 and 1969-70. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
How many permanent residential homes does a post office require in a district before that district becomes eligible for a postal delivery service. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, is supplementary to the one asked by the honourable member for Sturt. Has the Minister noted the remarks of the Gurindji elder,  Mr Lingari,  reported during the weekend, in which  Mr Lingari  indicated that the recent and much delayed grant of land to the Gurindji people would not be adequate to allow full economic autonomy for the Gurindji people? Can he explain why the Gurindji people were eventually granted only 35 square miles in the area when it is the stated intention of the Government to encourage economic independence for Aboriginal people? Considering (he nature of the land involved, was it the Minister's advice that 35 square miles could really support an economically viable operation in the cattle raising industry, the one area in which the Gurindji people have skills and training, or did the Minister have advice that if the Gurindji were to have a long term economic viability on their land the grant of land to them should be not less than 600 square miles? If he had advice that the land grant should be larger, why has that advice been ignored? 
I thank the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  for getting the annual report of the Australian National Line to honourable members before consideration of these estimates. The report makes slightly less depressing reading than those for previous years, particularly the report for 1970-71. According to the  chairman, Mr Weymouth,  the year under review was the most difficult for the Line since it was established 16 years ago. The loss on coastal operations was $2.4 lm, which the report attributes to lower economic activity, rising costs and industrial disruption. These losses were offset to some extent by modest profits in the overseas operations, where the year's results are distinctly encouraging. The overall loss was $ 1.89m compared with $2.53m in the previous year; so, everything considered, the Line has not done too badly. It is certainly a much better result than that on the recent operations of Qantas Airways Ltd. 
A significant feature of this year's report is the omission of any reference to the Tasmanian trade. In last year's report the unfavourable aspects of the Tasmanian section of the coastal trade were emphasised. This year Tasmanian operations are ignored, both in the chairman's review and in the report on coastal operations. The main references to the Tasmanian trade deal with the re-deployment of ships and service. It is impossible to get from the ANL report any notion of the losses sustained in the 
Tasmanian trade. This is intriguing; perhaps in the circumstances of the past year the Line thought that no news of Tasmania was good news. We know that the Line does cost its Tasmanian operations separately and that it can provide net trading results. Indeed, the Minister has indicated that he he has no objection to these results being supplied on a confidential basis to the Tasmanian State Government. The Line's objection to publishing a breakdown of this sort is that it would disclose commercial information which could prejudice the Line's position in relation to its competitors. There may be merit in this argument, but it should be possible to give a fuller account of the Tasmanian trade and its prospects in the ANL report without infringing the competitive position of the Line. 
I have described in some detail in this chamber the extreme economic disadvantages faced by Tasmania because of its physical isolation and its almost total independence of shipping services. About 8 per cent of exports are carried by air and these are mainly smaller parcels of light weight with a relatively high value per unit of weight, or an occasional urgent consignment. The rest of the trade is dependent on shipping; major industries export almost 100 per cent of their output and bring in much of their raw material by sea. Many medium-size and small industries have to export surplus production, as the local market is too small to absorb all the commodities produced. The island is dependent for day to day consumption on goods imported by sea; the important tourist industry draws very heavily on sea transport, particularly ANL services. These are fairly obvious points which have been made again and again, yet they have not been sufficiently comprehended by this Government 
Against this background of the absolute dependence of the Tasmanian economy on shipping services, I want to look at the record of freight increases on these vital services in recent years. The ANL increased freight rates by 12 1/2 per cent in August 1970. It also recast schedules so that in many cases the freight rate increases were very much greater than  I2i  per cent. These rates subsequently were adjusted, although there were complaints that anomalies remained. The rises imposed by the ANL were quickly followed by the other major shipping firms - the Union Steamship Co. of New Zealand and William Holyman and Sons Pty Ltd. On 1st March last year, passenger fares and accompanied vehicle charges were increased by the ANL; passenger charges rose by up to 15 per cent and car charges by about 5 per cent. Shipping rates on interstate general cargo services were increased again from 1st July last year - by 12.5 per cent for Sydney-Tasmania services, by 8 per cent from Melbourne to Tasmania, and by 6 per cent from Adelaide to Tasmania. Another extensive set of higher charges has now been imposed on important categories of cargo and on passenger fares and vehicle charges. These applied from 14th August for cargo and from 12th September for passengers and cars. The latest increases are too complicated for me to summarise here, but they contain some provisions which are difficult to explain. 
The new rates for cars seem designed to hit those with smaller cars. For the mini-sized vehicle up to 11 feet, the return fare has been increased by 44 per cent; for cars from 11 feet to 13i feet, which include common VW and Morris models, the increase is 46 per cent. For cars from  I5i  to 17i feet, which include the Valiant and the Fairlane, the increase is only 44 per cent. There may be some logic in these differentials, but it is difficult to see; it can hardly encourage the tourist with a modest budget and a small car to go to Tasmania on the ANL. Another peculiar feature of these latest increases is that they were imposed without any consultation between the ANL and the Tasmanian Transport Commission. There may be no statutory obligation on the Line to discuss higher charges with the State representatives, but it is poor public relations to say the least. It does nothing to raise the status of the ANL among Tasmanians who are becoming more and more critical of the Line. 
In summary, there have been 4 major shipping cost increases imposed on Tasmanian services in less than 2 years. Undoubtedly the ANL has serious problems which must be conceded; I have always tried to be fair to the Line and acknowledge what it has done for Tasmania. The simple truth is that this process of regular heavy  increases in shipping rates either has to stop somewhere or it has to be offset in some way. The barden is fast approaching the point where it must inevitably cripple the Tasmanian economy. The cost of sustaining a permanently deprived and depressed economy in future years would be immensely greater in social welfare terms than the assistance which should now be given for essential shipping services to Tasmania. If the Government wants a region of economic deprivation similar to the Appalachian regions of the United States, then it is going the right way about creating it. 
I exclude the present Minister for Shipping and Transport from this indictment; it is my understanding from the State Government that the Minister has shown concern and is trying within the limitations of his portfolio to give assistance. State Government officials are optimistic that the Minister is aware of the gravity of the situation and is genuine in his efforts to assist. Apparently there have been fruitful discussions between State and Commonwealth officials, and I thank the Minister for his role in producing this more hopeful atmosphere. There is always understandable reluctance on the part of a government to subsidise a particular region or a specific group of people; this cuts across concepts of popular sovereignty and political equality. But it is a situation which in situations of crisis has to be faced, and this situation is fast approaching with Tasmanian shipping. 
The Commonwealth has given many millions of dollars for rail transport services in remote areas of mainland Australia - in South Australia, Western Australia and the Northern Territory. There is another example in this year's Budget, with the provision of $54m for the Alice SpringsTarcoola railway; this will be made on favourable terms under railway standardisation programmes. No-one begrudges this sort of transport assistance to remote and deprived areas; it must be given. But the same principle should be applied squarely across the board; it is inconsistent to subsidise transport services in some remote and deprived areas and not to assist or intervene when higher freight rates are piled on luckless people in other deprived regions without any assistance or intervention. The 
Government just does not seem to comprehend the blatant discrimination in its approach to transport policy. 
In the time available remaining to me I have a few words to say about another aspect of this discrimination against Tasmanian transport services, and that is the Bell Bay link. When the Bill giving Commonwealth assistance for the Bell Bay link was discussed in the Parliament late last year, I was extremely critical of the Government for the harsh terms imposed. I compared the Bell Bay agreement most unfavourably with assistance given by the  Comomnwealth  to railways in all other States. I suppose one should be charitable to vanished Premiers, but the legacy left behind by the former State Government amounts to one of the greatest administrative shambles in Australian history. The history of price escalation on this rail scheme is in the great tradition of the Fill aircraft, the DDL destroyer programme and the Sydney Opera House. The present estimated cost of the rail link is $12.6m. With the ancillary works needed to make effective use of the link the total cost is now estimated at more than $30m. The Commonwealth is committed to give assistance of $4.25m, most of it by way of a loan. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Corbett)  - Order! The honourable gentleman's time has expired. 
There are a number of major topics in the defence context which deserve treatment in some detail. Examples are the Government's plans for the Australian aircraft industry and examination of proposals for aircraft co-production which have been put to the Government by international aerospace companies. Two other areas which should be looked at in some depth are the future of the Navy's air power capability, and requirements for long range maritime patrol and surveillance. Each one of these subjects would absorb at least twice the time provided for debating these estimates if it were to be treated with any degree of comprehensiveness. Within the narrow limitations imposed by this debate, it is possible to make only a few general comments about specific issues. This is unfortunate because this will probably be the last chance we get to discuss important defence issues before the election. 
Recent debates on defence have not produced the quality which this House is capable of displaying in consideration of Australian security policy. Last year's debate on the defence estimates produced an excellent example of this with a searching and bipartisan dissection of the DDL destroyer commitment. This is the sort of examination which has been all too rare in parliamentary examination of defence, and defence procurement in particular. The view has prevailed that procurement decisions should be left to the experts, despite the notorious blunders made by experts such as the F111 and the pentropic reorganisation and re-equipment of the Army. Defence procurement is no longer a highly technical matter which has to be left to the experts in the Services. It is just as much the preserve of the systems analyst and the economist specialising in cost-benefit studies. 
This sort of approach is essential for proper compromises between the Services to be reached, for the most effective allocation of scarce resources, and for the avoidance of waste. In allocating resources for competing demands from the Services and scrutinising the impact of defence decisions this Parliament must be paramount. This is why I hope the Parliament will be able to bring to issues such as the replacement of the Neptune and the Mirage, and the revitalisation of naval air power, the same freshness and frankness revealed in the DDL debate last year. The Services are much more willing now to discuss their requirements and put a strong case for their viability. At long last more information is flowing to members for the debate of these topics; indeed there is evidence that the Services are getting very restive about the need to state their case io all members and to the alternatiave Government in particular. 
According to the Defence Report it has been decided not to allow the Australian Army to fall below a level of about 40,000, which would preserve its unique experience in tropical warfare gained in Vietnam. It would also preserve the Army's unique experience in selective national service. In any case, the strength of the Army according to the latest figures released in the last week by the Minister is 41,536, an increase of about 250 since the last figures were released in June. 
I have not been able to get the exact number of national servicemen but in June it was 11.947 and in view of the Government's ceiling of 12,000 there would not be much variation over three or four months. This makes the number of volunteers in the Army about 29,590. In 1966, when the Vietnam war and national service were at their peak, the number of volunteers in the Army was 24,583. In the 6 years since 1966 the volunteer strength of the Army has grown by a net 5,000, although conditions in the labour market for much of this period were not favourable to Army recruitment. This is important because it dispels the notion that the present buoyancy in recruiting has been caused by the constriction of the labour market. Actually the greatest jump in the number of volunteers occurred between 1966 and 1968  -  a period when the labour market did not assist recruiting. The level of volunteers was fairly steady in 1968, 1969 and 1970; there was a slight fall-off in 1971 before the surge in recruitment over the past year. This completely destroys the erroneous assumption that the increase in volunteers has been a sudden spurt stimulated by problems in civilian employment. Most of the gain was made when employment was running at a high level. Until the often-promised return to a stable labour market eventuates, it will not be possible to assess precisely what impact the high rate of unemployment has had on recruiting in the past few months. Looking at the figures over the past few years it is difficult to believe that it has had a significant impact. 
There are reasons for optimism that the steady growth in the total number of volunteers will continue in the next few years, although there may be occasional lags in the growth rate. It cannot be emphasised too often that this increase has been achieved despite a Government policy which amounts te virtual discouragement of volunteers. The Minister for Defence has suggested that the Government has followed a policy for maximising the proportion of volunteers in the Army. This is utter nonsense. The Government will never be enthusiastic about stimulating the flow of volunteers while it has recourse to conscription. Obviously there is no need for the Government to worry too much about recruiting volunteers or improving pay and conditions for servicemen while it retains the weapon of selective conscription in its political arsenal. Nor should it be forgotten that the Army is recruiting under very stringent standards of acceptance which would be regarded as a luxury by armies without the back-up of conscription. 
Despite these dampeners on voluntarism, the level of volunteers has risen by more than 20 per cent in the past 6 years. The embarrassment in the present level of volunteers is that the ceiling of around 40,000 imposed by the Government has been shattered. According to the latest figures available to me, the strength of the Army is 41,536 men. In September last year the. Government moved to cut back the Army to 40,000 by reducing the term of national service from 2 years to 18 months. This was designed to reduce the number of national servicemen inducted from 16,000 to 12,000. However, this measure was negated by the increase in volunteers and the closest the Army got to reducing its strength to the 40,000 target was 41,290 in June this year If the Government wished to achieve the objectives of cutting the 
Array from 44,000 to 40,000 obviously it should have cut down even further on the national service intake. On the basis of the Government's logic it should now cut the number of national servicemen by another 2,000. Alternatively it should atlast accept that it is necessary to dispense completely with conscription and exploit to the full the present favourable atmosphere for stimulating voluntary enlistment. The growth of voluntary enlistment reinforces the Opposition's  case  that it is possible to reorganise the Army into an all-volunteer Army of dimensions adequate for the defence of Australia. 
Turning to another aspect of manpower policy, the. Defence Report emphasises the need of the Services for more capital spending and that manpower and administrative costs will have to be curbed if this capital spending is to be achieved. According to the Defence Report the civilian manpower level is not now expected to grow as quickly as in the last few years. This is reassuring because any analysis of the growth of civilian manpower, even in the past 4 years, throws up some disturbing evidence. Since 1968 the overall growth of civilian manpower in the 3 Service departments has been about 40 per  ceDt. 
The growth figures for each service at present are: Navy, 19 per cent; Army, 27 per cent; and Air Force, 43 per cent. Obviously this is much too rapid a growth over a period of only 4 years and it is growth that should be curbed. There are grounds for scepticism about the projected savings this restraint on the growth of manpower will bring. 
I thank the Committee and particularly the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess). 
It is obvious from the Defence Report that the Department of Defence wants to finance new capital spending by holding down the growth of manpower and administrative costs. Accordingly it reasons that if civilian manpower is stabilised, it will also be possible to hold down other running costs. This reasoning seems rather naive. It is not explained how the costs of stores, equipment, repair and maintenance, buildings and works can be contained merely by restricting manpower. These costs would seem to be largely independent of the number of civilian employees in the services. It is true that restraining the growth of the civilian work force should restrict also the growth of administrative costs, although there are other factors involved which will also have to be watched closely. 
The cost of future manpower, both civilian and permanent forces, seems to me to be very unrealistically projected in terms cf the S-year defence programme formulated by the Government. The defence vote for the pay of servicemen and civilians is shown at $605m for 1972-73; this figure is projected forward by simply adding $5m for each of the subsequent years, so we wind up with a total of $625m in 1976-77. The report states with marked understatement that there will be future wage increases which were not allowed for in these figures. I hope it will be possible for pay and administrative costs to be contained effectively in the terms announced rather baldly in the Defence Report. It will be a remarkable exercise in management if spending on pay and allowances and spending on other running costs is to increase by only $20m in each category over the next 5 years at 1972 prices. Unfortunately there are grounds for scepticism about whether the huge capital spending indicated in the 5-year programme and the Defence Report can be financed by a redeployment of resources within the defence structure. It will be a task that will test to the utmost the management skills of the Department of Defence. 
I said a few moments ago that I believe that there had been an indication of some change on the part of the Department of Defence and that it was now much easier for the alternative government and therefore for myself, as the shadow Minister for Defence, to obtain information about important defence matters from the Department of Defence. In this respect, I believe that the Minister for the Navy  (Dr Mackay)  has been a trail blazer in facilitating greater access and communication between Parliament and the Services. The Minister for Defence has shown little inclination to follow this lead. For example, it is monstrous that the alternative government is not supplied with basic intelligence information such as the material gathered by the Joint Intelligence Organisation in the Department of Defence. 
Some day we will get round to a national approach to defence which does not make defence and the defence departments the preserve of one party or even one faction. There is no evidence to suggest that back-bench members of the Government parties are any better informed on important defence issues than is the Opposition. It is unlikely that defence will play a major role in the election campaign, although the Prime Minister still gives it some sort of priority in the Government's list of the issues. For this reason, the contributions to this estimates debate will be particularly important as reflecting the final attitudes of this Parliament on defence, which does not seem to be a goer in electoral terms. 
As I said at the commencement of my speech in this important consideration of the defence estimates, there are a great many subjects with which one should have the opportunity to deal in a debate of this kind. It would be impossible in the brief space of 10 minutes or, as in my own case, with an extension of 10 minutes, to deal with all the subjects that 1 believe should be under the scrutiny of this Parliament. For example, I have indicated on other occasions that I am completely dissatisfied with the Government's attitude to the future of the Citizen Military Forces in this country. I doubt very much whether during this debate there will be any discussion of this important facet of Australia's defence. 
Only a few weeks ago, when I had the opportunity to speak to the ministerial statement on defence, which was one of the few such statements that have been made in the Parliament over the last 3 years, I said that it seemed incredible to me that the responsible Minister in this Parliament could speak to the House for 45 minutes - indeed, he was speaking not only to this House but also to the nation - without making one reference to the future of the CMF. The Minister for the Army  (Mr Katter)  has now decided to come into the chamber. Whether he intends to speak in this debate, of course, is not known to me at this stage. This might be an opportunity for him to do so, if the Minister for Defence is not prepared to consider the future of the CMF. I believe that very grave disquiet exists in this country in relation to the Government's attitude to what, after all, is one of the most important services in terms of the defence of Australia. 
I do not want to repeat what I have said on other occasions about what would have happened to the defence forces of this country in, for example, 1939 had there not been a citizen military force from which sprang the cadre of officers, NCOs and enlisted men - the privates - who came forward and provided the basis for the 6th Division which was Australia's first con.ribution to the 1939-45 conflict. It alarms me that today, when there is dissatisfaction within the ranks of the CMF - I challenge the Minister for Defence to dispute what I have said in relation to the fall-off in the strength of the CMF - there has been a deterioration not only in the morale but also, I believe, in the equipment and manpower of the CMF. 
I have not had the opportunity to enlarge on this matter at any great length and that opportunity will be denied to me during the remainder of this Parliament. But I assure the Minister for Defence that I intend to take every opportunity that is available to me on the public platform to express what I believe is the concern that is felt by most Australians - those who have some relation to defence issues in this country, and particularly those who have served on a voluntary basis in Australia's Citizen Military Forces - that the Government should suggest that the CMF should be an arm of defence that can be used as an instrument for political purposes. I use this expression in the sense that the Minister has used it, and has been supported by his colleagues, in saying in this Parliament that the CMF can be used as an instrument for political purposes to ensure that anyone who does not want to undertake national service in Australia can opt out and serve in the CMF. This ought not to be the basis of one of the best forms of service in this country. I believe that it is time either the Minister for the Army or, more particularly, the Minister for Defence, took the opportunity to make a statement to this Parliament in its dying hours, on what the Government considers should be the future of the CMF in Australia. 
Having said that, I regret that there will not be the opportunity to deal more fully with some of the important issues that concern members of the Opposition and, I believe, the people of Australia generally. I refer particularly to procurement. I was challenged in the Parliament last week in relation to the DDL programme. 
It became clear in the weeks following the Budget and the passage of the repatriation legislation through this Parliament that there had been a substantial loss of entitlement. This was raised by the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  in the Parliament on 12th October. In the absence of the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  he asked the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  to investigate reports that wives of totally and permanently incapacitated pensioners had lost their pensioner medical entitlements. Of course, this loss of entitlement goes beyond the loss of entitlement to medical treatment. 
There are a number of other benefits associated with possession of the medical card which are strongly prized by pensioners. These cover concessions varying from State to State on telephone rental, radio and TV licences, sales tax concessions, fares and rates. So the question of relinquishing the card involves rather more than loss of entitlement to medical treatment and the added expense of joining a health fund. It also means the loss of other concessions which can be quite considerable for those on limited incomes. 
These were the matters raised with the Prime Minister by the honourable member for Kingston and which the Prime Minister undertook to investigate. On Tuesday I raised this question with the Minister for Repatriation who had returned by then from the Australian-Japanese ministerial talks. It seems peculiar that the Minister for Repatriation should be absent from Question Time because of the need to attend these talks. As far as I know repatriation is not an issue of policy between Japan and Australia, and the talks could well have spared the Minister who ranks nineteenth in the Ministry. There have been too many examples lately of the absence of junior Ministers from Question Time without sufficient explanation. 
The  DEPUTY  CHAIRMAN (Mr  Corbett) - Order! There is no point of order. 
 You certainly allowed the Minister, a greater deal of latitude,  Mr Deputy Chairman.  When the Minister was available on Tuesday I asked him if he had approved the letter sent to the wives of TPI pensioners withdrawing the entitlement. I asked him further how many wives were affected and whether the benefits available with possession of the entitlement card exceeded the relatively small increases in pensions provided under the Budget. 
The Minister confirmed that a letter was issued from the branches of the Repatriation Department to each TPI pensioner affected. He had subsequently ordered that another letter be compiled and sent to the same pensioner in more explanatory terms. This implies very strongly that there were serious flaws in the first letter, that it was rather peremptory and that it confused the pensioners about why they had lost their entitlements and what they would do for health cover. The second letter w.is subsequently distributed by the Minister to all members of the Parliament. I have no quarrel with the text of this letter; it does make the best of a pretty poor case and it is as sympathetic as a letter about a harsh aspect of social welfare policy can be. It is a pity that the Minister did not distribute the first letter for purposes of comparison. 
The Minister estimated the number of people affected by the loss of entitlement at. about 3,250. This is not an insignificant percentage of TPI pensioners; according to the latest Repatriation Commission Report the total number of TPI pensioners in Australia is 21,569. So the 3,250 who lose their pensioner medical card represent about 15 per cent of the total number of pensioners. If we add in the wives and other dependents it is obvious that the impact of this adjustment is quite a substantial one. The Minister's justification is that whenever a means test is applied, even if it is tapered, one gets into difficulties at the margin. As the Minister philosophically says: 'Before they were just in, now they are just out'. 
A couple might be eligible for the medical card because their joint income is a few cents below the minimum figure. An adjustment is made in pension rates which theoretically should make this couple better off but in practice their position deteriorates because they lost concessional benefits they enjoyed before. This, of course, is not a problem exclusive to repatriation pensioners; it affects all social welfare pensions near the margins of permissible assessed income. It is extremely uncharitable to dismiss this sort of incident as the mechanical working out of adjustments to the system. In particular the sort of rationalisation attempted by the Minister just does not wash. 
It is pointless to say that the new pension rates will bring in extra income of $598 a year and all that has to be offset against this is another $52 a year in payments to a hospital and medical benefits fund and a few other insignificant charges. The Minister actually described these charges as relatively minor expense. Neither of the aggregates supplied by the Minister is the correct one. The real value of the pension is .much lower and the real value of the lost concessions much higher. The extra $11.50 a week is absorbed in part by the loss of purchasing power from the high rate of inflation in recent years. Another substantial part of this amount goes to redress the erosion of the value of the repatriation over the past 20 years, an erosion which the Government is only now belatedly working to counter. 
If these 2 considerations are taken into account it is obvious that the substantive amount in the pockets of the pensioner couple is not $11.50 but very much less. An amount of $1 a week for a health fund may look insignificant against $11.50 a week, but looked at in relative terms the enforced spending of another dollar a week looms much larger. The other concessions lost are by no means insubstantial. For example, expensive drug costs will have to be met by the pensioner. Admittedly it is hard to strike a (figure, because of the variation in the prestige of the card from State to State, but I think a figure of $2 a week would be a reasonable average. Put in this context, the. loss of entitlement for these couples because of the means test provisions is not unfortunate. I do not blame the Minister for Repatriation for this; obviously this is a broad matter of social welfare policy. However, it seems that this matter was not handled initially by the Department with the tact and sympathy it warranted. The Minister has acknowledged this by directing the distribution of a second letter. Furthermore, I do not think the Minister does the. Government a service by trying to play down the impact of this loss of entitlement by a substantial percentage of TPI pensioners. Various ways have been suggested of countering this defect in the pension structure because of the means test provisions. One is the recommendation of the. RSL that wives and dependants get medical and hospital treatment under the Repatriation Act; that is, they would be given full repatriation medical entitlement. 
Another suggestion was made by the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  that free membership of medical funds should be made available to the families of TPI pensioners. These are constructive suggestions which should be looked at by the Minister. On the figures he has given to the House, 3,250 pensioners who lost entitlement would have to pay out another $52 a year to give them a health cover. This would involve total spending of an additional $160,000 a year by these deprived pensioners. Surely it should be possible to absorb this cost in some way without letting it fall completely on the pensioner who is poorly equipped to bear it. 
In the few moments that are left to me in this debate on the estimates for the Department of Repatriation let mie say that the Minister is fully aware of the fact that over the years representations have been made to him by the Totally and Permanently Incapacitated Ex-servicemen's Association, supported by the National Executive of the RSL, to extend the benefits of free medical and hospital treatment to the wives of special rate pensioners. This has been a consistent representation. On other occasions I have had the opportunity in this place to point out to the Minister the small amount that would be charged to Commonwealth revenue if this concession were provided for these people. How stupid it is when a government adopts the attitude that the wife of a special rate pensioner is not entitled to this privilege until her TPI husband dies when she immediately qualifies for the medical and hospital benefits. I suggest that the Minister should look at these problems with the seriousness that they deserve. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  (Mir Corbett) - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I ask the Minister for the Army whether he was correctly reported in last Friday's Press as saying that national service would not be needed in two or three years. Is it the Minister's great dream to see an army of volunteers with national service terminated, but still there to be used if numbers drop again? If these are the Minister's genuine beliefs, and in view of the present buoyancy of recruiting, will he appoint a commission of inquiry to look at ways of forming an adequate all volunteer Army as quickly as possible? Finally, is the support of the Minister for an all volunteer Army in marked contrast to the views of his colleague, the Minister for Defence, who favours an eternal commitment to conscription? 
I wish to ask the Prime Minister a question without notice. Has the Government rejected the new defence forces retirement benefits scheme recommended by the Jess Committee? If so, will the Prime Minister outline to the Parliament for the benefit of Australia's 80,000 servicemen the reason for such a shameful about-face? Would rejection of the scheme represent a flagrant breach of an undertaking given by the Minister for Defence on 20th September that legislation to implement the new scheme would be introduced next year and made retrospective to 17th October? 
I ask the Prime Minister a supplementary question on the same subject. 
1 move: That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the Deputy Leader of the Opposition moving that this House supports all recommendations of the Joint Select Committee on Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Legislation which afford greater benefits than those already in effect. 
This morning during question time I asked 2 questions of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon).  The first question was on the Government's attitude in relation to the report of the  Joint  Select Committee on Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Legislation, known as the Jess report, on DFRB matters generally. The Prime Minister evaded the question. 1 asked him, in the form of a supplementary question whether the report had been considered by Cabinet and, if it had been considered by Cabinet, was the decision arrived at that the report should be rejected. Again the Prime Minister evaded the question. 
A number of questions have been asked in the House of Representatives since the report of the Jess Committee was tabled in this Parliament some months ago. The honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess),  I think the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  and myself have asked questions of the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  and the Prime Minister on this subject. We were given an assurance that a statement would be made in relation to the Government's attitude on the report tabled in this Parliament. 1 am certain now, from the manner in which the Prime Minister evaded the questions this morning, that the Government has no intention of bringing down a Bill in this Parliament to give effect to the recommendations of the Committee. The intention of my motion would be to ensure that this Parliament had the opportunity not only to debate that report but indeed to vote upon that report. It would give to this Parliament the opportunity either to support or to reject the recommendations of the Jess Committee. Probably even the most menial messenger boy at Russell Hill today knows that the Cabinet has rejected the recommendations of the Jess Committee. Let the Minister for Defence either deny or confirm what I have said in this respect. I believe that the Minister for Defence nas an obligation to do this, because it was the Minister for Defence who in this Parliament answered this question by the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham): 
Has the Minister for Defence any information for this House relating to the Government's policy to continue to review and improve the conditions of service in the armed forces? 
In the course of his very long answer the Minister for Defence had this to say: 
We have had before us the report of the Jess Committee on the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund. I stress that this Committee was set up because of the initiative taken by the Government. Already we have made some decisions in this field. Firstly, we have said that no-one will be disadvantaged by participating in the Jess scheme; that everybody will have a right of election to ensure that by participating in the new scheme he is not disadvantaged. We have said, also that the legislation in relation to the new scheme will be introduced next year but, of course.' it will be retrospective to 1st October this year. We have before us a number of other measures, on which we expect results very soon. So far as the DFRB scheme is concerned, we are now able to make a- 
At this point the Minister for Defence was interrupted but in conclusion he said:   . .in relation to the DFRB scheme ... .the Government has now received the Actuary's report on the cost of the Jess Committee's recommendations and this should enable the Government to make a decision in the not too distant future. 
Nothing has been done about this. What concerns me, and concerns the Opposition, is when we can expect the Government either to confirm or deny the assertion that I have made this morning that the scheme has been rejected out of hand. As I said in my question this morning, some 80.000 ex-servicemen in Australia will' expect the Government to make a decision. Indeed, they have come down on the side of the recommendations of the Jess Committee. I am not suggesting that the Jess Committee report is not without some faults or that there are not some anomalies in it. The Committee itself has acknowledged this. However, as a result of discussions which I have had with servicemen from all 3 Services throughout Australia, it is quite clear that they regard this scheme as being a distinct improvement on the existing scheme. I do not want at this stage, nor should I take the opportunity, to go into the recommendations of the Jess Committee's report. The report has been tabled in the Rouse and all honourable members are familiar with it. 
What appals me is the attitude of the Government - that on the eve of an election, no doubt believing that because it has regarded servicemen in the past as being somewhat conservative with their voting, it can do as it likes. I assure the Minister for Defence that this is not the case today. The 80,000 servicemen to whom I have just referred will be looking for an opportunity to&gt; show the Government that they are not prepared to accept this sort of attitude in relation to the amenities and the privileges that the Opposition believes they are entitled to expect from any responsible government. The Government has been able to send and commit servicemen to war at hs discretion but when it comes to the question of providing for those servicemen their basic rights and entitlements the Government always shirks its responsibilities. This matter was considered by a select committee of the Parliament. That committee was representative of all parties in the Parliament. It deliberated at great length. I pay credit to the  Chairman  ' of the Committee because he did not at any time deviate from the proposition which the Committee had determined, namely, that the existing scheme had to be amended and improved. If the Minister for Defence reads some of the submissions that were made by responsible members of the armed forces he will agree with the decisions of the Jess Committee. 
I believe that the Parliament should be told the Government's attitude concerning the Jess Committee's report. When will members of the armed forces be told whether the report is to be adopted, whether a Bill can be expected to be introduced into the Parliament and whether that Bill will give effect to the recommendations of the Jess Committee? The Minister is fully aware of the circumstances surrounding representations made to members of that Committee, to members of the Parliament and, I would believe, to himself in relation to the adoption of the report. The general consensus is that the report is acceptable but that some anomalies may have to be removed. However that can be done when the legislation is introduced into the Parliament. 
I conclude on this note: The Government has prevaricated on this issue. I believe it has deliberately misled not only the Parliament but, more importantly, it has also misled the armed forces of Australia. It has given every indication when questions have been asked of the Minister for Defence and the Prime Minister that some action would be taken on this matter. Who can deny, as a result of the answers of the Prime Minister to questions this morning, that this matter has now been rejected out of hand. He evaded the questions. He could have given me a simple and truthful answer. He chose not to do so. It is the responsibility of the Minister for Defence to indicate to the Parliament this morning the real position in relation to this matter. It not only concerns the Opposition but, as I have said, it concerns also 80,000 servicemen who expect a correct answer and are entitled to be told by the Government what they can expect. 
My question to the Prime Minister is supplementary to the question asked of him by the Leader of the Opposition. The Prime Minister will recall that last Tuesday week in answer to a question by the honourable member for Dawson he informed the honourable member that although he would not make available to the Parliament the Commonwealth evaluation report on which he rejected the Queensland Government's request for assistance for the urgently required Eton water conservation project in North Queensland he would, however, consider giving the report to the honourable member for Dawson on a confidential basis. As this area is in the grip of a severe drought, has he made up his mind yet, after 9 days, whether he is prepared to let the honourable member for Dawson see the report and the reason for the rejection of this important project? 
Probably the most remarkable statement made by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  relating to a remarkable chain of events was the one upon which he concluded when he referred to 3 honourable members on the Government side, ignoring completely the fact that the Joint Select Committee on Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Legislation was an all-party committee, a joint select committee of the Parliament of which my distinguished colleague the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  was  Deputy Chairman.  But no-one would expect that the Prime Minister, having dealt with the Jess Committee's report in the way he did during the Cabinet deliberations, would be prepared to concede that there were other members on this Committee, that this Committee was constituted in such a way that it was representative of every Party in this Parliament and, indeed, that the Committee brought down a unanimous recommendation. As I said, after a remarkable chain of events which led to the complete rejection of the Jess Committee's report by the Cabinet, the Prime Minister has the temerity to single out 3 of the members of that Committee purely for political purposes. I believe he confirmed his own smallness in relation to these matters. Let the people of Australia and the 80,000 servicemen in this country judge whether the Prime Minister's attitude and whether the Cabinet's attitude in relation to the DFRB Committee was the correct approach. Honourable members on his own side of the House do not accept this proposition. 
I referred to the chain of events. The assumption may have been conveyed to some people in this country that the Prime Minister made a statement in this Parliament this morning as a result of attitudes expressed and actions taken by some members on his own side. Let me confirm for the servicemen of this country that that statement would not have been made this morning had I not directed 2 questions to the Prime Minister yesterday, both of which he evaded. I knew that the day before Cabinet had rejected the Jess Committee's recommendations in relation to the DFRB scheme. The Prime Minister evaded the issue. One could almost say that he set out deliberately to give a false impression as to what had happened in relation to that report. Subsequently I was forced to move in this House for the suspension of Standing Orders. That action brought this issue before the Parliament. I say quite frankly that had it not been for the attitude I adopted in this House this matter would have been stood over and servicemen in this country would not have been informed of the situation and no statement would have been made  to  this Parliament. There would have been a clear misunderstanding in relation to the attitude of the Government to the DFRB Committee. 
The Prime Minister's statement swaps the fruits of the Jess Committee's report for 2 new independent examinations. What this boils down to is a deliberately engineered delay in the introduction of a new pensions scheme for servicemen. The best that the Government members have been able to do is to stave off the complete scuttling of the scheme proposed by the Joint Committee. I do not make this comment in a critical sense. Obviously it takes considerable political courage to force a confrontation with Cabinet at such a crucial political time. But for the resistance of this small group of members, all but comparatively minor recommendations of the Committee would have been abandoned. At least the Prime Minister, the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  and the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  have caved in to a remarkable extent. The compromise reached is in every way a most unsatisfactory one but it has the cardinal virtue of leaving some room for manoeuvre. It may yet be possible to get the principal recommendations of the Jess Committee incorporated in . a new scheme, but such a course is hedged with difficulties. I would like to remind the House of the first and principal recommendation of the Committee, which reads as follows: 
That the present Defence Forces Retirement Benefits legislation (referred to hereafter as the DFRB legislation) be repealed and a new scheme introduced without delay. The Committee has examined the post- 1959 scheme  closely  to  seo  whether this scheme, as it stands or with modifications, would be suitable as the sole future scheme, and is unanimous that it has many, defects, of which the most critical are its lack of simplicity amd comprehensibility to servicemen and, therefore, should be replaced by the scheme proposed in this report. 
This is the hard core of the Jess Corntee's report. Quite obviously this is the crucial issue because what the Government has tried to do is duck this recommendation. It wants to shore up the present unsatisfactory structure, incorporating some of the recommendations of the Committee into a scheme which is basically unchanged. This is completely contrary to the recommendations of the Committee which decided after very thorough examination that it just was not possible to prop up the existing unwieldy and much despised structure. There is no feature of Service life and administration so thoroughly unpopular as this scheme. Loathing and abhorrence of the present scheme transcend Service boundaries. I have never met a serving member of the forces prepared to say that he understands the scheme or that it has any worthwhile features. It has been the major gripe of servicemen overseas and in Service posts throughout Australia. 
This is the context in which the Jess Committee operated and rightly it decided that the DFRB scheme should be swept away and . replaced with a simpler and much more lucid scheme. This had been done in 1959 and the result was virtually the adoption of 2 schemes which have become known as the pre-1959 scheme and the post-1959 scheme. It would be tragic if the only result of this re-examination of the structure was the introduction of a third scheme, and the Prime Minister correctly pointed this out. We would wind up with the ridiculous model of .a pre-1959 scheme, a 1959-1972 scheme and a post- 1972 scheme. Obviously the only equitable solution was to dismantle the existing structure and start again with a new scheme in which all servicemen could participate without detriment. This is what the Jess Committee tried to do and I am satisfied that the draft proposal went a long way to achieve this objective. 
As I have said on many occasions, there were flaws and anomalies in the scheme but they were capable of elimination or correction. Perhaps the main area of concern was the treatment of late entrants in certain specific areas of the services. I think parts of the Royal Australian Air Force posed important problems here. Another contentious part of the scheme was the provision that a pension reduction penalty of 5 per cent a year would be imposed for each uncompleted year if a participant finished his service early at his own request. There was a general feeling that although some penalty was necessary the loss of 5 per cent entitlement a year was a bit steep. In many cases it would have obliterated most or even all of his pension entitlement. This was obviously an area where anomalies could occur and which needed careful examination and some degree of reassessment. 
It was possible to make this sort of criticism about the scheme, but in the main it was acceptable to servicemen and I am convinced it was a viable scheme. This was the scheme which the House was given to understand would be introduced with some modification along the lines I have indicated. There has never been any suggestion until this week that the existing legislation would not be repealed and replaced by a scheme based on the broad principles of the Jess recommendations. It is true that there were rumours of some rumblings in the Treasury about the scheme but the impression was conveyed that these had been overcome. Then it was revealed yesterday following a Cabinet meeting on Tuesday that it was not intended to go ahead with the scheme but instead to patch up the existing structure. 
The most remarkable feature of this meeting appears to have been a monumental climb-down by the Minister for Defence. As I pointed out yesterday, the Minister for Defence gave a clear commitment in the Parliament on 20th September to introduce what he described as the Jess scheme and make it retrospective to 1st October. The whole emphasis of this statement was on the introduction of the Jess scheme which can only be interpreted to mean the recommendations of the Jess Committee. By no stretch of the imagination can the Jess scheme be taken to mean the post-1959 scheme with a few of the Jess proposals tacked on to it. Yet when it came to the crunch, the Minister for Defence engaged in what can only be described as a sell-out of Australia's 80,000 servicemen. In the process it appears that he ruthlessly dumped his colleagues, the 3 Service Ministers who, 1 understand, strongly supported the scheme. 
Servicemen will be able to draw their own conclusions about the peculiar behaviour of the Minister for Defence and assess the genuineness of his commitment to improving the conditions of service. This hybrid scheme would have been accepted by the Government and in all probability shoved quickly through the Parliament before the Services realised they had been deceived. The strong reaction of Committee members has deferred this course of action, although it is not certain how permanent this will be. The Prime Minister has emerged with a compromise which shows all the evidence of haste and strain. Apparently this is acceptable to the Committee members who jacked up on the Cabinet edict, and I accept their decision. However, I feel they must be warned that there are grave doubts about the future of the Jess scheme emerging from the Prime Minister's statement. 
The overwhelming impression of the statement is that the main recommendation - the repealing of the present legislation and the introduction of a completely new scheme - will not be adopted. The Prime Minister's remarks on the acceptance of the Committee's recommendations and the format to be adopted are very highly qualified. All that the Prime Minister has clearly committed the Government to is an obvious decision not to introduce a third DFRB scheme to supplement the pre-1959 and post- 1959 schemes. The Prime Minister says that the crucial point is whether it is possible to transfer in an equitable way the pre-1959 and post-1959 contributors to a new scheme without detriment. Accordingly he has decided that an independent examination of this problem will be made. In effect, what the Prime Minister is saying is that we will have an independent investigation to see whether the Jess scheme would work. 
The Select Committee spent 18 months of analysis to reach the conclusion that such a scheme was feasible and that it should be introduced to replace the present structure The Jess Committee represents the 4 major political parties and a wide range of practical experience. The honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  was  chairman. His  commitment to improving conditions of service and his knowledge of the Services are beyond question. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  who has a very extensive knowledge of pension and actuarial techniques, was  deputy chairman.  Apart from the wealth of experience of the Services possessed by members, the Committee also had the benefit of assistance from  Mr Phil  Stokes, an experienced politician and a man with an intimate knowledge of conditions of service. 
I thank the House and the Minister for Defence. I have referred to the fact that  Mr Phil  Stokes gave some assistance to the Committee during the whole period of its deliberations. It was the unanimous conclusion of this Committee that there should be a new scheme and that the present scheme should be wiped off the statute book. Now, after the wealth of evidence sifted and evaluated by the Jess Committee in reaching its unanimous conclusion, an independent investigator is to be appointed to see whether a new scheme is practicable. Whatever interpretation can be placed on this decision, it is a calculated insult to the Committee and in particular to its  chairman. 
As I said earlier, the honourable member for La Trobe was in an invidious position. He had to get some measure of commitment to his scheme without rocking the boat too much in the last days before an election. To a degree he has succeeded, but the measure of his success . must inevitably be a further delay - perhaps a lengthy delay - in reforming the DFRB structure. On the evidence of both the Jess Committee and the Allison Committee looking at the DFRB in any depth is a daunting and in many ways thankless task. I doubt whether even the most competent independent investigator could do an adequate job in less than 6 months. In the meantime, servicemen will just have to wait with the assurance that whatever emerges they will get its benefits back to 1st October this year. This is hardly a satisfactory solution. There is a strong suspicion that a powerful section of the Government wants to do a hatchet job on the Jess recommendations and produce a watered-down version which will satisfy no one. If the independent investigator produces an unfavourable report on the Jess scheme, there is no doubt that this Government will scrub it and there will not be much the honourable member for La Trobe and his colleagues can do about it. 
In summary, the crux of this issue is the apparent rejection of the important principle established by the Jess Committee that the existing legislation should be repealed and a new scheme, established. This effectively demolishes the recommendations of the Committee even if some of its provisions are ultimately included in the existing scheme by amending legislation. I oan assure the Government that this will not satisfy servicemen who have suffered from the complexity and often downright cussedness of the existing scheme. Many of these men have already been 2-time losers under the scheme; now there is every chance that the Government will make them 3-time losers. It is quite plain that an independent investigator will not come up with a better scheme. He can accept the feasability of the Jess proposals, which I submit is the reasonable course based on the exhaustive analysis conducted by the Select Committee. Alternatively, he can reject the scheme, most probably on strict actuarial grounds or on the basis of false economies. Without wishing to prejudge the issue or to reflect on the integrity of the investigator, I have grave fears that the investigation is designed as a prelude to adoption of the decision reached by the Cabinet on Tuesday. 
I would like to refer to the history of the investigation of the Joint Select Committee of this Parliament into the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund. The Minister for Defence and the Prime Minister may like to claim that they are responsible for solving the problem but there is a repetition of the crisis that developed in this Parliament as far back as 1970. The honourable member for La Trobe and the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  will recall the Minister for Defence was not interested in the proposal at that time - that in 1970 in reply to a statement on the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund I moved a motion in this House to set up a joint select committee of the Parliament to investigate the Fund. Why was this necessary? As the shadow Minister for Defence in this Parliament I had accepted the responsibility of talking to servicemen throughout the length and breadth of the country. It was clear to me that not only were there anomalies in the scheme but there was also grave dissatisfaction. 
I had already submitted that in this country there ought to be an all-volunteer 
Army and all-volunteer defence forces. To achieve that end it was necessary to do something about the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund. When I moved my motion it was not accpted by the Government but some Government supporters had the courage to stand up and say that they agreed with the proposition being put forward by the Opposition. As a result, the Government brought in its own motion. Quite clearly it had the same intention to set up a joint select committee of this Parliament. It does the Prime Minister no credit that this morning he came into the chamber and by inference rubbished the members of the Committee who do not belong to the Government parties. I repeat that it does the Prime Minister no credit. 
I turn to the history of the matter. The Committee was established in September 1970. As the Prime Minister admitted this morning, it deliberated for about 18 months. It received representations and submissions from a great many servicemen throughout this country. It encountered problems in the way of expressed opposition. That opposition from the Commonwealth Actuary and the Department of the Treasury came from people who may have believed that they were acting in the best interests of their departments and of this country. In the face of all this opposition the Committee was determined that its final recommendations were in the best interests of our servicemen. We have since awaited a decision by the Government. 
I would be the first to admit that the present Liberal-Country Party Government, led by the present Prime Minister, should not be regarded as a government that acts swiftly. I simply remind honourable members of what happened to the proposal of the Opposition that there ought to be a uniform legal code governing servicemen in this country. We have waited 8 years for it. I have reached the stage where I feel I can no longer put proposals on this issue to the Government because I know that nothing is likely to be done. In the light of the speed with which the Government has acted in that area it is understandable that it has taken all this time to make a decision about the DFRB scheme. And what is the decision? It is an ignominous decision of the Cabinet to reject out of hand the Jess 
Committee's report. I repeat what I said a few moments ago. The decision is not only a great disservice to the servicemen of this country - about 80,000 of them - who have accepted the proposition, with some minor amendments to which I have referred, but it is also an insult to the Committee and particularly to its Chairman. 
This morning the Prime Minister made a statement which in my opinion confirms that while this Government remains in power the Jess Committee report will never be implemented. It will be watered down. The opposition that has been expressed to it by people unable to see its advantages for our servicemen was obviously maintained and directed towards exerting pressure on the Cabinet. But there is always a silver lining. 1 want to say now quite clearly and unequivocally to the servicemen of this country that I confidently believe that the Minister for Defence will not have an opportunity to introduce legislation on this matter into the Parliament. I give an unequivocal assurance to our servicemen and to the people of Australia that the Jess Committee's report will be given effect in this Parliament by a Labor government. I could conclude on no better note. 
We are not satisfied with the performance of this Government. I believe that it has done a disservice to our servicemen. It is the expressed opinion of servicemen as well as members of the Opposition. As an instruction to the Government that it should move immediately to accept the recommendations of the Joint Select Committee on the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Legislation I move: 
That all words after That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: this House is of the opinion that all the recommendations of the Joint Select Committee on Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Legislation should be adopted but that accrued rights should be preserved where they are more advantageous than the recommendations of the Committee. 
We of the Opposition agree with the Prime Minister's reference this morning to the people he believed had made a significant contribution to the Jess Committee report. We believe that every member of the Committee acted sincerely in arriving at a decision that would benefit our servicemen through a better scheme than the one which had been foisted on them by the present Government. The motion I have moved will give honourable members opposite an opportunity to acknowledge that situation. If they believe that the recommendations of the Jess Committee are correct they will support the motion which I have moved on behalf of the Opposition. 

 Mr DEPUTY SYEAKER  (Mr Corbett) 
Order! Is the amendment seconded? 
The Opposition endorses these Bills which remove the last vestiges of discrimination on racial grounds from the operation of the legislation giving benefits to exservicemen. The key section of the Repatriation (Torres Strait Islanders) Bill is clause 5 which reads as follows: 
For avoidance of doubt, it is by this Act declared that consequent upon the enactment of the Native Members of the Forces Benefit Act 1972, the laws of the Commonwealth providing for benefits, advantages and assistance in respect of members of the Defence Forces who served during the war apply, according to their tenor, in relation to Torres Strait Island members. 
In effect this clause declares that the repatriation laws are to apply without regard to racial differences to Torres Strait veterans of the armed forces. 
Part III of the Bill also extends from 3 months to 6 months each of the appeal time limits as applied to residents of the Tories Strait Islands. The legislation gives these ex-servicemen full appeal rights under the repatriation structure. Although it is a new Bill it is in effect an amendment of the Repatriation Act. Discriminations which formerly applied to the islanders have been wiped out and I am sure the House will agree that this is a notable improvement. I have been informed by the Repatriation Department that 91 Islanders get war pensions; including wives and dependants the number affected by repatriation legislation for war pension purposes is 310. 
There are also 138 service pensioners among the Islanders; with dependants the total is 294. This is a fairly substantial percentage of Island people and it is essential that they be treated equally before the law with all other repatriation pensioners. Apart from the repatriation legislation a considerable improvement has been made by giving these servicemen access to the war service homes legislation. Under the previous legislation these men had no entitlement to war service homes. This discrimination has been removed and a number of the Islanders will benefit. Apparently those members who served only on Thursday Island are not entitled to assistance because they were not enlisted from overseas service. However, some, for one reason or another, did serve overseas, for example on small ships. It is appropriate that these men should be allowed assistance under this legislation. As a matter of interest I got the War Memorial Library to hunt up some information about the Torres Strait Light Infantry Forces. A unit of company strength was formed in 1941 to assist in guarding the airfield on Thursday Island. These men were drawn from various islands including Murray. Banks and Prince of Wales. The unit was officered by members of the Australian Army, mostly from Queensland, and was called the Torres Strait Infantry Company. Two other small units, the Torres Strait Employment Company and the Islander Labour Company were subsequently formed. AN units were amalgamated into the Torres Strait Light Infantry Company in March 1943. When the war ended 700 Island veterans of this company were rehabilitated in the pearling industry by the Queensland Government. As I indicated to the House, there were 700 members who served at some time in this Company. That is not an insignificant number. As I said at the outset - I suppose one can always learn something new in this Parliament - I had no knowledge of the discrimination that applied in relation to those from this area served in the armed forces during the Second World War, But at least the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  and the Government have now accepted that there should not be any racial discrimination and the Bill which we now have before us provides for this. 1 am sure that all Australians would accept the principle that laws should not be enacted on the basis of discrimination one way or the other. So, the Government has decided to apply this principle. I have studied the Act very carefully and I have received an assurance that, when the Minister talks about appeals and when his Department refers to appeals, they agree that the benefits of the entire processes of the Repatriation Act will apply to those who are now being considered under the terms of this legislation. I found it very difficult to determine what was intended by the legislation, because while it contains a reference to a right of appeal to the Repatriation Commission I can see no reference to a right of appeal to an entitlement tribunal. However, I accept the assurance that there will be a right of appeal to an entitlement tribunal. I make it quite clear to the Minister that if this was not the situation it would be one further example of discrimination being perpetuated. I have said in this House on a number of occasions before the present Minister held the Repatriation portfolio that I do not accept the principle that we cannot give ex-seamen the right of appeal to a higher tribunal. I can never accept the discrimination in this respect. It is not racial discrimination but discrimination in relation to what is availale to ex-servicemen in the form of an appeal and what is available to ex-seamen in the form of an appeal. However, that matter can be corrected, and I hope it will be corrected at a later date. But I accept the assurance that there will be a right of appeal to an entitlement tribunal. 
The other point I raise is that the principal Act will still apply, although of course amended. I find it very difficult to understand why the Government intends to have 2 separate Acts - an Act that will apply to Torres Strait Islanders and an Act that applies to all other servicemen in this country. The Bill provides that the Repatriation Act will apply to Torres Strait Islanders. But why is it necessary to continue with 2 Acts? Could these people not have been just as easily incorporated under the Repatriation Act? There may be some administrative problem in doing this. If so, no doubt the Minister will indicate what that problem is. 
Since the benefits of the war service homes legislation have also been extended to these people I believe that I ought to conclude by making 1 or 2 references to the problems of Torres Strait Islanders in obtaining war service homes. I suppose the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  who is sitting in the House, will be fully aware of the problems existing in that area, and he will know that the homes built in those islands have normally been built by the Queensland Department of Aboriginal and Island Affairs. That 
Department has accepted responsibility for the provision of homes, and most of the homes that have been built have been built for a cost of $800 to $2,000. There has been some variation, but that is generally the level of the cost of building on these islands. The Minister is well aware, as are all other members in this House, that the maximum loan for a successful applicant under the war service homes legislation today stands at $9,000. If the Department of Housing applies the same principles as it applies elsewhere in Australia and demands the level of accommodation that exists elsewhere, a home could not be built in this area for less than $20,000. If the Department of Housing demands that the same standards be applied in relation to the homes on Torres Strait Island and a home is to cost $20,000, it is quite clear that those who may qualify under the terms of this legislation will not be able to take advantage of the benefit which the Minister for Repatriation has outlined. 
Either the Minister for Housing or the Minister for Repatriation may be able to advise me whether the Department of Housing, which is the department responsible for war service homes, will demand that homes built in this area be of the same standard as homes it builds elsewhere. If it does I suggest to the Minister that very few people will be able to take advantage of the housing provisions of the legislation since, as I have pointed out, the average cost of a home in this area would be close to $20,000, leaving of course a difference of $11,000 to be found by those who qualify under the terms of the legislation. 
I have made only 2 points in relation to this legislation. I offer no criticism. The Bill is certainly an improvement and therefore, as I have indicated, the Opposition does not oppose it. I believe there ought to be an explanation of the 2 points I have raised. I believe there should be an explanation in relation to the continuation of a situation in which there will be 2 separate Acts - one applying to the Islanders and one applying to ex-servicemen generally. Secondly I believe there ought to be a full explanation from the Minister for Housing concerning the other problem I raised, which I believe is one of very great importance. He should say whether special consideration will be given under the terms of the war service homes legislation to those who will want to make application for a housing loan because they are now eligible for a war service home but who, under normal circumstances, would not be in a position to meet the conditions that are normally set by the War Service Homes Division. 
 I join with other members on both sides of the House who have spoken in this valedictory address. I point out that this is the first occasion, certainly in my memory as a member of the Federal Parliament, when the valedictory addresses have been delivered at this hour. I presume that this is due to a number of reasons. I do not want to enter into the controversy that may have been raised by one of the newspapers, which was dealt with by the Leader of the House  (Mr Chipp).  At this stage I do not want to deal with the question of politics as such because in the next 5 weeks we will be dealing with politics. I have no doubt that after these addresses have been concluded we may even engage in a political contest again, and if that is necessary the Opposition will be happy to do so. 
I believe that this is an opportunity to pay a tribute to those who make this Parliament work. While honourable members may feel that they are here to contribute, as I am sure they are, to the debates and indeed to the development of this country, the plain fact is that the Parliament would not be able to work unless it had the cooperation of the many people in this Parliament - the Hansard staff, the attendants, the Clerks particularly, who make a notable contribution to the smooth running of this institution. 
I am very grateful to the Leader of the House for the tribute he paid me and I believe one can be generous enough to reciprocate. Since I have had the opportunity to work with the Leader of the House it has always been on the basis of complete understanding. There has never been an occasion when I have not been able to accept his word or to appreciate that any decision or agreement that has been made will be honoured. This is not always fully understood by members on this side of the House, or I am sure by members who sit behind the Leader of the House. As a result of our mutual understanding and co-operation the business of the House has proceeded very smoothly. 
I wish to thank also the predecessors of the present Leader of the House. Since it has been my responsibility to act in this capacity on behalf of the Opposition I have had the privilege of  working together with the Treasurer and  Deputy  Leader of the Liberal Party  (Mr Snedden)  and the Minister for National Development  (Sir Reginald Swartz).  Whatever compliments I may pay with respect to the progress of the business of the House and the understanding that has existed apply equally to the Minister for National Development and his predecessor. I join with honourable members who have paid a tribute to those who will be leaving this Parliament at the end of this session. I refer first to the honourable member for Fisher  (Sir Charles Adermann),  because I remember that back in 1954 when I delivered my maiden speech in the Parliament he followed me in the debate. He wished me a very happy but a very short stay in the Federal Parliament. I am very happy to say that I will still be here after he retires. I believe that he has made a very significant contribution not only to his Party but also to the nation as a whole. 
The honourable member for Mcpherson  (Mr Barnes)  and the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Hughes)  are also leaving. The honourable member for Berowra is not in the chamber at the moment, but I would like to pay a special tribute to him. I had an opportunity to listen to the honourable member for Berowra when he served this Parliament and the country as the Attorney-General. I believe that he made a very significant contribution indeed. This Parliament will be the poorer for his passing from parliamentary service. The honourable member for Mallee  (Sir Winton Turnbull)  also is leaving. I sat alongside him for many years and argued across the aisle with him as I believe he now argues with the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster).  I was very happy to be associated with him.  His  contribution to his Party, the Parliament and the country has been notable and significant. 
I come now to the honourable members on my own side of the Parliament who are retiring. The right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell)  has been a member of this Parliament since 1940 and has served this country with great distinction. On 2 recent occasions I have referred to his career in greater detail. I can pay him no greater compliment than to say that I hope I will be able to emulate such a distinguished career in the Federal Parliament and in the service of this country. The honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Mclvor)  and the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Griffiths)  will be leaving at the end of this Parliament. They will be retiring as a result of their own decisions. They too have made notable contributions to the Parliament. I should include in those who are leaving us the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Allan Fraser). 
Turning to you,  Mr Speaker,  I suggest that probably 1 have been the least of your troubles in this Parliament. You have handled a very difficult position in the same way that your predecessors handled that very responsible office. Every member of this House would pay a tribute to you in that respect. I join with those who have taken the opportunity to extend congratulations and good wishes to all the people associated with the Parliament and who have contributed to the smooth running of the business of the House in what has been a very notable session. 
I want now to pay a well deserved tribute to one who has worked very closely with my staff. I refer to him as Giff because I have become so accustomed to referring to him in that way. He works very closely with the Leader of the House and with my staff. I have found him to be very loyal, conscientious and helpful not only to the Leader of the House but also to me. I pay a tribute to one who has worked very closely with him. I refer to my private secretary, Brian Toohey. Through mutual co-operation has come very satisfactory management of the business of this House. 1 conclude by extending, as others who have preceded me have done, good wishes to all those who are leaving this Parliament. I look forward to what I suppose will be an ardous period in the next five or six weeks. I know that 1 shall return. My final tribute is to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  who has the respect of every member on this side of the House. In many ways he has made a significant contribution to this House and will make a further significant contribution when we return to govern this country. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
What companies have been lent money by the Australian Industry Development Corporation. 
What sum has been lent to each and on what terms. 
In what business undertakings has the Australian Industry Development Corporation made direct investment. 
How much has it invested in each case and on what terms. 
The honourable member would be aware of the policy commitment of the Government when it announced that the task force located in the Singapore area would be withdrawn. The battalion will be withdrawn, the battery will be withdrawn and I have since determined that there are a further 180 personnel who could be and would be regarded as being combat forces who would also be withdrawn. This is in line with the policy statement enunciated by the Prime Minister some time ago. 
As we indicated, they will be withdrawn when their period of duty expires at the end of 1973. The withdrawals will begin then and will be completed early in 1974. 
This matter is under consideration. In line with the policy of the Government, national service was discontinued. But it may be of interest to honourable members at this stage if I inform them that approximately 30 per cent of national servicemen have elected to remain in the Services until their period of duty has been completed. As a result of the Government's policy in relation to the abolition of national service in Australia, naturally there has been some reduction in the personnel at some camps. Two camps are affected in this way, and Singleton is one. of them. However, I can assure the honourable gentleman that this matter is under consideration. The Government's policy provides for an all-volunteer force in Australia and for maintaining the forces at the level that we believe is adequate and necessary. At this moment an interdepartmental inquiry is taking place to determine what should be the level of personnel in the Australian Army. The report resulting from that inquiry should be available to me very shortly. 
About 35,000 servicemen are now in the Army; slightly more than 30,000 of them are members of the regular forces. I think I ought to indicate at this stage that what I said on behalf of this Government, when we were in Opposition, was that we believed a level of 31,000 troops would be necessary for the Regular Army. At present it is about 30,800. We are confident that by June there will be more than 31,000 volunteers in the Army. In those circumstances and depending upon the results of the inquiry which is now taking place to determine the level of the armed forces, consideration will be given to the accommodation that is now available at Singleton. I can assure the honourable gentleman again that as a result of our foreign policy, when the battalion and battery are returned from Singapore, at the end of this year, the accommodation that is now available will be required. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
As you know,  Mr Speaker,  the Government is moving quickly on a broad front to implement the policies for which it received a mandate on 2nd December 1972. Among those policies were a number of proposals related to repatriation. The Bill currently before the House is designed to give legislative effect to important Government proposals relating to improvements in pension rates and conditions of eligibility. In saying that they are important, I do not intend it to be taken that other matters in the repatriation field are necessarily placed in lower order of priority. They will be kept continually under review. In fact, honourable members will be aware that the funeral benefit payable on the death of entitled ex-servicemen has already been increased from $50 to $100. Regulations giving effect to this increase were notified in Gazette No. 16 of 8th February last. I will now outline to the House the provisions of the Bill. 
The Special Rate War Pension 
The Government's view is that the special or total and permanent incapacity rate payable to a man or woman who has been classified as totally and permanently incapacitated because of war related incapacity should not be less than the adult Commonwealth minimum wage. Accordingly, the Bill provides for an increase of $3.10 a week in the special or TPI rate, taking it from $48 a week to $51.10 a week. It should be remembered that the minimum wage is a gross wage, subject to income tax. All war pensions, on the other hand, are tax free, so that the real value of the special rate is far greater than it first seems. But we must add also the value of any special allowance such as recreation transport allowance or attendant's allowance for which a pensioner may be eligible. I might add that this special rate is also payable to certain tuberculosis sufferers, to the blind, to those suffering from the more serious double amputations and to those who are classified as being temporarily totally incapacitated. A total of 21,104 pensioners will receive this increase, at a cost of $3 .4m in a full year. 
The Intermediate Rate War Pension 
The intermediate rate is one of the different rates of war pension designed to cater for the various degrees of war related incapacity. It is payable to those whose incapacity permits them to work only part-time or intermittently and will be increased by $2.55 a week, taking it from $34 to $36.55 a week. The cost for a full year for the 1,900 pensioners involved will be $0.25m. 
The General Rate War Pension 
The Government's policy is that the general rate of war pension should be progressively increased until it has reached the equivalent of 50 per cent of the adult Commonwealth minimum wage and that it should be maintained at that level. Bearing in mind that over 190,000 ex-servicemen and women receive a war pension within the general rate scale, we have always maintained that the Government's goal in this direction would have to be reached in stages as resources permit. As a first step, this Bill provides an increase of $2 a week at the 100 per cent rate, taking the maximum of this pension from $14 to $16 a week. Honourable members will be aware that the general rate presently scales down from 100 per cent to 10 per cent according to the assessed degree of incapacity. All general rate war pensioners will benefit from this increase. There are 190,880 general rate pensioners and the cost of this increase for a full year will be $8.34m. 
The War Widow's Pension 
The Government is acutely aware of the loss endured by the nation's war widows and the difficulties they have faced, and are still facing in their daily lives without the assistance, comfort and support of a breadwinner. As a first step in the Government's programme in this area, the Bill increases the basic war widow's pension by $1.50 a week taking it from $20 to $21.50. The cost in a full year of this proposal will be $3. 94m affecting some 50,500 widows. Additionally, most war widows are eligible for a domestic allowance of $8.50 a week and many may also qualify for a means test pension. 
Honourable members will notice that column 3 of the scale in clause 20 of the Bill lists a rate of $43.10 per fortnight for war widows whose husbands held ranks higher than Captain (Navy), Colonel, Group Captain and relative ranks. This rate is the last vestige of the former practice of paying war widows' pensions according to the ranks held during war service by their deceased husbands. It will be phased out in future pension movements. 
Cost of Increases 
The total cost of these increased war pension payments will be $1 5.93m in a full year, and $8.5m for the 1972-73 financial year. 
War Pensions for Student Children 
The Government's policy on war pensions for student children, which is reflected in the Bil], is that they should be continued until completion of full-time education in respect of dependent children who are not receiving a maintenance or living allowance or salary from Commonwealth sources that equals or exceeds the allowances payable under the Repatriation Soldiers' Children Education Scheme. 
Service Pensions in respect of Student Children 
In relation to children of service pensioners, the Bill also reflects the Government's policy that a child should continue to be recognised for service pension purposes irrespective of age, for as long as the child continues to undertake full-time education. 
Service Pensions Generally 
Those who suffer from pulmonary tuberculosis, or who have served in a theatre of war and are over 60 in the case of men, or 55 in the case of women, or permanently unemployable, qualify for service pensions, if they satisfy the existing means test. As you know,  Mr Speaker,  the Government is committed to abolishing the means test within the life of this Parliament, but I will not dwell on that particular point at the moment. 
The proposed increases in age and invalid pensions will, under the provisions of the Repatriation Act 1920-1972, apply automatically to service pensions and there is no necessity to amend the Act in order to honour the Government's commitment to increase immediately means test pensions by $1.50 a week. The increase will take the maximum service pension to $21.50 a week for a single ex-serviceman, and to $18.75 a week for a married ex-serviceman or an eligible wife. The cost of these increases will be $6m for a full year and $3. 15m for the 1972-73 financial year. 
Removal of Certain Disadvantages Suffered by Dependants of Ex-Servicemen 
In the repatriation legislation as it stands there are certain dependants of ex-servicemen who suffer disadvantages which the Government considers unjust, and the opportunity is being taken to remove these disadvantages. 
First, where a claimant for a pension dies after a decision on his application has been given by the Repatriation Commission, his legal personal representative has not been permitted to lodge and prosecute an appeal with an entitlement appeal tribunal or an assessment appeal tribunal. A legal personal representative should be allowed this right and this is the purpose of clause 5 of the Bill. It should be borne in mind however, that action taken under this new provision will be subject to other provisions of the Act that govern and place time limits on claims and appeals procedures generally. For example, a decision of an appeal tribunal cannot be expressed to operate from a date earlier than three months before the date on which the claim for pension was lodged. In certain other limited cases, the decision can have effect from a date not earlier than 4 years before the date of decision or determination. There is also a time limit for the lodgement of appeals with an assessment appeal tribunal. 
Secondly, where an ex-serviceman lodges an application for service pension, but dies before a decision is given, the claim lapses and no pension is payable to his estate in respect of the period up to death, in spite of the fact that, had he lived, the pension would have been paid as from the date of application. Under the Social Services Act payment of arrears of pension can be made in the circumstances described and the Bill currently before the House inserts in the principal Act a provision similar to that of the Social Services Act. 
Thirdly, at the present time some de facto wives and some ex-nuptial children are recognised under repatriation legislation. Other Commonwealth Acts such as the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees), the Social Services and the National Health Acts recognise additional categories of these dependants. The Government is of the view that the present provisions of the repatriation legislation are too restrictive and should be brought into line with these other Acts. 
The Bill therefore embodies proposals to recognise for war pension and associated benefits. A defacto wife or widow who has lived continuously with an ex-serviceman on a bone fide domestic basis for at least 3 years preceding consideration of her status, or the member's death, as the case may be, if she is or was wholly or partly dependent on him and any ex-nuptial child of an ex-serviceman. 
The Bill also recognises for service pension purposes a de facto wife who has lived with an ex-serviceman on a bona fide domestic basis for at least 3 years preceding consideration of her status and any ex-nuptial child, foster child or ward in the custody, care and control of an ex-serviceman. 
Review of Entitlements 
In view of the substantial improvements to be introduced by the Government, some of the present entitlements under the Repatriation and Social Services Acts have been reviewed. These entitlements, which have their origins well back in the history of these pieces of legislation, have to date allowed some people eligibility for means test pensions from both departments. This dual eligibility has placed these people in a more favoured position than other members of the community, and the substantial improvements being effected, and to be effected, make it advisable that steps be taken to gradually correct this situation. Therefore, on this occasion, where dual means test pensions are already being paid, no pension will be reduced but only one department will give effect to the proposals, and the other will continue its pension at the current rate. 
The dual means test pensions which may presently be received under the Repatriation and Social Services Acts are those payable to the widow or deserted wife of a service pensioner - such a widow or wife can continue to receive her repatriation service pension at the same time as she is receiving a civilian widow's pension under the Social Services Act - and a service pensioner suffering from pulmonary tuberculosis - such a pensioner can also receive at the same time an age or invalid pension under the Social Services Act. 
The Bill provides that, where a widow or deserted wife of a Service pensioner is also receiving a civilian widow's pension under the Social Services Act, her Service pension will not be increased on this or any future occasion. Service pensions payable to persons suffering from pulmonary tuberculosis will be increased under the general provisions relating to Service pensions. For the future, any person who has an eligibility for means test pension under both the Repatriation and Social Services Acts will have to elect to receive a pension under one or the other. 
Another anomaly which this Bill removes from the Repatriation Act is that preventing a person, otherwise eligible for Service pension as an ex-servicewoman, receiving it if she receives a war widow's pension. Such an exservicewoman will now become eligible for Service pension, even though receiving a war widow's pension. A war widow currently in receipt of an age or invalid pension in addition to her war pension may, if she is eligible for a Service pension, and so wishes, transfer to the Repatriation Department and receive her full entitlement under the Repatriation Act. 
The increased pension rates will be retrospective to 7th December 1972, the first pension pay day after the recent elections for the House of Representatives. The Bill appropriates the Consolidated Revenue Fund to the extent necessary to provide during the current year the additional payments to which it gives effect. It gives me great pleasure,  Mr Speaker,  to introduce this legislation. It represents major steps in the Government's provision for those who have served the nation in time of war and it adds a further dimension to the large and varied legislative programme upon which the Government has embarked. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Bonnett)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill amends the principal act to recognise for pension and other purposes the same classes  of  de facto wives and widows and exnuptial children  as  recognised by the amendments to the Repatriation Act contained  in  the Repatriation Bill 1973. The Bill provides for the payment  of  war pension to student children over the age  of  21 years. The principal act  is  amended  also  to incorporate a provision enabling payment of pensions and other amounts unpaid  at  the date of death  of  the claimant. The opportunity has been taken to delete definitions identical with those  of  the Repatriation Act and to provide that these terms shall have the same meaning as in the Repatriation Act. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate  (on  motion by  Mr Bonnett)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill amends the principal Act  torecognise  for pension and other purposes the same classes of  de  facto wives and widows and exnuptial children  as  are recognised by the amendments to the Repatriation Act contained in the Repatriation Bill 1973. The Bill provides for the payment  of  war pension to student children over the age  of  21 years. 
The principal Act is amended also to incorporate a provision enabling payment of pensions and other amounts unpaid at the date of death of the claimant. The opportunity has been taken to delete definitions identical with those of the Repatriation Act and to provide that these terms shall have the same meaning as in the Repatriation Act. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Bonnett)  adjourned. 
 I move: 
That the  Bill  be  now  read a  second  time. 
The Bill amends the principal Act to include provision for pension, allowance or other benefit under the Act or Regulations that is unpaid on the death of the claimant to be paid to his estate in respect of the period up to death. The amendment follows upon a similar amendment by the Repatriation Bill 1973 in respect of payments under the Repatriation Act and Regulations. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Bonnett)  adjourned. 
 Mr Speaker,  the question of the number of speakers is a matter for arrangement between the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and the Leader of the House. I give to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition an unqualified assurance that this matter will be the subject of debate next week. 
No. That is a matter for you to arrange. 
I wish to advise the House of some decisions that have been taken in respect of certain installations with defence implications which have at one time or another been established in Australia following an approach to the Australian Government by the United States. I say at the outset that it is not our intention to repudiate any treaty. We must, however, insist on seeking renegotiation of certain treaties where this is necessary to obviate the complete exclusion of Australia from any effective control over a defence installation on Australian soil or to obviate any possibility that Australia could be involved in war - and a nuclear war at that - without itself having any power of decision. I shall be speaking later about problems of this kind in relation to the United States Naval Communications Station at North West Cape. But I want to refer to other installations first. 
Some joint Australia-United States installations are public and well-known, like the installation of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. There are other installations which are related to defence. For example, there are 2 installations which have been in Australia for many years at Amberley in Queensland and at Alice Springs, both of which have operated with a degree of secrecy which has led to quite unnecessary speculation and mystery about their purpose. The United States Air Force detachment at Amberley has been described as 'measuring the physical effects of disturbances in the atmosphere or in space, with particular emphasis on the effect on radio communications'. The installation is equipped with sensitive devices which can detect very low pressure waves in the atmosphere. Information so obtained has defence and civilian application in the study of ionospheric and auroral disturbances in the upper atmosphere. The essential point I wish to announce tonight is that it has proved possible, through use of these research devices, to monitor the Partial Test Ban Treaty in respect of the testing of nuclear weapons in the atmosphere andon the surface. 
The Joint Geological and Geophysical Research Station at Alice Springs has been described as conducting 'long term geological or geophysical studies including studies of earthquakes and attendant phenomena'. The Bureau of Mineral Resources receives recorded information obtained at this installation, which assists with its studies of the seismology of Central Australia. But among the attendant phenonema' the. installation studies one has proved to be of special importance. This station can aid in distinguishing between natural and man-made tremours in the Earth's surface. The man-made tremours are of course made by massive explosions, particularly by nuclear devices underground. The progressive development of this scientific capability to distinguish nuclear tests from natural seismic occurrences is of course an essential basis to the development of an effective comprehensive test ban treaty. Australia supports the acheivement of such a treaty. 
The object and value or having these installations at Amberley and Alice Springs in Australia will be now evident. They make contributions towards the acheivement and monitoring of nuclear disarmament. The Australian Government has access not only to the product of these 2 installations but also to the other wider assessments to which they contribute. We see no reason to keep our participation in these matters confidential. The Government has already made clear its real and active concern that Australia take a positive role in disarmament matters. We have ratified the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty and the treaty prohibiting the placement of nuclear weapons on or under the seabed. We are pleased to have in Australia stations monitoring disarmament. We will take a greater interest in their activity in future. 
I wish now to speak about 2 joint installations in Central Australia which have long been matters of concern and debate in the Parliament. These are known as the Joint Defence Space Research Facility at Pine Gap near Alice Springs in the Northern Territory, and the Joint Defence Space Communications Station at Nurrungar near Woomera in South Australia. As is well known, previous Australian governments chose to exclude the Leader of the Opposition from those who were briefed on the activities and functions of these stations. It was therefore necessary, as I have said in the past, for us to wait until we became the Government before we could develop a policy in respect of- these stations founded on a knowledge of- what they do, how they can be used, how they are controlled, and whether Australia has  properly preserved its national interests in the arrangements entered , into by the previous Government. This unfortunate situation, which the previous Government forced upon us in the past, has been rectified. A week ago I offered the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  the opportunity of being fully briefed on the activities of both these installations. He has accepted my offer and has been briefed. The review that the. Government has made has started from the fact that these, installations are established and operating and that their presence is covered by formal international agreements between sovereign states. In the case of Pine Gap the agreement runs to 1976 and thereafter until terminated; in the case of Woomera to 1979, and thereafter until terminated. One year's notice of termination is required. We continue to disapprove of the manner and the secrecy with which these agreements were entered into by the Liberal Party-Country Party Government. Although we are going to make changes, we are not making a fresh start. Our responsibility has been to consider whether the . national interest and independence are jeopardised by the continuance of the agreements. .The Government will, from time to time, inform the Parliament and make public all the information about these activities as would be consistent with national security. But, of course, the Australian and United States Governments have given undertakings to each other to protect from unauthorised disclosure classified information which we share about these stations. The Government will respect all classified information shared between us and the United States, as well as with Britain, New Zealand and other powers, including our friends in Asia. Defence co-operation cannot be conducted on any other basis. 
Apart from these undertakings, there is no doubt in our minds that details of the techniques employed, and of the data being analysed and tested in the stations, must be kept highly secret if the 2 installations are to continue to serve their objectives. At the same time I wish to announce that the Government has decided that members of this Parliament must have a special right of access to the 2 installations which will enable them to see something of the nature of their operations and be given more information than was provided in the past. 
I shall not here describe in detail the 'Parliamentary access' arrangements proposed. I have looked at them on the ground at Pine Gap and Woomera and I am satisfied that they provide the maximum access which is feasible without prejudice to the high secrecy of the data being handled. At this point I want simply to announce that there will be special provision for access for members of this Parliament, as would be the case if United States congressmen were to visit the stations. This special form of 'Parliamentary access' will not be available to other persons. With the exception of the very few people directly associated with the central execution and control of the defence programmes of Australia and the United States, no person will have greater access. Honourable members will recognise that these installations are defence projects. They do have work programmes and commitments, and applications to visit them must be made through me. It will not be possible to make visits without prior notice, and there will be some conditions to observe. 
I state clearly that neither station is part of a weapons system and neither station can be used to attack any country. My concern has been to ensure not only that these installations do not conflict with our defence interests, but also that they contribute specifically to the improvement and development of Australia's defence system. To date, some measure of this has been accomplished by the following: Firstly, we have access to the installations so that we know what is being done there; secondly, there is joint management of the facilities and participation by Australian civilians and servicemen in their operation; thirdly, all data available to the United States Government from these facilities is available to the Australian Government; and fourthly, we have the right to use either or both systems to meet specifically Australian requirements. 
Notwithstanding these arrangements or opportunities for substantial participation, I am not satisfied that Australia has taken a sufficiently positive role in and share of the control of these installations in the past. I expect later this year, at a mutually convenient time, to visit the United States. When I go there, I shall further discuss these and other aspects of management and control of the installations with the United States Defence Secretary and his advisers. I believe that in these circumstances, should it be desirable, as I expect it will, we could expect that United States advisers would discuss the implications of these matters with officials in Australia. 
I now turn to the matter of the United States Naval Communication Station at North West Cape. This installation was established under a formal agreement between the United States and Australia. The agreement runs for 25 years, to May 1988 and thereafter until terminated by 180 days notice. Title and sovereignty over the land occupied by the base remain vested in the Australian Government. Article 3 of the Agreement signed and ratified in 1963 provides that: 
The 2 Governments will consult from time to time at the request of either Government on any matters connected with the station and its use. 
Except with the express consent of the Australian Government, the station will not be used for purposes other than purposes of defence communication, and appropriate Australian authorities nominated by the Australian Government shall at all times have access to the station. 
But as members of the House will recall the government of the day chose to restrict the meaning of this article. In an exchange of letters between the United States Ambassador and the then Minister for External Affairs on 7th May 1963, the Government publicly accepted the interpretation that the Australian Government's right of consultation in article 3 of the United States Naval Communication Station agreement did not carry with it any degree of control over the. station or its use. An agreement with the United States restricted in this way would not have been made by a Labor government. It was, as we said at the time, a derogation from Australian sovereignty. No responsible Australian government can accept such a situation. The agreement and the exchange of letters were entered into 10 years ago. The exchange, of letters applies and was intended to apply a restrictive interpretation of the agreement. We shall negotiate for the application of the actual terms of the agreement, as distinct from the qualifying exchange of letters. 
The United States has told this Government that it is willing to enter into consultations and has said that it is prepared to make. North West Cape a joint installation. We will, of course, be examining whether this would be desirable. These aspects will form an important part of my discussions when I visit the United States. I present the following statement: 
United States Defence Installations in Australia - Ministerial Statement, 28 February 1973. 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr. Forbes)  adjourned. 

 - Mr Speaker- 

You will never be able to make a contribution in that way. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  has moved his first censure motion. No doubt it will be one of many that the Opposition will move over a very long period. If this is to be the standard of the contribution of the Leader of the Opposition to what is after all recognised as one of the most important debates in this Parliament, I think that the people of Australia will be disappointed as, unquestionably, those honourable members who sit behind him were disappointed this morning. The terms of his censure related to 2 matters. The remainder of his speech was completely irrelevant. He talked about security matters in Singapore. He referred to the Five-Power Arrangements. During the course of my speech I hope to be able to demonstrate how inconsistent the Oppo sition is, how inconsistent it was in government and how it deluded not only the people of Australia but also its own members. The Leader of the Opposition talked about the Five-Power Arrangements and particularly about the signals unit in Singapore. Let me indicate to this Parliament that almost a brigade of public servants and servicemen in this country had been briefed on the matter of the 121st Signals Unit in Singapore. 

 - Mr Speaker, I was making the point that almost a brigade of public servants and servicemen in this country had been briefed on the signals unit in Singapore, but that did not include 3 former Ministers for the Army who knew nothing about it. My predecessor as Minister for the Army in the previous Government had not been briefed on the facility and neither had other Ministers for the Army. The present Leader of the Opposition, who was then the  Deputy  Leader of the Liberal Party, had not been briefed on the organisation. Honourable members opposite talk about security and keeping the Parliament informed on these matters. The previous Government was prepared to brief almost a brigade of people from the Public Service and from the Services and yet it kept the Parliament and the nation in ignorance. For example, it ignored the present Leader of the Opposition. 
The present Government will not treat the Opposition in the same shabby way as the Leader of the Opposition was treated by the previous Government. The Australian Labor Party has stated consistently its policy towards the Five Power Arrangements and the ANZUK force. This was one of the matters raised by the Leader of the Opposition. As the defence spokesman for the Australian Labor Party when it was in Opposition, I indicated that I believed that facilities ought to be provided for regular exercises in our region. This is now being done. Investigations are being made into the extent and size of the forces that ought to participate in these exercises. My Party has stated consistently its policy towards the Five Power Arrangements and the ANZUK force. This was included in the Prime Minister's policy speech and has remained the same. The policy is to honour the terms of the Five Power Arrangements pending the establishment of a zone of peace, freedom and neutrality in the region. This is fully in accord with the desires of our regional partners in the arrangements. 
Under the terms of the communique issued from London on 16th April 1971 by the five countries involved, Australia has agreed to 2 specific intentions. Briefly, the first is to cooperate with the other nations involved in the Arrangements in the field of defence in accordance with each nation's respective national policy. The second is to consult with the other nations involved in the event of an external attack or threat of attack on Malaysia or Singapore, lt is obvious that neither the arrangements regarding co-operation nor those concerning consultation require the maintenance of an Australian garrison of combat troops in Singapore. Consequently the ALP in its policy speech promised to recall to Australia the battalion and battery we have in Singapore once their terms of duty expired. This we will do, commencing at the end of this year. This is clearly in line with the expressed policy of the Prime Minister in the election of December 1972. I have since further investigated this matter to ensure that there would be no combat troops left in Singapore and that in addition to the battery and the battalion, as I announced yesterday, a further 180 personnel who could be regarded as being in this category would also be returned to Australia. 
Under Annex 1 of the agreement with both Malaysia and Singapore Australia has agreed to continue co-operation with those countries in the training and development of their armed forces. Amongst other things, this Annex specifies the provision of personnel to assist in the training and development of their armed forces, facilities for training members of their armed forces and assistance in the supply of equipment to their armed forces. It is exactly these kinds of assistance which this Government has pledged to continue. It is for this reason that I have instructed my officers to investigate and recommend the size and composition of the logistics force which will remain in Singapore after the return of the combat troops. It is for similar reasons that the Mirage squadrons will remain at Butterworth, where they play a valuable role in the training of Malaysian and Singaporean forces as well as making a major contribution to the Five Power Force as a whole. 
This Government will continue with its policy of co-operation with the Governments of Malaysia and Singapore in the development of their forces and with its support of the Five Power Arrangement, which provides the framework within which this assistance is given. This policy is understood by our partners in the Five Power Arrangements. As the Leader of the Opposition pointed out, I recently held extensive talks with the British Minister for Defence, Lord Carrington, during which this Government's attitude to the Five Power Arrangements was fully explained. Before he left Australia he told me, and he stated at his Press conference, that he was satisfied that our position did not prevent the continued existence of the Arrangements as a valuable force. I know that the other nations involved welcome our continued assistance in the development of their capabilities. I can also state that other countries in the region understand our position in continuing with this assistance in Malaysia and Singapore. 
In short, there is nothing in the actions which this Government has taken since it assumed office which could 'be interpreted as a weakening of the Five Power Arrangements. Our policy was clearly stated to the electors of this country and they endorsed it overwhelmingly. Since the elections we have proceeded promptly to act on the mandate the people gave to us. This Government's policy is well known to our partners in the Five Power Arrangement. The overwhelming support of the Australian people for these policies is understood by them. The Government's actions since the election are a clear proof of our intention to honour our promise to implement these policies. There cannot therefore be any cause for doubt about our commitment to the stability and future prosperity of the region. In this respect, in relation to the Five Power Arrangements, the charges of the Leader of the Opposition are without substance. 
Let me turn to the other matter that the Leader of the Opposition raised in his censure motion, the one relating to the signals unit. I have already pointed out how ignorant the Leader of the Opposition was in relation to these matters. The personnel of the 121st Signals Squadron could not by any stretch of the imagination be described as agents, undercover men or by any of the other terms used by writers of fiction to describe their fantasy world of international espionage. There are no glamorous operatives employed by the 121st 
Signals Squadron. Instead, the Squadron is staffed by technicians and professional staff drawn from the personnel of the 3 regular Services - .the Army, the Navy, and the Air Force. In fact, far from being glamorous, the tasks of the personnel working in Singapore as members of the Squadron could probably be best described as mundane, routine and dull. 
The one and only task of the 121st Signals Squadron is to monitor, record, decode where necessary and compile all radio messages within the range of its equipment. This task is totally passive. It does not require an overt act to intercept radio messages. It does not require the contacting or interrogation of any other person, government official, or private employee in any other country or on any other site in Singapore. Instead, the task of the Squadron involves long and. perhaps, tedious hours spent sitting at a bench monitoring electronic equipment in the Squadron's base facility. 
The honourable member for Wannon regards himself as an expert on defence. That is why he is the shadow Minister for Primary Industry. The Squadron's role comprises no more than the monitoring and recording of radio signals within its area of reception. It has no authority to evaluate, recommend or initiate any course of action as a result of its activities. Simply put, its task is to gather information - no more than that. Any action which may be taken as an eventual and probably far removed outcome of the information gathered by the 121st Signals Squadron can only be the result of the normal democratic processes of government in this country. It might conceivably be the case that information collected in part by the 121st Signals Squadron might indicate that a change in national policy was desirable. Such a change, if it did eventuate, could come only after the normal procedures needed to initiate any new policy had been completed and after it had been discussed and approved by Cabinet. 
The role of the 121st Signals Squadron, therefore, is routine and unexceptional in nature. The importance of this unit to Australia is that it comprises one of the means by which information needed for the intelli gent management of national affairs is comN piled. All sensible people will recognise that it is important to the nation that Australia should have the most complete knowledge of the world around it that it is possible to achieve. Any government which does not seek to inform itself as fully as possible in areas affecting the nation's welfare is obviously decreasing its chances or possibilities of acting in the most effective manner. For the correct interpretation of day to day events and for long range planning, it is necessary that this nation have as much information as possible. The role of the 121st Signals Squadron is simply to provide part of this information and to contribute towards the better government of this country. 
Australia, of course, is not alone in recognising the importance of information and the particular usefulness of radio monitoring in providing this information. Indeed, it is a commonplace activity of all nations to gather information by monitoring radio messages. No doubt, the people of Australia are now well aware of this, following the rash of stories on radio intelligence in recent weeks. This is a generally accepted fact of international life and one with which all countries must learn to live. It is precisely because all countries monitor radio messages that they know other countries are involved in exactly the same activity. For this reason the charges of the Leader of the Opposition that this Government has revealed a national secret are ludicrous. 
Just how misguided are the claims of the Opposition has been made abundantly clear by the reaction of the nations within the South East Asian area. Without exception highranking officials of these nations have emphasised their previous knowledge of the station and its functions. None of the countries has claimed to have been unduly worried by the existence of the squadron or by its function. Indeed, some of these spokesmen have implied that the former government made very poor use of the efforts of the squadron since the breadth of its knowledge of South East Asia left something to be desired. We need not delude ourselves that the activities of 121st Signals Squadron were secret to anyone - anyone except the Australian people and the Government in its position of  Her  Majesty's Opposition until the elections of December last. That is a topic on which I will have more to say later. 
It is also because the location and role of the squadron were known to other countries that the Leader of the Opposition's charges that this Government has endangered Australia's security are equally without substance. 
Obviously, if the presence of the squadron was no secret the acknowledgement of its role and location creates no new dificulties 
The security of this nation does not depend on clandestine, underhand operations behind the backs of our friends or without the knowledge of our own countrymen, as the honourable gentleman would seem to imply. It is our judgment that a national duty, such as that which was carried out quite routinely by 121st Signals Squadron, is no cause for shame and that there is no reason why its existence should not be public knowledge. There is, of course, a clear distinction between informing the public that such activity is carried on and revealing the existence of Australian units involved in this activity and providing more specific details of the methods used in its task. Naturally the Government would not wish the effectiveness of the squadron to be compromised by the release of specific operational or technical details. It is our policy to employ 121st Signals Squadron in the most effective way possible and to allow it to operate as efficiently as possible. This does not require, nor does it justify, the excessive preoccupation with secrecy which marked the affairs of the previous government in this and in so many other areas. 
This Government is not afraid to keep the Australian people informed. The truth of the situation is that the effectiveness of any group engaged in monitoring radio messages depends on technology and not on secrecy. Simply because all nations know of each other's activities in this area, all nations must be prepared to safeguard their most vital information. To do this all countries are constantly engaged in developing and perfecting electronic counter-measures. The previous government failed completely to observe what I would regard as a neighbourly responsibility. It appears that at no time did the then government pay the Singapore Government the courtesy of officially informing it of the presence and function of 121 Signal Squadron. I can only assume that it was then, as now, suffering from the melodramatic delusions caused by reading too many cloak and dagger novels. One could only be amused by this massive act of self-deception on the part of the former Government if it were not for the gross ill manners it displayed to our ally by not officially informing her of the exis tence of a unit of which there is no doubt the Singaporeans were aware and of which they have expressed no disapproval. 
In yet another way the Opposition when in government appears to have neglected its duties in regard to the functions of the squad? ron. Its advisers warned it of possible future difficulties in locating the squadron in Singapore. It must also have been apparent to all with a minimum of knowledge that the desire of the nations of the region to establish a zone of peace and neutrality would mean that Australia's occupancy of any facility in Singapore was likely to be of a comparatively short duration. One would have thought that the then government would have given priority to the development of these facilities in Australia. There are long-time delays in installing this sophisticated equipment. It is costly and it is required to be operational over a long period. One would not have expected to gain as much value from this facility in Singapore as could be gained , from a similar installation in Australia, even if some of the equipment and facilities were inherited from other forces. However, the previous Government saw fit to proceed immediately with the development of a Singapore facility and approached the development, of facilities on Australian soil with much less urgency. 
As a result of this strange order of priorities it will be some time before, suitable facilities in Australia can be completed, even with the increased urgency that I have now attached to this project. On behalf of the Government I say to the people of Australia that this unit will be returned to Australia. We do hot accept the proposition that a station of this nature should be located on foreign soil if there is a use for the facility in Australia. If there is a need for this facility - I would not deny that or argue against the need for it - it should be located in Australia. I have therefore moved to ensure that this is done as soon as practicable. I believe the implications of the decisions or the indecisions of the previous Government in relation to this unit and its future express the complete disregard of the previous administration for the proprieties of this matter. 
The Leader of the Opposition talked about the purpose of the facility being made known to Australians. As I have pointed out, nearly a brigade of public servants in this country were aware of the facility and they are known to have been currently briefed. I will put that in more precise terms. There have been 5,700 Australians briefed on this facility - as I said, nearly a brigade of public servants. That figure does not include the 3 previous Ministers for the Army. Obviously they were not considered important enough to be briefed on a facility which the Leader of the Opposition now claims was held in great secret. It is utter hypocrisy for the Leader of the Opposition to criticise the Prime Minister, who believes, as I and the Government firmly believe, that a facility of this kind which monitors information which may be of use to this country, should be established on Australian soil. In this respect the Prime Minister acted quite properly on behalf of the Government. 
The Leader of the Opposition is on unsafe ground when he refers to this facility and what this Government has done to ensure that operations of this nature are returned to Australia. The facility was well known to a great many Australians. I have referred only to those persons who have been currently briefed and have not included persons who have been briefed before, so the number of people who knew about this facility would be, naturally, many thousands. It was known to the Governments of Singapore and Malaysia and there has been not one reaction in the Press of those countries as a result of the statement by the Prime Minister. When the Prime Minster believes that the people of Australia are entitled to know about a base which is using or monitoring information which is valuable to this and other countries, how can the Leader of the Opposition argue that it should not be located in Australia? The Leader of the Opposition now has been brought up to date on the matter. He knows something about it now. He knew nothing about it when he was the  Deputy  Prime Minister, despite the fact that the then Minister for Defence,  Mr Fairbairn,  then did know about it. He was not one of the people who were briefed on this matter. He has now been briefed on it and he has asked questions about it. 
The censure motion moved by the Leader of the Opposition has no substance on any of the points raised by him. I said that many of the matters he dealt with were completely irrelevant. Time will not permit me to deal with those matters now. But I repeat: They were completely irrelevant. The 2 issues under consideration were: The question of the future of the Five Power Arrangements and the 121st Signals Squadron. On both of these issues I have put the Government's case as to what we propose to do and what we will honour in relation to our agreements and arrangements with the peoples in this area. For this reason I believe the motion should be rejected out of hand. 
For the information of honourable members I present the final report of the Committee of Inquiry into financial terms and conditions of service for male and female members of the Regular Armed Forces. 
 Mr Speaker,  I seek leave to make a brief statement regarding the rules for the use of VIP aircraft. 
There has been a great deal of speculation concerning the resignation of 2 members of my staff. I inform the House that after I made a statement yesterday in Devonport at a State conference of the Australian Labor Party I immediately began to investigate the statement which was issued by my former Press Secretary,  Mr Lloyd.  It is quite clear to me now that discussions took place between an official of the Department of Defence and  Mr Lloyd.  Certain matters have now been brought to my attention and I will be having discussions with  Mr Lloyd  about them. In the meantime I take the opportunity to table the full documentation and the result of the investigations which I requested from the Secretary of the Department of Defence. 
I might add for the information of the Leader of the Opposition, that I said at the conference in Devonport that at no time had my Press Secretary advised me that directions had been conveyed to htm that he would not be able to attend the briefings which were to take place between me as Minister for Defence and Lord Carrington, the British Minister for Defence. T understand that  Mr Lloyd  has confirmed that this is the position. 
 r said in answer to the Leader of the Opposition that at no time did  Mr Lloyd  inform me that he had been told, or that information had been conveyed to him, that he was not to attend the briefings with Lord Carrington. This was not discussed between  Mr Lloyd  and me. 
The answer is no. He did not give this as a reason for leaving my staff. 
No, not at all. 
The matter that the Leader of the Country Party has raised is incorporated in the document which I have tabled, but the answer more precisely is no. 
I tabled a document for the information of the Leader of the Opposition and members of this House. As I understood the question that was directed to me by the Leader of the Country Party it was whether I had had discussions with  Mr Lloyd  on this matter. 
That was my interpretation of the question and if it was not the correct interpretation I apologise to the Leader of the Country Party. If it is suggested that I had discussions with the Secretary of the Department of Defence, that is quite correct. The information is contained in this document andI indicate to the House that when this matter was put to me and when a discussion occurred about the protocol, in relation to discussions that would take place, between myself and  Sir Arthur  Tange, I naturally asked the Secretary of the Department what was the normal procedure. It is indicated in this document that the reply of the Secretary of the Department of Defence was that it was not normal for members of a Minister's staff to be present at such discussions. I then indicated that I wanted a record kept of those discussions and subsequently I made arrangements with the Secretary of the Department for a member of my staff to be present. The matter is clearly outlined in the document. 
I believed that I should have a complete record of the discussions that were to take place and that a member of my staff should be present. That is quite clear and it is set out in this document. If the Leader of the Country Party misinterpreted my answer I say to him quite clearly that at that time I thought his question related to discussions that I had had with my Press secretary,  Mr Lloyd. 
The honourable member should be well aware that any decisions relating to defence in this Parliament will be made by the Government and those decisions will be conveyed to the people, lt is the Government's responsibility to make decisions relating to defence. So far as the remaining part of the honourable member's question is concerned, it does not concern me and it is certainly no concern of his. 
This matter is related to the circumstances as outlined in the document which is before the Leader of the Opposition and which I have tabled in the House. I do not hesitate to say that I did worry about the reasons for  Mr Lloyd's  resignation. I inquired of the Department as to the instructions which had been given and was informed that  Mr Lloyd  had not been told that he could not attend the discussions which were to take place. This was apparently a result of a misunderstanding by the Department which I have now taken steps to rectify. In view of  Mr Lloyd's  past relationship with me I can only regret that this unfortunate misunderstanding has occurred and that, because of subsequent oversights, I have not until now been informed of the real reason for  Mr Lloyd's  resignation. As I said to the House earlier, I shall be in touch with  Mr Lloyd  about these matters. 
I reiterate that in matters of defence, as with any other matters, the Cabinet, the Caucus and the Government will make the decisions relating to policy. But if the honourable gentleman wants me to spell out what T said publicly a few days ago then  I  will be glad to inform him that as the Australian Labor Party is democratically based - unlike the Opposition parties - every member of the Party has a right to determine policy which will be submitted to the Parliamentary Labor Party. As a result of policy decisions our platform is adopted by the Party. Perhaps  I  ought to remind the honourable gentleman that had it not been for the good work undertaken by members of the ALP in  1969  and  again in 1972 it is clear that this Government may not have had the resounding victory it had in 1972. This is a democratic process. 
You just hung on to your seat. 
You will be lucky if yourepeat the performance. To conclude the answer: The honourable member is well aware of the democratic processes that take place and I repeat what 1 have said, that the Government will make the decisions but when policy decisions are made by the Party then naturally they will be given due consideration by this Government. 
The Leader of the Opposition has raised a matter that was dealt with in this House at great length yesterday. I tabled a document which I had asked to be prepared for me by the. Secretary of the Department of Defence. The Leader of the Opposition had the opportunity to examine it. I made no comment on that matter at all. What I did. and what 1 thought was proper, fair and reasonable, since questions of personalities were involved, was to take the opportunity to make myself available to the media. 
I  made a full explanation in relation to the document  I  had tabled in the House. 
 The Government made a decision - I think a proper decision - in relation to the integration of the administration of the armed forces of Australia. That policy is being given effect. If the Minister is reflect ing upon my capacity to handle my work, or my credibility, the Minister should have the courage- 
Again, I should point out to the House that this matter has been fully dealt with but, as I understand it, the question that the honourable member asked was: Had I had discussions with  Mr Lloyd. 
About the briefing. Quite frankly, the answer is no. 
I tabled the document because it was the version of the Secretary of the Department of Defence for which I had asked. At no time since have I reflected in any way on the Secretary of the Department of Defence. What I did say was that there had been a misunderstanding on this matter; that on some matters I had not been informed. I sought that information and 1 made it perfectly clear in my statements yesterday. 
A number of implications are contained in the question asked by the honourable member. It would be my responsibility to deal with a rationalisation of the industry. As the honourable gentleman knows, something positive has already taken place in that respect. I expect that by the middle of the year I shall be in a position to make an announcement to the Parliament concerning the rationalisation of the aircraft industry. The second matter raised by the honourable member, which relates to revaluation, is more properly one for the Federal Treasurer. However, I shall consult the Treasurer and provide a reply to the honourable gentleman. 
I will begin in much the same vein as did the honourable member for Barker. I have no intention of referring to the fact that he advocated in Hobart some years ago that there was no need for conscription and shortly afterwards was removed from his then office because conscription was introduced. I hope the honourable gentleman does not mind my making the same kind of reference as he made. As to the question, I indicated during the course of the last election and before it that it was the opinion of the Australian Labor Party that the strength of the Army should be about 31,000. My advice is that the strength of the Army today - I am referring now to those who are serving as regular soldiers and national servicemen who have elected to complete their period of duty - is over 30,000 and that by June of this year it will be over 31,000. As the honourable member has pointed out, there is currently a study being undertaken by officers of my Department not only into the size of the Army and what the strength of the Army should be in the 1970s and beyond but also into other matters relating to the responsibilities and duties of the armed forces. The honourable member and this Parliament may be assured that as soon as I have received the result of that study and considered it and the Government has considered it I will be making a full statement to this Parliament. 
Pursuant to section 10 of the Royal Australian Air Force Veterans' Residences Act 1953- 1965, 1 present the annual report of the Royal Australian Air Force Veterans' Residences Trust for the year ended 30th June 1972, together with financial statements and the Auditor-General's report on those statements. 
 Mr Speaker,  I desire to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. The Minister for Defence has indicated that I failed to answer questions directed to me. 
I indicated, as Minister for Defence, that I would be making available to this Parliament a statement on the full structure, strength, duties and responsibilities of the armed forces. As I pointed out to the honourable gentleman yesterday, I have no intention of treating members of the Opposition in the same shabby way that they treated the Opposition when they were in government in relation to information that should be conveyed to the shadow Minister for Defence. I advised the honourable gentleman yesterday that if he wished members of the Department of Defence to speak to and advise the Opposition's defence committee, I would be happy to make the arrangements for him. I went further than that. I told the shadow Minister for Defence that if he wished to speak to the Secretary of the Department of Defence, I would arrange that for him- also. 
in reply - A number of speakers have participated in this debate. Most of them offered some commendation for the Government's movement on repatriation matters generally. It should be said at the outset that over the years I have spoken at great length in this House on repatriation matters. Clearly, honourable members opposite, who were then Government supporters, had some knowledge of my attitude and of the policy of my Party. That had been clearly spelt out. The honourable member for Indi  (Mr Holten)  referred to the general rate of pension and said he was not sure what the figure should be but that the Government had not moved to increase it immediately to 50 per cent of the minimum wage paid in this country. Of course, the honourable member had not done his homework in this respect. 1 do not say that in any derogatory sense. Had he looked at the Bill and the second reading speech he would know that today the minimum wage is $51.10. 
One of the promises that the Government made when it was in Opposition was that it would immediately increase the special rate of pension to the amount of the minimum wage paid to a worker in this country. That was made quite clear in the policy speech delivered by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  It is also a provision in my Party's platform. So the Government moved immediately to increase the special rate of pension to the equivalent of the minimum wage paid in this country, lt should be pointed out that this was done immediately. There was no suggestion that any increases in repatriation benefits should be made immediately. We were dealing with a program for the next 3 years. Some of these matters may well have been left until the Budget session, But we did not do that. We moved immediately to increase the special rate of pension to the equivalent of the minimum wage. 
A second promise was that we would increase the general rate of pension to 50 per cent of the minimum wage. That was to be the ultimate objective. Anyone who cares to read through Hansard will appreciate that it is beyond the financial capacity or ability of any government to restore immediately the general rate of pension to 50 per cent of the minimum wage as the result of one legislative action in this Parliament. It simply can not be done. The record of the previous Government made it difficult in this respect. The honourable member for Indi knows that there have been periods in the history of governments in this country when the general rate of pension has reached a level of 50 per cent of the men basic wage. We said that it ought to be restored to this level. The minimum wage today is $51.10. The honourable member for Indi destroyed his own argument by suggesting that he himself had worked out the figures. Of course, one could not accept that as being the ultimate cost to this country, but that is another question. I shall deal with it in a few moments. 
On this occasion we increased the general rate of pension by $2 a week as an immediate step to reach what we propose should be the position in relation to the general rate of pension. One can compare that action with the record of the previous Government. Records and comparisons are not always satisfactory, but I made the point that it has been and will be difficult for this Government to reach that level because under the previous Government the general rate of pension was increased in 1964 to $12 a week and it remained unchanged until 1972  -  at the time of the last Budget of the previous Government. For 8 years the previous Government made no change in the general rate of pension and in 1972, as the result of the pressures that had been applied to it, that Government increased it by $2 to $14 a week. That Government had a record of leaving a particular rate of pension under the Repatriation Act unchanged for 8 years. I had spoken about this when I had the responsibility, on behalf of my Party, for repatriation matters in this Parliament. I had drawn attention to the fact that the previous Government had refused to increase the general rate of pensions. 
The present Government said that it would increase the general rate of pension to at least 50 per cent of the minimum wage. No-one suggested at any time, my  Party's platform does not suggest and the Prime Minister did not indicate in his speech at the. time of the general election that we expected to increase the general rate of pension or restore its relativity to the minimum wage as a result of one legislative action by this Government. But we did move to do something immediately. We increased the rate by $2 a week and made it retrospective. I do not think that the previous Government can claim to have made a repatriation increase retrospective. Certainly it did not in my time. I think the answer to the honourable member for Indi is that the rate will be increased but it must be done progressively. If the previous Government had accepted its responsibility and had maintained the relativity of the general rate of pension to me minimum wage our task would not have been as difficult as it now is. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Bryant)  said quite correctly that the Government has a responsibility is this field. I have submitted that to this House on numerous occasions. The. Government is prepared to accept that responsibility. Many things have to be done that cannot be done immediately. Surely the honourable member for Indi does not suggest that the policy is vague. If it is vague it is because he was not able to achieve any of these objectives while he was the Minister for Repatriation. At one stage he said that' some members of the Cabinet are not invited into the Cabinet when decisions are made. Of course, that is completely untrue. When the honourable member for Indi was the Minister for Repatriation he was not invited into the Cabinet.  His  decisions and his views were never considered. He was not a member of the Cabinet. I do not believe that there can be any criticism of what the Government has done in relation to these matters. It has increased the funeral benefit from $50 to $100. The question that the honourable member for Indi raised will be examined. 
It has worried me too. Again it is not a matter that one can determine immediately but I should point out to the House that, as honourable members know, there is at this time a committee of inquiry under the chairmanship of  Mr Justice  Toose looking into the Repatriation Act. I extended the period in which  Mr Justice  Toose would have the opportunity to investigate the Repatriation Act. It was one of the first things that I did during the first Whitlam Ministry. I was then the Minister for Repatriation. It was one of my 14 ministries. I extended the terms of reference of that Committee and, for the information of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, I point out that I asked  Mr Justice  Toose to take into consideration, with the other matters at which he would be looking, the question of repatriation hospitals and what extensions should be made to them in terms of the facilities they provide and in other ways. That matter is now under consideration. All of these matters will be dealt with. However, I believe it should be made perfectly clear to those who have offered criticism of certain matters contained in this legislation that the legislation should not be looked at on the basis that this is the only decision that the Government will be taking in relation to repatriation matters. It must be considered over the life of the Parliament. Our policy is clear and we will not equivocate on it. We have inherited some difficulties from the previous Government but it will be our responsibility to deal with what we have put  to  the people of this country as a responsible policy in relation to repatriation matters. 
There are 2 other matters which have been raised on which I should like to comment. The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs referred to repatriation tribunals. I can appreciate that difficulties and problems exist in this field. I do not believe that any member in the Federal Parliament has had more experience in this field than have I. I have appeared before repatriation tribunals over a long period. Again, this is one of the matters that the Toose Committee will be examining, and when the report of that inquiry is available to this Parliament the Government will take appropriate action after full consideration of the recommendations of the Committee. 
I conclude by referring to the matters raised by the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  which I believe was a relevant matter to raise in a debate of this nature. It indicates the difficulties that are associated with ex-servicemen, former members of the Services, and their rights under the Repatriation Act. We have been able to overcome some of the difficulties because the Act will be extended by this Bill to include all serving members of the armed forces. The matter raised by the honourable member for Prospect related to an incident that occurred before the Government was able to make a decision on the matter. But I believe that, under the Repatriation Act and certainly as a result of decisions that we have made in relation to compensation laws, this matter should be examined on an individual basis. No member of the armed forces should be disadvantaged financially, particularly if his condition is one of permanent incapacity as a result of service in the armed forces, whether the incident occurred during the period of his service or, as was pointed out by the honourable member for Prospect, whether it occurred over a weekend. It would, I believe, be completely incorrect for the Government of Australia to adopt the attitude that it has no responsibility in this matter. I believe that it has. This matter should be examined, and I can assure the honourable member for Prospect that I will draw it to the attention of the Minister for Repatriation  (Senator Bishop)  as indeed I will draw to the Minister's attention the matter that was referred to me by the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  which, again, is a matter worthy of consideration. It probably would be advisable for the Committee to which I have just referred to examine the situation in that area. The Committee will be investigating repatriation systems overseas and I have no doubt that the views of the servicemen referred to by the honourable member for Angas will be taken into consideration at that time. 
I believe that the amendments proposed in the Repatriation Bill, particularly the increased benefits, are in line with the policy expressed by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  back in 1972. The Bill goes a long way towards achieving the Government's objective of an improved basis for providing for those who have served this country in the First and Second World Wars and in the other wars in which this country has been involved. 

 Mr KING (Wimmera) -  Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
In reply to the speech made by the honourable member may I point out that I believe that this country has been served very well by the public servants who accept responsibility in the various fields. I am asked a specific question in relation to  Sir Arthur  Tange. I thank the honourable member for the opportunity to place on record that I believe - I know this opinion is shared by the Prime Minister - that  Sir Arthur  Tange is a capable officer who has served this country extremely well in the past. He will continue to do so in the future. He has shown undivided loyality to whatever government happens to be in power. 
The honourable member has drawn attention to a statement which apparently appeared during the last election campaign. As the spokesman for defence at that time, I personally gave no such direction myself. 
At the National Press Club luncheon I referred to a number of matters, particularly, of course, in relation to defence. I think the honourable member is referring to the size and structure of the army, I have indicated to the House that an investigation is currently being made within the Department of the Army into the size and structure of the armed forces. The inquiry is in no way related to any figure that th: honourable member for Barker may have mentioned in a recent statement. From memory he indicated that the size of the army Should be about 40,000. I think it is quite Clear, and ( think the 2 Ministers who preceded me as Minister for Defence would be able to advise him, that at no time did the Department of the Army indicate what the size of the armed forces should be. It is quite Clear that it would not be competent for this Government to indicate what the size of the army should be until the results of the inquiry, which is currently being conducted at my direction, are available to the Government. 
The matter that the honourable member has raised comes within the responsibilities of the Minister for Transport. 
1 understood the honourable member to refer to Omega. 
The decision whether this installation should be provided in Australia is one for the Minister for Transport. For the benefit of the honourable member I repeat that this matter is in no way related to the Department of Defence. It is a matter for decision by the Minister for Transport. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information sought is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information sought has been provided in answer to earlier questions on notice. The percentages are al follows: 
The Minister for Repatriation has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Estimated survivors as at December 1972 were: 
less than 200 
58,100 
and (3) Repatriation legislation already provides a wide range of benefits for many veterans of the Boer War and World War I. Listed high in the priorities in the Government's promised program of improvements in the Repatriation field, is the provision of medical treatment (including hospitalisation) at Repatriation expense for all veterans of the Boer War and World War I. The estimated cost of providing this additional benefit will be approximately S8.95m per annum. 
The Government announced during the course of the last election campaign that it would honour the Five Power Arrangements. I think 1 should begin the answer from that point. Since I became the Minister for Defence I have made 3 decisions. 
I would be very happy to give the honourable member who interjected a list of the decisions I have made - decisions on matters in relation to which the previous Government procrastinated for the past four or five years. T am talking at this time of the 3 decisions made in relation to the matter raised by the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party, that is, the disposition of Australian troops in this region and those who are there under the Five Power Arrangements. In line with our policy, 1 determined that the battalion and battery would be withdrawn when their tours of duty expired at the end of this year. They will be returned to Australia at the end of 1973 or early in 1974. I discovered that there were another 180 personnel serving in the area who would be regarded as combat troops, and they also will be returned at the same time. 
I come now to the other point that has been dealt with in the House at great length by me and other honourable members, that is, the signals unit that is located in this area. When the Prime Minister and I learned of the purpose of the signals unit in Singapore I immediately issued instructions that the unit should be returned to Australia. It will be returned to Australia as soon as facilities are available to accommodate it in this country. In relation to the disposition of the remaining forces in Malaysia and Singapore, again in line with our policy it was said that these would be logistic troops and other support troops left in this area. So, as in 1973 and 1974, it could be that the numbers mentioned by the Deputy Leader of the Country Party would be correct. However, I inform the House that this matter is currently under consideration. At no time have I indicated to the Parliament what numbers will remain in the area. This is a matter for consideration by the Cabinet and a decision will be made in due course. I can assure the Deputy Leader of the Country Party that no decision will be made until such time as the countries which are parties to the Five Power Arrangements have been informed of the policy and the intention of this Government. ~ 
For the information of honourable members I present annual reports for 1971-72 of the following Department of Supply research and development establishments: 
Aeronautical Research Laboratories 
Central Studies Establishment 
Defence Standards Laboratories 
Weapons Research Establishment. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bill is to amend repatriation legislation to enable repatriation Service and other means test pensioners to continue to receive their pensions when they leave Australia. Repatriation war pensioners, as you know,  Mr Speaker,  rightly receive their entitlements no matter where they live in the world. The Bill will mean that Service pensioners and other means test pensioners such as widowed mothers and aged parents of deceased ex-servicemen will be entitled to continue to receive their pensions under the Repatriation Act if they leave Australia. This will honour, in the repatriation field, the Government's undertaking to allow all Australian residents who have gained the right to receive any social security pension, to enjoy that right wherever they choose to live. 
Under the amendments to the Repatriation Act to be effected by this Bill a Service pensioner will be free to leave Australia and live in another country while retaining his pension entitlement. While supplementary assistance will not be payable overseas, the Bill provides that, if one of a married couple receiving supplementary assistance travels overseas, the spouse remaining will be paid supplementary assistance at the single rate during the absence of his or her partner. Any former resident at present living overseas who returns to Australia may receive the Service pension, if eligible. However, he will not be able to transfer the Service pension overseas unless he remains in Australia for a period of at least 12 months. This is designed to prevent persons normally resident overseas from returning to Australia just to receive a pension and take it back with them. 
In addition to providing for continuation of payments to pensioners wherever they choose to live outside Australia, the provisions introduced by this Bill will also allow a social security pensioner living overseas, if he wishes and is otherwise eligible, to transfer to a repatriation Service pension, or vice versa, thus giving him the same rights in this respect as would be available to him in Australia. Because the intentions of the population affected by this measure are unknown, it is not possible at this time to assess the overall costs but, generally speaking, they will be relatively small and insignificant in comparison with the effect of removing this unnecessary limitation on people who have earned the right to benefits in the service of their country. 
Other matters provided for in the Bill are minor amendments to: Re-draft the definition of 'child' in section 83 to clarify the intention that a child who has attained the age of 16 years must be undertaking full-time education and be wholly or substantially dependent upon the pensioner parent before being recognised for Service pension purposes; authorise the extension of benefits under the repatriation regulations to student children over the age of 21 years - Parliament has given its approval in the Repatriation Act 1973 to the recognition of these children in the Repatriation Act itself and this amendment will enable the relevant provisions of the repatriation regulations to be extended to them; and apply to the principal Act new drafting principles which are being introduced by the Parliamentary Counsel. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Bonnett)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
My Department does not have any record of any unidentified submarines in the areas mentioned. 
Each report and its source would need to be considered separately. 
This matter is a question for the Minister for Repatriation and the Minister for Social Security. The honourable member will be aware that the policy of the Government is to provide repatriation pensions free of means test. It will also of course abolish the means test within the life of this Parliament and will provide a national health scheme. But service pensions and social security pensions are subject to a means test at this stage, and when the means test provisions have been applied the medical entitlement card, of course, has been taken away from the pensioner concerned. It is a question for consideration not only by the Minister for Repatriation but also by the Minister for Social Security. Discussions have been held on this question, and I believe it is still under consideration. I will further consult with the Minister for Repatriation and the Minister for Social Security in respect of this question. I shall draw to the notice of the Minister for Repatriation the latter part of the honourable member's question concerning the provision of short term assistance to those who are in special need and see what can be done. 
In answer to the first part of the question, as the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs this matter was brought to my attention by the Department of Foreign Affairs following a statement which appeared in the Press on that date. 
I will come to that. I will get the correct date. I can understand that the right honourable gentleman is concerned about the date, and so am I. I am concerned that he should receive a precise and detailed answer. The first point I want to make is that at no time have I commented or had cause to comment on the matter of the date in April on which Australian officials were first informed of the executions. The sole purpose of the statement I made on 18th April was to deny a Press report that Australia had been informed in advance by Yugoslavia about the capture, trial and execution of Croatian extremists. The statement was on the basis of an AAP message from Belgrade which the Australian Press carried, and stories on the morning of 18th April, that Yugoslavia told Australia in advance about the capture, trial and execution of 3 Croatian extremists. 
Because that was an untrue statement I issued a statement to the Press on the same day, 18th April. I quote what I said on that occasion: 
The Prime Minister discussed this matter with the Yugoslav Ambassador on 16th ApriL It was agreed that these discussions would remain confidential. This is still the position. 
It is clear from the Yugoslav announcement of 12th April that the survivors of the Bosnian raid were tried and convicted last December. The Australian Government was not informed until April. 
The Yugoslav Government has undertaken to provide further information about the trial and subsequent executions. This information is still awaited. 
The truth of the matter therefore was that Australia was not informed until April of events which had occured in December. The Press reports that Australia had been informed in advance of this event must have been untrue. The statement I made on 18th April was true then and it remains true today. Nothing that the Leader of the Opposition says throws any doubt on the fact that there was a gap of 4 months between the events in December and our being informed of those events in April. 
I made it quite clear to the Leader of the Opposition that this matter was first drawn to my attention by the Department of Foreign Affairs when I was the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs. 
The date was 18th April, the date on which I issued a statement in reply to the statement which had appeared in the Press. 
Yes. I gave you the date, and 18th April was the date I quoted. 
I am sure about it. 
The House will be aware that I had initially asked for an inquiry to be conducted by the Department of Defence into the size and shape of the Australian Army. The inquiry was headed by  Dr John  Farrands of the Department of Defence and consisted of representatives of the departments of Defence and of the Army. The correct procedure is for the committee conducting the inquiry to make its report to the Defence Force Development Committee, which consists of the Secretary of the Department of Defence, the  Chairman  of the Chiefs of Staff Committee and the Chiefs of Staff. These people in turn consider the report and would ultimately make their views known to me. The report on the inquiry I asked for has been received by the Defence Force Development Committee; it has not been received by me. It would therefore be impossible to argue that there is any conflict between me and the Department over a report which I have not yet seen. 
May I add that I have my own views about the size and shape of the Army, but I will make my judgment as a result of the views that will be submitted to me by the Defence Force Development Committee. May I also say that previous Ministers for Defence had indicated to the Parliament that the minimum size of the Army in Australia should be around 40,000 but no such recommendation was ever made to the Government by the Defence Force Development Committee. The previous Government had placed itself in a position where, because of conscription, it had to give some figure which in its opinion it had to justify on the basis of Australia's strategic requirement at the time. Let me say in conclusion that my decision on the size and shape of the Army will be made as a result of the consideration which I will give to the recommendation that will come to me from the Defence Force Development Committee, and I believe it will be made having regard to other requirements and what I believe are the strategic requirements of Australia in the seventies and the 'eighties. There never has been any conflict between me and the Department, certainly not on a report which I have not yet received. 
The honourable member is, of course, in error when he suggests that the result of a gallup poll is the view of the Australian people. It is the view of a selected number of the Australian population. Since the honourable member is now putting forward a proposition that there should be a period of national service training of 3 months for the youth of this country, I remind him of the experience that the previous Government went through when it had compulsory training of 3 months duration for every young man in this country, which proved to be a disaster and involved this country in a financial obligation which it could not afford and which undoubtedly had a detrimental effect on the more important procurement requirements to meet the needs of the Services in this country. 
It is not for me to speculate on the sources of information that are available to the honourable member for Barker. I reiterate that I have not received the recommendations of the Defence Force Development Committee and until that report is made available to me I would not be in a position to indicate to this House what the Government believes should be the size and shape of the Army in the future. 
I did not see the program referred to by the honourable member but the implications of that statement were drawn to my attention. It is true that Thailand has had an officer training at the Queenscliff Staff College since 1958 and, indeed, there is one officer training at that establishment today. Thailand has not been told that there will not be a position for Thai officers in future. An application from the Thai authorities for a position at the College would be considered together with all other applications received from overseas countries. 
Yes, the Crown Prince of Thailand is now training at the Royal Military College, Duntroon. But what happened is that earlier this year the Thai authorities wrote to the Department of Defence and asked whether a permanent position could be made for a Thai officer at the Queenscliff College. It was pointed out to the Thai authorities that this proposition could not be accepted but that a decision would be made in due course. They subsequently wrote and asked whether a position could be made available for the 1974 course. I believe that application was made on 1st March. The Department of Defence informed the Thai authorities that the application would be considered, together with all other applications, in August of this year. The question of providing training facilities for overseas countries at the Staff College at Queenscliff must be seen in context with the number of positions available. In point of fact, for the 1973 course 13 applications were received from overseas countries. 
The former Minister should know but I would be happy to find out for him all the countries involved. I cannot readily recall them. However, for his information, some examples are New Zealand, Great Britain, Malaysia, Singapore and the Philippines. As I was pointing out, 13 applications were received in 1973 and only 4 positions were available. The Thai authorities have been informed that their application foi the 1974 course will be considered, together with applications received for positions at the 
Staff College lodged by other countries. It ls not true to say that Thai officers have been refused admission to the Queenscliff Staff College. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The issue of D-Notices dates from 1952 when the Government of the day invited representatives of the Metropolitan Press and media to participate in a scheme of voluntary restraint regarding the publication of material bearing on the country's war potential and national security. The Defence Press and Broadcasting Committee was formed comprising representatives of the national Press and broadcasting stations, with a minority of Government nominees. TV stations were included later. D-Notices, which have been few in number, are issued by direction of the Committee. 
There is no legal basis for D-Notices. The system is entirely a voluntary one and non-compliance carries no penalties. 
No. 
The Government contemplates that the DNotice system will be retained, though it will be used sparingly as in the past. The machinery of the system is being reviewed in consultation with the media. 
 The Minister for Repatriation has supplied the following answers to the honourable member's questions: 
3,308. 
(a) 2,288; (b) 130; (c) 196; (d) 694. 
Applications were refused on the following grounds: 
The Minister for Repatriation has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
No. However, the article in question quite correctly indicated that the Australian Labor Party has given an undertaking to amend the Repatriation Act so that British ex-servicemen now living in Australia would be eligible to receive a service pension. This undertaking does not extend to other war pensions, allowances and benefits available under the Repatriation Act. 
The question of granting eligibility for service pensions to British ex-servicemen resident in Australia is under consideration. Eligibility for Repatriation medical and hospital treatment, and other fr inge benefits that are available to Australian ex-servicemen receiving service pension is also included inthe issues under consideration. Repatriation legislation does not provide for housing loans forex-servicemen. This is  a  matter for my colleague the Minister for Housing. 
The Minister for Repatriation has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
8,700 (estimated). 
Repatriation Pensioners Living in Electoral Division of Robertson (estimated) 
Pensioners in Robertson Electoral Division  (Question No. 471) 
It is true that in 1950 the Army acquired 274 acres of land at Elizabeth to provide an ordnance depot in that area. The need to establish this facility has been recognised by the Army authorities and the matter has been under consideration from time to time. In 1966 the Premier of South Australia wrote to the then Minister for the Army asking for information concerning the provision of the ordnance facilities in that area. He was informed at that time that because of the low relative priority and having regard to other requirements it would not be possible to proceed with this facility before 1971-72. The matter has now been examined again, and it is considered by the Department of the Army that the project could not be proceeded with before the financial year 1976-77. However, in view of the interest that the honourable member has in this matter and because I believe that there is a need to co-ordinate ordnance depots so that those facilities which are now scattered throughout various parts of South Australia are centralised at Elizabeth. I will undertake to have the matter reinvestigated and to ascertain whether it is possible to have that date brought forward. 
1 did have discussions with the Prime Minister of New Zealand who, as the right honourable gentleman will be aware, had already indicated that, as a part of his Government's protest against the French nuclear testing in the South Pacific, New Zealand would be sending a frigate to the area. He asked for Australia's co-operation in providing refuelling facilities for that vessel. We as a government adopt the same attitude as that taken by the Government of New Zealand. During my discussions with the New Zealand Prime Minister, I indicated that Australia would be prepared to provide whatever support was possible. At that time, I indicated that it would be possible to provide HMAS 'Supply' which could carry out the refuelling requirements that would be necessary. It is true that 'Supply' is now in dry dock but, if 'Supply' is not available, another vessel will be made available and Australia will honour its obligations in this respect. 
Finally, I want to say to the right honourable gentleman that I made it perfectly clear to the Prime Minister of New Zealand, as I make it clear to this Parliament, that the Australian participation would be to the extent that the vessel would be outside the fallout area, that the exercise would be regarded as a naval exercise and that those who sailed on the ship - that is, the members of the crew - if necessary, would be given the opportunity to opt out. There would be no question of volunteers; it would be a normal naval exercise. But anyone on the ship who, for political or for any other reasons, felt that he should not be a member of the crew would have the opportunity to opt out. We as a government believe that we have a responsibility not only to fulfil our obligations in cooperating with New Zealand but also to ensure that we make whatever protests are available and within the capacity of this Government. To that extent, whether 'Supply' is available or not, Australia will be co-operating with New Zealand by providing another ship, if it is necessary. 
The honourable member is well aware, of course, that I have initiated a committee of inquiry into the Citizen Military Forces of this country. This is an inquiry which I believe was sought by some of my predecessors but upon which there could never be agreement by the previous Government. So the committee has been established by this Government. This highly competent committee has very wide terms of reference and is headed by, I believe, a very distinguished Australian who is competent to investigate the whole of the ramifications of the CMF. The statement that appeared in the Press this morning was issued by  Dr Millar,  the  Chairman  of the committee. The statement was shown to me by the  Chairman  before he made it available to the Press of this country. It is quite clear that, within the terms of reference, he wants everyone in this country who has some interest in the CMF - those who are connected with the Australian forces in any way at all, whether in a military capacity or a civilian capacity - to have the opportunity to express freely his views concerning the future of the CMF. In this context I believe that the  Chairman  was quite correct when he indicated that there undoubtedly would be put to him some propositions or indications by some people that it may not be necessary to have a CMF in Australia at all, and that in line with all other submissions this would have to be considered on its merits. 
It is quite clear from the terms of reference - and I am sure that I am able to speak for the committee as a whole at this stage - that there would be no intention to disband the CMF since it is the policy of this Government to build up in Australia a Citizen Military Force that will be efficient and that will provide support for the Australian regular forces. But the  Chairman  of the committee, in the context that people are entitled to make a submission to him, naturally would consider a submission which suggested that the CMF should be disbanded. This submission would be taken into consideration along with all other submissions. I am satisfied that as a result of the deliberations of the committee and the report that will eventually be made available to this Parliament the Citizen Military Forces in Australia will be given the status which I believe it ought to have in this country in terms of our defence requirements for the 1970s, the 1980s and beyond. 
This matter, of course, has been carefully considered by the Government. In these circumstances the appropriate reply should come from the Leader of the House. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be  now  read a second time. 
On 7 December I announced the following benefits for members of the regular forces. All members of the regular forces including Citizen Forces and Reserves on continuous full-time service who are honourably discharged after 3 years continuous service, or earlier on medical grounds provided the member could have completed 3 years under his existing engagement or undertaking, will be eligible for: 
Post discharge vocational training scheme for the purpose of reestablishment in civil life 
A maximum of 12 months fulltime training or 2 years part-time or correspondence training. 
Payment of compulsory fees, plus a maximum of $65 for books and $65 for equipment; an allowance for fares and a living allowance to full-time students. 
Applications will be required to be lodged with 12 months of discharge. 
All other current entitlements are not affected. 
Re-establishment loans for the purpose of re-establishment in civil life. 
A maximum of$6,000 for agricultural occupation and  $3,000  for business loans. Applications must be lodged within  12  months of discharge. 
Rehabilitation treatment and training for disabled servicemen without being subject to means test. 
Repatriation benefits. The right to elect for repatriation benefits for disabilities due to military service. 
War service homes benefits on dis charge. 
All members of the Regular forces including citizen forces and reserves on continuous fulltime service, who serve beyond  3  years initial service will be entitled to A, B, C and D above, and to: 
War service homes benefits whilst continuing in the service, and 
Re-engagement bounty for other rank members of the regular forces 
A re-engagement bounty of  $1,000  will be payable to any such member who, after  6  or more years service, is on an engagement, or who undertakes an engagement which will provide a further minimum period of  3  years service before reaching the prescribed retiring age. The earliest point when the bounty will become payable is at the  6  year service point for all ranks except apprentice entrants where the minimum service period is  9  years. The bounty will be payable on one occasion only during a serviceman's career. Re-engagement will not be a right. It will be subject to normal eligibility criteria. Any member who once having received the bounty and is subsequently discharged for misconduct, inefficiency or on request without sufficient compassionate grounds will be required to repay a portion of the bounty on a pro-rata basis related to the shortfall in service. 
Unless discharged earlier on medical grounds, the above benefits will not apply to the following: 
Navy: 
In the case of Royal Australian Navy college entrants until the date of being commissioned, and 
In the case of officers commissioned under the undergraduate scheme who are direct entrants to the Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology scheme until a return of  3  years effective service has been given. 
Army: 
In the case of Royal Military College  Duntroon entrants until the date of being commissioned, and 
In the case of officers commissioned  under the undergraudates scheme until a return of  3  years service has been given. 
Air: 
In the case of Royal Australian Air  Force Academy cadets and diploma cadets until the date of being commissioned, and 
In the case of officers commissioned  under the undergraduate scheme until a return of  3  years effective service has been given. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Defence Re-establishment Act  1965-1968  to provide for some of these benefits. Other benefits which were contained in my announcement of  7  December  1972  have already been provided for by the legislation or are in the process of being provided for by regulation. I refer to repatriation benefits, war service homes benefits and re-engagement benefits. The benefits concerned which are provided for by this Bill are presently available to national servicemen under the Defence Re-establishment Act. This Bill extends the benefits to all members of the regular forces, including citizen forces and reserves on continuous full time service, who are honourably discharged after  3  years continuous service or earlier on medical grounds, provided the member could have completed  3  years service under existing engagement or undertaking. Certain existing resettlement benefits for members of the regular forces who have long term service are not affected by this Bill. 
The Bill provides for the establishment of an additional training scheme to be known as the former regular servicemen vocational training scheme. The benefits under this scheme will be similar to those already operating in favour of national servicemen under the national service vocational training scheme. Trainees who will be eligible for these benefits and who commenced training on or after 7 December 1972 will be able to claim the benefits which this scheme will provide. Part IV of the Defence Re-establishment Act is in very wide terms, and desirably so. It enables the Minister to make arrangements for the post-discharge vocational training of national servicemen and now, as a consequence of this Bill, of former regular servicemen where it is considered necessary or desirable for their effective resettlement. Training may be full time, part time or by correspondence. Part IV allows arrangements for the States for the use of State facilities. It permits the Minister to pay to trainees allowances and expenses on tuition and late fees. It also makes provision for text books, tools of trade and so on. The development of the vocational training scheme in relation to former regular servicemen which this Bill now authorises will, of course, require the working out of some details. 
The Bill further provides for rehabilitation treatment and training benefits under the Defence (Re-establishment) Act to be extended to former regular servicemen as defined in the Bill. That Act already applies certain provisions of the Social Services Act 1947-1973 to national servicemen. This Bill, therefore, also applies, subject to variation, those provisions. In accordance with Government policy, the means test provisions of the Social Services Act will not apply to former regular servicemen. Finally, the Bill provides for re-establishment loans to be extended to former regular servicemen. These loans are for agricultural and business purposes. Under these provisions a former regular serviceman will be eligible for such a loan where this would be necessary to enable him to reestablish himself in a business, profession or occupation including farming in which he was engaged prior to call-up. I am sure that they will be found most valuable for some at least of these former regular servicemen who have rendered service. The Bill is complementary to other measures such as defence service homes and repatriation benefits which the Government is in the process of extending to servicemen not only in recognition of their occupation in present day circumstances but also in pursuit of the Government's determination to provide an adequate volunteer force. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr King)  adjourned. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Any change in use and the future development of the land comprised in the Williamstown Rifle Range will depend upon the availability of a suitable alternative site. 
The matter is receiving urgent attention and it is anticipated that discussions will be initiated with the Victorian Government authorities regarding a proposed site which is at present under consideration. 
Apart from determining if the site is available the questions of establishing range facilities to replace those existing at Williamstown and where responsibility for costs in this connection willlie must also be settled. This may take some time to resolve. 
The previous Government's agreement to release 20 acres of land on the western boundary of the range land will be implemented when final conditions for the transfer of this portion are completed. 
I give the honourable member an immediate assurance that the destroyers that will be acquired for the Navy will be built in Australia, and that there has been no change in the decision to build those destroyers at the Williamstown dockyard. I am fully conscious of the problem that exists at the Williamstown dockyard in relation to the work load and I have been giving very careful consideration to this problem. As the House is aware, an in depth study of the destroyer program was initiated as a result of instructions which I gave to the. Department of Defence and that study has now been completed. A decision has not yet been made as to whether the Government will proceed with the DDL project or whether an alternative will be selected. But whatever decision is made by the Government - it will be announced in due course - I can give an unequivocal assurance that there will be a requirement that the destroyers be built in Australia and at the Williamstown dockyard. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As at 31 January 1973, of the 11,809 national servicemen who were serving on 4 December 1972: 
5,377 had been discharged. 
3,125 had either made an election to continue their service until the expiry of 18 months or had elected to continue their service as Australian Regular Army soldiers. 
Note- The balance are accounted for as follows: 2,135 had not made an election. 1,172 had elected to be discharged but had not, at that time, been processed. 
It is expected that most of the national servicemen who have elected continued service will complete their initial engagement. In addition it is assumed that the majority of those who have not made a formal election and who are still serving will also complete their initial engagement. 
The last national service intake group is scheduled for discharge on 28 March 1974. However,  a  few personnel who have had non-effective service might elect to complete their 18 months in order to become eligible for War Service Homes and Repatriation benefits. 
National servicemen were given the facts regarding additional benefits which would be available to those who elected to complete their service. They were completely free to make their own choice and there are no known instances of national servicemen having been actively encouraged to leave the service. 
It should be pointed out at this stage that the future of the Pacific Islands Regiment and its role are matters being discussed between departmental officials from Papua New Guina and officials from the Department of Defence. No decision has been made on any of these matters. It was at the request of  Mr Somare,  the Chief Minister of Papua New Guinea, that the discussions are being held. In point of fact they are taking place this week. Any decision made would be with the approval of the Papua New Guinea Government. 
I made a statement in answer to a previous question in this House concerning the Government's attitude to nuclear testing in the Pacific area. The Government believes that there is a responsibility on it to protest in a vigorous way and for that purpose it has instituted proceedings before the International Court of Justice. It is the Government's view that emphasis should be placed on this protest in this way. As a result of my discussions with the Prime Minister of New Zealand, who had indicated previously that the New Zealand Government would be sending a frigate to the area, and having regard to the request which he made to the Australian Government through me for assistance with refuelling, I indicated that a ship would be made available - either the HMAS 'Supply' or the HMAS 'Sydney' - for that purpose, but that the ship would remain outside the fall-out area. 
Instructions have been issued by me to the commanding officers involved that the exercise is to proceed in this way. It is therefore regarded as a normal naval exercise, but the vessel will provide refuelling facilities for the New Zealand frigate. These are the clear instructions that have been given to the Department of the Navy. I indicated at tha same time that as it was a naval exercise it was not anticipated that crew members would not want to participate in that exercise, but that if any crew member believed, for political or other reasons or as a matter of conscience, that he should not remain a member of the crew he would be given the opportunity to withdraw from the planned schedule of sailing. This has been done. As the honourable gentleman would know, under the normal process, a seaman under the regulations is able to provide reasons why he believes he should not join or participate in an exercise and those regulations still apply. Any member of the crew will have the right to have his objection considered and if it is regarded as a reasonable objection in the terms of the conditions which I have just put to the House, he would not be required to join the complement on that exercise. 
In regard to the last part of the honourable member's question, I can give him an assurance that it is the firm intention of this Government that the withdrawal to Australia of the battalion and the battery, the combat forces now located in Singapore, will begin at the end of 1973 and be completed early in 1974. The anticipated exercise of the 'Supply' or the 'Sydney' will have no impact on that program. 
The history of this matter, of course, goes back to the days of the previous Government when it adamantly refused consistently to extend the benefits of the War Service Homes Division and repatriation benefits to British servicemen in this country. Representations were made to me at that time advising that the then Government had refused such request. I indicated at the time that both the Prime Minister and myself were sympathetic to this request and that it would be examined. I have since had discussions with my colleague, the Minister for Repatriation,  Senator Bishop,  and he has authorised an investigation within his Department. It is hoped that the Government will be in a position to be able to make a statement concerning its attitude to providing additional benefits in this way if it can be done within the limits of other budgetary considerations. Therefore the decision from the Department will be available for the Government's determination at the time of the Budget. 
In Opposition the Government expressed the view, which of course was restated in the policy speech delivered by the Prime Minister, that the total and permanent incapacity rate, the special rate pension, would be adjusted in line with the minimum wage in this country. The honourable gentleman, as the former Minister for Repatriation, will know that one of the first actions of the first Whitlam Ministry was to adjust the TPI rate to that figure. Incidentally, the honourable member for Indi was the Minister who presided over a department that left the 100 per cent general rate pension unaltered for about 8 years. There has since been- 
I ask the honourable member to show some patience. I know there is not a great deal of understanding of these matters, but he will know that there has been an increase in the minimum wage. Obviously the Government will consider what attitude it should take to raise the rate of pension to the new level of the minimum wage. Surely no one would expect that this ought to be an immediate decision, but naturally since it is a policy matter it is now under consideration by the Minister for Repatriation. Again, in line with other decisions relating to social security and repatriation benefits generally, this will be part of budgetary decisions when these matters are under consideration in the very near future. 
The former Minister for Repatriation also asked me whether I was aware of the actual cost of increasing the special rate of pension to the new level of the minimum wage. I indicate to the honourable member that this is a matter that would naturally be considered by the Minister for Repatriation. I shall endeavour to obtain the information for the honourable gentleman and provide him with an answer. 
I did see the report which appeared in the Press suggesting that 12 .personnel had elected to opt out of the exercise which, as I stressed yesterday, is in fact a naval exercise. If they opt out, and I have had no official confirmation of this, it would be under the normal circumstances and the regulations which now apply. In any exercise involving naval personnel, or indeed, personnel anywhere in the Services, they would have the opportunity, for various reasons, to make application through the normal channels not to participate in that exercise. If it is substantiated .that the 12 personnel referred to have sought to opt out of the exercise then they would be doing so through the normal channels. I have indicated to this House that in the circumstances there are probably reasons why some of the personnel - perhaps for political reasons or conscience^ - may seek to opt out of the exercise. If they do that, I can give the honourable member an assurance that it will be done through the normal channels. Their applications would be considered in .the normal way. I also give the honourable member an assurance that there would be no recriminations if their requests had been examined and accepted by the naval authorities. 
Perhaps the House might pardon me if I supplement my answer to the question asked by the honourable member for Wimmera and also reply to the question put to me by my colleague, the honourable member for Hunter. There is no doubt that there will be sufficient crew members to man the Supply' or the 'Sydney', whichever ship is used for this purpose. I do not believe that there would be any question of requiring any additional crew members, but in view of the fact that there has appeared a statement in the Press this morning which indicated that 12 crew members had sought to opt out under the conditions which I have laid down, I think I should indicate to the honourable member for Wimmera that I have had inquiries made since the report appeared and it is true that there have been 11 applicants for review under these conditions. Three have been approved and the remainder are under consideration. It ought to be, and I am sure it is, understood by honourable members that in these circumstances applications will be made, as they have been made on other occasions by servicemen to opt out of an exercise, and these crew members are exercising their normal rights. But there is no question that there will be sufficient crew members. I have sufficient faith in those who serve in the Royal Australian Navy to know that in these circumstances and because the question that is involved is one of very great significance to this country, there will be adequate numbers of naval men to man either the 'Sydney' or the 'Supply', whichever ship is used on this exercise. 
I move: 
That the Bills be now read a second time. 
These Bills represent the culmination of steps I initiated in this House some 3 years ago to have developed a retirement benefits scheme for members of the defence force that is both capable of understanding and alive to the special features inherent in a military career. 
The Bills give effect to the Government's decision announced last year to implement the recommendations of the Joint Select Committee on Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Legislation. Honourable members will recall that the report of the Committee was tabled in the Parliament on 18 May 1972. 
To put the Bills in perspective it is necessary that I recount briefly the history of the present DFRB scheme and the events leading up to the Government's decision to have it replaced. 
The Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act came into force in 1948 following the Government's consideration of a report of a committee chaired by the then Minister for Defence and Post-war Reconstruction, the Honourable J. J. Dedman, M.P. The scheme created by that legislation was designed to meet the special conditions of service in the armed forces and, in very broad terms, was based on the 'benefit purchase' arrangements adopted many years earlier in the Commonwealth superannuation scheme for Public Servants. 
In 1957, the Government appointed a committee under the chairmanship of  Sir John  Allison to examine and report on a new Services' pay code and retirement benefits for members of the forces. The scheme itself was subjected to a rigorous examination, one of the major results of which was the introduction of a new arrangement popularly known as the post-1959 scheme. 
So 2 schemes, in effect, have been operating in parallel, with identical benefits but quite different contribution arrangements depending on whether a member was a pre- 1959 or post-1959 contributor. 
Despite many structural changes since then, the scheme has retained both methods of purchasing retirement benefits and, as well, many of the basic defects and anomalies that have harassed servicemen generally for so long. 
In fact, the measures adopted in attempts to alleviate the severe problems faced by pre- 1959 entrants in maintaining high levels of contributions have resulted in a multiplicity of contributions and benefits arrangements that are so complex as to be almost incomprehensible to the great majority of members. It is therefore quite understandable that an intensity of feeling against the scheme should exist. 
I well recall referring at some length to this very matter and to other unsatisfactory features of the scheme during the debate on a Bill to amend the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act in 1970 and, if any member of this House is interested in what I had to say on that occasion, I invite his attention to Hansard of 9 June 1970. lt was against this background that during that debate 1 moved for the appointment of a joint committee of senators and members of the House of Representatives to investigate and report on the DFRB scheme. The Government of the day agreed with my proposal and the Joint Select Committee on Defence Forces Retirement Benefits legislation, under the chairmanship of  Mr J.  D. Jess, C.D.E.. M.P., came into being on 2 September 1970. Its report recommended the introduction of a new scheme which, with some necessary modifications, is the scheme covered by the first Bill introduced. It is of more than passing interest that on 22 December 1972, shortly after this Government assumed office, I announced publicly our intention to implement a new non-funded retirement benefits scheme for members of the defence forces, based on the recommendations of that Committee. My announcement followed meetings I had with senior Service officers and members of the interested departments only a matter of days after the Government took office. 
The new scheme is a simple one. It will apply to all serving members of the defence forces as at J October 1972 and to all members retiring after that date. Contributions will be at the rate of 5.5 per cent of the member's annual rate of pay and retirement pay will be expressed as a percentage of final pay according to the number of years served. For example, 40 years contributory service will produce the maximum retirement pay equal to 76.5 per cent of the member's pay on retirement. Twenty years service will qualify for 35 per cent of final pay. Generally speaking, a minimum of 20 years effective service is needed to qualify for retirement pay, except in the case of retirement on or after the prescribed retiring age for rank held when 15 years will provide an entitlement to retirement pay equal to 30 per cent of final pay. 
Some of the other features of the new scheme are: Commutation of retirement pay will be a right for members who retired after 1 October 1972, subject only to applications for commutation being made within one year of retirement or such longer period as may be necessary in special circumstances; management of the scheme is to be vested in a statutory authority on which all the Services will be represented; reversionary benefits will be extended to de facto widows and the member's illegitimate children, in certain circumstances, and dependent widowers of female members; the rates of pension payable in respect of children and orphans will be increased and, provided they are receiving full time education at a school, college or university, will continue in payment until age 25 years; invalidity pay will no longer be subject to suspension solely on account of earnings from civil employment; a contributing or recipient member may, if he is dissatisfied with a decision of the authority in relation to invalidity classification or any other matter of general administration of the Act, have his case referred to an invalidity review tribunal or any administrative appeal tribunal, as appropriate, for hearing and decision. Both of these tribunals will be completely independent, and here let me stress that I regard them as particularly important in the general management of the scheme. They will provide competent and impartial judgment on appeals from aggrieved members. A further line of appeal, on a question of law only, lies to the Commonwealth Industrial Court; previous past service which, under the present scheme, does not count for pension purposes, may be purchased by the payment of additional contributions; and provision has been made in the Bill to ensure that members who, on transfer to the new scheme are not disadvantaged by the transfer. 
It will be clear to honourable members that there are some complexities in this legislation. So far as the implementation and operation of the new scheme is concerned, however - and for this purpose I am excluding reference to the parts which deal with members who become candidates at parliamentary elections and with the preservation of rights of eligible members who transfer to certain other employment - these to a very large extent, will be short-lived. Essentially, they are the result of the extremely complex arrangements necessary to convert some 78,000 members to the new scheme without detriment or personal disadvantage and to enable the purchase of periods of previous service. When the conversion program is complete, these arrangements will largely become inoperative and the new scheme will then have the welcome quality of simplicity for transferred as well as new members. 
Contributions of members will no longer be funded in the sense that they were under the old scheme. The Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund, with assets totalling some $l74m, will, in effect, be frozen as from the commencing date of the new scheme and my colleague, the Treasurer  (Mr Crean),  will be examining the arrangements necessary for winding it up. Consequently, the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Board appointed under the existing Act, which exercises a trustee role in relation to the Fund, will continue in existence for the time being for that purpose, although there will be a minor change in its composition arising from the transfer of responsibility for the DFRB scheme from the Treasurer to myself as Minister for Defence. 
I turn now to the formidable task of implementation. It will not be easy. Nor can it be done quickly. The conversion of some 78,000 contributors to the new scheme, in many cases by adjusting their past contributions to the level of 5.5 per cent of pay throughout their contributory service, will involve individual calculations being made in respect of pay and service extending over a period of many years. Similar calculations will be necessary for the purchase of past service which may include service during the 1 939-45 war and even earlier service in some cases. The Services and the office of the DFRB Board are already preparing the basic data for the calculations to be made, but it may be some time before all the necessary work is complete. 
For members who have retired since 1 October 1972 and received a benefit based on the provisions of the existing legislation, some adjustments will be necessary in regard to both contributions made and the benefits received. I will be arranging for these cases to be given priority treatment. Provision has not been made in the main Bill for the automatic adjustment of retirement and invalidity pay as proposed by the Joint Select Committee. However, I shall be introducing a separate Bil] shortly which will provide increases for all those persons who retired under, and will remain with, the provisions of the existing scheme. These increases will bc along the lines of those proposed for pensioners under the Commonwealth Superannuation Scheme, the details of which are incorporated in the Superannuation Bill now before the Parliament. 
The whole question of suitable methods of adjustment of retirement benefits payable to members of the forces, whether they retired under the old or will retire under the new scheme, is currently being examined. Since the Jess Committee presented its report, there have been developments on pension updating in other Commonwealth pension schemes and I want these developments carefully investigated and assessed in relation to the new DFRB scheme. The Joint Select Committee recommended the repeal of all existing DFRB legislation but I find that this is not possible at this stage. The new scheme is not to apply to pensions granted before 1 October 1972. I have been informed that rather than have an artificial legislative position under which the repealed provisions would be deemed to remain in force, it would be preferable to continue the existing legislation insofar as it relates to pension rights and to amend it in such manner as necessary. 
The Bill to amend the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act 1948-71 does precisely that. At the same time it provides for the transfer of the existing fund to the Commonwealth and for all pensions payable after 1 October 1972 to be paid by the Commonwealth. It goes further, however, in that it incorporates certain beneficial provisions of the new scheme that relates to children and invalidity pensioners. In other words, pensions payable in respect of children and orphans are to be increased to the levels recommended by the Jess Committee and invalidity pensioners, as well as having access to an invalidity classification review tribunal, will no longer be subject to the suspension provisions insofar as they relate to remuneration from civil employment. These provisions are repealed and, subject to review by the authority, suspended pensions will be restored. This Bill also makes a number of relatively minor consequential machinery amendments to the Act. 
Although, as I have already mentioned, it is not practicable to repeal the existing DFRB legislation at this stage, I shall be looking for ways of repealing as much of it as possible in the near future and having it produced in a consolidated form that will make it more easily understood. There are some other departures from the specific recommendations contained in the report of the Jess Committee. Essentially they concern the avoidance of any detrimental impact the new scheme may have on members of the present scheme. In particular there is the incorporation of 'no detriment' in relation to the conversion of existing contributors to the new scheme. In the main, however, the scheme developed by this Government is basically the one envisaged by the Committee and in the 2 Bills that I have already covered the Government has fully honoured its undertaking to implement that scheme. 
The Superannuation Bill (No. 2) 1973, makes provision for those contributors to the superannuation fund who become liable to contribute under the Defence Forces scheme. The existing provisions provide that a superannuation fund contributor who is required to contribute to the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund on entering the defence force on continuous full-time service for 12 twelve months or more, has his contributions under the Superannuation Act deferred and they become payable on his ceasing to be a member of the forces. Should he die or become an invalid and unable to be employed by the Commonwealth, the present legislation provides that the benefit that becomes payable is paid under the Superannuation Act and that where the DFRB benefit would have been higher the Superannuation Act benefit is increased to that level. The amendments take account of the changes in the DFRB scheme and ensure that the existing beneficial arrangements will continue. 
The Bill to amend the Defence (Parliamentary Candidates) Act 1969 makes such machinery amendments as are necessary to take account of changes in the DFRB scheme. Finally, let me say that the scheme encompassed by these Bills reflects not only the needs expressed by the Services themselves for the provision of a modern retirement benefits structure that takes account of their particular career patterns, but also it is one that is comprehensible to them. It is a tangible application of the Government's policy to provide all volunteer forces. Taken together with the series of other measures we have introduced in the area of financial conditions of service generally, there is clearly substantial inducement to become and remain a member of the armed forces. I commend the Bills to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Bonnett)  adjourned. 
1 move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to increase existing pensions under the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act 1948-1971. When I introduced the Bill for a new retirement benefits scheme for members of the defence forces a short time ago, I explained that provision had not been made in that Bill for the adjustment of retirement benefits as proposed by the Joint Select Committee on Defence Forces Retirement Benefits legislation, and that the whole question of adjusting benefits paid under both the old and the new schemes was still being examined. The main reason for this is that there have been recent developments in pension updating arrangements in other Commonwealth pension schemes and I want these developments investigated and assessed in relation to their implications for the defence forces scheme. The investigation is proceeding but it may be some little time before a method can be found which is suitable for application to persons who retired under the old scheme and for those who retire under the new scheme. 
As there has not been an adjustment of DFRB pensions since 1 October 1971, the Government has decided that rather than delay the granting of a much needed increase, an early adjustment should be made in the pensions of those who retired under the conditions of the old scheme, that is, before 1 October 1972. The adjustment is to be made in accordance with the measures adopted in relation to Commonwealth Superannuation Fund pensioners, a Bill for which is currently before the Parliament. My colleague the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  announced the details in this House on 2 May 1973. In effect, the adjustment to superannuation pensions is to be made to the Commonwealth share of those pensions. Because of the more complex nature of the DFRB benefits structure, however, the Commonwealth share of each pension cannot be calculated without considerable difficulty and, if this were to be done, there would be a further long and unacceptable delay in the actual payment of the pension increases. So the Government has decided, as an interim measure, that 77.5 per cent of a DFRB pension is to be adjusted in precisely the same manner as the Commonwealth share of superannuation pensions. The method was explained in some detail by the Treasurer in his speech on the second reading of the relevant Bill. This will produce an overall effect that is consistent with the superannuation adjustments and compatible with the sharing arrangements provided under the existing legislation. 
The pension adjustment will take effect as from the first pension payday in July of this year. I should like to make it quite clear that the method to be used on this occasion for adjusting DFRB pensions may not necessarily apply in the future. As I have already mentioned, this is a matter currently under examination and I shall announce full details of the method to be used as soon as the present inquiries are complete. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Bonnett)  adjourned. 
In answer to the honourable member's question- 
No, it is not. This matter has been brought to my attention. As a matter of fact there had been correspondence, as I understand it, between the Department of Defence and the inventor of the weapon, since 1968 until on 30 May last year the Department of Defence wrote to the inventor to ask him whether the weapon could be made available for testing purposes. To date no reply has been received. In relation to the second part of the honourable member's question, obviously that would have to wait until the Defence Department has had the opportunity to test the weapon and to take into consideration the merits of the weapon. If the Department assesses it and regards it as being a weapon that could be incorporated into the defence system, consideration would be given to having it manufactured in Australia. 
In answer to the honourable member for Corio who, of course, has shown a great interest in the. development of the Nomad may I say that this matter is under review. I am not in a position to give the honourable member precise figures at this stage as to the number of Nomad aircraft that will be produced in the near future. There is of course a program now under way and some Nomad aircraft are being produced at the Government Aircraft Factories. I will be putting a submission to Cabinet very shortly in relation to the requirements of the Government Aircraft Factories to continue with the. Nomad program. As the honourable member pointed out, some financial assistance will be required to enable the program to continue and for firm orders to be placed. Until that has been done, it will be difficult, I believe, for the Government Aircraft Factories to enter into a firm commitment concerning the future program of the Nomad. The statement will be made and put before Cabinet as soon as possible. 
The answer, of course, is yes. I have made it perfectly clear to the Department of Defence that there will not be a repetition of some of the circumstances and incidents which developed previously, particularly in relation to bastardisation. I have made it perfectly clear that this will not continue and that, if these matters are brought to my attention either collectively or individually, an immediate inquiry will be instituted. I assure the honourable member that I will have this matter investigated immediately and will advise him of the result of that inquiry. 
by leave - The purpose of this statement is to provide the Parliament with a broad view of the decisions that this Government has taken and the measures it has initiated to give effect to the Government's defence policies. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Labor Government undertook on election to abolish conscription forthwith. It promised that there would be no further call-up of young men for national service in the Army under the National Service Act and all pending prosecutions would be discontinued. My first major action following my swearing in as a Minister on Tuesday, 5 December, was to do just this by administrative action. I approved the cancellation of call-up of some 2,200 men who had been medically examined and passed fit for service and were due to be called up at the end of January 1973. I directed that there should be no proclamations requiring any further age groups to register for national service under the National Service Act 
In accordance with the powers vested in the Minister under the Act to grant deferment to classes of persons liable to render service under the Act, I deferred indefinitely the liability of all men who had not as at that date been enlisted for service in the Army. This affected the 2,200 men I have already mentioned, and another 30,000 men who subject to their fitness for service would have been included in future Army intakes. There were also some 8,000 men already serving in the Citizen Forces as an alternative to full time national service in the Army. Their liability for national service was also indefinitely deferred. At the same time I revoked all approvals for prosecution for offences against the provisions of the National Service Act. 
As Minister I also confirmed arrangements which the Department of Labour and National Service had brought into effect on the Monday morning following the election. Besides taking no further action regarding the call-up and registration scheduled for January 1973, and in respect of prosecution, these arrangements provided that all national service medical examinations were to be cancelled forthwith, no further steps were to be taken to detect men who had defaulted in their obligations under the National Service Act, all investigations into apparent defaults were to be discontinued, and no warrants for apprehension of persons for breaches of the National Service Act or for non-payment of fines under the Act were to be executed, and the restriction requiring persons with a national service liability to obtain permission to leave Australia was waived. This action avoided a number of major problems which could otherwise have arisen in closing down national service. 
The abolition of conscription is, however, too important a matter for it to continue to rest solely on administrative decision and administrative action. Conscription should not, moreover, be capable of reintroduction without the express need for legislation to be brought before, and passed by, this Parliament. The Government has decided that legislative effect should be given to the decision to abolish conscription which I as Minister took administratively. It is also not only confirming, but strengthening and* reinforcing, these decisions to ensure that they cannot be reversed administratively. The Bill is simple but far reaching in its effect. It legally terminates as from 5 December 1972 the liability of men to register for national service, whether it be full time or part time service on the Reserve - or in the CMF - on completion of the full time service. The date on which the new Government came into office was 5 December and I, as the Acting Minister for Labour and National Service, approved administrative action to end all call-up for national service. 
The Government has not repealed the National Service Act primarily because it wishes to ensure preservation of the rights of those men who were serving at the date the Government assumed office, including those who have elected to continue their service under the provisions of the National Service Act. The men thus remain eligible for reinstatement in civil employment and for their reestablishment benefits. It is nonetheless the Government's intention to repeal the National Service Act just as soon as possible after all men have ceased to serve in the Army under the Act. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Forbes)  adjourned. 
 in reply - There are one or two comments that I would like to make about a Bill which has been described this afternoon as one of very great significance. I listened with a great deal of interest to the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh).  The honourable member is a new member in this House and he obviously displayed that tonight. I certainly do not want to enter into a debate on the historical background of the defence forces retirement benefits legislation, but it is quite clear that the honourable member has not studied the legislation. I must confess that I had great difficulty in deciding or determining whether the honourable member was speaking on DFRB legislation or on the defence statement that I made this afternoon. But I think he can be excused for that. As I said, he is a new member. However, the honourable member described the legislation as deplorable. As a matter of fact, having listened to all of the Government members - the Opposition members - who spoke on this Bill this afternoon I was not impressed to hear the honourable member for Darling Downs, despite the fact that some criticism was expressed, describe it as deplorable legislation. At first I thought that I had not heard him correctly. But the honourable member repeated the statement later. However, I am prepared to excuse this on the basis that he is a new member and therefore no doubt has a great deal to learn about the DFRB legislation and indeed other legislation that he has spoken on in this House. 
I accept the criticism that was made by the honourable member for Darling Downs and some other honourable members this afternoon about the time that was available to members of the Opposition to consider this legislation. I acknowledge that the legislation does involve a great many clauses. I acknowledge that probably more time ought to have been made available. But if I may come back to the historical background of this legislation it was quite clear that a policy decision made by the Opposition back in 1972 which was outlined to the people of this country during the election campaign of December 1972 proposed that the DFRB legislation would be introduced in this Autumn session of the Parliament. I have honoured that promise. I do not want to take any of the credit myself for what is contained in the legislation because again I acknowledge quite freely that a number of people have made a contribution. I think the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  said late this afternoon that the exmember for La Trobe,  Mr John  Jess, had not been mentioned in my second reading speech. What I say in answer to that is that I have publicly acknowledged outside this Parliament on a number of occasions the contribution made by the  Chairman  of the Joint Select Committee on Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Legislation as well as by the honourable members for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  and Herbert  (Mr Bonnett),  both of whom have some experience in this matter. I freely acknowledge the contribution they made to bring about a very successful report which is now, of course, incorporated in this legislation. 
I am prepared to accept the criticism in relation to the time that is available to honourable members to study this legislation. But it is quite clear from what has been said by honourable members, particularly from the Government side this afternoon, that the Bill does incorporate the recommendations of the Jess Committee. The Government has not in any way at all dishonoured those recommendations. Indeed, as a result of discussions which I had with departmental officials back in January of this year when I issued instructions that the legislation should be introduced in this session of the Parliament - these meetings involved not only officials of the Department of Defence but representatives of the certain respective Services, the Treasury and the Attorney-General's Department - some adjustments were made to the original recommendations of the Jess Committee. Any of the amendments which were made at that time were accepted on the basis that they would improve the legislation, that they were an improvement on the recommendations in the report and that, as a result of their incorporation into the legislation, no one would be disadvantaged. I was quite firm in my instruction that no one should be disadvantaged. lt was said this afternoon - I think by the honourable member for Herbert - that no one from the Services was invited to participate in the discussions that took place when the drafting of the legislation was being undertaken. The plain fact is that representatives of the Services were at the 2 meetings I supervised and the other meetings which were held. They gave their opinions and accepted the Jess Committee's recommendations. I accepted the amendments which were suggested. So in point of fact this legislation is in the ultimate an improvement in many respects on the recommendations of the Jess Committee because it ensures that no one will be disadvantaged. 
One or two points were raised this afternoon by honourable members opposite concerning invalidity and comparisons were made between the entitlement of widows under the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill, which is still before the Parliament, and this legislation. I have no hesitation in saying that I will be only too pleased to look at any anomalies that may arise as a result of the implementation of the legislation which has now been introduced in the Parliament but which has not been finally determined. Honourable members should understand that I moved immediately to give effect to the recommendations of the Jess Committee and that it was not possible at that stage to take into consideration legislation which was not then under consideration but which has subsequently been introduced in the Parliament. If there are anomalies, naturally they will be considered. I believe that no Minister who has the responsibility of introducing legislation of such complexity and of such magnitude would not be prepared to concede that some anomalies will arise. As any anomalies arise I will be only too pleased to have them reviewed. That applies to the rights of widows and to the question of invalidity. Those matters will be reviewed at the appropriate time. 
I believe that one member of the Opposition displayed complete ignorance of the legislation this afternoon. Obviously he had not read it or did not understand it. He said that in his opinion it should have been spelt out in the legislation how the review and appeal systems will operate. Provision is contained in the legislation for both an invalidity review tribunal and an administrative appeal tribunal. The appeal tribunal will hear appeals from ex-members of the defence forces or serving members of the defence forces who believe that they have been disadvantaged. The terms and conditions have been clearly set out in the legislation. The appeal tribunal will be headed by a barrister. A contributor to the defence forces retirement benefits fund and another member will be appointed to it. The entitlement tribunal will be an assessment tribunal for invalidity purposes. The Question has been raised as to whether we should use a repatriation entitlement tribunal in this respect or whether a new tribunal should be established. As they have been clearly provided for in the legislation, there ought not to be any criticism in relation to those matters. One of the matters to which the Jess Committee gave very thorough and, I believe, careful consideration was the question of appeals and invalidity entitlements or assessments. These have been provided for. 
I believe that one can claim that the Government has honoured the promise it made to introduce this legislation during the first session of the Parliament. I can only reiterate what I said a few moments ago about anomalies, that is, that they are bound to arise in some fields. Naturally I will be prepared to look at them as they arise. It has been said also that the Government has promised to repeal the existing DFRB legislation. That matter was clearly explained in the second reading speech I delivered to this House only a few days ago. There I made it quite clear that it would not be proper to repeal the existing legislation at this stage as to do so would have created anomalies and difficulties which would have prevented the introduction of this legislation at this time. I pointed out and made it quite clear in my second reading speech that the legislation will be repealed at the appropriate time. 
There may be in the legislation which is now before the Parliament provisions which honourable members feel ought not to be there. They are there because it is necessary to retain them at this stage in order to provide the entitlements that contributors are now receiving under the old legislation. But there is to be simplicity in relation to the entitlements of future contributors and those who retire after 1 October 1972 and who become eligible after that date. They will pay 5. 5. per cent of their salary and will be able immediately to determine what their retirement benefit will be. That is the great simplicity of this legislation. It is what the Jess Committee looked for and indeed recommended in its report. 
There is only one other matter to which I think I should refer. It is a matter which was raised by the honourable member for Herbert. The honourable member referred to the problems relating to the no detriment clause, which is clause 25 of the Bill. In respect to this matter, I wish to say that about 3,500 officers who entered the Services at the age of 22 years or thereafter may suffer benefit detriment on retirement because their prospective service under the Jess scale would give them a lower entitlement than they would have under the present scheme. This detriment is to be overcome by allowing them to purchase notional service, which will equalise the 2 entitlements. In many cases the cost of purchasing the notional service will be met by the refund to them of excess contributions and the lower contribution rates which will apply to them in the future. In effect the intention is to preserve a man's entitlement as at 1 October 1972. That is the way in which the legislation is written. If, however, I find that this creates any serious anomalies, I shall be pleased, as I have already indicated, to have a further look at the matter. I submit that the legislation which is now before the House does honour the recommendations of the Jess Committee. It will provide a substantially improved benefit to serving members of the armed forces and ex-members of the armed forces. 
I conclude by indicating to members of the Opposition that if there are any problems with this legislation it is because the time factor has meant that they have had to be accepted by those who have been responsible for the drafting, which has been a long and complicated process. I believe that the preparation of the legislation was a monumental effort by the draftsmen. They deserve very great credit for their achievement in being able to produce the Bills by last week as drafting was commenced only in January of this year. So whatever criticism may have been offered by members of the Opposition this afternoon it was quite clear that they accepted that the recommendations of the Jess Committee had been honoured and, indeed, I give credit to those who made a contribution to bringing about the reforms. 

 Mr McVEIGH (Darling Downs)-  Mr Speaker,  I wish to make- a personal explanation. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bills together read a second time. 
Messages from the Governor-General recommending appropriations announced. 
I believe that too much attention has been directed at the changes in Australia's foreign policy which have been introduced by the new Government and that not enough recognition has been given to the broad continuities of policy within which the changes represent an evolutionary advance. Let me emphasise that what has happened since the election is not that Australia has suddenly swerved into a series of unpredictable and unrelated moves that are out of the mainstream of movements in world affairs. On the contrary, what we have done is solidly based on a clear appreciation of the gradual but nevertheless real shift in international affairs which has been going on for years and which can be summed up as a change from the bipolar world which characterised the years of the Cold War to the multipolar world which emerged from such events as the split between the Soviet Union and China, the integration of Europe through the European Common Market, the emergence of Japan as a major power and the Nixon Doctrine of greater self reliance in defence preparedness. These were real changes which were duly noted by many people in Australia, but for some strange reason the previous Government was loath to give them full recognition in its policy-making. Perhaps the reason was that the Liberal and Country Parties had found simple anti-communism of such great electoral advantage in the 1950s that they could not afford to give up their old shibboleths without the risk of electoral defeat. One of the consequences was, of course, that for some years it was not the then Government that was setting the pace in foreign policy but the Labor Opposition. It was we who took the initiative in opposing our participation in the Vietnam conflict, in calling for more foreign aid, in proposing an end to racism in our international dealings, in co-operating with the movement of self government and independence for Papua New Guinea and in opening up normal relations with China. Nevertheless, even the previous Government, reacting to responsible and realistic advice from the Department of Foreign Affairs and prompted by the initiative shown by the Labor Opposition, was showing some signs of moving in these directions: and given time - more time than we could afford - perhaps it might have belatedly arrived at the same position on these matters as has the  new Government 
What I am saying is that we have not moved erratically or against the mainstearm of world opinion. A great deal of what we have done has been catching up on the backlog of questions that were begging for constructive answers and acknowledging in practical ways that the world has in fact changed. The solidity of our foreign policy can be further demonstrated by pointing to some instances where there has been no change whatsoever in the policy that we have adopted. One case that immediately comes to mind is in our attitude to the ANZUS Treaty with the United States and New Zealand, upon which we continue to place great emphasis. 
This is not the same as saying that we intend to perpetuate the completely uncritical posture towards our allies that was an embarrassing feature of the previous Government's foreign policy in the days of 'All the way with LBJ'. I do not think that that is the sort of ally that the United States needs or respects, nor is it the sort of attitude that a mature and independent Australia needs to adopt to win friends and influence people. It is far better for both allies if the relationship is one of mutual co-operation and respect. After all, our relations with the United States span a far wider spectrum than the matters of defence that are relevant to the ANZUS Pact. The strength of our alliance with the United States in the ANZUS Treaty is increased by our association in other areas such as trade, investment, technology, aviation and culture. As I have said previously, we continue to value highly the great contribution to the development of our defence capability which flows from our close association with the United States in various areas of defence. This should establish beyond doubt the fact that in this particular area the policies of the present Government show evidence of solid continuity over time. 
The fallacy into which honourable members opposite seem only too prone to fall is to assume that by opening up relations with other countries we have to break down relations with our existing friends and allies. It is true that we are opening up normal diplomatic relations with China, North Vietnam, East Germany and Poland and normal trading relations with the Soviet Union, Eastern Europe, Cuba, North Korea, North Vietnam and China. But to try to argue from this, as honourable members opposite attempt to do, that Australia is joining the communist bloc, or that Australia is becoming non-aligned, shows very little respect for the intelligence of the people of Australia. 
Of course, we are normalising relations with as many countries as we can. So are most other couitries in the world. It is to Australia's benefit that we do and it is in the interests of world peace, because by building up bonds of co-operation between countries we help to create a world in which each country has a vested interest in the survival and stability of every other country. And this we can do without in any way jeopardising the good relations that we already enjoy with our traditional friends and allies. It is not a position of nonalignment that we have adopted; it is a position which acknowledges the multiplicity of our interests and relationships. 
In security matters our closest relationship is with the United States of America, but that does not rule out participating in the peacekeeping operations of the United Nations, honouring our obligations to our partners in the Five-Power Arrangements, including Malaysia and Singapore, encouraging the development of Association of South East Asian nations and the concept of a zone of peace, freedom and neutrality in South East Asia and engaging in defence co-operation with other countries in our region. Similarly, in tradition and sentiment, we have especially close ties with the United Kingdom and the other countries of Western Europe which were the original homelands of most Australians, as in trade we are aligned mainly with the other great trading nation of this part of the world, Japan. The truth is that our relationships with other countries concentrate on different aspects of our national interests and that is a healthy sign, both from the point of view of opening up options for ourselves and from the point of view of assisting world stability. 
In the case of Japan, which I have just mentioned, I completely endorse the statement of the Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Whitlam)  that under previous governments too much attention has been devoted to developing merely a commercial relationship with Japan and not enough thought has been given to the ways in which Australians and Japanese may come to understand each other better and to benefit from each other's traditions and insights. In an address recently to the Australia-Japan Business Co-operation Committee I pointed out that there was a need for more opportunities for all groups - government, business, trade unions and others - in both countries to get together much more often than they do until discussions and meetings lead to mutual understanding. The Government believes that it is high time that initiatives were taken to help bring this about. The fact that this even has to be a matter for initiative at this time shows how far Australia has lagged behind until now in improving relations even with a country which we have regarded for some time as a major trading partner. And that,  Mr Speaker,  is the point that I would impress on the House about all the initiatives which the Government is undertaking in the field of foreign policy. 
We have taken the initiatives and we have made changes, but they have been to the advantage of our traditional friends and allies. By catching up with developments in the wider world we have facilitated the development of a more mature and a more realistic relationship with them than in the recent past and have won for Australia a new respect in the community of nations as a constructive, humane, responsible and reliable partner in trade, aid and conflict avoidance and resolution. 
The mistake that honourable members opposite make far too often in their approach to foreign policy is to appeal to fear - fear of this country or that country or even just fear of the unknown. It seems to me that a much better approach in the present period is to go out, as we are, to deal constructively with the causes of conflict and discontent in our region rather than to react negatively to the symptoms. As I have argued elsewhere, even in defence policy, a negative approach is inadequate when it is possible to combine a policy of maintaining strong national defence forces at home with a policy of active defence co-operation with other countries through aid, training, technical assistance, joint exercises and continuing consultation. 
Much of our defence aid to other countries contributes in a positive way to development. I mention my recent announcement of the maritime patrol project which we are now developing in conjunction with Indonesia. The patrol boats and Nomad aircraft which we are supplying will help Indonesia in the detection, interception and deterrence of smugglers, pirates, illegal fishing and illegal immigrants. Search and rescue constitutes another important maritime patrolling activity. 
One question that could be asked about our defence co-operation with the countries of our region is whether this does not conflict with our support for the ASEAN concept of a zone of peace, neutrality and freedom in 
South East Asia. The answer to such a question is that neutralisation can only come about gradually. One of the ways of helping it to come about is for the various countries of the region to take more responsibility for developing their own defence capability. And it is easy to see that it is in each country's interest and in the interests of the region as a whole if this is done with as much cooperation and mutual aid as possible. 
The sort of defence co-operation which Australia now extends to these countries on an equal and friendly basis is well-designed to help raise national confidence by the gradual development of defence capabilities, which is one of the prerequisites of neutralisation. It also helps to foster regional interdependence, which is another prerequisite. So I do not see any contradiction between the sort of defence co-operation which Australia now offers and the ASEAN concept. Rather I see it as working towards a situation where that concept can ultimately be realised. Of course, I know that what developing countries need in terms of assistance as much as or even more than defence aid is economic aid. 
I have already mentioned that much of our defence aid in the region has an economic value to our neighbours and helps them in their development. Also, the more defence aid that we provide the more they are relieved of the need to devote their own resources and scarce foreign reserves to building up their own defence capability and to use them for national development. If this can be achieved by a constructive and positive defence policy, how much more can be achieved through our foreign policy. I refer honourable members to the fact that our civil aid to Indonesia is  21/2  times the value of our defence aid, that we shall be giving even more economic aid to South Vietnam in the coming year than the previous Government did in the past, and that we intend to raise Australia's level of official economic aid programs until they comprise 0.7 per cent of the gross national product by the end of the decade. 
We accept that proposition. One of the very few points I found acceptable in the speech of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  was on the question of foreign aid. It was the decision of the Australian Government - a decision in the terms of the platform of the Labor Party - to increase our foreign aid to 1 per cent of the gross national product. This, of course, is in line with the recommendation adopted by the United Nations. Perhaps in this respect there is a bipartisan attitude on the part of the Government and the Opposition, and so there should be. If we are to provide assistance to countries in South East Asia - the developing countries in our region - economic aid must be provided not only by this Government but also by other governments in this area which are in a position to provide that assistance. (Extension of time granted.) I thank the House. I will conclude on this note. Australia, in its foreign policy has established a sound and sensible course in international affairs which has the merit of taking advantage of the new opportunities opened up by the present relaxation in world tension at the same time as we retain the advantages we already enjoy with our traditional friends, allies and trading partners. In the short time that this Government has accepted the responsibilities not only in general fields of administration but also particularly in relation to foreign affairs there has been a shift in emphasis. As I have indicated on a number of occasions both publicly and in this Parliament - in this context I have been supported by the Prime Minister - defence will follow foreign affairs, rather than vice versa as in the past. I believe that the Prime Minister, despite what may have been said this afternoon by the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  who led for the Opposition in this debate, has demonstrated that he has the capacity to provide the leadership which is needed in this country and which has been lacking for so long and that, in addition to carrying out that onerous task, he has demonstrated a capacity as Minister for Foreign Affairs that this country has not enjoyed for more than 23 years. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Sinclair)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In the majority of schools with Cadet Units membership is an extra-curricula activity of an entirely voluntary nature. There is no compulsion by the Services for any youth to join the Cadets. I understand there are some schools where cadet training is an integral part of the curriculum with a consequent obligation on students to join. 
It is Government policy that military training in any form be voluntary. Schools with Cadet Units are being advised that official support will be withdrawn, and a Unit disbanded, if compulsion or pressure is exerted on pupils to participate in Cadet activity. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Estimates of the number of National Servicemen remaining in the Army at the dates specified are: 
30 June 1973-2,700 
30 September 1973-1,800 
31 December 1973-1,100 
31 March 1974-0. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The target strength of 31,000 was based on the advice of the Secretary, Department of Defence, the  Chairman  Chiefs of Staff Committee and the Chiefs of Staff of the three Services who recommended, in December 1972, interim manning and organisation arrangements for the Australian Army pending the outcome of a study, for the first time, of the future size and shape of the Australian Regular Army. 
Strengths and Recruitment Rates of the Services (Question No. 420) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As at the end of November 1972 the strengths of the three branches of the Armed Forces and CMF were: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Naval Air Power Study is continuing. The Study is complex involving the examination of Australia's strategic circumstances, the definition of possible operational tasks, the analysis of the effectiveness of naval air power in competition with other weapons and equipment systems, and the projected costs of acquisition and operation of various mixes. 
The reports which will be produced following these studies will contain a vast amount of information, much of which will be based on predictions of the performance of systems which may, or may not yet be in development, and on information which is proprietary in nature. The report will not be made available generally, but conclusions from it will be made public as appropriate when decisions are made and announced by the Government in the context of future Defence Programs. 
The  answer  to the honourable member's  question  is as follows: 
During the period 30 November 1972 to 31 March 1973, 1,426 male volunteer recruits were enlisted in the Australian Regular Army. 
Before being finally posted to units recruits must complete basic and corps training. As at 31 March 1973, 159 of the recruits referred to in (1) above had been taken on the trainee strength of units at Puckapunyal for corps training purposes. None of the 1,426 recruits had actually been posted to units in the Puckapunyal area to that date, as they had not completed the required basic and corps training. 
Following the cessation of national service some units have not been manned to their maximum authorised strength. This situation applies particularly to units whose principal role was to train national servicemen. The future size and shape of the Army was announced by, me to Parliament on 30 May 1973. Consequently the detailed allocation of personnel to areas has still to be determined. However it is intended that Puckapunyal will remain a major Army base. 
The  answer  to the honourable member's  question  is as follows: 
11,848 national servicemen were serving as at 30 November 1972. 
29,669 Australian Regular Army personnel were serving as at 30 November 1972. This figure includes women's services and CMF on full time duty but excludes Pacific Islanders. 
A total of 1371 national servicemen have enlisted in the regular Army since the inception of National Service. Between 30 November 1972 and 31 March 1973 68 former national servicemen re-enlisted in the Australian Regular Army. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) No. However, on 7 March 1973 a V.LP. aircraft carrying the Prime Minister,  Dr Wilenski, Mr Williams  and Sergeant Brown, left Adelaide Airport five minutes after the curfew time of 11 p.m., due to an unforeseen delay. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Canadian fleet essentially consists of four destroyer helicopter carriers, twenty destroyer escorts, four submarines and two operational support ships. The four destroyer helicopter carriers are comparable in size to the proposed DDLs. The destroyer escorts generally exceed in size the six Australian River Class destroyers. The Canadian Navy is heavily oriented to anti-submarine warfare, in which field the RAN has adequate capability. Australia has one operational support ship and the Canadian approach of using such a ship in operations with their destroyers is a practice already used by the RAN. 
The fuel and ammunition supply requirements are not the sole determinants of the size and cost of the DDL destroyers. The helicopters, the area surface to air missile system, the 5 inch gun, the long range sensors, the electronics complex, the propulsion requirements together with the necessary manning are major determinants of the size and cost of the DDL. A smaller ship could be obtained by deleting any one of these systems but the result would not be relevant to the strategic situation which exists at present. 
I am giving consideration to the question of publishing results of studies into these matters. There are significant problems in respect of information on overseas weapons and electronics which is not our prerogative to declassify. 
Navy: DDL Program  (Question No. 232) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
In the recent evaluations, Yes. But in preliminary studies leading to these evaluations destroyer types from 2,000 to 7,000 tons were considered and others rejected in favour of the group of ships mentioned in the honourable member's questions. 
The requirement for this type of destroyer was not identified in isolation to other naval requirements. In particular it was established that the present requirement for destroyers exists irrespective of the replacement of HMAS Melbourne. 
The size of the DDL is determined not only  by,  the need for range but also by requirements for sea keeping qualities the ability to deploy an area defence surface to air missile sytem and  a  medium calibre gun, the ability to operate two helicopters in all but the worst sea conditions and to accommodate at modern standards the ships company needed to operate and maintain the ship. 
Yes. 
The results of the naval air power study are expected to be available early in October 1973. My answer to Question No. 370 asked by  Mr Bury  covers the manner in which the study will be used. 
A balanced force structure including an overall naval procurement strategy are exhaustively considered during the systematic planning of the Five Yew Rolling Program process. The results of special studies such as those mentioned are brought together in the total review each  year  of this rolling program. 
No studies specifically concerned with the future role of submarines in our defence are currently underway,, but it is planned to initiate a study on these lines shortly. 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
Yes. 2. (a) The number of buildings occupied by the Department of the Navy and the range of rentals paid are: 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
Yes. 
No. As part of the Government's re-organisation of Defence administration, the separate Service Departments are to be abolished. That has been made plain on several occasions. Questions or relativity between the Permanent Heads of those Departments and the Chiefs of Staff are therefore of short-lived relevance. The relative position of senior Service and civilian officers in the future Defence structure is an integral consideration in the re-organisation studies now being carried out. Until those studies are completed and the Government has taken decisions on them, I cannot say what that relative position will be. 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
1 ) My attention has been drawn to Article 1 5 of a French Statute for Military Personnel 'published on 1 4 July 1972. 
Similar provision will be included in the Defence (Discipline and Justice) Bill. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The number of non-Australian military personnel in Australia varies from day to day and may, over the course of 12 months, vary as much as 20 per cent. A principal reason is that very few training courses, involving foreign personnel, are held in the December/ January period. Consequently the number of foreign personnel training in Australia is small during the summer period but reaches a peak in mid-year. 
At the end of April, 1973, there were, in all, 1,168 nonAustralian military personnel in Australia, of whom 341 were officers and 827 were other ranks. These personnel were stationed or were training at the following 79 establishments: 
Armoured Centre, Puckapunyal 
Army Aviation School, Amberley 
Army Headquarters, Canberra 
Army Headquarters, Melbourne 
Army Headquarters Survey Regiment, Bendigo 
Australian Staff College, Queenscliff 1 Base Ordnance Depot, Gaythorne 7 Camp Hospital, Wagga Wagga 
Department of Air, Canberra 
Department of Defence, Canberra 6 Engineer Stores Regiment, Penrith 
Garden Island Dockyard, Sydney 
Headquarters, Eastern Command, Sydney 
Headquarters, Northern Command, Brisbane 
Headquarters, Royal Australian Air Force Operational Command, Glenbrook 
Headquarters, Royal Australian Air Force Support Command, Melbourne 
Headquarters, Southern Command, Melbourne 
HMAS Albatross, Nowra 
HMAS Ardam 
HMAS Brisbane 
HMAS Cerberus, Westernport 
HMAS Creswell, Jervis Bay 
HMAS Derwent 
HMAS Harman, Canberra 
HMAS Kuttabul, Sydney 
HMAS Leeuwin, Fremantle 
HMAS Lonsdale, Melbourne 
HMAS Melbourne 
HMAS Nirimba, Sydney 
HMAS Parramatta 
HMAS Penguin, Sydney 
HMAS Platypus, Sydney 
HMAS Stuart 
HMAS Snipe 
HMAS Supply 
HMAS Torrens 
HMAS Vendetta 
HMAS Waterhen, Sydney 
HMAS Watson, Sydney 
Hydro Electric Commission of Tasmania, Hobart 
Infantry Centre, Ingleburn 
Intelligence Centre, Woodside 
Joint Defence Space Communication Station, Woomera 
Joint Geological and Geophysical Research Station, Alice Springs 
Joint Services Staff College, Canberra 
Jungle Training Centre, Canungra 2 Military Hospital, Ingleburn 
Navy Office, Canberra 
Officer Cadet School, Portsea 
RAAF Base, Amberley 
RAAF Base, Brookvale 
Research Station, Alice Springs 
Joint Services Staff College, Canberra 
Jungle Training Centre, Canungra 2 Military Hospital, Ingleburn 
Navy Office, Canberra 
Officer Cadet School, Portsea 
RAAF Base, Amberley 
RAAF Base, Brookvale 
RAAF Base, East Sale 
RAAF Base, Edinburgh 
RAAF Base, Frognall, Melbourne 
RAAF Base, Laverton 
RAAF Base, Pearce 
RAAF Base, Point Cook 
RAAF Base, Regents Park 
RAAF Base, Richmond 
RAAF Base, Townsville 
RAAF Base, Wagga Wagga 
RAAF Base, Williamstown 
RAAF Staff College, Fairbairn 
Royal Australian Army Ordnance Corps Centre, Bandiana 
Royal Australian Electrical and Mechanical Engineers Training Centre, Bandiana 
Royal Australian Navy Research Laboratories, Sydney 
Royal Military College, Duntroon 
School of Artillery, Manly 
School of Military Engineering, Casula 
School of Signals, Watsonia 
School of Survey, Bonegilla 
Senior United States Liaison Office, Melbourne 
Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation, Barrawang 
Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation, Cooma 
Special Air Services Regiment, Swanbourne 
Staff of Flag Officer in Command, Eastern Australian, Sydney 
Transportation Centre, Mosman 
United States Naval Communications Station, North West Cape 
Women's Royal Australian Army Corps School, Mosman. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The Department of Defence does not have any authorities in rented premises. The details regarding accommodation rented for the Department of Defence would have been covered by the reply given by the Minister for Services and Property to Question No. 1 74. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Under a long established policy, household effects of RAAF personnel serving in Singapore and, under certain conditions, items of furniture that such members necessarily purchased in the area, are normally freighted to Australia by sea at Government expense. However, provision is made for a limited quantity of effects to be transported by air, in addition to the normal accompanied baggage entitlement, where the early return of the items would avoid the necessity for a member and his family who are returning by air to occupy motel/hotel accommodation on arrival in Australia. 
and (3) There has been no recent change in this policy and I have found no evidence to suggest that any RAAF members in Singapore have complained or have cause to complain about the removal of their effects to Australia. 
I can assure the honourable member that all RAAF personnel presently serving in Singapore will, on their return to Australia, receive the full removal entitlements to which I have referred. 
The answer to the first part of the honourable member's question is no. The answer to the second part is yes. 
by leave - The defence vote for 1973-74 is$1, 345m. This compares with an actual expenditure during 1972-73 of $1, 285m. My purpose this evening is to set out some of the Government's thinking on defence, with particular reference to the strategic situation we now find, the capabilities which exist in our forces, and in the light of these the financial and other provisions which should now be made for defence. 
The nation's security is the Government's first responsibility. Labor policy calls for a strong and valid defence capability that will demonstrate beyond all doubt the nation's intention to defend itself and its vital interests. There can be no neglect of defence. In determining policy regarding the shape and size of the defence force and its capabilities, at any time the government of the day will give first consideration to the strategic prospect facing the nation. It will assess the possibility of military pressure or threats against Australia and of other situations which might require evidence of defence strength or some involvement of the defence force. 
Given the long lead time necessary to acquire and develop many of the capabilities of the force, it is necessary to assess not only the immediate situation but the likely situation in future. Shortly after taking office I called for such an assessment to cover the next 15 years. There are bound to be uncertainties about the future, particularly about the later part of such a long period. The principal findings, however, are clear and I believe that they allow us to plan our defence policy with a good measure of confidence. We shall regularly review the asessment made now to allow timely decisions for the development of the defence force should future assessments indicate a requirement for this. 
At the present time, however, it can be said that Australia's situation is favourable and that various important factors and trends in the international situation support Australia's security into the longer term. We and our advisers do not at present foresee any deterioration in our strategic environment that would involve consideration of the commitment of our defence force to military operations to protect Australia's security or strategic interests. This view of Australia's long term security was, I may remind the House, the view accepted by previous governments in recent years. Yet they continued to commit Australian forces to unnecessary operations in Vietnam which were not only unwarranted, but counter-productive. They did not cease that involvement until the United States withdrawal with under way. This Government would, of course, be. prepared to consider the use of Australian forces abroad in support of United Nations peace-keeping operations, if this sort of situation arose and we could make a useful contribution. 
Let me indicate briefly the nature of the factors and trends to which I have just referred. Australia is not a global power, but we have twice this century become involved in world wars and could not remain unaffected, and probably uninvolved, were global conflict once more to threaten. At present, however, there is a very strong trend away from this prospect. The ability of the 2 super powers, the Soviet Union and the United States, to destroy each other by nuclear exchange has placed substantial restraint on direct military confrontation. There is significant movement towards detente between them and co-operation in the handling of situations that could lead to critical confrontation. China for its part has effected some rapprochement with both the United States and Japan, and has strong interests in the avoidance of major international conflict. 
Another important factor in the global situation is in the economic field. In particular, the growing dependence of large industrial economies on the uninterrupted, world-wide flow of raw materials places increasing importance on the stable management of international relations. This consideration is of particular importance to major economic powers such as Japan and the West European countries. 
Political competition among the major powers can, of course, be expected to continue. Nor can we rule out the possibility of limited local conflicts during the years ahead in various parts of the globe. But present trends generally point to a prospect of relative stability in the global order. Any major, protracted conflict, drawing nations into general war, appears remote. 
In South East Asia, any risk of military confrontation between the major powers has substantially receded. Fighting continues in Indo China, but in our view only the people of that region themselves can reach the political settlements necessary to bring an end to military conflict. This Government has ended completely all Australian military involvement in Indo China, and we have no intention of involving the nation there again. 
The countries forming the Association of South East Asian Nations - Thailand, Malaysia, Singapore, the Philippines and Indonesia - have made substantial advances in nation building and regional co-operation. There continue to be many problems of development and areas of local insecurity. We can, and do, try to assist development, by our aid and co-operation programs. But we understand that the regional governments see internal security questions as their own domestic concern and are not looking for external involvement in internal security situations. 
The ASEAN governments have been discussing proposals for a 'zone of peace, freedom and neutrality' in South East Asia that would preserve their security and independence and allow them to pursue their national and regional development free from disruption by military confrontation in the region. Such proposals have obvious interest for Australia and we have made clear our support for this initiative. Australia has an abiding interest in the security and peace of South East Asia and we welcome moves that can further reduce the likelihood of military confrontation there. 
Pending neutralisation, this Government will continue to honour the Five Power arrangements. We do not accept that these arrangements require the stationing of forces in Malaysia and Singapore indefinitely and we have already arranged for the phased withdrawal of Australian ground forces from Singapore. However, a Royal Australian Airforce detachment of some 1,500 and our Mirages will remain at Butterworth at least until we review the situation again in 1975, and we shall continue to maintain a small naval presence in the area. 
Closer to home, our largest neighbour is Indonesia. Honourable members will be well aware of the friendly relations we enjoy with that country and this Government's intention to give central emphasis to the further development of these relations. We are maintaining the defence co-operation program with Indonesia begun under the previous Government and I have said that we shall support a successor program. Close defence understanding with the Government of Indonesia is at all times important to Australia and I much welcome our fruitful and friendly exchanges with Indonesia in this field. 
In Papua New Guinea there is now a clear movement towards final independence and we are closely involved with the Government there in discussions about the development of its defence force. The process of localisation is proceeding effectively and at an increasing pace, although Papua New Guinea is likely to continue to require assistance from Australia for some time to come. No threat of external military attack against Papua New Guinea is foreseen and we see no major risk to Australia's security arising there. Regarding internal security, honourable members will have noted the important statement on 20 August by the Minister for Defence and Foreign Relations in the Papua New Guinea Government,  Mr Kiki.  The Minister said that 'Papua New Guinea was determined to look after its own security problems in the future' and: 
No country can lightly contemplate either the dispatch of their own forces or the acceptance of foreign forces to deal with an essentially domestic situation'. 
I can say that  Mr Kiki's  views are very much in accord with those of this Government, and, I am confident, those of all members of the House. 
The favourable developments in the strategic environment that I have outlined strongly support our view that Australia is unlikely to come under strategic pressure or military threat. This is the current assessment. As I have said, we shall review it regularly so that as any changes are discerned they can, as necessary, be reflected in defence policy and in the development of our military forces. We can, however, at this stage responsibly look to the future in reasonable confidence that no significant requirement is likely to arise for the operational commitment of our forces. We believe that any change would take time and would allow us to develop the response necessary. We shall certainly maintain Australia's security association with the United States and New Zealand under the ANZUS Treaty. We place much value on this association. It would be of the utmost importance to Australia should a major threat ever develop again in the Pacific area. In the meantime, it sustains contact and co-operation in a variety of practical defence fields and in consultations about defence and security matters that are of advantage to all 3 partners in the alliance. 
This assessment of the situation Australia is likely to face in the next decade does not, of course, mean that Australia can dispense with defence strength. I have already referred to uncertainties in the longer term. In matters affecting the nation's security it is necessary to move with prudence. I wish to stress also the extent to which Australia nowadays and in the future must accept the primary and independent responsibility for safeguarding our security and strategic interests. We are no longer simply a junior partner whose activities are largely shaped by the strategic and military policies of more powerful friends. We shall maintain our co-operative relations with them, which we greatly value. But we cannot assume that their interest in local and regional situations will necessarily be the same or as close as ours. Nor is it our wish or intention simply to sit back and rely on them to safeguard and protect us. We must maintain a defence capabilty that accords with our foreign policy. 
The modern situation requires Australia to be more self-reliant than in the past, and this is very much in accord with this Government's view of our independent national status. We must have forces in being for the surveillance and patrol of the environs of this continent. We must maintain our ability to be a source of military advice, technology and training which are helpful in the development of the defence capabilities of other countries in our region with whom we maintain defence co-operation and aid programs. There can be scope for further Service assistance to community tasks beyond what is already done. This is now being explored. Above all, it will be important to maintain in being sufficient skills and capabilities to allow timely expansion of the forces, should this again become necessary. 
But the favourable strategic prospect allows us an opportunity to review and rationalise, to promote more efficient and economical defence capabilities. After the more or less continuous defence expansion of the last 10 years, it is a time for taking stock, for pruning back activities whose original purpose has changed and for eliminating redundancies that have crept into our force structure. We intend to make full use of the opportunity presented to us. Where savings can responsibly be made, we shall make them. Where new acquisitions of equipment and other costly defence expenditures can be reduced or deferred without prejudice to the essential capabilities of our defence forces, we intend to use the resources for higher community priorities. Balanced judgments must be made of the kind and extent of forces that would permit expansion in the time available if changes to the strategic position become apparent to the Government. The feasible rate of expansion would depend essentially on the size and nature of the base force - the core force - and the resources the nation would be able to put into the development of this force. The core force would not be a manpower intensive force. But it must have sufficient modern defence components and skills and be of the size and organisational framework that would permit expansion in time of need. 
We should all be conscious of the fact that Australia has developed over the past decade a very significant level of defence capabilities. There has been a very substantial growth in manpower and equipment, and in some forms of defence facilities, although not in others, Much modern and complex equipment has been introduced or is on order. We are now self-sufficient in many areas where we were not so before. We have consequently reached a stage of force development where we should appraise the forces we have in being as a whole in relation to likely tasks. We must consider whether replacements of capabilities in the Air Force or Navy, or Army, or Supply establishments are all essential at this stage and whether they need to be on a one-for-one basis. We must be alert to the prospect that new needs will emerge for capabilities not now in existence. Along with this, we ought to reduce or retire any defence capabilities which we believe have a lower priority in the future or which can be readily re-developed. In our strategic situation, there can be military, economic and technological benefit in extending the life of some of the types of equipment we already have, so that advantage can be taken of foreseen improvements in technology later on. There can be some general reductions in the tempo of Seivice activities. All these considerations are leading to a thorough re-assessment of our defence forces. 
I turn now to the current provision that is being made for maintaining and developing the capability of our defence forces. I shall review the position on a functional rather than a Service basis. The main elements of the maritime force are the ships and other vessels and maritime aircraft which provide for maritime defence, surveillance, patrol and other maritime roles. The present maritime force is centred around eleven effective fleet destroyers; one aircraft carrier backed by 19 fixed-wing attack aircraft and 15 fixed and 2 rotary-wing anti-submarine aircraft; 2 Royal Australian Air Force long range maritime patrol aircraft squadrons totalling 22 aircraft; 15 patrol boats (an additional five operate in the Papua New Guinea Division); and four submarines. 
The maritime force will in due course be complemented by current projects for 2 additional submarines under construction and for anti-submarine - cargo helicopters which will replace some existing rotary-wing aircraft. A variety of naval vessels complements the main fleet units, including support craft, landingcraft, a destroyer tender, mine countermeasure vessels, survey and oceanographic ships and so on. 
In line with our aim to achieve desirable economies, I have already announced the decision I have taken to pay off the ageing fleet transport HMAS 'Sydney', which would otherwise have required considerable expenditure to maintain her through to the end of her life projected for 1974. This expenditure would have been quite unjustified. It has been decided that the second training ship, HMAS Anzac', can be paid off when HMAS Duchess' completes her conversion refit in 1974. The naval component of the force provides a substantial force is being. From this could be developed a very much larger Navy should it be required. The Navy is most unlikely to be out-classed in strength or quality by countries in the Australian region of strategic interest within the time scale of the present strategic review. It must be noted, however, that substantial capital investment is necessary to maintain this comparative effectiveness. The distances involved in our area, and the lack of ports and naval bases, make long range and sea-keeping attributes an important part of the naval force component. This requires the maintenance of a core of substantial ships. 
The naval component has the type of units which contribute - especially in conjunction with maritime patrol aircraft and aircraft providing strike attack and defence - to meeting the appropriate fundamental requirements for the protection of Australia and its immediate environment. The naval force can assist in coping with any intrusions into territorial waters and fishing and resource zones. It provides considerable support to civil authorites. It could, in the present strategic environment, deter to a great extent any minor harassment and interference with Australian sovereign control. As I indicated while in opposition and again earlier this year, I have been giving particular attention to the escort strength of the RAN and the need for new destroyer construction. The two Daring class destroyers in the fleet have recently been modernised. 
A decision was taken by the previous Government to proceed with the modernisation of the 3 Charles F. Adams class guided missile destroyers. This will cover the overhaul and modernisation of the S-inch guns; updating the Tartar missile system to enable it to use the more advanced Standard missile; and installation of a computerised automated command and control system. Further, and in line with maintaining our existing destroyers as operationally effective fleet units, it is the Government's intention to proceed with the refit and modernisation of some, at least, of the older River class destroyers during the latter half of this decade. The extent to which these ships should be updated is being critically reviewed, taking into account the assessed importance of the individual weapons systems to our likely strategic situation in the 1980s, the costs involved and the manpower and maintenance savings that can be achieved. Work is continuing on the Australian development of Project Mulloka - a new improved sonar which may be part of the update of these anti-submarine warfare ships. 
The need for new destroyer construction has been examined against this background. The Government recognises the importance of naval strength to Australian defence preparedness, and has endorsed the need for a new destroyer acquisition program for the Navy to maintain its strength in the 1980's. But before any specific decisions are reached on this important matter, more detailed study is necessary into a number of aspects. There is the question of timing and priority and looking to the best opportunity. The provision of 3 Australian designed and built destroyers for the RAN under the DDL program - has been estimated to involve $355m project cost over the next ten years, but experience of ship construction shows a strong tendency for costs to escalate. We have to bear in mind that a high proportion of defence expenditure is already committed to strengthening our maritime capability rather than other needs. After thorough consideration of all the circumstances the Government was not satisfied that the previous Government's decision to acquire light destroyers of the particular Australian design and characteristics is the most appropriate solution. In the light of that decision I have directed the Defence Navy investigators to examine naval development overseas, taking into account also the current strategic assessment to which I earlier referred. The position will be further reviewed next year. 
I realise this decision will come as a disappointment to many who have been closely involved in the DDL proposal. I would like to express the Government's appreciation of the work of all the many participants in the project, in Government and industry, both in Australia and overseas. To date some $1.7m has been spent on the project, principally on design investigations and management consultancy. This work has been valuable and will provide a firm basis for the continued study of the requirement for a new destroyer construction program. The Government has decided to proceed with the construction of a new oceanographic ship. This ship will provide capability which will be of much benefit in both the military and civil fields for work in ocean research, including resource exploration. We have decided that there is no need to proceed at this time with the construction of a fast combat support ship, capable of underway replenishment of the fleet. It has been assessed that such a ship would not be required before about 1980, when HMAS 
Supply' is expected to be retired. I believe that a less sophisticated and less costly ship than .that originally proposed at a cost now estimated at around S69m might be more suitable. This is being further examined. 
The need in the future for the acquisition of maritime surveillance aircraft continues to be examined. We have at present one squadron of Orion aircraft and one squadron of Neptune aircraft, the latter reaching the end of its life later in the decade. We are considering what is needed to meet projected military and, in conjunction with civil authorities, civil off-shore surface surveillance tasks. The Naval air power study will assist in this examination. That study will also contribute to the consideration of the possible future need for a seaborne aircraft platform when HMAS 'Melbourne' goes out of commission. But these matters are not for decision now. With the paying off of HMAS 'Sydney, and other economies, savings in both Service and civilian manpower can be achieved. These are being put into effect- I shall refer to this again later. 
I turn now to our ground force strength of which the Army naturally provides the major and essential component. The Navy and Air Force contribute associated support for sea and airlift and ground attack by land and sea based aircraft. Following the recent review of the Army, there is to be a better balance between the field force and the Australian support area. This has led to a planned increase in the field force of about 2,000 men this year with a corresponding reduction in the support area component. This increase will enhance our capability to provide effective ground forces should any low level situation arise to which the Government may decide it is necessary to respond; and it will provide a sound basis for expansion should our strategic circumstances change. As previously announced, the divisional structure will be retained for the Army, with 3 task forces, each 2 battalions. 
You should not worry. I have not yet decided to change the name of the helicopters. They are still known as 'Katter's copters'. I shall be examining critically the various combat and supporting elements, the need to maintain particular military skills at particular levels, and their balance in relation to the likely strategic situation. With the cessation of active operations and the phasing out of national service, the support component of the Army, both Service and civilian, has now become excessive in relation to the field force and the level of capability required. Less essential activities are being curtailed and numbers will be reduced accordingly. 
As part of ground force maritime support, the acquisition of 8 heavy landing craft will provide the capability to transport men and material in coastal movement. For air support of ground forces, the present substantial Mirage force has a ground attack role, and Navy's 19 Skyhawk attack aircraft, whether sea or land based, also provide an attack capability. Air transport support of the ground forces will be provided by 2 squadrons each of Hercules and Caribou aircraft and utility helicopters now in service, shortly to be complemented by the additional capability provided by medium lift helicopters. There are a number of armoured vehicle proposals now being studied including the replacement of the Centurion medium tank and the acquisition of fire support vehicles and bridging equipment. These and other proposals will be submitted to the Government for decision at the appropriate time. 
Turning to our air capability, the main offensive and defensive units are 24 F111C strike . aircraft and 87 Mirage air defence and ground attack fighters. We have carefully reviewed the present provision for air defence capability. While recognising the dual role of air defence and ground attack for the Mirage fighters, and the need to maintain complex skills in both these areas, our strategic situation can no longer justify maintaining four squadrons of costly Mirage flying effort. Accordingly, it has been decided in the present circumstances to disband one of the Mirage squadrons. Two fighter squadrons will continue to be deployed for the time being in Malaysia, and the third squadron at Williamtown near Newcastle. 
This will amply meet the present requirment. Our Mirage aircraft provide Australia with an air defence force that is very unlikely to be outclassed in our strategic area of concern. With the phasing out of one Mirage squadron, and the consequential reduction in overall flying effort, it is expected that the life of the aircraft remaining will be extended into the 1980s. This decision has the effect of deferring until later in the decade the need to acquire a new tactical fighter. The reduced flying of Mirage aircraft will also reduce the need for maintaining the present training effort on both the Macchi and the Winjeel trainer aircraft. Substantial manpower savings can be achieved. This decision also has an important bearing on the future of the aircraft industry to which I will refer later. 
In support of our major air force elements, there is one Canberra squadron now being used for target flying roles and photographic tasks, and a number of other support and training aircraft. The acquisition of the New Zealand CT4 Air Trainer as a replacement for the Winjeel will proceed in the coming year. But as a consequence of the reduced flying training effort now required, there will be a reduction in the number of aircraft to be required. I have already referred to RAAF maritime and transport squadrons. 
I turn now to the manpower position in the right of the Government's general policies, the need for some restructuring of our forces to which I have referred, and the manifest scope for economies. This Government abolished conscription soon after it came to power. It decided to depend fully on volunteers for manning the Army, and the Navy and Air Force. There has been no shortage of volunteers, and more Servicemen are re-engaging when their terms of service expire. As I have said on many occasions, this Government has already successfully demonstrated that allvolunteer forces can be raised during peacetime if the right policies are adopted. Central to the Government's policy on all-volunteer forces is the principle that terms and conditions for Service personnel should be no less attractive than those available for the community generally. This is essential if we are to have adequate forces with the necessary high level of efficiency and morale. I need not repeat here all that has been done by this Government in the areas of pay and conditions and in retirement, resettlement and repatriation benefits. 
A central problem in developing an adequate force structure is to decide on the correct balance between manpower and equipment expenditures, capital works, communications and so on. During the last decade Service manpower, excluding national servicemen, increased substantially from 50,100 in June 1963 to 71,300 in June 1973. Civilian manpower increased from 36,600 in June 1963 to 51,300 in June 1973. Over this same period of a decade pay rates also increased substantially. In 1973-74 some $7 13m, that is, no less than 53 per cent of the $ 1345m appropriation for defence, is expected to be spent directly on Service and civilian pay. There is, of course, in addition, considerable expenditure on administration, stores, etc., which is closely related to manpower numbers. It is essential to make more money available for major equipments, for much needed improvements to Service accommodation, for improvements to defence bases and for other capital projects that will put Australia in a better position in future years to meet a threat should one arise. We have therefore decided to make way for capital programs to meet the uncertain future, by controlling expenditure on manpower in the present low risk period. 
Flowing partly from the review of Service activities which I have already discussed, and partly from achievable economics in the use of manpower, reductions in defence manpower will be effected. Civilian manpower in the Defence group of departments will be reduced by about 4,500 or 9 per cent during 1973-74. Civilian employment in the Department of the Navy will fall by 880, in Army by 1,300, in Air by 400, and in Supply by about 1,850. These reductions will include the Defence Research and Developments Laboratories, supply factories and naval dockyards, to which I will refer later. The greater part of the civilian employment reduction will, however, be achieved through attrition; that is, by not replacing wastage. Terminations of employment will be kept to the practicable minimum and, where necessary, the Department of Labour and the Public Service Board will provide assistance with re-employment. 
There will be a reduction of some 2,300 or 3.2 per cent in Service manpower. The Navy will come down during 1973-74 by 1,100 and the Royal Australian Air Force by 1,200. The Army, on the structure I have already indicated, will effect some economies in the Australian Support Area, which will be reduced by about 2,000 to about 19,600, keeping the Regular Army total strength constant at some 31,150 during 1973-74. 
Almost all of the Service reductions will be made by not replacing wastage. Retrenchments of servicemen are unlikely to be necessary except for a relatively small number in certain ranks and musterings. Where they are in suitable categories they will be considered for inter-Service transfer. There will continue to be a need for a considerable number of recruits in 1973-74. I am satisfied that these cuts in manpower represent necessary and indeed in some cases overdue economies and will not impair the defence capabilities we need in present circumstances. 
The honourable member will be pleased to know there will be no reductions at Lithgow. Early this year I announced that a study was being made aimed at rationalisation of activities in the aircraft industry. The Government has examined this question, but it was evident that the decisions which needed to be made on equipment for the Services and the level of service activity had a vital bearing on the future workload and size of the industry and hence on the direction of rationalisation. The Government has now taken these decisions and I will press for a rapid conclusion to the rationalisation discussions. Also there will be significant alterations to the pattern of future workload for our naval dockyards. The extensive modernisation of our 3 Charles F. Adams class destroyers was to have been carried out in United States dockyards. This work involves updating the missile fire control systems and the installations of new digital data systems. I have directed that ways be developed to do at least two of these modernisations in Australia. This work will be undertaken at Garden Island, and as a consequence, it will be necessary to transfer significant amounts of other refit and fleet maintenance work to the other 2 naval dockyards. 
As I have already indicated, the Government will proceed with a project for the acquisition by the Royal Australian Navy of a new Oceanographic ship. Construction work will be undertaken at Williamstown Naval Dockyard to offset the results of the various decisions taken in reviewing the defence program on the workload of this dockyard. As a result, it will be necessary to decline all tenders submitted for construction of this ship. 
Other new work of importance to the naval dockyards will include the refit of some of the older River Class destroyers to which 1 referred earlier. Planning is now underway to redirect the future development of the naval dockyards to these new circumstances. In the short term, there will be a need for some reduction in the work force particularly at Williamstown dockyard. Where possible this reduction will be made by normal attrition. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As at the end of November 1972 the strengths of the three branches of the armed forces and CMF were: 
I received a communication from the secretary of the ExPrisoner ofWar Association of Australia who wrote to me asking for assistance to provide flight services from Learmonth and from Woomera for 30 exprisonersofwar and their wives from the United States of America. I understand that United States authorities have arranged for their airlift according to the availability of aircraft into Learmonth and Woomera and according to availability of space on aircraft. I gave sympathetic consideration to the request I received and to representations which had been made to me by the honourable member for Swan on this matter. It is clear that it would create a precedent in Australia. Quite frankly, it would not be possible for me to justify the expenditure involved in using Royal Australian Air Force aircraft to transport the ex-prisoners ofwar and their wives from Learmonth and from Woomera. 
The only precedent that has been established by previous Australian governments in relation to providing assistance for ex-prisonersofwar to attend reunions I should point out to the House that if I approve the airlift by RAAF aircraft on this occasion it will, of course, be necessary for me to approve similar requests from Australian ex-prisonersofwar for reunions in this country was for the national reunion of those who served in New Guinea. That was the only deviation from the established criteria. They were provided with transport to New Guinea for the 25th anniversary of the signing of the surrender document in that country. That was the only occasion on which financial assistance was approved for exservicemen or ex-prisonerofwar organisations in Australia. Clearly expenditure of this kind, however sympathetic one may be, cannot be justified. 
The honourable member will know that recently the Government decided to provide additional finance for the production of further Nomad aircraft; that is in addition to the initial program determined by the Government. That program will proceed. Indeed, there is every indication from inquiries that are being made both within and outside Australia and the initiatives that have been adopted by my colleague the Minister for Secondary Industry that the demand for Nomads will increase considerably. There will be no alteration to the existing program regardless of any decisions that the Government has made and which I announced last night in the defence statement. The present program will proceed and I hope that in the foreseeable future we will be in a position to announce a more definite program than the one already determined. 
I believe that the figures of 3.2 per cent and 3.5 per cent were expressed during the last general election campaign. However, I ought to make it perfectly clear in the House this morning as I did last night in my statement that when I assumed responsibility as Minster for Defence I immediately began an investigation into all aspects of defence, it being the first occasion on which we were in a position to deal with all segments of the defence administration; that is, the 3 separate Service ministries as well as the 
Defence Ministry. It is quite clear the economies should be made. As I indicated last night this Government intends to bring about those economies. 
Again I should point out that a government has a responsibility to determine what amount of gross national product or gross domestic product should be spent on defence, but it has to make that decision together with other decisions that the Government finds necessary, particularly in relation to our existing program to improve education facilities in this country and to provide greater security opportunities for the citizens of Australia, and indeed in all of the domestic programs. It is quite clear that these were the priorities that Labor had announced in the 1972 election campaign. 
There has been a fluctuation in the defence expenditure in this country. This morning on the Australian Broadcasting Commission 'AM' program the Leader of the Opposition said that he believed that the spending of the previous Government on defence was correct. But to which year did he refer? In 1962-63, when the previous Government was talking about confrontation and the danger that arose to this country as a result of confrontation, the defence expenditure was only 2.6 per cent of the gross national product. Because the Deputy Leader of the Opposition has made an accusation that I did not mention in my defence statement what percentage of GNP or GDP defence expenditure would actually be this year, I say quite unequivocally that it will be 2.9 per cent of GNP. We believe that in view of the economies that will be made that is realistic. 
I refer, for example, to stocks in this country. I think most honourable members would be astounded to know that there are sufficient stocks of ammunition to meet Australia's requirements for the next 25 years. In these circumstances how can one justify continued expenditure in these fields? As the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has raised this question, I think I should indicate to him some of the shortcomings of the previous Government in this field. I have set out a clear statement of policy in relation to defence. I have indicated the direction that this Government will take. It has been accepted without equivocation by the Department of Defence, which has been most co-operative in the discussions I have had with it over a very long period. We have arrived at what we believe to be a realistic figure, in a no threat period, to provide for the defence of this country. 
The Minister for Repatriation has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Figures are not available to show the exact position as at 1 May 1973 but computer records as at 28 May 1973 indicated that there were 3,313 persons resident in the Electoral Division of Murray receiving a pension from the Repatriation Department. This should reflect the position as at 1 May 1973. 
These pensioners are divided into the following categories: 
The Minister for Repatriation has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
All buildings and premises occupied by the Repatriation Department and not owned by the Commonwealth are the responsibility of the Department of Services and Property and would have been included in the particular's supplied by the Minister for Services and Property in his answer to Question No. 174 (Hansard, 16 May 1973, page 2250). Separate details relating to the Repatriation Department are as follows: 
Buildings occupied by the Department in each State: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Records prior to 1966 are unavailable. The occupancy of Kingston Barracks since 1966 is shown in days in the table below. 
Is such a survey considered essential in the long term public interest in order to avoid building homes in areas likely to be flooded. 
Will he make public the results of any surveys made by the National Capital Development Commission into the possible flooding levels in the proposed Tuggeranong new town area. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am unable to give the honourable member the assurance he seeks. Present planning provides for the Army Survey Regiment to commence moving from Bendigo to Bonegilla in the late 1970s with the last elements moving in H978 or 1979. As I have previously stressed to the honourable member, these are planning dates only. It is possible that the emergence of higher priority projects or the diversion of capital funds could affect this planning. 
The honourable member already has my undertaking to keep him informed of all developments as they occur and to provide the maximum notice possible of the intended movement. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) Yes. 
This has now been sent to the honourable member. &lt;5) and (6) There are no significant changes in Tasmania Command other than the decisions to raise a second CMF battalion and to re-arrange the com mand pattern. The post was up-graded to the level of the Western and Central Commands because it has similar disciplinary responsibilities, and exercises similar delegations. 
Confidential Documents: Retention by Ministers  (Question  No. 462) 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Based on the review of the strategic situation by this Government, an examination is being made of all aspects of Australian defence. These include size, composition and capabilities of the forces, location of defence facilities and industrial base. Anintegral part of these investigations is consideration of the proportion of defence expenditure on hardware. This will be a continuing matter rather than onceforall process. Decisions already taken to abolish National Service and restructure the Army, bear on this. Other investigations currently underway include the Committee of Inquiry into the CMF, location of defence facilities and the Light Destroyer investigation. 
The results of these investigations will be reflected in future provisions for defence expenditure, and may, where appropriate, be made public. 
Defence Expenditure: Items Manufactured in Australia  (Question No. 149) 
 The answer to the honourable member's questionis as follows: 
It is the Government's intention to place a greater proportion of defence orders in Australia. This policy was clearly stated in the 'Prime Minister's policy, speech in November  1972.  In opening the  1973  Industrial Mobilisation course at Westernport on  12  February  1973  I re-affirmed the importance of Australian industry to the nation's defence capability and said that given the current strategic situation the opportunity is available to develop the industrial sector as an integral part of the nation's defence potential. In the absence, in the short-term, of a specific threat and the impossibility of providing for all possible future dangers, it is necessary to develop the ability to adapt to threats as they arise. This implies that the ability of Australian industry to provide or modify equipment to meet new threats is a vital element in any attempt to achieve self sufficiency in our defence efforts. It is therefore for sound strategic reasons that the Government is determined to increase the proportion of defence expenditure which goes to Australian industry as suppliers of equipment to the nation's defence forces. 
All proposals for the acquisition of major items of equipment are now critically examined to determine the maximum practical extent of Australian industrial participation. In addition, where proposals are sought from overseas manufacturers for the supply of equipment, it is made clear that the degree and nature of participation by Australian industry offered will be an important factor in the process of evaluating offers received. 
At this stage, it is not possible to give any details of likely, Australian industrial involvement in the production of equipment now under consideration. 
The Armed Forces will be furnished, wherever practicable, with equipment of quality and performance commensurate with their operational roles and needs. In the short-term, it may be necessary on occasions for a Service to accept some constraint on the technological complexity of its systems to make better use of Australian industry and in the current strategic situation this can be accepted. I am confident that as Australian industry gains more experience in the production of modern defence equipment there will be improvements in its ability to produce, economically, equipment with performance equal to the stringent requirements of our Services. In the longer-term a stronger and better balanced total defence capability will result, with Australian industry able to take initiatives in design of advanced equipment of unique characteristics for our use and possible export. 
On past experience it is likely that in some cases Australian equipment will cost more than imported equipment and where this applies the Government will consider carefully the alternatives before making any decision. Each case will be treated on its merits in the light of the total costs and benefits to the nation's defence capacity before decisions are made on local production of defence equipment. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The ratio of civilian to Service personnel in each of the Service Departments for the dates indicated were: 
 The answer to the . honourable member's question is as follows: 
There are' two questions contained herein. The answer tq the first is 'yes'; and the answer to the second is) 'no'i 
Determination  of the level of defence expenditure arbitrarily by reference solely to some previous level or as proportion of an economic aggregate such as Gross Domestic Product is unrealistic. The level of defence expenditure determined by this government will take into account the size, composition and capabilities appropriate to our evaluation of the strategic situation. In this regard a number of studies now being made, such as the location of defence facilities, will have an important bearing. Nor can the assessment be done in isolation but must take into account the government's assessment of priorities between competing areas  of  government expenditure. 
 The answer to the honourable member's questions is as follows: ' 
Yes; it is understood that the ship is of about 6,000 tons. 
It is confirmed that HMS Bristol is powered by both steam and gas turbines. We have no derails of the cost of the ship. Complete details of the basis of any quoted cost are necessary for valid comparison between different destroyer types. 
The DDL has been costed to include every attributable cost. If the.. Bristol were costed on the same basis, it is unlikely that she would be any cheaper as she is larger than the - British Type 42 destroyer. This latter ship' was. found to have - costs similar to the DDL. It is understood that the Royal Navy is not contemplating' building any more ships of the Bristol class. . . . 
 The answer to the honourable member's question isas follows: 
The committee referred to has completed its work which was to provide advice to the Defence Force Development Committee. The latter Committee which has the responsibility to advise the Minister for Defence on Defence Force structure matters has in turn presented its advice to me. 
In my statement to Parliament on 30 May 1973 T announced the Government's decisions on the future size and shape of the Australian Army. In the course of that statement I revealed that those decisions were based on the recommendations of the Defence Force Development Committee. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Tn my statement to the press on 20 March 1973, I said that it was firm policy for Albert Park Barracks, South Melbourne, to be vacated, and I indicated that a date for  the  total evacuation of  the area  of approximately 21 acres, would be given as soon as alternative accommodation at Victoria Barracks, Melbourne, could be provided. 
Albert Park Barracks is in effect an overflow of accommodation at Victoria Barracks. Under  the reorganisation  of  the  Army arrangements, personnel now located in Albert Park Barracks will be part of the 
Headquarters located at Victoria Barracks, therefore no consideration has been given to locating elements of the Headquarters at Bendigo, nor would it be practical to do so. 
The proposal to construct new buildings at Victoria Barracks as part of a re-development plan is to be examined soon by my colleagues the Minister for Environment and Conservation and Minister for Urban and Regional Development. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have received representations from the Premier of Western Australia, through the Prime Minister, seeking the release of land under the control of the Australian Army on 'Rottnest Island. 
The Rottnest Island land is one of a number of areas in the vicinity of Perth about which representations have been received from the Western Australian Government. 
The requests are being examined in the context of overall Australian Government requirements in the area and further advice will be given when that examination has been completed. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The national goals I had in mind are our own national security; an independent Papua New Guinea, well disposed to Australia; closer relations with our nearest and largest neighbour, Indonesia; and the peace and prosperity of our neighbourhood. 
The answer to  the  honourable member's question is as follows: 
A central recommendation of the Moreshead Committee was that the Minister for Defence should have the pre-eminent authority for Departments in the Defence Group. My answer on 7 March this year to the question by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition about the ability of a single Minister to carry the responsibility for all the Defence Group Departments made clear that the Government has given effect to that recommendation. 
and (3) I tabled the report of the Moreshead Committee in the House on 30 May last. The honourable member is in a position to examine the substance of that report and its recommendations. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
All occupancies by the Department of Air in buildings not owned by the Australian Government are arranged through the Deportment of Services and Property and details of such occupancies were included in the answer to the honourable member's question No. 174 (Hansard, 16 May 1973, page 2280). Statutory authorities under my control are located in Australian Government-owned buildings. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Premises occupied by the Department of Supply in the States, in buildings not owned by the Commonwealth, are leased by the Department of Services and Property and relevant details are included in the reply given by the Minister for Services and Property to Question No. 174. 
Department of the Special Minister of State: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I did approve of improved scales and standards for living-in accommodation for the ranks of Corporal and below in the Army and equivalent ranks in the other Services. This was after consideration of the matter by an inter-departmental committee consisting of representatives of the Departments of Defence, Treasury, Works and the Services. In the past, planning was on the basis of 80 square feet per man with four men to a room. Toilet facilities served a whole floor of a barracks block. Such accommodation was considered outmoded and inadequate in the context of a modern all volunteer Defence Force and comparable facilities provided in the civilian area. From now on the planning basis will be 106 square feet per man in groups of four single rooms with separate toilet facilities for each group. Provision is also to be made for a common room on each floor of a barrack block. 
The proper authority to make cost assessments was the designing and constructing authority, the Department of Works. That Department made an assessment of the estimated additional cost that would be involved in adopting the increased scales and standards. That cost was $3.8m in respect of accomodation planned for commencement of construction in the three year period 1973-74 to 1975-76. That cost will be met from within the allocation made for expenditure on Service works proposals within the total Defence Vote. I informed the Treasurer upon this matter in January 1973. 
It is not intended to convert existing accommodation to the new scales and standards at this time. The immediate priority is to replace existing temporary accommodation, much of which is of World War II origin. That should have the effect of decreasing annual maintenance cost. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
See the answer to No. (1). 
Proposed Northern Territory Legislative Assembly  (Question No. 637)  Mr Hunt  asked the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
Does the Government propose a fully elected Legislative Assembly for the Northern Territory, with the question of referred powers to be one of negotiation. 
If so, have his statements on constitutional advancement been in accord with this precept. 
I did indicate that there would be an amendment to the disciplinary code, which I hope to introduce in this Parliament towards the end of this session. Honourable members will recall, of course, that this was under consideration by the previous government for 11 or 12 years. I accepted in principle, as a result of a question which was directed to me by the honourable member for Prospect,  Dr Klugman,  that I should incorporate in the new disciplinary code a provision which had been accepted under the French statute. There has been some misrepresentation about this matter and therefore I think the House should clearly understand what is involved in relation to it. First, the new provision spells out that no soldier may disobey a lawful command. Secondly, it indicates that there ought to be an opportunity for a serviceman to disobey a law which quite clearly contravenes the laws of the country or the Geneva 
Convention. This is the essence of the new statute which will be provided in the disciplinary code. It is a logical and sensible provision. 
There has been some criticism of my decision by the State President of the Returned Services League in New South Wales, who said that an army without discipline would be rabble. He said, secondly, that it reflected on the integrity of the officers of the Australian Army. It is obvious from the statements made by the New South Wales President that he had not considered the new statute, he had not read it and he did not understand the provisions of this law. I think I should make the point that whilst he believes that this statute is a reflection upon the officers of the Australian Army, he had no hesitation in reflecting upon the rank and file of servicemen in this country. Does any honourable member suggest that Australian servicemen are not in a position to have, or indeed have not demonstrated in the past that they have, sufficient initiative, loyalty and understanding to carry out orders that may be given from time to time? I believe the attack made by the New South Wales State President on the rank and file of servicemen in this country was unwarranted. 
I read the statement which was made, for example, by the honourable member for Moreton who said that this provision would require Australian servicemen to have some understanding of international law. Even though the honourable member for Moreton may disagree with this, I believe that if he is in a position to have some understanding of international law, some members of the Services in this country who are below the rank of commissioned officer also would be able to understand international law. Does the honourable member suggest that they would not be in a position to understand the laws of this country or that they should not have international law taught to them? Of course it is complete nonsense for the honourable member for Moreton to suggest that whilst he may have an understanding of international law, an ordinary serviceman in this country would not be in that position. 
I conclude by saying that I believe that some alteration should be made in this area. Those who think properly and sensibly about this matter will recall that there have been 2 incidents in recent times involving the massacre of civilians by soldiers. The first incident occurred at Hue and the second at 
My Lai. Both of these incidents will be recalled by honourable members. No selfrespecting soldier should be placed in a position where he is given an order to carry out which will involve an incident of this kind. If honourable members opposite believe that such conditions should apply they should stand up and say so, We do not believe that they should apply. We believe that soldiers and servicemen generally should have the right to disobey an order if they believe that it is contrary to the laws of this country and the Geneva Conventions. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Decisions have not been reached in these important matters, which are being given attention. 
Any rationalisation of activities would need to be spread over a considerable period so as not to disrupt work, and the aim would be for most staff reductions to be achieved through natural wastage rather than  retrenchment  action. 
, (5) and (6) All persons concerned can be assured that in applying any scheme of rationalisation which might be adopted for the industry, their accrued rights would be protected and special effort would be made to achieve justice in every respect. Employees are being represented in discussions concerning their interests. 
The question was directed to the Minister for Immigration but naturally it concerns my Department. The Minister for Immigration and I would not have different views on what ought to be done in cases such as the one referred to by the honourable member. It was the practice previously for the Department of the Navy or indeed of any one of the Service departments to act on its own initiative in respect of an application to join one of the academies by a person who had been born in Australia but not of Australian parents. When a case was brought to my attention and it was proved that the person had been refused the opportunity to sit for the entrance examination because he was not a native born Australian I immediately issued instructions that he was to be permitted to sit for the examination and that this discrimination in future should be removed. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a  second  time. 
I believe,  Mr Speaker,  that this Bill contains some of the most significant changes in the repatriation field that have been presented to the House for many years. There will be increases in the rate of payment of most pensions -and allowances. The means test for Service pension purposes will be eased and, for Service pensioners or applicants for service pensions who have reached the age of 75 years, it will be abolished. Free medical and hospital treatment will be provided for all ex-servicemen of the Boer War and the 1914-18 War. Ex-servicemen and women who served in a theatre of war and who suffer from malignant cancer will be provided with free medical and hospital treatment for that condition. Artificial limbs will be provided free through the repatriation artificial limb and appliance centres to all amputees in the community who need them. These new and extended benefits were referred to in the Budget speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Crean).  This Bill will, however, introduce other changes which the Government proposes, both within and outside the Budget context. Repatriation benefits will be extended to members of the regular defence force. 
The admission of civilian patients to repatriation hospitals will be authorised, but only to the extent that facilities are available after catering for entitled repatriation patients. Statutory authorities giving determinations under the repatriation system will be required to give reasons for their decisions. These changes,  Mr Speaker,  are an indication of the responsibility that this Government accepts in relation to those who have served their country in time of need, and now those who voluntarily make up the country's defence forces. We also recognise that, when and where capacity exists, the facilities and expertise of the repatriation treatment services should sensibly be made available to the community generally. 
Although most existing pensions and allowances have been improved on this occasion, there are some that have not been changed or increased to the degree eventually intended. They have not been overlooked but, as a matter of priority, benefits for ex-servicemen and women, and the dependants of deceased ex-servicemen, have been given preference on this occasion. Other benefits will be adjusted as circumstances permit. 
In addition to the improvements that I will detail shortly, there will also be increases in the rates of payment of service pensions that will result automatically from proposals that my colleague, the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  has already announced in the House. However, the Bill amends the principal Act to apply the increased rates of service pension payable in respect of some children and to incorporate in the principal Act the same principles that will aply to age pensions under the Social Services Act. A small pension of 25c a week presently payable to certain children of service pensioners, but not payable to children of social service pensioners, will be discontinued, but this will be more than offset by the increase in the rates payable to parents in respect of those children. The increased rate of means test pensions, the easing of the means test and, in some circumstances its abolition, will mean that many war pensioners and war widows will receive greater total payments than may at first appear to be the case. The opportunity will be taken in this Bill to remove the remaining instances of higher repatriation payments to dependants on the basis of the rank the serviceman held in the forces. This Government sees no justification for differing payments being made for like circumstances. Probably fewer than 200 dependants will be involved and all of these people will receive an increase. 
Another anomaly this Government considers exists in the pensioning structure will be removed. I refer to the special compensation allowance introduced by the previous Government in 1968. This allowance is paid to most of the 14 per cent of general rate pensioners who are in the 75 per cent to 100 per cent range. While these pensioners will not lose any money, most of them will not receive any of the proposed increases in the general rate announced in the Budget. They will, however, thereafter receive all general rate increases at a rate commensurate with their assessed extent of incapacity. I will now outline the specific increases proposed in the Bill. The rate of payment of the various pensions and allowances referred to will be weekly amounts unless otherwise stated. 
Special Rates 
The special rate - totally and permanently incapacitated - pension is payable to those exservicemen who, because of war-related incapacity, are totally and permanently incapacitated to such an extent that they are incapable of earning other than a negligible percentage of a living wage. This rate is also payable to the war-blinded and certain sufferers from pulmonary tuberculosis, as well as those temporarily totally incapacitated because of warrelated disabilities. About 20,000 will benefit from the proposal to increase this rate by $4.50 to $55.60 now and to increase it further by a like amount to $60.10 in the autumn, when it will again be the equivalent of the minimum wage. The Bill provides for the first of these increases. 
I should remind honourable members that war pensions are paid free of income tax and, in terms of purchasing power, have a greater value than equivalent earnings. Even without the various additional allowances payable in specific circumstances, and disregarding valuable fringe benefits available, the special rate pension of $55.60 to be payable under this Bill is in excess of the net value of the minimum wage after tax. The intermediate rate pension is paid to about 1,840 ex-servicemen who, because of war-related incapacity, are able to work only part-time or intermittently. The Bill provides for this rate to be increased by $2.25 to $38.80, and that rate will be further increased by $2.25 to $41.05 in the autumn. 
General Rate 
This is the rate of pension that is paid to most repatriation pensioners. About 190,000, or 90 per cent, of those ex-servicemen and women who suffer war-related incapacity are pensioned under this rate at percentages from 10 to 100. The Bill provides for an increase in this rate at the 100 per cent level by $3 to $19. There will be corresponding increases at lower levels. The rate will be further increased by the same amount to $22 in the autumn. As I mentioned earlier,  Mr Speaker,  in conjunction with these increases it is proposed to eliminate the special compensation allowance. Half of that allowance will be withdrawn now and the remainder in the autumn. The previous 
Government saw fit to leave the general rate pension unchanged for eight years between 1964 and 1972 and consequently the value of the payment declined significantly. It is the intention of this Government to restore its value but, because of the need to bridge such a wide gap, and the numbers involved, this cannot be achieved in one step. 
Dependants of Deceased Ex-Servicemen 
Increases are proposed in the payments made to the widows of those ex-servicemen who died from war-related causes, and to the children and certain other dependants of those servicemen. It is in this area that differential rates based on the serviceman's rank, to which I referred earlier, will be eliminated. The Bill provides,  Mr Speaker,  that the War Widow's pension rate will be increased by $1.50 to $23. This pension will again be increased by a similar amount to $24.50 in the autumn. The pensions payable to the children of deceased ex-servicemen will also be increased. Where the child is in the care of his or her mother, the Bill provides for an increase of $1.90, lifting the pension to $9.25. The pension payable to a child who has lost both parents will be increased by $3.80 to $18.50 a week. Approximately 3,200 children are involved, of which about 130 fall into the latter category. Another relatively small group of dependants are the widowed mothers of deceased unmarried ex-servicemen and the fathers, mothers, brothers, sisters and invalid children of deceased ex-servicemen. In each instance the serviceman died from war-related causes and, apart from the widowed mothers, the other dependants must be without adequate means of support to be eligible for pension. The present rates vary according to the exserviceman's rank, but it is proposed that in future the same rate of $8.50 will apply to all these pensions. Incidentally,  Mr Speaker,  I would mention that the rate of this pension has not been varied since 1950 although most, if not all, of these people would also be in receipt of a means test pension. 
Special Allowances 
In addition to war pensions various allowances and amounts are paid for specific purposes. It is proposed to increase the rate of payment of these allowances to the order that I will detail. Attendant's allowance is payable at the higher rate to the blind who also suffer from total loss of speech or are totally deaf and to those who have had both arms amputated. It is paid at a lower rate to the blind, the paralysed and to those who have certain particularly severe amputations or who otherwise have need of an attendant. The proposed increases are $4.50, to 22, for the higher rate and $2.50, to $13, for the lower rate. About 1,200 receive these allowances. Additional amounts paid to amputees vary according to the nature of the amputation suffered. There are 15 specified categories of the loss of a limb or an eye, or a combination of both, that attract this additional payment. The first 6 items are for those more seriously disabled, who have their pensions and the addition made up to an amount equal to the special rate (TPI) pension. For the remaining 9 items, the increases proposed in the Bill will range from 45c, to $2.95, and the new rates from $2.25, to $14.70. Almost 2,100 receive an addition under the last 9 items of the schedule. 
Allowances authorised by Regulations 
I should also like to point out to honourable members that, in addition to the increases I have just outlined, there are further increases proposed which will be authorised by regulations under the principal Act, as amended by this Bill. With your permission,  Mr Speaker,  I shall briefly outline the proposed increases. The domestic allowance, which is payable to approximately 97 per cent of war widows, either because they have children, including student children, or because they are at least 50 years of age or are permanently unemployable, will be increased by $1 to $9.50. Clothing allowance, which is payable at one of three levels depending upon the degree to which the pensioner's war-related disability causes excessive wear and .oar to his clothing, will be increased by 20c, 15c and 12ic respectively. The new rates will be $1.05, 70c and 55c. 
Recreation transport allowances will be increased by $3.50 at the lower rate and by $7 at the higher rate to $16 and $32 a month respectively. Where a gift car has been issued, the allowance towards the car's upkeep, payable in lieu of recreation transport allowance, will be increased by S84 to $384 a year. Soldiers' children education scheme allowances for other than tertiary students will be increased by various amounts ranging from 65c to $3.35 and the new weekly rates will range from $3.25 to $16.65. The allowances for tertiary students are adjusted in line with movements in the rates of living allowances paid under the university or advanced educa tion scholarship schemes administered by my colleague, the Minister for Education. 
Cost of increased pensions and allowances 
The cost of increases I have referred to, and which are authorised by this Bill, together with the increases to be implemented by regulations, is estimated to be $16. 167m for the remainder of this financial year and $21. 540m in a full year. 
I have read a report that it is intended to request Army authorities to provide support and assistance in the Kerang and Swan Hill areas. The Australian Government, as its predecessors have done, has always recognised that a contribution can be made by defence forces when a national disaster occurs. In this situation if a request is received from the Victorian civil defence authorities, the Victorian Government, or indeed the honourable member, I will be happy to give it consideration and to ensure that support is available if it can be used for that purpose. 
Pursuant to section 122 of the Repatriation Act 1920-1973 I present the annual report, of the Repatriation Commission for the year ended 30 June 1973. 
I have received a number of representations both from members of this House and from interested people outside it asking me to consider the establishment of a museum for aircraft that have been used in this country. I have asked the Department of Air to look at the question to see what can be done and what provisions can be made for facilities of this nature. As soon as a report is available to me I will inform the honourable member and the other people concerned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) During the commitment  of  our forces in Vietnam four servicemen, two Army soldiers and two RAAF officers were posted as missing. The two Army soldiers Lance Corporal R. H. Parker and Private D. J. Fisher were posted missing on 8 November 1965 and 27 September 1969 respectively, and were later presumed dead. The two RAAF personnel Flying Officer E. P. Herbert and Pilot Officer R. C. Carver have been missing since 3 November 1970. 
Continuing enquiries have been made through diplomatic and official sources but have failed to produce information about the fate of the missing men. After the ceasefire all lists of prisoners of war provided by the North Vietnamese were searched. 
Full information relating to the missing Australian servicemen has been given to the Four Party Joint Military Team and the International Commission of Control and Supervision in Vietnam. Both organisations have undertaken to help determine the fate of missing Australian servicemen. 
The visit to Australia by the North Vietnamese group was at the invitation of a number of private organisations. An official approach was not made to the group concerning the fate of the missing Australian personnel. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Department of Defence had not made any submission to me about a proposed alternative site for Sydney's second airport. Since the site at Galston was chosen for Sydney's second airport I have had some discussions with the Department of Defence. At this stage no information has been received officially by me from the Department of Defence or the Department of Air concerning any interruption to airport operations at Richmond. I have asked for information from the Department of Defence and when that information is available it will be given due consideration. 
Yes. I have seen the statement referred to by the honourable member. The Directorate of Naval Intelligence has no information to confirm today's Press story by  Mr Baudino  that the Soviet Navy is believed to have established at least 2 supply points off the Western Australian coast in international waters. The Soviet Navy is believed to have a number of anchorages in the western Indian Ocean where its ships can shut down their main engines and carry out minor maintenance tasks. At two of these anchorages buoys have been laid; these are located in the vicinity of the Seychelles and near Chagos Archipelago. There is no evidence to suggest that these buoys are anything other than mooring buoys. They are in exposed anchorages and are unlikely to contain special equipment. Soviet ships receive their fuel and supplies from Soviet auxiliaries deployed to the area. Soviet warships presently in the Indian Ocean comprise one diesel submarine, a destroyer, 2 escorts, 2 minesweepers and a tank landing ship. To supply this force there are at least 3 auxiliaries in the area. In addition there is a force of minesweepers and auxiliaries in Bangladesh assisting in port clearance operations. Soviet oceanographic operations are carried out in the western Indian Ocean. 
At present a fishery research vessel is operating in the Australian Bight after having called at Fremantle on 27 July. Merchant ships in the area move on the normal trade routes and have never been seen engaged in questionable activities. 
Mir SPEAKER  -  No point of order arises but I ask the Minister- 
I table the report. 
in reply - Perhaps initially I should indicate to the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King),  who has just resumed his seat, that it would not be possible in the limited time available to me to answer every query that has been raised by individual honourable members. However I shall try to cover some of them. The first thing that should be done in replying to the debate on the Repatriation Bill is to acknowledge that the Bill is being supported not only by Government supporters but also by the Opposition, including the Country Party. I take this opportunity, as indeed other Government supporters before me have done, of referring to the part played by the Minister for Repatria.ion  (Senator Bishop)  in being able to present to the Parliament a Bill which provides major benefits, some for the first time in Australia, to ex-servicemen generally. The Minister deserves to be commended. He already has received commendation from the Returned Services League and other interested organisations. 
In the 9 months that this Government has been in office it has been able to effect a great many improvements in the repatriation field. It is not for me to enumerate them at this stage. This is not the first Bill that has been introduced by me, acting on behalf of the Minister for Repatriation, providing for improvements for ex-servicemen and exservicewomen generally. This is the second occasion I have had such an opportunity in 9 months. Both Bills have provided major increases in benefits for ex-servicemen. In many ways this Bill applies for the first time principles that were sought by the Government when it was in Opposition to cover anomalies contained in the principal Act. This Bill indicates generally the attitude that has been adopted by the Government in relation to repatriation matters - the attitude it will continue to adopt until it has been able to give effect to the promises that were made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in his 1972 policy speech. 
In his remarks the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett),  who led for the Opposition, made 2 criticisms. As the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds)  pointed out. the honourable member for Herbert was sensible in his speech in confining his criticism to only 2 matters. He knew that it was difficult to attack the Bill as a whole so he referred to the special compensation allowance. The honourable member's speech was in a low key because he supported the Bill. However he has a short memory in referring to the compensation allowance and the fact that the Government has decided that it should be abolished. Most honourable members opposite - indeed, all who were present during the last Parliament - will remember that when I spoke on behalf of the Opposition on repatriation during the Budget session I indicated that I did not believe that the special compensation allowance should be continued. I made that statement not only in this Parliament but I also indicated my opposition to it to the Returned Services League and other organisations. When I advocated the abolition of the special compensation allowance there was no criticism from the RSL. Indeed it supported my suggestion and made recommendations to the previous Government through the then Minister for Repatriation, the honourable member for Indi  (Mr Holten),  asking that the special compensation allowance be abolished and that it be incorporated in the 100 per cent general rate of pension. The RSL was not the only organisation which believed that it should be abolished, that it was discriminatory in nature and that it had been introduced by the previous Government to provide an increase in pension for a very small percentage of those who received the general rate of pension. The honourable member for Indi, who was then the Minister for Repatriation, knows that only 14 per cent of general rate pensioners were in receipt of the special compensation allowance--- that is, only 14 per cent of the 129,000 pensioners in this country. 
Year after year the former Minister, who is critical of the Government denied the general rate pensioners an increase in their pensions. For 8 years the general rate of pension remained unchanged. Yet this former Minister has the temerity to criticise the Government because it was determined to abolish the special compensation allowance. He did not mention that as a former Minister for Repatriation he raised no objection when his Government refused to alter or amend the general rate of pension applying to about 129,000 exservicemen in this country. There was no increase for 8 years. 
What has happened since the Labor Party came into power? There have been 2 substantial increases and there will be a further increase in the autumn session. I want to read out for the benefit of the honourable member for Herbert and the honourable member for Indi, because they were critical of the abolition of the special compensation allowance or the incorporation of the special compensation allowance in the general rate of pension, a list of the organisations which asked the previous Government to incorporate the special compensation allowance in the general rate of pension. Representations were made by the Returned Services League, the Partially Blinded Soldiers Association of Australia, the Federated TO Soldiers, Sailors and Airmen's Association, the Australian Legion of Exservicemen and Women, and the Korea and South East Asia Forces Association of Australia. All those organisations asked the previous Government to incorporate the special compensation allowance in the general rate of pension. So it is extremely difficult for the honourable member for Herbert or the honourable member for Indi to justify standing up in this House and criticising this Government because it recognises that there are 129,000 ex-servicemen in this country in receipt of a general rate pension or a part of that pension and it believes that the normal circumstances ought to apply in relation to this pension, that it ought to be graduated from 100 per cent down to 10 per cent. 
What was the system perpetuated by the previous Government? It said that 75 per cent incapacity would guarantee a special compensation allowance for some pensioners. As I said before, only 14 per cent of them received the special compensation allowance. How did the previous Government discriminate or distinguish between 75 per cent incapacity and 70 per cent incapacity? There is a difference between them of 85c a week. If one adds to that the special compensation allowance, one finds that the difference in payments' between the 70 per cent pension and the 75 per cent pension is $5.30 a week. How did the previous Government justify that? I argued in this Parliament that it was not possible to distinguish between 75 per cent incapacity and 70 per cent incapacity, but the previous Government perpetuated that system merely because the greatest number of pensioners were in that category below 70 per cent and down to 10 per cent. The Government makes no apology for incorporating the special compensation allowance in the general rate of pension. I concede and the Government concedes that under the terms of this legislation some general rate pensioners in receipt of the special compensation allowance will not receive an increase, but there will be a further increase for general rate pensioners in the autumn session and that will absorb the whole of the special compensation allowance. I now turn to the other point made by the honourable member for Indi. 
Sitting suspended from 6.15 to 8 p.m. 
 Mr Speaker  - (Quorum formed)- I appreciate the fact that the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)  has called a quorum. It was necessary to call a quorum which showed, of course, the complete lack of interest by Opposition members in the repatriation bills presently before the House. One can understand why honourable members opposite were not in the House. After all, they showed a great reluctance to debate the bills at all. Before the suspension of the sitting I was dealing with the question of the special compensation allowance. The decision of the Government to incorporate the special compensation allowance in the 100 per cent general rate pension has been criticised by the honourable member for Herbert and the honourable member for Indi. I had indicated to the House that it has been the policy of this Government when in Opposition to remove what it regarded as a complete injustice. 
Earlier during the course of my remarks I referred to the fact that there were 129,000 general rate pensioners. I apologise to the House for incorrectly citing that figure. In actual fact, the number of general rate pensioners is 190,000. Of course, this merely strengthens the case that I was making prior to the suspension of the sitting in relation to the special compensation allowance. If 14 per cent of general rate pensioners were in receipt of the special compensation allowance, that means that there were and are, in fact, 164,000 general rate pensioners who received no increase during the regime of the previous Government. For 8 years such pensioners received no increase in their general rate pension. It is well known to the Returned Services League and those organisations who protested against the inadequate amount of the special compensation allowance that the previous Government in this way was able to provide the smallest amount possible for the smallest number of general rate pensioners. 
Having dealt with the special compensation allowance, I now refer to one other criticism that was raised by both the honourable member for Herbert and the honourable member for Indi. The honourable member for Indi in particular referred to what he believed was a rumour that the Repatriation Department was to be amalgamated with the Department of Social Security. I am glad he said that it was a rumour because nowhere in the platform of the Australian Labor Party can it be found that there is any intention on the part of the Government to amalgamate the 2 departments. It is not in the platform: it has not been considered by the Government. I have made it perfectly clear and the Minister for Repatriation,  Senator Bishop,  also has made it perfectly clear that this matter has not been considered by the Government. There are 2 departments, and we recognise the importance of the Repatriation Department and the ability of those who have specialised in this way over the years to discharge their obligations and the obligations of the Government to the returned servicemen of this country. So it was a rumour. The honourable member for Herbert said that it was a rumour. It is only a rumour, and I wish to refute it at once. 
I turn to the third point made by the honourable member for Herbert in what was, after all, a very small speech on a very important Bill. I believe that his speech indicates the lack of enthusiasm which the Opposition has for this Bill. He offered some criticism of tribunals. I have appeared before repatriation tribunals for a great many years - I think about 17 years. I appeared on behalf of ex-servicemen of this country .before both entitlement tribunals and assessment tribunals. Therefore I believe that I am in a position to be able to speak with some knowledge of this subject. The tribunals consist of people, most of whom were chosen by the previous Government. My experience has been that there will always be some criticism of the way in which tribunals approach a case, depending on the merit of that case. While a great many ex-servicemen choose to exercise their right before tribunals, naturally there will be criticism of the tribunals. I have always found that the tribunals accept their responsibility and, I believe, discharge that responsibility under the terms of the Act. So, we are dealing with the human factor which comes into the representation of exservicemen who have their case heard before an entitlement tribunal. Quite frankly, I do not believe that the criticism of the honourable member for Herbert was justified, nor do I believe that it can be proved to be justified in any circumstance. They were the main criticisms offered of the Repatriation Bill. 
Honourable members opposite chose to ignore the great benefits which flow from this legislation. One can understand this. One honourable member referred to the fact that we have now provided free medical and hospital treatment for all returned servicemen from the Boer War and the First World War. He said that it was long overdue. Of course it was long overdue. Year after year, while in Opposition, we moved to have this incorporated in the Repatriation Act. Honourable members opposite just as consistently opposed it, in the same way that they have opposed in the House amendments which I have proposed, for example, to give a special recognition to those who may be suffering from cancer. As a result of this Bill it will now be possible for any returned serviceman to receive medical treatment if he is suffering from cancer, whether it has been proved to be war caused or not. As with the repatriation legislation which was dealt with in the autumn session of the Parliament and which made some adjustments to the Repatriation Act, the Returned Services League and other organisations had put submissions to honourable members opposite, when they were in government, which they had consistently ignored. Let me give the House one example, the funeral benefit which had remained unchanged virtually during the whole period of office of the previous Government. One of the first moves of the new Government - the Labor Government - was to double immediately the funeral benefit from $50 to$1 00. 
by leave  -  Yesterday during question time the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, the honourable member for Flinders  (Mr Lynch),  asked me a question relating to the Richmond Air Base and the proposed new second Sydney airport at Galston. At that time I indicated to the honourable member that I had received no information from my Department. After question time I initiated inquiries into the matter. I want to explain to the honourable member and to the House that before the decision was made about Galston I had received no information on this site from the Department of Defence. However, subsequent to the Government taking its decision I did receive a short statement through the Department of Defence and a submission from the Chief of the Air Staff. They indicated that in all the circumstances there could be some difficulties or some difficulties might be created at the Richmond air base due to air traffic in that area. However, as a detailed study is now being undertaken of the proposal to establish the second Sydney airport in the Galston area, the full implications for the Department of Defence will be considered at that time. A further and more detailed in-depth study will be undertaken at the same time by the Department of Defence. I just want to indicate to the honourable member that I regret that to this extent I did mislead him but I assure him that it was quite inadvertent. 
I informed the Deputy Leader of the Opposition yesterday that I had received a document from the Department of Defence concerning the Richmond air base. All that I want to say about this matter at this stage is that it is a confidential document. It will, of course, be considered together with other documents following the feasibility study that will be carried out on the Galston site. Until that time the information contained in the document is confidential and it will be considered by the Government in due course. What I can say to the Deputy Leader of the Opposition is that any difficulties to which I referred yesterday can be overcome. 
I repeat for the benefit of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition that any difficulties to which I referred yesterday can be overcome and they will be overcome. As the honourable member knows, no decision has been made on the airport at Galston. A feasibility study is to be carried out and it will be considered in due course. As I indicated yesterday to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, the studies that will be conducted by the Department of Defence at the same time will be considered in conjunction with that feasibility study. 
The honourable member has asked a series of questions. I shall refer to the first one first. I have not yet had the opportunity to look at the transcript of the statement made by  Major Peter  Young yesterday, but in any case  Major Young  is not the defence spokesman for my Party. I am the Minister for Defence and the decisions will be made by this Party and by this Government and not by  Major Young.  The honourable member has referred to the question of morale. It is true that a number of statements have been made or a number of contributions have been made by journalists dealing with the question of morale. A number of them have appeared under the name of  Mr Denis  Warner. I offer no criticism about Denis Warner's attitude towards defence and his ability probably to be able to comment on defence, but I merely say that honourable members ought to remember and probably take the opportunity to read some of the articles Denis Warner has written about South East Asia in recent years. In every case, he has been proved wrong. So I can dismiss Denis Warner's attitude because what he has done is to set out deliberately ito lower the morale of the defence forces. 
 I have listened to both the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)  and the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  who seconded the motion. At the outset I want to say that the Opposition has already raised for discussion this week 2 matters of public importance. Of course, the Estimates will be coming up for debate soon and in these circumstances- 
I listened to the honourable member in silence. He should at least have the decency to do the same for me. I did not interject in any way at all and I think he ought to do the same. What I did, and I concede this and df there is to be any criticism on this point I must accept it, was to extend an invitation to the honourable gentleman to move a vote of no confidence in myself or the Government on this issue. I did not refer to the question of the suspension of Standing Orders. This is a matter for the Opposition to determine. 
A number of issues have been dealt with by the honourable member for Kooyong. Firstly, he referred to the Galston issue. I believe I behaved as would be expected of an honourable member who regarded the propriety of this Parliament as something that ought to be upheld at all times. When I realised that I had genuinely but inadvertently misled the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch),  I corrected that at question time. Of course this is in direct contrast to the actions of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. Those who were in the last Parliament will remember his own performance on the water torture issue. 
Yes, but the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition does not like to be reminded of it. The honourable member did not have the courtesy and the decency at that time to explain to this House that he had been wrong. He then had to go through the trauma of a no confidence motion being moved against him. The  Deputy  Leader of the 
Opposition complained because I corrected a statement. The Galston issue has been raised. This is not the issue under consideration at all. The motion that was moved by the honourable member for Kooyong dealt with morale in the armed forces^ I would welcome a debate on this matter. I think I indicated this morning during question time the extent to which this Government has moved to improve not only the morale of members of the armed forces but also to improve their conditions of service, and to make the Services attractive for them. However, a government must look at the situation in the light of information provided by those who are responsible for giving to the Government advice about the security of this nation against external aggression. 

 Mr Peacock - I rise to order. I have shown restraint in not interjecting but I am moved,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  to draw your attention to the content of the Minister's speech. He is not speaking to the particular motion before the Chair as I did. I ask that you ensure that he does so. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)The honourable member has taken a point of order. I am not in a position to know what the honourable gentleman did when he moved the motion. I think the Minister was replying to matters which the honourable member raised, but I ask .the Minister for Defence to deal with the reasons why the Standing Orders should not be suspended. 
The honourable member for Kooyong raised the question of Galston. I referred to it. He dealt with the question of morale. Naturally I want to keep my remarks within the terms of the motion that the Standing Orders should be suspended. But the honourable member for Kooyong referred to  Major Peter  Young. I said and I want to reiterate that  Major Peter  Young is not responsible for the policy decisions of this Government. That is all that I want to say in relation to that matter. 
I come back to the question of morale which was raised by the honourable member in moving this motion. I say that this Government has a great deal to its credit in a period of only 9 months in the improvements it has made in the conditions for Australian servicemen and servicewomen. As the Opposition knows we moved to the position of having an all volunteer army in Australia. Of course the Opposition will remember that before the elections it said that this could not be done. Since I have assumed the responsibility of Minister for Defence I have made it perfectly clear not only in the Parliament but also outside the Parliament that as a result of the Government's decision we will have an all volunteer army in Australia and that the size and shape of the Army for the 1970s had already been determined by the Government. As I said this morning and I repeat now, the Government agreed to an army of 34,000 men in Australia by 1976. That will mean an increase by 1,000 a year in the strength of the army up to 34,000 by 1976, with a further review in 1976. This compares with the size of the Army that applied during the period when the Opposition was in office. I point out to 'honourable members that even in the mid 1960s the size of the Army ranged between 20,000 and 25,000 until after 1965 when, of course, the national service - 
If the honourable member had read the article which appeared under the name of the correspondent  Mr Denis  Warner, he would have seen that LieutenantGeneral  Sir Mervyn  Brogan, the Chief of the General Staff, had indicated that there had been no drop in the morale of the Services. The honourable member raised the question of the DDL program. I made my position on this perfectly clear when in Opposition, and my position was then supported by a number of honourable members who were then in government but who are now on the Opposition side - notably, of course, the honourable member for Wentworth. The DDL program has been deferred and the Royal Australian Navy fully understands that it has been deferred pending further investigation. Cabinet has agreed to a further destroyer program and this has been accepted in principle by the Department of Defence. A destroyer program will be proceeded with as soon as the additional information is available to the Government. We could not agree to a situation in which this country would be faced with the proposition of building 3 destroyers at a cost of S355m before those destroyers were on the drawing board. We believe that further investigation overseas of appropriate vessels should be undertaken. I have not deviated from the decision that I made when in Opposition and to which I still adhere that whatever destroyers are purchased for the Navy will be built at Williamstown in Australia. 
What I said yesterday in relation to Galston was that a feasibility study was to be carried  Out.  In these circumstances I think that this was the decision of the Government. Not only is there to be a feasibility study of Galston but there is also to be a feasibility study of one other area, and this was made public. I suggest to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition that the other matters he has raised might well be answered if he places the question on the notice paper. 
 Mr Speaker,  I rise to oppose the motion which expresses dissent from your ruling. This is indeed a trivial matter because you acted quite properly in asking that the document from which I quoted be tabled. I moved to table that document. Indeed, not only did I move to table the document but I went further than that; I asked that the document be incorporated in Hansard. The honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  this morning has apparently had his greatest moment in this House, because quite frankly I have never heard him until this morning. 
He reflected on my integrity yesterday. 
 Mr Speaker,  they were heard in complete silence. I hope that the honourable member for Sturt can take it as he endeavoured to give it. The honourable member for Sturt yesterday reflected on my integrity and I pointed it out to him. Indeed, when he said he was not able to obtain a copy of the document which has been incorporated in Hansard I immediately made a copy of it available to him. I sent to my office and got it for him. I resent the implication in his statement this morning. I said a few moments ago that he does not speak very often in this House. I hope that he does not repeat the performance that he gave to the Parliament on this occasion, because not only did he reflect on my integrity yesterday but also he went on to compound the felony this morning and it does not do the honourable member for Sturt any credit at all. I think that those members in this House who have some respect for the procedures and the propriety of this House would resent the implications in the honourable member's statement this morning. He compounded the felony by suggesting that I placed the document on the table out of the reach of the Clerk's hand. What sort of an implication is that? It does not do the honourable member any credit. Is he implying that I intended that the  Clerk  should not get that document? Does anyone sincerely believe that? Let him stand up and say it. 
That does not surprise me because you are one of the exceptions. You would support the honourable member for Sturt in these implications and it does not surprise me that you do it. What kind of an insinuation is it that I put the document on the table out of the reach of the Clerk's hands? Quite frankly I have never before heard any member of this House make such an implication. Generally when a document is tabled in this Parliament, if someone from the Opposition is at the table it is tabled in that position and everybody in this House knows that that is the normal procedure. The assertion made by the honourable member for Sturt does not do him any credit at all. 
Let me come back to the point I made initially,  Mr Speaker,  that you were quite correct in your ruling. I have quoted figures in this House which related to the size of the 
Australian Army. I went back over a number of years and the part of the document that was tabled was the part from which I was quoting. No other part of the document was referred to by me. That part was not only tabled but also was incorporated in Hansard. I referred earlier to the triviality of this matter relating to the figures I quoted yesterday. I will come back to that in a few moments. But I can see that one can satisfy the honourable member for Sturt in one way only, that is, by placing oneself in a position where one will not be maligned in this House by honourable members of his type. I therefore agree that in order to achieve this all the figures will have to be tabled. I was referring to figures relating to the size of the Australian Army. There is no doubt about that and the triviality of the motion is shown by the fact that all these figures have already been published in documents which have been made available to every honourable member in this Parliament. They are not only the figures relating to the size and shape of the Army but also the figures to which I shall refer in a few moments. 
If the honourable member for Sturt disbelieves me and thinks that there was some sinister move in what I did yesterday - he certainly implied that today and I resent the reflection on my integrity - I hope that he will stand up and say in which way my integrity can be impugned in this Parliament. He will have probably one supporter only. For the honourable member's benefit let me turn to the other part of the document I referred to when answering the question. Honourable members will be interested in this. As a matter of fact, what I wanted to do was save honourable members on the other side embarrassment. They referred to the question of the gross national product in terms of defence spending in this country. The document, according to the heading, relates to defence expenditure as a percentage of gross national product. That appears on the top part of the document. The honourable member for Sturt said a few moments ago that I made available only one-third of it. He was wrong, of course. I made available exactly half of it. But I will not quibble over what part of the whole document was occupied by the portion tabled. The top part of the paper refers to the percentage of gross national product in terms of defence spending from 1960 until 1974 in the same way that the only part I quoted in answer to the question relating to the strength of the defence forces related to 1959-60 to 1972- 73. What are the figures that the honourable member is so concerned about? They show that in the financial year 1959-60 defence expenditure in this country was $387. That represented  2.8  per cent of the gross national product. In 1960-61 it was $3 96m and represented 2.7 per cent of the gross national product. And so it goes on down to 1973- 74. Yesterday at question time the Opposition was critical of the Government's proposed defence expenditure as a proportion of gross national product. I said that it was 2.9 per cent. 
I am replying and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  will have his opportunity to support the motion. 
Of course I intend to table the document. Why else did I produce the whole document? 
I table the document now. 
I am pleased that honourable members opposite now have the document. It relates to the gross national product. Honourable members have heard me quote some of the figures. The document shows just how much of the gross national product this Government has spent on defence. This is not important, but the honourable member for Sturt now has the whole of the document. I reiterate that I did not quote from any part of the top portion of that document yesterday. I made no reference to the figures relating to the gross national product. I referred only to that part of the document which related to defence expenditure and to the size and shape of the Army from 1960-61 to 1972-73. This is the trivial matter which the honourable member has raised. I can appreciate his attitude if he believes that he has certain rights in this Parliament. He does have those rights. But I would have thought a great deal more of the honourable member and so would his own colleagues and honourable members on this side of the House if he had asked that consideration be given to his request in relation to these matters without reflecting on me and without reflecting indirectly on the  Clerk,  because that is what he did. The  Clerk  is not in a position to answer for himself. The honourable member for Sturt said that the document was put out of the reach of the  Clerk.  In my opinion and, I know, in the opinion of honourable members in this House, this does no credit to the honourable member for Sturt. It was a disgraceful exhibition. I believe that the honourable member who has chosen to reflect on my integrity will be now satisfied that I in no way quoted from the top part of the document at all and that I tabled and had incorporated in Hansard the latter part of the document. If he now accepts the fact that no reference was made to any other part of the document he should do the decent thing and stand up and apologise not to me but to the  Clerk  for the reflection that he made Upon him. 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 
A document relating to public affairs quoted from - 
I emphasise the words 'quoted from' - by a Minister or an Assistant Minister, unless stated to be of a confidential nature or such as should more properly be obtained by address, shall, if required by any Member, be laid on the table. 
The standing order refers to a document relating to public affairs which has been quoted from - not a bundle of papers a member has in his hand but the papers from which he has quoted. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am aware of a comprehensive press briefing covering F111 aircraft operations in North Vietnam held at Nellis Air Force Base on 30 March 1973 by the former Commander of the 429th Tactical Fighter Squadron, in the course of which favourable comment was made on the effectiveness of the F111A aircraft in operations in Vietnam. 
Although the RAAF did not have observers attached to theUSAF operational squadron referred to, RAAF crews flying the F111 report that the aircraft performs very creditably. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A working group composed of representatives of the Department of Supply, Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation Pty Ltd and Hawker de Havilland Australia Pty Ltd was established by me to draw up a plan for the rationalisation of  the  Australian aircraft industry as a whole. 
and (3) There has been liaison between the Government and the central bodies of employee organisations, and various union representatives have had access to me. Arrangements will be made for those bodies to be represented at future meetings to discuss, in particular, issues affecting the interests of employees. Plans for rationalisation will have proper regard for the rights and interests of those working in the industry. 
The answer to the honourable member's questions is as follows: 
I have received representations from the organisation to which the honourable member referred. These followed decisions made by the Department of Defence concerning some cutback in the Royal Australian Air Force. I have not yet received a reply from the Department of Defence concerning these representations but I will undertake to obtain information about the request made by the organisation. As soon as I am in a position to do so I will advise the honourable member accordingly. 
The Weapons Research Estabishment at Salisbury and the Woomera range, which is associated with it, are both committed to programs of work concerned with approved Australian defence projects. In addition, the significant work load of the Establishment and the range is subject to a joint arrangement between the United Kingdom and the Australian Governments. This arrangement has now been extended to 1976. The joint project, which involves work for the Department of Defence, will proceed as planned. However it may be necessary foi some new direction in the work that is being undertaken at the joint establishment. The whole question of employment at Woomera is under consideration. Some retrenchments may be necessary but it is hoped that these will be effected as a result of normal wastage. The honourable member will recall that last week I met representatives of the Australian Council of Trade Unions and a request was put to me by them that no retrenchments should take place until the whole question had been further considered by Cabinet. When that has been carried out I will be in a position to advise the honourable member of any retrenchments that may have to be effected in this area. 
I did see the article referred to by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition. I want to inform the House that I did not state to the House as alleged in the Melbourne 'Sunday Observer' of 23 September that army enlistments this year were increasing compared with the same period last year. What I did say was that the number of volunteers exceeds even the Government's expectations, despite the fact that we were told by the Opposition when it was in government that it would not be possible to have an all volunteer force in this country. For example, during July and August of 1973 there were 2,789 inquiries for enlistment in the Army and there were 1,622 firm applications for enlistment. Actual enlistments in these 2 months numbered 557, which, I believe, is a good start in achieving the enlistment target which the Army set for 1973-74. I reiterate to this House that I did not say what the 'Observer' article alleged I said. The statement I made was that we would be able to fulfil the Government's aim for an all volunteer army. 
The last part of the honourable gentleman's question referred to the Brigadier in charge of recruiting. I have received a communication from the Brigadier indicating that he waa misreported. 
The honourable member has raised a number of questions concerning the Australian school cadet corps. It is true that I did issue a directive on behalf of the Government to schools where school cadet corps are located. I pointed out that it was the policy of this Government that service should be on a voluntary basis. At the same time, in informing the headmasters of the schools where cadet corps were located of the Government's decision, I indicated that there would be a directive issued to them concerning the Government's policy in relation to school cadets. If the honourable member would like a copy of that directive he can have it. I come to the second part of his question, and that is whether financial assistance that is now being accorded to school cadets will be withdrawn. No decision has been made by the Government in relation to this matter at all. I have issued no directive that funds should be withdrawn except where there is a clear case that the Government's policy in relation to voluntary service in the cadet corps is not being adhered to. The honourable member will also be aware that currently a committee of inquiry is investigating the role of the Citizen Military Forces. 
In that case, I think that to answer the honourable member I should merely say this: The inquiry has under consideration not only the future of the CMF in Australia but also the future role of the Australian cadet corps. 
Naturally I will await the report of the committee of inquiry. The Government will then consider the report which will be made available to me in relation to the CMF and the school cadet corps. When thathasbeenreceivedtheGovernment will make a decision about the future of the CMF and the school cadet corps. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Regular Army Volunteer Strength (including Women's Services and CMF on full-time duty but excluding national servicemen, Pacific Islanders and illegal absentees). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) When I introduced the various retirement benefits Bills in the Parliament on 25 May 1973, I explained that provision had not been made for post-retirement adjustments of pensions in the way envisaged by the Jess Committee because the whole question of adjusting benefits payable under the old and the new schemes was still being examined in the light of recent developments in other Commonwealth pension schemes. As the examination was expected to take some time to complete and there had not been adjustment to existing pensions since October 1971, the Government decided on an immediate increase using a method of adjustment which was both simple and capable of early implementation. I made it quite clear at that time that this was an interim measure only and that I would be announcing full details of the method to be adopted, which would apply in the future in respect of all eligible pensioners, as soon as the present inquiries were complete. 
The Fourth Quinquennial Investigation of the DFRB Fund for the period 1964-1969 disclosed an actuarial surplus of $ 14.9m, of which $3.4 m was attributable to pensioners. The then Treasurer, when announcing the results of the investigation on 26 October 1972 advised, however, that the surplus depended on the continuation into the future of the old scheme and that if any of the conditions and assumptions taken into account by the Actuary were varied, the conclusions reached would need to be revised. Because of the changed circumstances arising from the introduction of the new scheme, I have arranged for a fresh investigation of the Fund to be made as at 30 September 1972 and I will be announcing the results when the necessary information is to hand. 
Historically, there has not been any association between the Fund and post-retirement pension adjustments, the costs of which have always been met from Consolidated Revenue. 
Leaving aside the question of post-retirement pension adjustments which are relevant in this particular context, comparisons made in relation to contributions and benefits arrangements provided at different points of time by conceptually different schemes will inevitably reveal what appear to be inequities in treatment as between individuals. The point of the matter is that arrangements made in respect of a person's retirement are traditionally in terms of the contributions, benefits and salary applying to him at that time. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The role and functions of the Australian Services Canteens Organisation are being reviewed. It is expected that the Organisation will continue in being to provide a canteens service for the Forces. 
There is no proposal to this effect. 
Under the Australian Services Canteens Organisation Regulations, the Board of Management is primarily responsible for determining rates of pay and conditions of its employees. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Ordnance Factory Bendigo has for many years derived a significant proportion of its work load from non-defence work. Efforts are being made to increase the volume of such work. 
and (3) There are no plans for retrenchment at Bendigo this year. The need for any future retrenchment action will be determined by our ability to secure non-defence work for the factory and the extent of natural separations in employment which occur. 
It is true that I informed the House that the number of applications for enlistment in the Army had exceeded Government expectations. At that time I gave no indication of figures, I did not refer to figures at all. The information that had been conveyed to me by the Department of Defence was that enlistments were running at a satisfactory level. I say to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition that it would appear that for the month of September - the figures which I referred to previously related to an earlier period - the rate of enlistments has fallen. I have no figures that I can give to the honourable member at this stage. They have not been made available to me. It is conceded that the number of applications during September had fallen somewhat. What I did say to the House and what I wish to reiterate is that I indicated that there had been a satisfactory rate of applications for enlistment up to that period. 
I can assure the honourable member that if figures are available and have been supplied to him from the Department of Defence I will have no difficulty in obtaining them myself. I will certainly move to substantiate what the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has indicated in relation to the rate of enlistments. I will be happy to let him have the information which is provided to me by the Department. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The man days lost due to industrial disputes at the Williamstown Naval Dockyard during the three periods referred to in the question were: 
During 1971, 15,706 man days. 
During 1972, 13,321 man days. 
From 2 December 1972 to 31 August 1973, 6,472 man days. 
I think from memory that the Premier of New South Wales wrote to the Prime Minister on 21 September asking for assistance to combat the probability of a locust plague in a part of rural New South Wales. The Prime Minister referred the question to me and I asked the Army to investigate the possibility of participating in this campaign. Since then an Army unit has been placed on standby. In regard to the question of the costs involved, including the cost of flying time- (Honourable members interjecting)- 
I did indicate in the defence statement that there would be some cut back, particularly in those areas of support to the Department of Defence. I refer, of course, to the munitions factories and the naval dockyards. The precise figures have not been determined. The matter is still under consideration. The honourable member will be aware that I received a deputation - indeed, several deputations - from people concerned in these areas. It has now been determined that the matter will be further considered by Cabinet before any final decision is made. When that has been done I shall be pleased to inform the honourable member of the final decision of the Government in relation to these matters. 
The Prime Minister, in his capacity as Minister for Foreign Affairs, made a decision about the relationship of Australia with the new Government in Chile. The main criterion applied by most states in determining recognition of a government is whether it is in effective control of the territory of the country concerned. Recognition of a government does not imply approval of the policies or actions of that government. The new regime in Santiago is in effective control of Chile. More than 40 governments have recognised the new Chilean regime, including all Latin American governments - except Cuba - Canada, the United States of America, the United Kingdom, France, Sweden, Finland, Denmark, West Germany and Japan - 
I did see the matter referred to by the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party. The conclusion that I reach from it is that like the honourable gentleman I am certainly not perfect. 
In reply to the first part of the question, I indicated to the honourable member for Barker that the matter of cutbacks and a reduction in training activities was still under review. No final decision has been made. Some decisions have been made in relation to a reduction in flying time and also in relation to the sailing time of Royal Australian Navy vessels. These decisions have been made but they are subject to review and indeed they will be reviewed. As soon as I am in a position to provide for the honourable member more precise details of the decisions that have been made and of any review that may be made in relation to these matters I will let the honourable member, and indeed the House, have the information. 
The second part of the question related to the world gliding championships. This matter was brought to my attention. A request was made for the Department of Air to provide facilities which would enable the world gliding championships to take place in this country. The first representation was considered by me in conjunction with the Chief of the Air- Staff. At that time it was considered that there were certain difficulties which would prohibit participation by the Royal Australian Air Force in the world gliding championships. This related more particularly to the problems of the Winjeel trainer aircraft. Following that decision I indicated, as a result of the information conveyed to me by the Chief of the Air Staff, that it would in all probability be impracticable for the Royal Australian Air Force to assist. However, I indicated that the Army would provide certain catering facilities. 
Naturally, the Government regards the world gliding contest being held in this country as very important in terms of public relations. Certainly as far as my colleague the Minister for Tourism and Recreation is concerned, it is a most important event. That information having been conveyed to the people concerned, subsequent representations were made not only from honourable members on the Government side but also, as I understand it, from members of the Opposition. Further information came to me and to the Department of Air from people who I believe were competent to offer some advice as to how the difficulties that had initially been experienced might be overcome. As a result of that, I arranged further consultations with the Chief of the Air Staff and with experts from the world glider championship organisation. Subsequently it was found that the difficulties which initially had been proposed and accepted by the Department of Air could be overcome. No final decision has yet been made. There will be further discussions between the Chief of the Air Staff and the people concerned and I am hopeful that we will be able to reach a satisfactory conclusion by which the Australian Government and the Royal Australian Air Force will be able to participate in what we regard as a major event in Australia, one in which I think most Australian people would want the Australian Government to co-operate and participate. 
In accordance with section 18(6) (a) of the Prices Justification Act I present the report of the Prices Justification Tribunal on the price increases for certain iron and steel products proposed by Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd and Australian Iron and Steel Pty Ltd. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is: 
I gave no undertaking or commitment of any kind to Lord Carrington that was inconsistent with the Government's announcement on 4 July concerning Australian forces in Singapore or with the Australian Labor Party's policy speech, which was made before Lord Carrington's visit. 
The last part of the honourable gentleman's question will be dealt with by the Prime Minister. In reply to the part of the question relating to the editor of Navy News', I want to say quite unequivocally that there is no suggestion that the editor is to be reprimanded. The last authority concerning Press statements or references to Press statements by members of the Armed Forces is contained in a directive that was issued by the honourable member for Wannon in 1970. I have not changed that directive, it has not been altered and it is still in force. It would appear that in some circumstances the directive has been contravened. 
There is what is known as a management committee which is responsible for the direction of the paper referred to by the honourable gentleman. From my inquiries I understand that the committee has not met regularly. This is one of the matters that I want to discuss with the editor. This Govern ment has no intention of directing an editor of this or any other Defence paper to report merely the policy of the Government. At the same time I would not expect the editor of any such journal to use that journal as a means of pursuing his own policy lines. So there are a number of matters that one would want to discuss with the editor since the staff producing the paper is paid for largely by the Department of the Navy. It would be a matter of concern to this Government if the management committee has not met and if the paper is not under the control that was originally intended when the management committee was established. However, there is no suggestion that the editor is to be reprimanded in any way. 
The answer to the last part of the honourable gentleman's question is no. In my statement to this House about defence matters generally I referred to Cockburn Sound and indicated that the Government had decided that it would extend the period over which this facility would be completed. That decision still remains. The honourable gentleman raised a number of other matters relating to the naval facility in Western Australia. I am not able to give him a detailed reply at this stage. However, I will look at the question and reply as soon as possible. 
It is true that the number of resignations of male officers in the Australian Regular Army has increased in the first 9 months of this year compared with the figures for the corresponding period during previous years. Most of the officers who have resigned were 43 years of age or more. They were mainly captains and majors. The changes made by the Government to the defence forces retirement benefits scheme were intended to provide retirement benefits to older officers which were equitable and which would allow a reasonable level of turnover in order to provide promotional opportunities for younger officers. At this time there is no significant increase in the number of officers tendering their resignations for reasons of discontent with Service life. The resignation of officers in the older and more senior categories is beneficial in many ways, as the honourable member would know. For instance, it does tend to produce more career prospects for the younger officers and thereby maintain a younger and fitter army for coping with emergencies. Since the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has raised this question I would be happy to table the document relating to the number of resignations. 
 The first comment that 'I make - and I may have the opportunity to come back to this later - is that when the honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes)  was talking about procurement one would have thought that we on this side of the House had been in Government for 23 years and honourable members opposite had been in Opposition and also that the honourable member was indicating that in the 10 months we have been in Government we should have been able to correct all the deficiencies of the previous Government over 23 years. The list that the honourable member read out will be referred to by other speakers. It seems to me that the most creative thing the Opposition is doing is delaying the business of this House by taking up its time with frivolous debates of this sort. Last week we had the charade of a motion directed against one of my colleagues. A further motion was to be moved against that Minister but the Opposition suffered so badly at his hands that it abandoned that motion and threatened a censure motion against the Government as a whole. Honourable members opposite lost their nerve on that one, but apparently they believe that they are obliged to do something to waste our time and to delay the passage of important legislation. 
The honourable member for Barker has suddenly discovered with a sense of urgency that Australia's defence is such as to warrant the debate which we are now engaged upon. I made a statement to this House on the defence of the Australian nation on 22 August. Honourable members opposite had an opportunity to debate this matter then. That was 55 days ago. It has taken the honourable member for Barker and his Party 55 days to find that Australia is in such danger as to require this House to set aside its really important business, presumably because this matter is regarded by the Opposition as one of some urgency. Fifty-five days ago - how urgent can you get? The motion itself bears testimony to the fact that it was conceived in haste. It was not prepared in the leisurely manner that such a time span should have allowed. 
The honourable member talked about the failure of the Government to provide more adequately for the defence of the Australian nation. More adequately than what? More adequately than we are now providing? In that case it is a tautology. It is a perfect way to waste time. Does it mean more adequately than was the case under the previous Government? If that is the intention and if not providing more adequately than the previous Government did is failure, then obviously the previous Government failed. Is that what the honourable member for Barker is saying? If he is ever to have a hand in the planning of Australia's defence he will need to speak in terms of concepts which have some real meaning. The honourable member talked about the defence of the Australian nation. It is odd that the Liberal and Country Parties have the temerity to raise the question of the adequacy of this Government's defence of the Australian nation. They know that its policy is to base the structure of our forces on the requirements of the defence of this continent and that the Government expects from within such forces to have a modest but adequate capability for the unlikely contingency of such overseas deployments as would be in the interests of this nation. The task of organising our defence force structure on the basis of the requirements of the defence of Australia itself is very difficult. The reason why it is so difficult is that in all the years that they were in office the Liberal and Country Parties never studied the requirements for the defence of Australia. That is almost unbelievable, but I regret to say it is true. 
Again one must ask: Defence of the nation against what? It seems that our opponents lament that we are, as the  Chairman  of the Chiefs of Staff Committee said, one of the more secure nations in the world. The Opposition longs for the days when elections could be won on the phantoms of the 'Red Threat' and the 'Yellow Peril'. Those days are gone and honourable members opposite know it. They cannot pretend that they do not know it because I have made available to the honourable member for Barker access to all relevant intelligence information. That was never done by the previous Government for the Opposition. No member of the former Opposition was given the opportunity that the honourable member for Barker and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  have been given for access to matters that concern the defence of this country. The honourable member for Barker has the temerity to say now that the Government should be censured because of its lack of appreciation of these matters. 
Using the information available to the Joint Intelligence Organisation, the Defence Committee at my request prepared a strategic assessment. The Defence Committee consists of the Secretary of the Defence Department, the Secretary of the Prime Minister's Department, the Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of the Department of Foreign Affairs, the  Chairman  of the Chiefs of Staff, and the Chiefs of Staff of the Army, Navy . and Air Force. Their assessment is the basis of our defence planning. Nobody would suggest that it should be otherwise. 
We did not say, as the Opposition alleges, that there is certainty of peace for the next IS years. That is an obvious oversimplification. What I said in my statement, made on 22 August, was that at the present time it can be said that Australia's situation is favourable and that the various important factors and trends in the international situation support Australia's security into the longer term. We and our advisers at the present time do not foresee any deterioration in our strategic environment that would involve consideration of the commitment of our forces to military operations to protect Australia's security or strategic interests. I pointed out that this view of Australia's long term security was the view accepted by the previous Government in recent years. 
In the 1969 elections the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  asserted that there was no threat to Australia for 10 years. Again he was quoted in 'The Sydney Morning Herald' of 21 June 1971 as saying: 
I do not believe that there is any prospect of an attack on the mainland of Australia within the next decade. Nor, subject to completely unforeseen developments, is any attack on New Guinea at all likely within that time-scale. And should that change, we would have ample advance warning. 
It was not a member of the present Government who made that statement. It was the then Prime Minister of Australia, the right honourable member for Higgins. He said that there would be no threat to this country for a period of 10 years. How much does the honourable member for Barker know about these things? No wonder he feels sore about defence. He was Minister for the Army for a very short time but was ignominiously removed from the position. 
The 'Australian Defence Review' published by the Defence Department in March 1972 said this: 
Contingencies under which a major combat burden would occur seem at present to be remote and the full capabilities that would be required for this extreme contingency are not required to be in existence today. 
Honourable members are aware that the strategic situation has improved since those statements made by the previous Government. The process of detente between the great powers has proceeded further and made the prospect of Australia's involvement in combat even more remote. Nevertheless, I acknowledged in my statment in August that there are bound to be uncertainties about the future particularly about the latter part of such a long period as the 15 years covered by the strategic assessment. 
It is a complete misrepresentation of our position or our attitude to suggest that we foresee a period of peace and therefore are content to allow our forces to run down. The strategic situation will be kept under constant monitoring and will be regularly reviewed. Strategic policy will be adopted to take account of any changes that develop in our strategic situation. The defence management system is designed to give effect to those policies in terms of a physical program sufficiently flexible to enable our force size and force structure to be changed well within the warning time of the development of any threat. So the forces must at any time be capable of expansion to meet any threat to our security within the time that it would take for such a threat to develop. Our judgement of the time it would take for threats to develop is not based merely on our evaluation of the intentions of other countries. It is based on a hard nosed look at their present military capability, their resources and their state of technology. 
The Oppositon are deluding themselves and attempting to delude the Australian people if they suggest that we do not already have very capable forces in being in relation to our own part of the world. I am not going to waste the time of the House recounting again all the details of that capability contained in my Defence statement. However, it is patently obvious that one must go many thousands of miles from this continent to find and air force in any way comparable to the Royal Australian Air Force. It is equipped with F-111s which, though far too expensive, provide a very potent strike force. Our Mirage fighters are far better than any fighters in South East Asia except perhaps those operated by the United States. The Navy is equipped with missile-armed destroyers as well as other destroyers whose primary capability is antisubmarine warfare, and most of which arc about to be refitted and modernised. The Government has announced its intention to acquire more destroyers for the Royal Australian Navy though we declined to take part in the so-called DDL program, which is ridiculously expensive and unduly fraught with technological risk. The Navy has 4 submarines with 2 more under construction. Submarines of course require any would-be opponent to deploy very substantial naval forces indeed. The Royal Australian Navy is also equipped with Skyhawk ground-attack aircraft, which are still very effective. For the first time in peace-time Australia has a regular Army organised as a division - an all-volunteer Army. It is made up of 3 task forces of 2 battalions each manned to an operational training strength. I have ordered a major inquiry into Citizen Military Forces. Again that is something that had not been done at all by our predecessors. The interim report of that committee was delivered to my office this morning. 
These are powerful forces for this region. They will continue to be developed by this Government so that they will continue to be a perfectly adequate basis for such expansion as any changes from strategic situation may demand. December 2nd of 1972 was a date on which the Australian people decided it was time to review our defence policies. I found since taking office that it is time to clear away the debris of a decade of inefficiency. As I have said before, we are not prepared to tolerate a situation in which production of ammunition continues to increase our stocks when we already have 25 years supply of some items. We are not prepared to tolerate a wasteful teeth-to-tail ratio in our Army. We are increasing the strength of the field force by 2,000 and reducing the strength of the support elements by the same amount. We have also reduced the number of civilians employed in defence support tasks because these numbers had grown at a ridiculous rate over the last 10 years. The extent to which resources had been wasted by the previous Government can best be illustrated by the continued existence until May 1973 of the post and telegraph censorship organisation, 
This organisation had been maintained since the 1950s to keep alive by training a number of civilians on a part-time basis the techniques involved in wartime censorship of information passed overseas by postal and telecommunication means. There were 150 members of this organisation training for 120 hours a year at a cost of about $50,000 per year. As soon as I learnt of the existence of this organisation I disbanded it. I believe that any responsible government and any responsible Minister for Defence would have taken the same attitude. 
In summary, our forces provide a capable force in being and a perfectly adequate basis for expansion. Within the context of our region, the force structure will be developed as the strategic situation changes and as military technology changes. Our forces are manned by volunteers - professionals - whose conditions of service have never been better. The military skills of our servicemen will be maintained and developed by opportunities of exercising with other countries on a larger scale than ever before in Australia's peacetime history. No Australian government and certainly no Minister for Defence has been responsible since Federation in this country for providing so many opportunities in terms of professional service, and this has been done in the brief space of 10 months. 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
In January 1973 the Joint Force Papua New Guinea, established in February 1972, was redesignated as the Papua New Guinea Defence Force. The Force comprises land, maritime and air elements and a fully integrated headquarters, under the command of a Papua New Guinea Force Commander. 
The uniformed strength of the Papua New Guinea Defence Force at 31 July 1973 was approximately 4,100. 
The uniformed strength of the Joint Force Papua New Guinea at 30 November 1972 was about 3,860. 
The total number of expatriate officers in the Papua New Guinea Defence Force at 31 July was 270. Analysis by rank is: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As I indicated to the National Press Club in March, we are exploring in consultation with the Fijian authorities, the possibility of increasing training assistance in Australia to members of the Fijian Armed Services. This year there have been six Fijians on Army training courses in Australia. 
 There has been no intention on my part or on the part of the Department of Defence not to make figures available. Indeed the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition will concede that not only did I indicate that there had been an increase in the number of applications for resignation but also that I tabled the figures for the honourable gentleman. The figures as to the total number of applications that are before the Department of Defence in terms requesting a resignation are not available to me at the moment, but I undertake to obtain the figures for the honourable member. I will let him have them as soon as possible, and, if necessary, I will table the document in this Parliament. 
One fact which is quite clear from the resignations that I have personally studied and of which the honourable gentleman will be aware is that when a resignation is put before the Department of Defence by a senior officer it normally comes to the Minister for his signature before it goes to the Executive Council. In the case of every application for resignation that I have considered personally, no request for a resignation has been based on the ground of discontent. It is quite clear that for the great majority of those who are now seeking to resign the attractiveness of the defence forces retirement benefit provisions has had some influence on those who believe that they would be advantaged not only in terms of their retiring allowances but also in terms of a full employment economy, that is, that they would have greater opportunities by retiring somewhat earlier than at the ages at which they would retire if they completed their terms. Finally, I say to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition that I will undertake to obtain the figures as early as possible, and I will let him have a full and considered reply. 
 Mr Speaker- 
 Mr Speaker,  during question time- 
I do, but there is one other matter that I want to deal with first. 
Opposition members - Oh! 
I only wanted to table the information for honourable members opposite. 
I am not asking for leave.  Mr Speaker,  I will deal with the other matter. I claim to have been misrepresented. 
Yes, I have been misrepresented by the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr Mackellar).  Quite frankly, it does not surprise me that he would make the kind of insinuations that he made in this House this morning. While it is not my prerogative to refer to members of the Tasmanian State Parliament, I inform the honourable member that it is true that the person in Tasmania who initially made the allegation did refer to me. I was referred to because I was then the State  President  of the Tasmanian branch of the Australian Labor Party - indeed, I had been for some years. I correct what the honourable member has said by informing him and this House that as the former State  President  of the Labor Party I completely cooperated with those who were conducting the investigation. I gave them complete information concerning my activities as the State  President  of the Labor Party, and the source of any donations that came to the Party was conveyed to the officers concerned. 1 suggest to' the honourable member that if he believes that these kinds of insinuations are directed in this House to damage my reputation, he might make the same statements outside. 
I did propose to table a document providing information in relation to the question that the Deputy Leader of the Opposition asked me this morning. The information is available and, accordingly, I table the document. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Four. 
Tenders were received from - 
Carrington Slipways Pty Ltd. 
Newcastle State Dockyard. 
Walkers Limited. 
Vickers Cockatoo Dockyard Pty Limited. 
It is normal practice in the Government tender system for general supplies for only the successful tender price to be announced, the remaining offers being regarded as Commercial in Confidence. In respect of tenders for ship construction within the subsidy scheme prices are not revealed to anyone but the owner. The Government has decided that the vessel is to be built at Williamstown Naval Dockyard and this was announced in the Defence Statement presented to the House on 22 August 1973. In these circumstances, all tender prices should remain Commercial in Confidence but it will suffice to say that they ranged from $7m to over$11m at April 1973 level of prices. 
The estimated cost to the Government for shipbuilder's work on the oceanographic ship at the Williamstown Naval Dockyard is$8m at April 1973 level of prices. This is not a 'truly comparable basis of calculation' as profit is not a consideration in a naval dockyard and no allowance is made in the estimate for the continuing commitment for running expenses of the Dockyard which would be, in general, the same with or without this work. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There are no current plans to remove RAAF activities from Richmond, but you will be aware that I have instituted a special committee to review the location of al Defence establishments against current and foreseeable requirements, with full regard to be given to environmental and other community aspects. You can be assured that should the need arise in the future to provide an alternative site for an RAAF Base in New South Wales Narromine will be given due consideration along with other sites. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Detailed information on Soviet naval ships' visits to the Indian Ocean (to the extent that such information is publicly available) is as contained in my answer to Question No.  477  on  31  May  1973  (Hansard, pages  3036-3037).  Information to supplement that is as follows: 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I draw the honourable member's attention to the public statement I made on 19 December 1972 when I outlined proposals for the reorganisation of the Defence Group of Departments. This included the following reference to Civil Defence and a National Disaster Organisation: 
The Civil Defence Directorate has been transferred to the Department of Defence. There will later be created a National Disaster Organisation in accociation with it to cope, in co-operation with other civil authorities in Australia, with the effects of natural disasters.' 
Since then my Department has made a number of studies into this matter. These are to form a basis for discussion with interested departments and then for later consultations with the appropriate State authorities. 
When these consultations are completed I will make a statement in Parliament concerning the creation of a National Disaster Organisation. 
 The answer to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
Papua New Guinea  -  As members of the PNG Defence Force are enlisted as members of the Australian Armed Services, it is not possible to provide completely the breakdown sought by the Honourable Member. However, the following information is available. 
Land Element- 46 officers have completed training at Officer Cadet School (OCS), Portsea, and another 12 officers are currently in training there. In addition to training at Portsea, Papua New Guinea members of the land element have attended other training courses from time to time. In 1973, two majors are attending the 12- month course at the Australian Army Staff College, Queenscliff, and eleven land element and one maritime element officers at a junior level are attending a 16-week junior staff course at Enoggera, Queensland. In addition to the above, soldiers and officers of various rank have attended courses of short duration in Australian Army training establishments. 
Maritime Element  -  7 officers have completed training at HMAS Cerberus and in Australian patrol boats. 19 sailors have also completed apprentice and miscellaneous training in Australia (11 at HMAS Nirimba and 8 at HMAS Cerberus). At present, 8 midshipmen are in officer training at HMAS Cerberus, and15 sailors are in training (9 at HMAS Cerberus, 4 at HMAS Nirimba, 2 at HMAS Waterhen). 
Air Element  -15  Papua New Guineans are currently engaged in air and ground crew training in Australia. These include 7 officer cadets at Point Cook undergoing flying training, 2 potential tradesmen at Laverton and 6 potential tradesmen at the RAAF Technical School, Wagga. They are the first Papua New Guineans to come to Australia for training by the RAAF. 
Fiji 1963 1 Captain at Australian Staff College, Queenscliff 1969 1  Major at  Australian Staff College, Queenscliff 1971 2 Officer cadets at OCS Portsea 1972 1 Officer cadet at OCS Portsea 1973 2 Officer cadets at OCS Portsea; 1 Lieutenant at Otdnance Centre Bandiana; 1 Lance Corporal at School of Music, Balcombe; 1 Sergeant at Jungle Training Centre, Canungra; 1 Lance Corporal at Jungle Training Centre, Canungra. 
Other Pacific Island Nations- Apart from PNG, Fiji is the only South Pacific country to maintain an Armed Service. Consequently, Australia has not provided military training to Pacific Island countries other than Fiji and PNG during the last10 years. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(1) 
The Department of Defence has been prepared to consider advice. Indeed, it receives advice, considers that advice and, where it is appropriate, it uses it. I am now referring to those countries with which Australia has been associated traditionally in terms of our defence requirements, particularly the United Kingdom, the United States of America and some other countries. The honourable member has referred to the situation concerning South Africa. Although I have no knowledge that advice has been received by the Defence Department from that country, my own assessment would be that this would be a matter which would concern the Prime Minister as the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Finally, let me say again to the honourable member that any information or any request that came from South Africa concerning naval units - I think this is what the honourable member has in mind - would naturally be referred, as are many other instances concerning exercises, to the Department of Foreign Affairs. There is nothing unusual about this. Those honourable members who are now in the Opposition who had some association with the defence forces of this country would recognise that this was the proper procedure. Let me say finally to the honourable member that any advice which is received from those countries with which Australia has a traditional relationship in terms of defence naturally receives the consideration to which it is entitled. 
The integration of the Service departments is well under way. It is being carried out by a commitee headed by  Mr Bruce  White, the Secretary of the Department of the Army. He is being assisted by the Secretary of the Department of Defence. A great many conferences have been held between the officials and the chiefs of Staff. These committees are considering the situation and continuing their inquiries. I hope to be in a position before the House adjourns at the end of this year to be able to make an announcement to the Parliament concerning the progress of the integration of the Defence and Service Departments. I anticipate that it will be possible for me as Minister for Defence to introduce legislation in the autumn session of the Parliament in 1974 which would provide for the complete integration of the Service Departments. 
I come to the second part of the question raised by the honourable member relating to the Department of Supply. It has always been envisaged that that part of the Department of Supply which relates to the procurement and evaluation of defence equipment would be integrate.! into the Department of Defence along with the other three Service departments. This of course will now be a matter for further discussion between myself and the Minister for Supply and Secondary Industry. We already have had one discussion on how this ought to be achieved and again, I would hope that when the statement is ready to be delivered to this Parliament, I will then be in a position to answer fully the question raised by the honourable member. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the report of the Defence Legal Services Committee of Review dated November 1971. Because only a limited number of copies of the report are available, a copy has been placed in the Parliamentary Library for use by honourable members. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Additional houses have been programmed for personnel posted to Puckapunyal. These will be constructed by the Housing Commission of Victoria under the Commonwealth-States Housing Agreement. Eleven houses were approved in 1972-73 and a further fiftytwo have been approved for construction in 1973-74. 
(a) No advice has been given yet as to when construction will commence. 
The Army have requested that the houses be constructed on land that could be made available adjacent to the camp. 
It is not intended that the houses be built in Seymour as they are required for camp personnel. However, the final location will be dependent on a decision of the Housing Commission. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The Department of Defence, through the Department of Supply, placed period contracts with ISI Pty Ltd and other contractors to perform clerical work for the Cataloguing Authorityin converting the Services' inventories of equipment to the Defence Cataloguing System. However, the clerical staff available from ISI Pty Ltd were not used and the contract was terminated. The hourly contract rate quoted by ISI Pty Ltd was $5.85. 
The rates for the hire of clerical staff vary according to the level of work required. Currently, the approximate hourly rates are: 
The Government has decided to appoint an ombudsman for the defence Services but at this time no decision concerning an appointee has been made. I can assure the honourable member that when that decision is being taken consideration will be given to the qualifications of the person who is to be appointed. Naturally, this is a matter that will be considered by the Cabinet. When a decision is being made to appoint an ombudsman for the Services not only the views of the servicemen themselves should be considered but naturally - I am sure the honourable member will agree - the views of the Government also are a very important consideration. I assure the honourable member that no decision has been made regarding an appointee but when an ombudsman is appointed I am sure he will be a person who has had considerable experience not only in administration but also within the Services. 
 A recommendation came to me from the Department of the Navy and the Department of Defence on whether HMAS 'Sydney' should undertake a refit which would involve the Department of Defence in the expenditure of more than $lm to extend the life of the 'Sydney' until 1974. It was to go out of commission in 1974 in normal circumstances. We were not prepared to authorise such a large expenditure to carry out a major refit for such a short period. Therefore the decision was quite properly taken that the 'Sydney' should no longer remain in service as a unit of the Royal Australian Navy. The latter part of the honourable gentleman's question concerned the availability of transport. This matter is now under review by the Department of the Navy. Whatever decision is made in relation to transport facilities will certainly be made known by the Government at the appropriate time. 
I did see the report relating to the tabling of the Whitmore report. There was an inference probably not an intentional inferencethat the problems were due to the failure of departmental officers and members of the military forces to give sufficient consideration to major contracts of defence procurement. I think that it should be clearly understood by the House as I am sure it is, certainly by those who have preceded me as Minister for Defence or as Service Ministers that the final responsibility for major defence procurement orders rests with the Minister in the first instance and with the Government in the final analysis. It is not the responsibility of departmental officers, except to give advice. 
I turn to the second part of the question, which relates to theF111 program. Honourable members will recall that the decision to purchase the F111C aircraft from the United States of America was made in October 1963. The then Minister for Defence, the late Athol Townley, was in the United States of America and cabled back to the then Government the memorandum of understanding which involved the purchase of the F111C aircraft. At the same time he indicated to the then Cabinet that the United States offer would remain open for one month only and that it was not likely to be renewed. In those circumstances the Cabinet made a decision to purchase the F111C aircraft. I think that it ought to be pointed out to the House that amongst the members of that Cabinet led by the then Prime Minister,  Mr Menzies,  later  Sir Robert  Menzies, who himself is, of course, a distinguished lawyer, were the present Chief Justice of the High Court of Australia,  Sir Garfield  Barwick, and a former Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Lowe. They are all lawyers and would be skilled in dealing with details of this nature. So it is quite clear that departmental officers at that time had little opportunity to advise the Government because of the decision that the Cabinet had made to accept the offer from the United States of America. 
Let me turn finally to the last part of the honourable member's question, which relates to the Whitmore report. Two of the recommendations already have been adopted by the Department of Defence. The third, relating to defence procurements which have occurred in the past and about which there is some legal dispute, is now under investigation. As soon as that investigation has been completed the House will be advised. I conclude by repeating to the House that decisions on major items of defence procurement rest quite clearly with the Minister and the Government and, except for the advice which Ministers and the Government receive from them, no responsibility should be directed to departmental officials or members of the defence forces themselves. 
The Airfield Construction Squadron of the Royal Australian Air Force is currently extending the airfield at Learmonth. That work is due for completion in 1974. After the work has been completed there will be no work of a comparable nature that would justify the continuation of the Royal Australian Air Force Airfield Construction Squadron in Australia. It has the capability, as I think the honourable member mentioned, to construct an airfield within a period of 7 days, using equipment that is designed to meet an emergency requirement. Sufficient equipment is available in Australia for this to be done during an emergency. However in order to continue the existence of the Royal Australian Air Force Airfield Construction Squadron, I have initiated inquiries to ascertain whether it is possible to justify the use and retention of the squadron in assisting developing countries in their aid programs. This inquiry now is under way and when the information is available to me a decision will be made on whether the squadron should be disbanded or retained. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The current instrument by which in pursuance of Section 7 of the Naval Defence Act 1910-1971, the Naval Board is appointed, states, inter aiia, that the Minister of State for the Navy shall be the  President  of the Naval Board and shall preside at all meetings of the Naval Board at which he is present. 
I am informed that for the period 2 December 1972 to 2 November 1973 inclusive, the Naval Board has met on thirty-eight occasions. 
As a deliberate decision, I have attended no meetings of the Naval Board. The reason for this should be plain from my public statement of 19 December last year. In summary, that statement made it clear that consistent with the Government's policy of developing integrated defence management, the Department of Defence would exercise greater authority and control over the execution of defence policy and the attainment of defence objectives. Further the Secretary of the Department would be the principal adviser to the Minister for Defence on policy, resources and organisation and the  Chairman  of the Chiefs of Staff Committee would be the Minister's principal military adviser. So it obviously follows that were I as Minister for the Navy, for so long as that portfolio exists, to preside over meetings of the Naval Board and thereby associate myself with its deliberations, I would find myself in the incongruous position of taking decisions, as Minister for Defence, on those deliberations when they involved matters that are subject to advice to me from the Secretary to my Department or the  Chairman  of the Chiefs of Staff Committee. 
My decision not to attend meetings of the Naval Board has not in any way impeded consultation between myself and the Chiefs of Staff both collectively and individually and between myself and other members of Service Boards. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Australian Military Regulations and Orders provide that the Minister is President of the Military Board. 
I am informed that for the period 2 December 1972 to 2 November 1973 inclusive, the Military Board has met on thirty-one occasions. 
As a deliberate decision, I have attended no meetings of the Military Board. The reason for this should be plain from my public statement of 19 December last year. In summary, that statement made it clear that consistent with the Governments' policy of developing integrated defence management, the Department of Defence would exercise greater authority and control over the execution of defence policy and the attainment of defence objectives. Further, the Secretary of the Department would be the principal adviser to the Minister for Defence on policy, resources and organisation and the  Chairman  of the Chiefs of Staff Committee would be the Minis ter's principal military adviser. So it obviously follows that were I as Minister for the Army, for so long as that portfolio exists, to preside over meetings of the Military Board and thereby associate myself with its deliberations, I would find myself in the incongruous position of taking decisions, as Minister for Defence, on those deliberations when they involved matters that are subject to advice to me from the Secretary to my Department or the  Chairman  of the Chiefs of Staff Committee. 
My decision not to attend meetings of the Military Board has not in any way impeded consultation between myself and the Chiefs of Staff both collectively and individually and between myself and other members of the Service Boards. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. Under Air Force Regulation 28, the Chief of the Air Staff is Chairman of the Air Board. &lt;2) See 1. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Statistical records of Navy personnel are kept on a monthly basis only. Therefore, the following figures show the number of discharges during the period 1 December, 1972 to 31 August, 1973. 
on termination of service engagement  -  549, 
on retirement  -  22, 
at own request- 487, 
medical and death  -  136, 
for disciplinary reasons  -  139, and 
282 were discharged as unsuitable. 
The number of accepted enlistments for the Navy during the same period is 1928. n.b. figures include the Maritime element of the Papua New Guinea Defence Force. 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
Yes. 
No. Any newspaper is elegible provided it has an audited circulation or makes a statutory declaration of its nett paid circulation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. On 20 September 1973, my colleague, the Prime Minister, informed the right honourable gentleman in reply to a question without notice about interdepartmental committees that, if he wished to know the composition and function of any particular interdepartmental committtee, and for what period of time it has been active, the Prime Minister would be happy to provide him with that information. 
If the right honourable gentleman wishes to have information about a particular committee on which my Department is represented, I will assist him as far as possible having regard to the Prime Minister's answer to Question Nos 964 and 1057. 
Department of the Navy: Interdepartmental Committees  (Question  No.  1060) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. On 20 September 1973, my colleague, the Prime Minister, informed the right honourable gentleman in reply to a question without notice about interdepartmental committees that, if he wished to know the composition and function of any particular interdepartmental committee, and for what period  of  time it had been active, the Prime Minister would be happy to provide him with that information. 
If the right honourable gentleman wishes to have information about a particular committee on which my Department is represented, I will assist him as far as possible having regard to the Prime Minister's answer to Questions Nos 964 and 1057. 
Department of the Army: Interdepartmental Committees  (Question No. 1061) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. On 20 September 1973, my colleague, the Prime Minister, informed the right honourable gentleman in reply to a question without notice about interdepartmental committees that, if he wished to know the composition and function of any particular interdepartmental committee, and for what period of time it had been active, the Prime Minister would be happy to provide him with that information. 
If the right honourable gentleman wishes to have information about a particular committee on which my Department is represented, I will assist him as far as possible having regard to the Prime Minister's answer to Questions Nos 964 and 1057. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. On 20 September 1973, my colleague, the Prime Minister, informed the right honourable gentleman in reply to a question without notice about interdepartmental committees that, if he wished to know the composition and function of any particular interdepartmental committee, and for what period of time it had been active, the Prime Minister would be happy to provide him with that information. 
If the right honourable gentleman wishes to have information about a particular committee on which my Department is represented, I will assist him as far as possible having regard to the Prime Minister's answer to Question Nos 964 and 10S7. 
The decision to provide 2 Attack class patrol boats to Indonesia is part of the defence aid program to that country. Naturally, the patrol boat that was handed over to Indonesia last weekend would have required considerable modification for Australia's requirements, However, on the question of patrol boats generally, I agree with what the honourable member has said. It is the Government's attitude that it is, and will remain, predominantly the responsibility of the Royal Australian Navy and the Royal Australian Air Force to maintain effective patrols so far as fisheries and customs requirements of Australia are concerned. The Government has under consideration proposals that will increase the capability of Australia in relation to customs activities and, as I have explained to the honourable member, to fisheries activities as well. This additional capability will almost certainly require additional patrol boats. This matter is now under consideration and when a decision has been made it will be announced at the appropriate time. 
 I have listened to 2 speeches by Opposition spokesmen on defence. It is quite clear that the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer),  has not bothered to look back over some of the speeches that he made in this place when his Party was in government. He raised the question of procurement and he referred specifically to the DDL program. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  read portion of a letter which I wrote to the honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes).  I want to read that letter to the Committee, because the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party read only portion of it to distort the facts. The letter reads: 
I did not know that the honourable member intended to raise this matter tonight. 
I am sorry; I thought that the honourable member would do that and I accept his word that he did do so. Unfortunately the information was not passed on to me. I can understand the honourable member's concern about the decision. He spoke to me last week about the decision that had been made to disband the' Kapooka band. As I indicated in the statement tabled in this Parliament yesterday, even considering the number of bands that it has been decided to disband, those that are left will still be costing the country $2.5m a year. I am sure that the honourable member, as a former Minister for Defence, would appreciate that this is a very significant and large expenditure. The decision to disband these bands was not made lightly. As I promised the honourable member, I have instituted inquiries to see whether the decision to disband the Kapooka band should stand or whether some alternative arrangements can be made. Again I must point out to the honourable member that despite what he said a few moments ago, it is true that one of the recommendations that was made to me, not by the Army Board but at a general meeting of the Chiefs of Staff in which I participated when these questions were under consideration, was that these bands should be disbanded. As far as I am aware this was a unanimous decision of the Defence Committee, that is, of the Chiefs of Staff. 
The recommendation came to me, and naturally I was concerned because I agree with the honourable member that the bands make a very significant contribution. I am aware of the great prestige which the bands of the Navy, the Army and the Air Force have been able to build up as a result of their public appearances. The bands are sought very widely. Very often I have come under criticism because I have had to refuse a request for the appearance of a band or sometimes because I have acceded to a request for the appearance of a band. I agree with the honourable member that the bands make a significant contribution in this respect. Certainly, when a band has been in existence for a long time there is bound to be some resentment when it is disbanded. But I must reiterate what I said a few minutes ago, that it was the unanimous recommendation of the Defence Committee that a certain number of bands should be disbanded. I deviated from that recommendation in regard to 2 bands. One was the Army band at Townsville. 
No, this is not true. It may be partly true. But I am sure that the Defence Committee itself had considered the increasing cost of maintaining so many bands in the defence forces. As I said, I made a departure in regard to 2 bands. One was the Army band at Townsville, and the other was the Royal Australian Air Force band at Richmond. I did this for reasons which I think in regard to the Army band at Townsville, are obvious. That band is the only one in an area in which there is a significant number of troops, and Townsville is a great distance from Brisbane. Therefore, I believed that that band should be retained. The Royal Australian Air Force band at Richmond was only the second air force band in that State, and for this reason I believed that it should be retained. The decision was made as a result of what I believe was a correct assessment of the situation. 
I assured the honourable member for Farrer that I would have the question of the disbandment of the Kapooka band looked at. Alternative arrangements were suggested to me. They were that the Royal Military College band could be sent to Kapooka once a month, if necessary, for passing out parades. It could also be made available on other occasions when it was required in the area. It would also be available when required on special occasions in the Wagga area. This decision was made as a result of the first investigation. I regret that I have to inform the honourable member that unless there is a very good reason why one should reverse the decision in relation to the Kapooka band, that decision will have to stand. However, I indicated to the honourable member that I would have the matter further examined, and I will do so. I am sure he will appreciate that over the last 3 or 4 days I have not had an opportunity to follow up this matter and some other matters that may be regarded by honourable members as being urgent. 
I conclude by saying that I agree with the honourable member that he is entitled to express some concern about this matter. It is not an easy decision to make but I must repeat that it was a recommendation from the Defence Committee, and I am sure that the decision would have been made sooner or later whether or not there had been any reduction in funds. The sum of $2.5m is a significant amount to spend on bands in Australia. However, I appreciate the honourable member's concern because I know that the Kapooka band has a very good reputation and, like all other Service bands, I believe that it would have done much to improve public relations between members of the defence forces and the civilian population generally. I assure the honourable member once again that I will have the matter further examined and I will let him know the result of that examination as soon as possible. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is no. The statement that was prepared and delivered by me in the House of Representatives on 22 October was the complete statement. No alteration was made to that statement. 
This week, I am sorry. No alterations were made to that statement. It arose out of an assurance I gave to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and one other honourable member who had asked for information concerning the decisions that were initially made in relation to some changes in the defence program. I indicated at the time that I would be happy to make available this information to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition at the first opportunity. Naturally, some decisions have still to be made, but they are not new decisions in the terms of the decision that was taken at the time of the Budget by the Government to effect some alterations in defence expenditure. As soon as the statement was available it was tabled in this House. The honourable member referred also to the question of resignations. Information on resignations was not deleted from that statement. As I said initially, the statement was presented to the House in its entirety. It did not deal with resignations. I give an assurance to the honourable member that a full statement on resignations will be compiled, as I think I indicated on a previous occasion to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. But honourable members will appreciate that it is not an easy matter to compile figures on this matter immediately. As soon as they are compiled I shall make them available to the honourable member. 
I presume that the honourable member is referring to a statement made by the United States Ambassador,  Mr Marshall  Green, in a Press interview yesterday, I believe. As I understand it the Ambassador was asked a question concerning Australian co-operation with the United States, particularly in matters of joint installations in this country. I have not seen the full text of his statement but I saw the report in which he was asked did he consider that the United States .Government would  bt  closer to a Liberal government than the present Government. As I understand it his answer was that it would perhaps be closer to the Labor Government because this Government allows the Opposition to know what is happening. I think he had in mind, as I said last night, indeed as I have said before in this House, that this Government has taken the opportunity to keep fully informed the Leader of the Opposition and the shadow Minister for Defence on matters that concern Australia in terms of its security. That has been done. When members of the Opposition were in government information of this kind was denied to the Leader of the Opposition at that time and to other responsible spokesmen for the Opposition. 
 The decision to cut back the number of Army apprentices entering the the course was once again, a decision made by the Defence Force Development Committee, and I acepted its recommendation. The decision was not mine. A recommendation was made to me by those who had the responsibility for making recommendations. I accepted that recommendation. If the honourable member requires details concerning numbers, I suggest that he put his question on the notice paper and I will provide him with the details required. 
A committee is to be established to consider the naval program in relation to the addition of new destroyers to our naval strength. A timetable has been provided to me, but I shall probably want to make some adjustments to it because I think it ought to be brought forward. Every import- . ance is being given to the deliberations and work of the committee. It will investigate a number of ships that are already available, ranging in size from about 800 tons to about 5,000 tons. They will all be under consideration. On Sunday night I shall be meeting with the Chiefs of Staff and other members of the Department of Defence at the Department of Defence complex. This is one of the matters that will be under discussion at that meeting. I assure the honourable member that when recommendations have been made to me by the committee and the Government has reached a decision I shall inform the Parliament of the committee's recommendations. 
I think the honourable member was referring to a statement made by  Sir Charles  Court in Western Australia. I read the statement with a great deal of interest. I must say that I was surprised that a man of his position and with his authority would suggest that Western Australia would be better served if it were able to raise its own defence force. He made some comparison, of course, with the forces in Singapore and Malaysia and suggested that it would be possible for Western Australia to have forces at very little cost. He suggested that there had been no cost involved to the countries in South East Asia to which he referred. I do not believe that anyone with a proper sense of responsibility to the defence of this country would take  Sir Charles  Court's suggestion very seriously. I am sure that in that respect the people of Western Australia would be most concerned that he had made such a statement. 
Replying first to the last part of the question, let me once again assure the honourable member, who has suggested that there has been a lowering of morale as a result of the actions of the present Government, that more has been don? by the present Government in terms of defence and improving the conditions of serving members of the forces in the last .1 1 months than was done in the 23 years of office of the previous Government. (Honourable members interjecting) - 
 The honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Hewson)  started off his speech in a very unfortunate way. He said that great minds think alike. He was obviously comparing himself to the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer).  Of course, the honourable member for Isaacs at least has some knowledge of defence matters and I very often respect his opinion. But I have never listened to so much complete and absolute nonsense as I have just listened to from the honourable member who claims to be an expert on defence. Obviously someone wrote the speech for him because he could not even read it correctly. 
He referred to a number of matters. Unfortunately the time that I have at my disposal will not allow me to answer all of them. The honourable member does not even do his homework. He referred to the number of flying hours now permitted in the Royal Australian Air Force. Certainly, there have been some reductions in flying hours but let us look at the record of the previous Government. The honourable member was not a member of the House then. He certainly will not be here in the period of the next government. He had a lot to say about flying hours. Let me give the House some of the facts. In 1970 the number of flying hours for Army aircraft was 34,938. In 1972  -  this is when the honourable member's Party was in office - the number of flying hours was 23,722. The flying hours had been reduced by 11,000 hours. 
Let me turn to the Royal Australian Air Force. In 1971-72 the flying hours were 144,000, which was a reduction of 12,000 hours from the previous year. In 1972-73 the flying hours numbered 133,000, a fall of 11,000 hours. This did not happen under this Government; it happened under the previous Government. The forecast for 1973-74 is 124,000 flying hours. I have reduced the flying hours by about 9,000 flying hours a year. I ask the House to compare this to the reduction of 12,000 hours. The honourable gentleman should understand that at least I have been honest enough to tell the people of Australia. These matters were concealed by the previous Government. I have cited the figures so that the honourable member will not be misinformed. So that he will have the opportunity to look at the records of the previous Government I seek leave to have the table of hours incorporated in Hansard. 
I asked the Department of Defence some time ago to look at the question of land that is available and now occupied by the various defence departments. Since then there has been a. communication between the Premier of New South Wales and the Prime Minister, and this matter is now under consideration at that level. I remind the honourable member that not only is it a matter for determination by myself as the Minister for Defence but also it is a matter for consideration by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development and the Minister for Services and Property. When the consideration and discussions between the Premier of New South Wales and the Prime Minister are concluded these matters will then be considered as a whole by the 3 Ministers concerned. I can assure the honourable member, since he raised the question of national parks, that this matter has been recognised by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development as being basic to the Australian Government's policy. I am sure that my colleague, the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, will move to ensure that, when and if there is a transfer of property from the defence departments and probably also from the Department of Supply, this matter will receive the attention that it deserves. 
I ask leave to make a statement on the reorganisation of the defence group of departments. 
I ask for leave to make a statement on the reorganisation of the Defence group of departments. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
No. 
Not applicable. 
Following a review of defence activities, a 20 per cent reduction is to be made to previously, planned Naval steaming time. 
 The Minister for Repatriation has supplied the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
No. On 20 September 1973, my colleague, the Prime Minister, informed the right honourable gentleman in reply to a Question Without Notice about interdepartmental committees that, if he wished to know the composition and function of any particular Interdepartmental Committee, and for what period of time it had been active, the Prime Minister would be happy to provide him with that information (Hansard, page 1317). 
I also refer the right honourable gentleman to the Prime Minister's answer to his further Question Without Notice on this subject on 15 November 1973 (Hansard, pages 3373-4). 
If the right honourable gentleman wishes to have information about a particular committee on which my Department is represented, I will assist him as far as possible having regard to the Prime Minister's answers to Question Nos. 964 and 1057 (Hansard 27 September 1973, page 1714 and 24 October 1973, page 2665). 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The Exercise Director is due to submit his report to Army Headquarters, where it will be put to study at the end of November. 
The next task force exercise is planned for late 1974 and will be held at Shoalwater Bay, Queensland. 
 The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Honourable Leader of the Opposition is apparently not aware that funds arc already allocated for the purpose of promoting CMF recruiting through the media over and above the national CMF advertising campaign. 
Under these arrangements, individual CMF units and formations are authorised and invited to bid for advertising and other promotional aids to support preplanned local recruiting campaigns. Depending on the nature of the planned campaign and the overall funds availability this support may take the form of press and/or radio advertisements placed in the local media, together with specially prepared printed material such as posters, brochures and leaflets. 
During the financial year 1972-73 a total of  85  such individual campaigns were arranged at a cost of $41,449. This amount covers media costs only and does not include the printed material nor the cost of CMP advertising at the national level. 
I consider this arrangement provides the most efficient and equitable form of promotional support for CMF units and their local committees. 
The Minister for Repatriation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Regulations to implement the Government's Budget proposals on Repatriation matters, including the provision of artificial limbs to all in the community are at an advanced stage in the regulation-making process. 
The regulations in question, when made, will take effect from 26 September 1973, the date of commencement of the Repatriation Act (No. 3) 1973. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The number of Service vehicles involved in accidents were as follows: 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) (b) and (c). The Services are not aware of all accidents involving private vehicles while driven by Service personnel. Such accidents are reported to the local police in accordance with local traffic laws. 
(a) (i) and (ii). Statistics are not compiled by the Services. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am aware of the high rate of bushland and roadside growth and its attendant fire risks. 
There are long-standing arrangements whereby the Services provide assistance, to the extent practicable from within their available resources, in the event of national disasters, such as bushfires, and other emergencies. On many occasions the Services have demonstrated their willingness to provide prompt and substantial assistance to the State authorities responsible for fire prevention. 
Fire is a weapon which has long been used in warfare, and the Services are organised and trained in methods of defence against it. In the circumstances a special program of training to enable members of the forces to assist with firefighting would be unnecessary. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The term 'Defence road' is not used for any formal purpose of road classification. The national interest requires however that, when developing civil facilities, such as the transport system, that could contribute to the infrastructure supporting the Armed Forces in a defence emergency, the defence needs be taken into account. 
The Defence Forces of course already carry out a wide range of activities that assist the civil community during civil emergencies and at other times. The use of defence resources or the expenditure of defence funds on the development of civil facilities must be carefully considered in relation to defence priorities and the national interest. To date the priority accorded to the construction and maintenance of roads for economic and other development needs is considered to have taken adequate account of defence requirements. 
Pursuant to section 14(1) of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act 1948-1973, I present the twenty-fifth report of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Board on the operation of the Act for the period 1 July 1972 to 30 September 1972, together with financial accounts and the report of the Auditor-General on those accounts. 
Pursuant to section 16(1) of the Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits 
Act 1973, I present the first report of the Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Authority dealing with the general administration and working of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act 1948-1973 for the period 1 October 1972 to 30 June 1973. 
 The Minister for Repatriation has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I am aware of the preference clauses adopted in awards of the Western Australian Industrial Commission. 
Yes. 
This is not known, but it should assist in reducing the areas in which industrial confrontations may occur. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Eighteen. 
As at 25 October 1973, the aircraft had flown the following hours: 109; 96; 64; 145; 111; 103; 76; 70; 70; 71; 53; 55; 9; 25; 6; 16; 1; 21. 
(a) Marginally below- resulted from shorter sortie times than originally envisaged; (b) Of the same order. 
See answer to Question 3. 
There have been no major problems in servicing the aircraft. 
See answer to Question 5. 
Aircraft maintenance has occasionally been delayed due to the immediate unavailability of spare parts. Other serviceable aircraft have been available on such occasions to enable the program to be met. Spares problems have been no greater with the F-111C than with other sophisticated aircraft flown by the RAAF. As our experience increases, short term spares requirements arising from minor unscheduled unserviceabilities will be established. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It was planned that the 1974 intake for the Army Apprentices School would be approximately 250. 
The intake for 1974 has now been reduced to approximately 100. 
This reduction has been brought about by the announced Government decisions to maintain the strength of the Army at about 31,150 during 1973-74 and to increase the strength of the field force. 
The predicted requirements for tradesmen for the 31,150 man Army can generally be met from apprentices already undergoing courses at the Apprentices School. In those trades where deficiencies exist, use will be made of the existing Adult Tradesman Scheme, to make good the shortfall. 
I did see a report in which it was suggested that the American frigate, which is now under consideration in the United States, would not be acceptable to the" Royal Australian Navy. Let me answer the honourable gentleman's question by pointing out that, as I have already announced, the question of a destroyer replacement is under consideration in our own Department of Defence. We will be considering a destroyer between 800 tons and 4,500 tons. No firm decision has been made except that Cabinet and the Government have approved a destroyer program. Coming back to the first part of the honourable gentleman's question relating to the American frigate, I point out that the advice which was received by the Department of the Navy during the period of office of the previous Government, when a decision was made on the DDL program, stated quite emphatically that if on the ground of cost the DDL program was not considered to be viable the American frigate would be an acceptable alternative. Certainly in view of this statement and a recommendation from the experts of the Department of the Navy it must be considered that the American frigate would be acceptable in terms of naval requirements. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
and (3) The Women's Services are auxiliary forces to enable the release of men for employment on operational tasks. In accordance with accepted national attitudes women are not trained for combat duty. This necessarily limits the range of employment, training, and posting opportunities for servicewomen. Women have the same opportunities for promotion as men in their respective fields. In some areas, promotion for female officers is faster than for males. Equal pay applies to males and females at the private or equivalent rank. Female noncommissioned officers receive the male base rate and 80 per cent of the male rank margin. Female officers receive 80 per cent of the male rates for equivalent rank. The differentials for NCOs and officers are an interim measure as recommended by the independent Committee of Inquiry into Services Pay, pending the outcome of a work value inquiry now proceeding. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
After detailed investigation the Army, in 1971, concluded that significant long-term economic and training advantages could be derived from colocating the Army Apprentices School with Army technical establishments in the Bandiana area. 
That was a long-term planning proposal and it is stressed that the Australian Government has not yet considered the re-location or the possible timing of such a move. Because of the issues involved, including the development of the Albury-Wodonga area, it may be some time yet before a decision is given. However, I can say that if the decision were that the school should be re-located it is&gt; unlikely that such re-location would be commenced until at least towards the end of the 1970's, having regard to the priority of other major capital works projects and the time involved in planning such a new major establishment. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Twenty-three (23). 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
to (5) The level of apprentice enrolments at Balcombe for 1973-74 was recommended by the Defence Force Development Committee. Of course, the ultimate responsibility for the decision rests with me. 
Natural Gas and Petroleum Products  (QuestionNo.1424) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (l) 
890 
80 
630 
178 
86 
In addition, 834 members were discharged for reasons other than those listed above. Note: Figures exclude National Servicemen. (2) 4299. 
Note: Include National Servicemen who enlisted in the Regular Army. 
Australian Access to Ocean Surveillance Information Obtained by United States Satellites and Aircraft  (Question No. 1099) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I said in a speech last November that it would be worthwhile investigating a policy whereby Australia obtained access to the surveillance information obtained by US satellites and aircraft. This was in the context of criticising the refusal by the Government of which the honourable gentleman was at that time a member to debate the question of US defence installations in Australia and to give any hint of the potential benefits and possible risks of the US bases. The honourable member will be aware that the present Government addressed itself to this situation immediately on coming into office and that I made a statement in the House on 28 February on the subject. I made arrangements at that time for the Leader of the Opposition to have access to information relating to the US defence installations. As to the question of surveillance information Australia has intelligence arrangements with the United States and other partner countries for the sharing of ocean surveillance information obtained by a variety of means. These arrangements enable the Government to obtain expeditiously relevant information covering our areas of interest. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Courses of the type mentioned by the member for Boothby are not, and have never been, a part of the regular programme of HMAS Coonawarra. 
This question is not applicable in the light of the answer to Question 1. 
I am surprised at the question asked by the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party. The second part of his question is not in accord with fact but I should first answer the first part. The honourable member referred to an offer made by the United States authorities to provide helicopters to assist in the operations that were necessary as a result of the flood disaster in Queensland. I have no knowledge of a request having been made to my Department. But even if a request was made I am sure it not only would have been sympathetically considered by the Department but naturally would have been considered on the basis of what was required in terms of aircraft in Queensland during that period. I do not believe anyone can suggest that all the assistance asked for, whether by the Royal Australian Air Force or by the Army, was not provided. 
There was no shortage of aircraft and no request came to the Department of Defence for assistance with aircraft - helicopters or transport aircraft - without that request being met. I do not believe that anyone, more particularly the Queensland Government itself, would suggest that the circumstances were otherwise. All the aircraft required were made available. However I will inquire from my Department whether a request was received or whether an offer was made to the Department of Defence by the United States authorities. 
I come now to the second part of the honourable member's question, which was in keeping with the usual way in which he directs a question in this House. The Treasurer and myself, as the Acting Prime Minister at that time, immediately went to Brisbane when it was made known to us that certain discussions were necessary as a result of representations made by the Queensland Premier and the Queensland Treasurer,  Sir Gordon  Chalk. The Treasurer and I went to Brisbane and had long discussions with both the Premier of Queensland and the Treasurer of Queensland. I think they were very satisfactory discussions from the point of view of the people of Queensland, as outlined and indicated a short time ago by the Treasurer. During my discussions with the Premier and the Treasurer of Queensland it was indicated to me that it might be advisable for me as the Acting Prime Minister to look at the problem in greater detail, that is, to look at the result of the flood in the Gulf country and particularly in Mount Isa where people were experiencing difficulties. The Minister for Social Security was to return to Canberra with me but, as a result of the representations which were made to me, I altered my itinerary and went to the Gulf country and to Mount Isa. I indicated to the officials in Mount Isa that I would be there the next day. Incidentally, on that day I covered 3,000 miles in looking at the flood problem in this area. 
The manager of Mount Isa Mines Ltd and the Mayor of Mount Isa were notified of my intended visit to that city. They met me and I heard their representations. It was during this discussion that I indicated to the Mayor and to the manager of the company that I would be prepared to recommend to the Department of Defence that engineers be provided to assist in restoring the railway line to Mount Isa, which was their greatest problem. I then conveyed that information to the Queensland Premier, and it was up to him, together with officials from Mount Isa, to determine whether that assistance was required. If it is required it will be given. I think that honourable members will be in a position to judge whether, in all the circumstances, my visit to Mount Isa was profitable or whether we should accept what was stated in the question by the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party, which I believe was designed purely to cast reflections not only on me but also on other members of this Government. 
 Following question time this afternoon I investigated the matter raised by the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  concerning what he described as an offer by the United States Government to provide helicopters and helicopter crews to help in flood relief work. The facts are these: On 31 January  Mr Harrop,  the American Charge d'Affaires, telephoned  Mr Alan  Renouf, Secretary, Department of Foreign Affairs, and indicated to him that he thought that the United States could be prepared to send from Hawaii or the Philippines a number of Chinook helicopters to assist with flood relief in Queensland or New South Wales.  Mr Harrop  said it was probable that the United States would help us if there was a real need for the assistance. If this need could be demonstrated the United States itself would most probably 'come to the party' but it would do so only in this case. On 1 February the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet informed me of the indication of help from the United States. I was also informed that the Department of Defence advised that there was no real need for the assistance as Navy Wessex helicopters held in reserve had not yet been called upon for assistance. It was proposed to thank the United States Embassy for the offer and to say that the Royal Australian Air Force had been able to cope with all needs so far. This was done. 
I understand that 3 days later the Acting Director of Civil Defence discussed future air transport requirements with the Director of the New South Wales State Emergency Services and the officer in charge of Queensland Police operations. Both indicated the future requirements that they saw and the Director of Joint Staff informed my Department that these likely commitments for fixed and rotary wing aircraft were well within Australian Services' capacities in view of the fact that the Navy resources of both Wessex and Iroquois helicopters, although available, had not yet been deployed or required for flood relief tasks. The action of the United States Charge d'Affaires was most commendable but I am sure honourable members will agree that the indication of assistance should not have been taken up unless we were unable to cope with the situation from our own resources. 
 Of course the answer is yes. As I indicated to the House yesterday, we all acknowledge the contribution made by members of the Services, very often in trying circumstances, during the disaster in Queensland. They should not be penalised in any way. I appreciate the honourable member's suggestion. I will have the matter examined - I hope, sympathetically. 
The honourable member is in error in suggesting that a new army base is to be built in Western Australia. This is not factual. What has been under consideration within the Department of Defence - I have been interested in this project - is the acquisition of an area of land in the Yampi Sound district. That area of land would be used for training purposes. As the honourable member knows, the Government has determined as a result of the recommendations contained in the strategic base document that we would be devoting our attention to the defence of continental Australia. In these circumstances there would be requirement for training other than jungle training. Naturally the most suitable area for this purpose would be in Western Australia and for this reason I have been investigating the acquisition of a large area of land, as I have said, in the Yampi Sound area. Discussions have been under way for some considerable time. I hope that I will be able to make an announcement in the near future. Indeed, I had arranged some time ago to make a personal visit during March to look at the area and to discuss the situation and the possibility of acquisition with the Western Australian Government, the local authorities concerned and the Army authorities in that area. 
The honourable membe is referring to the strategic bases document. 
Well, I think that he is connecting that with the DDL project. Perhaps I should ask the honourable member to repeat his question. 

 - Mr Speaker- 

I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. I acknowledge that I did ask my Department - I think quite properly - for statistics concerning the contribution of the Services during the disaster in Queensland. Those statistics were supplied to me. It is unfortunate that I did not have them immediately available in the course of answering the question. I expect that the Leader of the Opposition, despite his inference, has been in the same position on a number of occasions. I make no apology for that. What I did do was to give to this House a very frank understanding of the cost of the contribution that had been made by the Services in Queensland. Again, of course, the honourable member for Wannon wants to sneer but that is understandable. Honourable gentlemen on the opposite side of the House did, I think, treat this as a matter of very great amusement, which it certainly is not to me or to other honourable members on this side of the House. What I wanted to do was to pay a tribute to those who had served in this way, as I have said on other occasions- 
... in circumstances I think in many instances beyond the call of normal service duty. 
Very well,  Mr Speaker.  I think that I concluded on a note on which the House would have wanted me to conclude. Implicit in the question asked by the honourable member for Brisbane was the need for my answer to pay that tribute and indeed to express our sympathy in respect of those who had lost their lives during this period. 
I have pointed out to the House before that the strategic basis document was compiled by the Defence Committee. Its membership embraced the Secretary of the Department of Defence, the  Chairman  of the Chiefs of Staff Committee, the Chief of the Naval Staff, the Chief of the General Staff, the Chief of the Air Staff, the Secretary of the Prime Minister's Department, the Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary of the Department of Foreign Affairs. So the honourable member will appreciate that this was a wide ranging committee which comprised not only the top members of the defence forces but indeed the secretaries of the Department of Foreign Affairs, the Department of the Treasury and the Prime Minister's Department as well. 
A co-author of the report, of course, was  Sir Richard  Peek who had a long and distinguished career in the Navy. He was a co-author of and a signatory to the report. I received no dissenting comment to the report from  Sir Richard  Peek. 
Pursuant to section 82 of the Repatriation Act 1920-1973, I present the reports of War Pension Entitlement Appeal Tribunals Nos 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 for the year ended 30 June 1973. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  I seek leave to make a statement. 
 The Honourable member for Henty  (Mr Fox)  has raised a number of questions. One is a matter for the consideration of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones),  one is for myself and the third and fourth matters are for the attention of the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden).  Perhaps I might refer briefly to the question affecting the Minister for Social Security, although I have no doubt that the Minister will provide the honourable member for Henty with a suitable reply. The honourable membei for Henty referred to the fact that this Government has provided financial assistance to amputees. He acknowledged that fact and then raised the question of assistance to paraplegics. One might ask why the honourable member, who was a supporter of the previous Government for some years, did not in the first instance acknowledge representations which were made by honourable members on this side of the House when we were in opposition for assistance to be provided to amputees and the provision of assistance to paraplegics. 
However, I am sure that the Minister for 'Social Security will sympathetically consider the honourable member's request. I acknowledge that the honourable member for Henty has always shown some interest in questions of social security; I would want to concede that. The question that he raised for the consideration of the Minister for Transport will no doubt also be considered by that Minister. 
Let me turn to the other matter raised by the honourable member for Henty which related to the future of the Butterworth Air Base. I think the honourable member should understand that the air base at Butterworth and its future are matters for the Malaysians to determine. We have no jurisdiction at all in these matters. However, I am sure the honourable member will be aware that, during his speech only a few days ago, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  in speaking on foreign affairs, indicated to this Parliament and to the nation that we will retain the 2 Mirage squadrons which are based at Butterworth while their needs are relevant to our 2 nations and to our region. Prior to that statement I had indicated that, as a result of my discussions with the Malaysians, the 2 squadrons of Mirage aircraft would remain at Butterworth until at least 1975 when the position would be reviewed. 
The fact remains that if in 1975 it is decided as a result of discussions between the 2 governments that there is a need for the Mirage aircraft to remain after that date, they will continue to remain in the area. Again, this is a matter for the Malaysians to determine. I think the honourable member for Henty should understand that if the Malaysians request that the Mirage aircraft should be removed from Butterworth, we would have no alternative but to return them to Australia. In answer to the matter raised by the honourable member, may I give him an assurance that, until the review in 1975, there will be no question about the Mirage aircraft remaining at Butterworth. As I have already indicated to the honourable member, there will be a review in that year. The honourable member began his speech by saying that he regarded this as a rumour. Well, it is a rumour and no more than a rumour. Only a few days ago it was made quite clear by the Prime Minister and by me that we have determined that the Mirage aircraft will remain in that area. Of course, the reasons for this are well known. We believe that through them we are making a very valuable contribution in this region. 
But the honourable member should understand, as I have pointed out, that if the Malaysian Government requested the Australian Government to return the Mirage squadrons to Australia we would have no alternative but to accede to its request. It is not likely to do that. During my discussions with the Prime Minister and the Minister for Defence in Malaysia it was quite clear that they wanted the Mirage aircraft to remain there. That is the position. I am glad that the honourable member acknowledged that this could be a rumour. It is a rumour and no more than a rumour. 
The other matter which the honourable member for Henty raised is in relation to a yacht club in the vicinity of the Butterworth air base. I have no knowledge of this, but I am sure that the honourable member will appreciate that, if there is any doubt or any problem in relation to a yacht club and if he asks me to investigate the problem, I will do so. As I pointed out in relation to the other matter, I would think that this is no more than a rumour. The honourable member ought to be able to assure those who have contacted him on this matter that they have no reason to be concerned about the future of the Mirage squadrons or the yacht club until at least 1975 when the matter is to be reviewed as a result of a decision of the Malaysian Government and the Australian Government. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Moose adjourned at 10.57 p.m. 
I move: 
That the Bill be  now  read a second time. 
As you know,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  in little more than a year the Government has done more for repatriation pensioners than any other previous government did. The Bill currently before the House is designed to give legislative effect to further improvements in pension rates to bring them in line with or move them towards the levels promised by the Government. In fact the special (T &amp; PI) rate will again be equal to the adult Australian minimum wage and the general rate will now move further towards 50 per cent of that wage. There will also be substantial increases in pensions payable to war widows. In addition to the increases in war pensions, there will also be increases in Service pension rates that flow automatically from proposals that my colleague the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  has already announced. 
The opportunity will be taken in this Bill to abolish the payment of special compensation allowance which was introduced by the previous Government in  1968  and which this Government considers to be an anomaly in the present pensioning structure. Provision has been made in the Bill to permit members of repatriation boards to be appointed or reappointed for a specific period not exceeding  2  years. Currently, members of boards cannot hold office for a term of less than  2  years. This has created problems where it has been necessary to appoint members for short terms. The Bill will not affect the tenure of office of members of boards holding office before the commencement of the new provision. The Bill also provides that in future the salaries and allowances paid to members of statutory authorities set up under the Repatriation Act will be fixed by the Remuneration Tribunal established under the Remuneration Tribunals Act. At present the members of these bodies receive such remuneration as is determined by the Governor-General. The amendments made by the Bill preserve the existing salaries of these persons pending a determination by the Tribunal. I will now outline to the House in more detail the increases proposed and the other provisions of the Bill. 
The Special Rate War Pension 
This Bill provides for an increase of  $4.50  a week in the special (T and PI) rate, taking it from  $55.60  to  $60.10  a week, once again bringing this class of pension to the current level of the adult minimum wage. The special (T and PI) rate pension is also payable to the war blinded, certain sufferers from pulmonary tuberculosis and to those who are temporarily totally incapacitated. About  20,000  will receive the proposed increase of  $4.50  a week at a cost of  $4.  3m in a full year. I might add that war pensioners are not subject to income tax, so that the real value of the special rate is in excess of equivalent earnings. In addition, some pensioners may also be eligible for the recreation transport allowance, the attendant's allowance and certain other fringe benefits. Therefore, the weekly income of these pensioners is well in excess of the net value of the minimum wage after tax. 
The Intermediate Rate War Pension 
The intermediate rate pension is designed to compensate those who, because of service related incapacity, are able to work only part time or intermittently. It is proposed to increase this pension by $2.25 a week, taking it from $38.80 to $41.05 a week. 
The General Rate Pension 
The policy of the Government is that the general rate pension should be equivalent to 50 per cent of the minimum wage. The proposed increase in this pension will take its level closer to our goal. It should be remembered that about 190,000 ex-servicemen and women receive their pension under this rate at percentages ranging from 10 to 100. Consequently, while it is the intention of the Government to restore the value of this pension, it must be done progressively. As you know,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  in the last 15 months, the general rate will have been increased on 3 occasions. This is in marked contrast to the record of the previous Government, which left this particular pension unchanged for 8 years. 
The Bill provides for an increase in this rate of $3 a week from $19 a week to $22 a week at the 100 per cent level. There will be corresponding increases at lower levels. The cost of this increase for a full year will be $ 12.3m. As I mentioned earlier, in conjunction with these increases it is proposed to abolish the special compensation allowance. Although most pensioners currently receiving this allowance at the maximum rate did not receive an increase in the Budget and will not under this Bill, I should mention that they will not suffer any reduction in the amount of compensation they presently receive. After the allowance has been eliminated, they will thereafter participate in general rate increases in the same way as all other general rate pensioners. 
The War Widow's Pension 
The Government's program in this area is to ensure that, by means of progressive increases, a war widow is adequately compensated for the loss of her breadwinner as a result of service related causes. As a further step in our program it is proposed in this Bill to increase the war widow's pension rate by $3 a week from $23 a week to $26 a week. As honourable members are aware, a war widow may also receive a domestic allowance if she has a child, including a student child, or if she is 50 years of age or is permanently unemployable. Approximately 97 per cent of war widows receive the domestic allowance, which is currently payable at $9.50 a week. I should also like to point out to honourable members that, in addition to the war widow's pension and the domestic allowance, about 21,000 war widows also receive part age or invalid pensions. The cost in a full year of the proposed increase in the basic war widow's pension will be $7.9m, affecting approximately 50,000 widows. 
Service Pensions Generally 
The proposed increases in age and invalid pensions foreshadowed by my colleague the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  will, under the provisions of the Repatriation Act 1920-1973, automatically flow on to Service pensions. There is no necessity to amend the Repatriation Act to provide for the proposed increases of $3 a week for a single person and $2.50 a week for each of a married couple. The proposed increases will take the maximum Service pension to $26 a week for a single person and to a combined total of $45.50 a week for a married couple. The cost of these increases will be $13.4m for a full year. 
Date of Effect 
The Bill provides that the increased rates of payment will be effected from the first pension pay after royal assent. 
Cost of Increased Pensions 
The total cost of increases to which I have referred is estimated to be $8.8m for the remainder of this financial year. 
Appropriation 
The Bill appropriates the Consolidated Revenue Fund to the extent necessary to provide during the current year the additional payments to which it gives effect. It gives me considerable pleasure to introduce this legislation. It represents further steps in the Government's program adequately to compensate those who have served in the defence force of this country and their dependants. Contrary to continuing and unfounded rumours, the Bill confirms the Government's continuing and vital interest in the welfare of those who have served their country. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Chipp)  adjourned. 
If the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  sits down I will tell him. He is taking up the time of the House unnecessarily. I appreciate the co-operation that has been shown by the Opposition in relation to the legislation which has been introduced tonight. The honourable member knows that the Bills which have been introduced tonight are complementary Bills and that it will be necessary to get the Repatriation Bill 1974 through at the same time as the Social Services Bill 1974. The Bill that the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  is about to introduce is the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Bill 1974. Again, it is complementary to the Repatriation Bill. The Government appreciates the co-operation that has been shown in this respect. I believe that there are honourable members on both sides of the House who agree that the procedure which I have suggested should be followed, that is, that the debate on each Bill should be adjourned and that each Bill should be taken separately, except in the case of the last 2 Bills, namely, the Repatriation Bill and the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Bill, which can be taken concurrently. 
We will get the lot. The Government appreciates the Opposition's co-operation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The House will now proceed to the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Bill. 
in reply - A number of points have been raised by members of the Opposition concerning the Repatriation Bill which I introduced into this House last night. The first thing I want to say is that we appreciate the fact that there has been an element of co-operation by the Opposition in allowing the passage of the legislation. The honourable member for Indi  (Mr Holten)  complained about the restricted time for the debate. He said that this had curtailed debate on the Repatriation Bill. But if he had studied the Hansards for the last two or three years he would have known that on every occasion Repatriation Bills were introduced I, as the spokesman for the then Opposition on Repatriation matters, immediately allowed the passage of the legislation. It was introduced and debated on the same day. It is interesting to note that when the previous Government was in office repatriation legislation was introduced only during the Budget session. When those who now sit on the other side of the House had the responsibility for government repatriation legislation was never introduced at any time except during the Budget session. Therefore the honourable member knows the position only too well. 
I want to pass on to a matter which was raised by the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King).  The honourable member has spoken consistently in this Parliament on repatriation matters. When he spoke as a supporter of the previous government I always thought that he did so fairly and constructively. I think that he spoke today in much the same vein. The honourable member quoted at great length from the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare which investigated the Repatriation Act, in particular the provisions of the Repatriation Act relating to the payment of pensions. But I want to say to the honourable member that this is a report from a Senate Committee and it has nothing to do with this House. The Committee's report is a matter for interpretation by honourable members of this House or by members of the Senate. The report has not been considered by the Government. Indeed, I persistently requested the honourable member for Indi, who was the Minister for Repatriation at the time, and his Government, to establish a committee of inquiry to investigate the Repatriation Act, particularly that section of the Repatriation Act which relates to the payment of pensions. The then Minister agreed to establish a committee of inquiry headed by  Mr Justice  Toose. Any responsible government would await the report of a committee that had been agreed to by this Parliament and which over the last 18 months or so has been investigating the Repatriation Act, what improvements ought to be made and how it ought to be adjusted. We expect that the results of that investigation will be available to the Minister for Repatriation  (Senator Bishop)  in due course. As soon as it is it will be considered by the Government and in the normal process, of course, tabled in this Parliament for the information of all honourable members. This is the report that the Government will consider. The Government is not bound to consider the report of the Senate Committee. When this matter was raised in the House I agreed that there were aspects of the report which I would not under any circumstances agree to or support as a responsible Minister of this Government. 
So let me dismiss the Senate report because we will be looking to the Toose Committee to report to this Parliament under the terms of reference that this Parliament agreed to and which I believe will enable that Committee to give comprehensive recommendations on matters relating to ex-servicemen and women in this country. I would now like to turn to a matter raised by the honourable member for Indi who had great difficulty in dealing with questions of repatriation allowances and pension increases. The honourable member was a responsible Minister in the previous government which sat back year after year and allowed the general rate pension to remain unaltered. In fact, it remained unaltered for 8 years. What did the honourable member for Indi do during that period in which there was no increase at all in the general rate pension? He was happy to pick out a small increase for those who are in receipt of compensation allowances in order that there would be the minimum amount payable to ex-servicemen in this country who suffered between 75 per cent and 100 per cent incapacity. 
As the honourable member for Barton has reminded me, only a very small number of pensioners were able to gain some increase as a result of previous legislation during that 8-year period. So what humbug it is for the honourable member to talk in this way about what his Government did about the general rate pensioner. 
The honourable member for Barton a few moments ago quoted the number of exservice men and women pensioners in this country who are in receipt of the general rate or 100 per cent pension. A study of the figures will show that a great proportion of these pensioners receive pensions below 75 per cent. I reiterate what I have said consistently in this House as the spokesman on repatriation matters for the then Opposition that I do not agree with the compensation allowance. I said that when we became the Government we would remove it because it could not be applied fairly. As 'I have said, this allowance has been applied to people in receipt of the pension in the 75 per cent to 100 per cent category. Who could justify without difficulty, in terms of a person's medical condition, without any division of opinion on the part of the ex-serviceman concerned or the doctors, whether that serviceman should receive a 70 per cent or a 75 per cent pension. I believe that this could never be done. A person in receipt of a 70 per cent pension under the previous Government received a payment of $9 less a week than a person who is on the 75 per cent rate. We have removed that injustice. 
Finally, I want to remind honourable members on the other side of the House not only that members of the previous Opposition sought the removal of the special compensation allowance, but also that this was requested by the Returned Services League itself. It was put to the former Minister for Repatriation that he should remove the allowance. As a result of this legislation the compensation allowance will now be phased out. It is true that for pensions between 75 per cent and 100 per cent there will be no increase under the terms of this legislation. As the honourable member knows the 100 per cent pension will be increased under the terms of this legislation by $3 a week giving a total increase of $8 a week and taking the pension rate to $22 a week. 
Let me turn to another point which was raised by the former Minister for Repatriation. He referred to the fact that we would raise the pension rate to 50 per cent of the minimum wage. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said in his 1972 policy speech that we would seek to bring the general rate pension up to 50 per cent of the minimum wage. There have been 3 increases in 15 months, and we are nearing that goal. The previous Government left the rate unaltered for 8 years, so I am sure the repatriation pensioners can appreciate how difficult it is to increase the pension rate to 50 per cent of the minimum wage as quickly as we would like. As I say, the rate has been increased on 3 occasions. The special rate pension is in excess of the minimum wage. It has been kept in excess of the minimum wage since we became the Government. Indeed, the first increase in the special pension rate moved the payment above the minimum wage. It was increased again in the last Budget session. The rate is still ahead of the minimum wage. The increase that has been announced in this legislation will again bring the special rate pension above the minimum wage. The point is that when we were in opposition, and now when we are in government, we have said that we would ensure that the TPI special rate pension did not fall below the minimum wage. If it falls below the minimum wage appropriate action will be taken at the appropriate time to restore the purchasing power of that pension. 
I am sure that the honourable member for Indi, in the whole of the time that he happened to be the Minister for Repatriation, certainly never received a communication such as this one which was addressed to the Prime 
Minister on 4 September 1973 by the National Secretary of the RSL. The letter reads: 
Repatriation provisions contained in the Budget coupled with improvements introduced earlier in the year have provided historic advances in the repatriation system. 
It is not the kind of letter which I received from the RSL when the honourable member was the Minister for Repatriation. At that time I received letters of condemnation. It has been said by other speakers that it is necessary for this House to pass this legislation so that it can go to the Senate this afternoon. No one would wish to retard the passage of the legislation either in this House or in the other place. I concede that this has been accepted by the honourable members from both sides of the House. 
I would like to deal with a number of other matters which have been raised. The question of repatriation boards was raised by the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett).  Those boards will not be disturbed in any way. There will be no change to repatriation tribunals, entitlement tribunals and assessment tribunals. Salaries will be fixed and determined in future by the Higher Salaries Tribunal. Appointments will still be determined by the Governor-General. The only alteration in regard to appointments to the repatriation boards is that this Bill provides for an amendment which will allow us to appoint members to a repatriation board for a period of less than 2 years. Previously the period was restricted to 2 years. That is the only alteration in this respect. I believe that as a result of the passage of this legislation - it is the third Bill introduced by me on behalf of the Minister for Repatriation in another place - the promise made by the Prime Minister in 1972 on behalf of the then Opposition will be kept. 
We have faithfully discharged our obligations to the servicemen of this country. I acknowledge and would not deny that some improvement can still be made, and we intend to do that. I believe that we should have an opportunity in many other fields of repatriation to examine recommendations that almost certainly will  bs  made. I refer in particular to the report that we expect in the near future from  Mr Justice  Toose. I believe that report will give us the opportunity to effect some of these improvements that I believe can be made generally to the Act. In terms of the rate of pensions and, indeed, our attitude towards ex-servicemen, their provisions and their facilities, I believe this Government has discharged its responsibilities in a way requested by the ex-servicemen's organisations in this country over the years. 
I think there is just one other matter that was raised by the honourable member for Indi. He referred, I thought in a wide and disparaging way, to the actions of the present Government in relation to the provision of assistance to amputees in this country. He remarked on the use of facilities of the repatriation hospitals to provide artificial limbs to anybody in this country. What the honourable gentleman does not realise and what he does not appreciate, despite the fact that he was formerly a Minister for Repatriation, is that in the repatriation hospitals there is expertise in this field which is not available in any other hospital. Why should the repatriation hospital facilities not be used for this purpose? The repatriation hospitals themselves wanted the facilities to be used to a much greater degree. After all, members of the medical staff of repatriation hospitals benefit from any extension of their services in that way, not only through providing artificial limbs but also by extending the facilities which are available and which can be provided to patients. We gain from that, the Repatriation Department gains and, certainly, the medical staff in the hospitals gain. These are all important matters. 
The honourable member raised the question of cancer. He would know 'that the action that we have taken in this matter results from a request by the RSL. The honourable member would know the reason why we provide a service to those servicemen who have had service overseas. Having been a Minister for Repatriation he would know that there are shocking cases involving exservicemen - particularly prisoners of war in the South East Asian area - and that it would be almost impossible for medical authorities to determine whether or not their cancer was war caused. We accept the proposition of the RSL. We accept its argument. We take the view that when the cause cannot be determined we should provide medical assistance. That has been done. 
The RSL not only put the proposition to the previous Government but also put it to me. 
So, this has been done. Let me conclude by paying a tribute to the present Minister for Repatriation,  Senator Bishop.  He has been the Minister for Repatriation for 15 months and one can say with justification that he has discharged his  icsponsibilities  with a compassion and feeling for the ex-servicemen of this country. I believe no other Minister for Repatriation during the past 23 years has given so much thought or consideration to the terms and conditions under which ex-servicemen ought to be treated in this country. I congratulate the Minister for the legislation which has been introduced into this Parliament on this occasion and which has been supported by honourable members from both sides of the House. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of the Royal Australian Air Force Veterans' Residences Trust for the year ended 30 June 1973. 
by leave - For the information of honourable members I present the report of the 1973 Working Party on the Defence Force Disciplinary Code. The report which has been presented to the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Murphy)  and myself by the Working Party has annexed to it a draft - and I stress the word 'draft' - prepared by the Working Party of a proposed Defence (Discipline and Justice) Bill. At present the. main disciplinary provisions relating to the Australian Services are contained in United Kingdom legislation as applied and modified by Australian legislation. Honourable members will be aware that work on the development of uniform disciplinary provisions for the Australian Services has been going on for quite a number .of years. 
Because of the different rules and procedures of the 3 Australian Services, it has  not  been easy to reach agreement on uniform disciplinary provisions. I would therefore like to pay a tribute to the  Chairman, Mr A.  R. M. Watson, and members of the Working Party who have now developed proposals for a disciplinary code which is modern in concept and which the Working Party considers to be suitable for application to the Australian defence force. At the same time I would emphasise that the report has not yet been considered by the Government. Indeed, both the Attorney-General and I 'have some reservations on the treatment given by 'the Working Party to some of the issues raised in the report. For example, we are somewhat concerned with the manner in which the Working 
Party has dealt with the obligations of servicemen in relation to obedience of superior orders and we will be giving further consideration to this question. 
However, in the interests of open government, the report is being tabled to enable honourable members and others, including members and former members of the defence force, to study the draft provisions and to submit any comments they may wish to make on them. These comments will be fully considered by the Government before formal instructions are issued to the Parliamentary Counsel for the preparation of appropriate legislation which I expect to introduce for debate during the Budget session of this Parliament. 
I present the following paper: 
Uniform Disciplinary Code - Working Party Report on Draft Bill- Ministerial Statement, 2 April 1974. 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Forbes)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Since the Government came into office the following units have been disbanded or reduced: 
Navy - The only 2 Fleet units to be paid off were HMAS Paluma (replaced by HMAS Flinders) and the ageing fleet transport HMAS Sydney. 
Army - There have been major changes in the organisation of the Army following the Report of the Hassett Committee, the end of Australian military involvement in Vietnam and the cessation of National Service. During this process of change, units have been consolidated and manpower re-allocated. The net effect has been to remove some 88 units from the Order of Battle and will be to reduce the strength of 131 units. From 1 December 1972 to 31 January 1974, the volunteer strength of the Australian Regular Army has increased from 29,669 to 30,719. 
Air - The number of Units/Squadrons disbanded is 9, of which 6 were part-time University Squadrons. Nineteen Units/Squadrons were reduced in establishment as a result of finding economies "n the use of manpower. 
The total strength as at 31 January 1974 and the authorised manning levels set for 30 June 1974 are given below: 
The Minister for Repatriation has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
320. 
(a) Nil, (b) 2, (c) 60, (d) 258. 
(a) 316, (b) 4, (c) Nil. 
The estimated cost for the 320 positions is $1,766,000 a year. 
Department of Labour: Increase in Positions  (Question No. 77) 
It will be recalled that in April 1973 I announced the establishment of an independent committee to undertake a comprehensive review of the Citizen Military Forces. My intention was to initiate for the first time in the history of the CMF a thorough review of its role, the circumstances in which it might be used in the future, its organisation, conditions of service, training, title and its geographic disposition. This review was long overdue. 
The Committee was led by  Dr T.  B. Millar, Director of the Australian Institute of 
International Affairs and a former officer in both the Regular Army and the CMF. The other members of the Committee were: Major-General D. B. Dunstan, formerly Army Chief of Materiel and now Commander of Field Force Command; Major-General K. D. Green, a recently retired CMF Divisional Commander, who is Secretary of the Premier's Department of Victoria;  Mr W.  A. Jarvis, a sociologist from the University of New South Wales;  Mr J.  G. O'Loghlin, a consulting engineer and former CMF officer, and  Colonel L.  A. Simpson of the CMF, a chartered town planner and surveyor from Hobart. At the time the inquiry was set up, I indicated that I was aware of serious problems of morale in the CMF. These problems were, and of course still are, a cause for concern. 
They are, to a large extent, the result of the lack of interest in the CMF shown by successive Liberal-Country Party governments. The abortive re-organisation into pentropic divisions in the early 'sixties played havoc with the organisation. However, the greatest damage resulted from the previous Government's attitude to the CMF during the IndoChina war. Indeed the Citizen Military Forces were a casualty of that war. They suffered not at the hands of a foreign foe but of their own Government. In 1964, legislation was enacted to permit the CMF to be called out for continuous service, by proclamation, in a time of defence emergency. However, in the Vietnam conflict, conscription was used to provide junior officers and men when the size of the volunteer Regular Army was found inadequate for the scale of involvement which that government sought. The report says: _ There is within the Citizen Military Forces, considerable resentment of the fact that they were not called to active service in Vietnam and a general lack of confidence in the national intention to employ them short of a full-scale mobilisation, which is seen as a remote possibility. This lack of purpose is a fundamental cause for many of the present problems of the organisation. 
This Government will never deploy conscripts while volunteer reservists, willing to serve, are unused. The previous government increased the injury and compounded its failure to keep faith with the CMF by making service in that organisation an alternative to conscription. Thus an organisation made up of people willing to serve their country in war were burdened with a large influx of recruits, many of whom were motivated by a desire to avoid active service. The CMF deserves better than that. It is a vital factor in Australia's ability to expand our ground forces, should a threat develop. The Committee has undertaken an extensive examination of the CMF. It has obtained evidence from a wide range of sources including the general public. It has travelled to all Australian States, visiting units of the CMF. Some members made overseas visits as well. The Committee also conducted surveys of the attitudes and views of employers, trade unions, the public at large, and current and exmembers of the CMF. 
The members of the Committee are to be congratulated and thanked for their efforts in producing the report. I am aware that they have all made many personal sacrifices in order to achieve the results I place before honourable members. This report will serve as an invaluable basis for decisions about the Citizen Military Forces, now and in the future. The CMF Committee of Inquiry's report argues persuasively for the need to make substantial changes to the role, organisation and conditions of service for the CMF. In this regard a large number of recommendations have been put forward, many of which will be implemented quickly, but some will require further consideration by the Government. Some will require legislative amendments. Regarding the Committee's general commentary on strategic factors, although there is much in the report with which everybody could agree, some judgments differ from those of the Government and its Service, defence and foreign affairs advisers. Insofar as the Committee's recommendations depend on these judgments, this aspect will need further consideration. 
The Government accepts the need for change to update the role, organisation and conditions of service of our citizen forces, which with the Australian Regular Army combine to form Australia's ground force capability. That there is a need for change is not surprising when one considers the history of the CMF against the background of other development which has occurred since its creation in its current form in 1948. In the first instance, the strategic outlook is vastly different today from what it was in 1948. Secondly, there have been large changes in the size of our population, its skills and its distribution. Thirdly, there have been major developments in our industrial base which add to our potential for mobilisation. Fourthly, there have been a number of important changes to the size, organisation, composition, experience and pay and conditions of the Regular Army. These changes have not all been taken into account for the CMF. 
The current position with the CMF is that it has no clear role. Its organisation is no longer appropriate to act properly as a reserve for the regular Army. Many of its units are not viably manned. Therefore I particularly welcome the Committee's attention to the provision of a meaningful role for the Army Reserve. It suggests that the Army Reserve be responsible with the Regular Army for the ground defence of the Australian continent, that existing roles in defence emergency or mobilisation be retained, that in the event of commitment beyond the resources of the regular Army the Army Reserve be activated as the next force to be employed and that the Army Reserve have a role in civil emergencies. There is no practical alternative to the re-shaping of the CMF, if it is to be revitalised and be of value to our defence effort. The changes to be made by the Government will be welcomed by those who are genuinely concerned with the need to protect our national interests. 
As honourable members will appreciate, the Government has had only a short time to consider the wide-ranging recommendations of the Committee. The Army and the Defence Force Development Committee have not yet had time to consider the report in the depth it deserves. The report, including the manpower and cost implications, requires further study and this is being pressed forward. 
At this stage, I have approved the following proposals made by the Committee: 
The CMF is to be more closely integrated with the Regular Army. Its units and formations are to be allocated to the functional command appropriate to their task, that is to Field Force Command, Logistic Command or Training Command. 
a Major-General CMF officer to be appointed as assistant commander Field Force Command, a MajorGeneral CMF officer to be appointed assistant commander Logistics Command, and CMF officers of the rank of Brigadier to be appointed assistant commanders at Training Command and at the First Division. The times at which these senior appointments are made will be directly related to the re-organisation of the present CMF divisional structure; 
a CMF Major-General to be appointed as Inspector General at Army Office; 
a Regular Army Major-General to head a Reserve Branch at Army Office. The creation of the new branch and this appointment will ensure that additional impetus is given to the re-organisation proposals. 
The title 'Citizen Military Forces' is to be changed to a name which more appropriately reflects its basic role and function - the 'Australian Army Reserve', or more simply 'Army Reserve'. The new Australian Army Reserve is to incorporate other Army reserves as well as the present CMF - the Regular Army Emergency Reserve, the Regular Army Reserve, the Citizen Military Forces and the retired list of former regular and CMF officers. 
These changes reflect the Government's determination that we must have one Australian Army in the 1970s - a regular component and a reserve component. The acceptance of this concept, which the Committee calls the total force concept, will give the citizen soldier a much clearer understanding of his role and place in our defence forces; it will mean that his training, function, equipment and other support will closely resemble that of the Regular Army. 
The Committee of Inquiry has obtained considerable evidence which demonstrates the current impractical situation of grossly undermanned CMF units. The fact is that, at present, many of these units are so deficient in strength that they cannot satisfactorily train. Accordingly, as proposed by the Committee, I accept as a matter of principle that units must be manned at viable levels although I hesitate to apply the suggested requirement of 70 per cent of establishment across the board without first examining whether there should not be differing requirements for different types of unit. 
This means that it will be necessary to amalgamate a large number of units. At present the CMF has some 900 units, and over 90 per cent of these are poorly manned. I assure honourable members that we will endeavour to do this in a way which will preserve the best traditions and local identities of CMF units while taking account of the present and future practicabilities of having a viable reserve army. 
These changes could come as a disappointment in some ways to members of some individual units affected. The Government is sensitive to these feelings. However, changes are necessary if the Reserve is to be more than a paper Army and be able to undertake the tasks it might be called on to carry out in the future. It is futile to continue the current practice of retaining battalions when in fact the reality is that the unit existing is something substantially less. Also, these changes must come because it is clear that many young men leave the CMF as they find the training boring, repetitive and unrealistic. The Committee has found that one very important reason for this is that units are so badly undermanned that it is not possible to provide realistic training at the level required. 
The Committee has recommended a number of other important organisation changes including the creation of an Army Reserve Council and a Committee of Employer Support. I recognise there would be value in having such bodies, but before finally approving their establishment I wish further consideration to be given to their precise composition and role. I have ordered that this be done expeditiously. 
Turning to the question of pay and conditions of service, the Committee has recommended a large number of improvements and changes. I accept the need for improvements and I want improvements implemented as quickly as possible. The Committee's recommendations on pay and conditions will be given careful consideration in the appropriate Government machinery. Of course, such matters, involve other portfolios as well as defence, and it will be necessary for me to consult with my colleague the Treasurer  (Mr Crean),  and other appropriate Ministers. 

 Mr Speaker, let me assure you that there must be no doubt that this Government is determined to improve the CMF. It will give this country a reorganised CMF, which is not only attractive to the young men and women who wish to serve in it, but with the Regular Army will also provide a viable base for expansion should this be necessary in the future. Let me be quite clear that the CMF- in future to be known as the Army Reserve - is an essential and honoured component of the Australian Army. 
The Committee will present to me in a few weeks' time a separate report on the school cadets. I shall table this at an appropriate time. The House will remember that I did ask the Millar. Committee to take into consideration, at the same time as it was investigating the role of the CMF, the future role of the school cadets and other bodies. 
The Committee is currently dealing with this situation and, as I have indicated to the House - and I will repeat it for the benefit of the honourable member - the report will be presented to me in a few weeks time. I have no knowledge of what the recommendations are at this time. But I assure the honourable member that the report will be tabled as soon as possible. I present the following paper: 
Report of the Committee of Inquiry into the CMFMinisterial Statement, 4 April 1974. 
Motion (by  Mr Enderby)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
Recently I have made a number of statements concerning the defence of continental Australia and, more particularly, Western Australia. I think the honourable member would be aware of the statements that have been made on this matter. I turn to the long range maritime patrol aircraft. In this respect I inform the honourable member that the question of the location of Navy, Army and Air Force bases in Australia is under consideration, and has been under consideration for some time. The report on this matter has now been completed and is available for my consideration, together with the Defence Force Development Committee. Naturally, what should happen in relation to the future of the long range maritime patrol aircraft will be taken into consideration at the same time as that report is evaluated. 
I will he making a statement to the House- 
Either today or tomorrow, probably tomorrow, on defence. The question that the honourable member has raised will be dealt with in that statement. But perhaps at this stage I could point out to him that I did earlier - in point of fact, on the date that he referred to - indicate that there would he a destroyer program. Cabinet had approved a destroyer program at that time and that destroyers would be built in Australia. It was then necessary, as a result of the consideration being given to the destroyer program, for destroyers in other parts of the world to be evaluated. This was done. 
The Defence Force Development Committee made a recommendation to me. It has recommended, as I announced last night, that  we  purchase  2  patrol frigates from the United States of America. This will mean that there will be patrol frigates in service- in Australia much earlier than would have been possible if the DDL program had been proceeded with. In any case, it would not have been possible to proceed with the DDL program, having regard to the fact that the cost had escalated from approximately $355m at the time of the previous Government to a figure certainly in excess of $400m at this time. It was not possible to proceed with that program. The patrol frigates will be in use in Australia in 1980. This means that the patrol frigates will he available for the Royal Australian Navy much earlier than vessels would have been available if we had proceeded with the DDL program or had decided to build the ships in Australia. 
May I say in relation to this program that it was' necessary to look at the question of where the destroyers should be built on the basis of the availability of a work force in Australia. As a result of the recent decision which I made to refit the River class destroyers and to update some other destroyers, the work load at Williamstown and Cockatoo dockyards will be sufficient to keep the work force fully employed until 1980 and probably beyond that time. In these circumstances a decision to build destroyers in Australia, which would have cost S30m more than if purchased from the US, would have meant a redistribution of the workload and the work force both at Williamstown and Cockatoo Dockyards. 
by leave - I wish this afternoon to say something about the strategic prospects and the conceptual thinking which underlie this Government's approach to defence; to announce some particular equipment decisions which have been taken by the Government; and to touch on a number of other areas of defence activity and of developments in our defence relations with our neighbours and allies. 
I shall begin by restating some of the fundamental factors which govern the allocation of national resources to defence and among various defence objectives. The start point is the current strategic forecast, and the implications we may draw from this for the kind of defence capability required in our Services and production facilities. Then we must take account of the rate of obsolescence of existing equipments and the time needed to bring new equipments and capabilities into being. The development of new technology and of Australia's defence industry will have a bearing. In present circumstances, it is central to our thinking that we decide upon a size for the force and level of skills and equipment which give an assured basis for expansion if and when the threat situation deteriorates. Overall decisions must be taken within realistic resource limits which pay heed to other national objectives and government policies- 
Flowing from these considerations the Secretary of Defence,  Chairman  of the Chiefs of Staff and the Chiefs of Staff of the 3 Services collectively prepare a draft 5-year defence plan for my consideration. This, sets out, by years of expenditure, the levels for defence manpower works, stores, maintenance, industrial support, research and development effort and new equipment acquisition which in their judgment should have first claim on the finance over the succeeding 5 years. On this basis I determine what specific projects I shall recommend to Cabinet for approval. Such a program has been drafted and presented to me for 1974-1979. 
When I spoke to the Parliament last August about the strategic prospect, I said that our situation (was) favourable and that various important factors and trends in the international situation (supported) Australian security into the longer term'. I said: 'We can, at this stage, responsibly look to the future in reasonable confidence that no significant requirement is likely to arise for the operational commitment of our forces. We believe that any change (in our strategic situation) would take time and would allow us to develop the response necessary'. 
These statements were firmly based on the advice of the Defence Committee, which had recently reviewed long-term prospects and policy. The Committee consists, I remind the House, of the Secretary of the Defence Department, the  Chairman  of the Chiefs of Staff Committee, the three Chiefs of Staff and the Secretaries of the Departments of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, Foreign Affairs and the Treasury. The Director of the Joint Intelligence Organisation was also present at the Defence Committee's considerations. The Defence Committee also emphasised that uncertainty increases over long-term assessment, and that continuous monitoring and regular review of strategic developments and prospects are essential if the Government is to be apprised of any unfavourable developments in time for it to make any necessary adjustments to our defence posture. The House will recall that in August I said there were bound to be uncertainties about the future, particularly about the latter part of such a long 15-year period. 
Our defence policy is not geared simply to some specific threat or pressure against Australia's national security or immediate strategic interests. Obviously we could not accept such a risk of unpreparedness. However, threat does not arise readily or without warning. It is the product of a complex combination of capability, motivation and opportunity. Our approach is therefore one of response to developing circumstances from which we assess pressures or an actual threat could later emerge and mature. By such response we would aim progressively to influence the circumstances which might lead to ultimate threat, to deter such threat should it nevertheless take shape, and to be ready in time to deal with it should our policy fail to avert it. Clearly, with this approach Australia needs to maintain reliable strategic associations with a number of countries, so as both to enlarge our influence over strategic developments and to provide for co-operation in any future contingency. In this connection the defence force in being should be adequate to indicate our resolution and our ability to defend Australian interests and to support others, should the need arise. In times of low-threat probability, as at present, the basic concept is that of a viable core force capable of timely expansion. 
As to the nature of this core force, our geographical position as an island continent, with- a vast oceanic and archipelagic environment, suggests some fundamental defence requirements and skills to be developed and preserved in all 3 Services. Developing military technology and Australian technological strength also give guidance. The force will not be manpower-intensive, and should continue to contain a core of sophisticated military components and skills. It should contain some offensive capability. Our continuing study of the concepts and problems of a continental defence, although an attack upon Australian territory is a remote contingency, will also provide useful guidance for the type of defence force we should hold in readiness against a later requirement for expansion. 
I mentioned the increasing uncertainty in our strategic assessments the further ahead we try to look. Our defence policy and force structure must have regard to this. However I do not share the attitude, apparent in some public comment on our defence posture, that change in our strategic environment means that we shall necessarily be less secure, and that we must now act on the assumption that, when uncertainties resolve, things will be worse. We have external developments under continuous review, and I see no reasons at this time to modify the strategic prospect that I presented last year. I shall not be pushed into much larger demands on the taxpayer to satisfy those who are either unwilling or unable to state a case for defence expenditure that we may all examine and debate, but rely instead on vague assertions about future possibilities of threat and shaky analogies from the past. 
The view of this Government and its advisers is clear, and is based on conclusions reached after close consideration of a wide range of complex factors. Let me state our perspective again in very summary form. Because of various factors, but above all the compelling restraints of the nuclear balance, the long term prospect for global stability and avoidance of general war and for the limitation of local conflicts remains favourable. In this situation, but also because of other factors, such as our relative remoteness and noninvolvement, the prospect of direct strategic pressure against Australian interests by a major power, as distinct from possible political pressures, remains remote. No regional power has or is likely to acquire for many years the capability and motive that might require an Australian defence response. The possibility of low-level situations on relatively short notice, for example in our maritime resources zone, continues; insofar as these were not susceptible to political handling, they must be met by our defence force in being. 
All these situations could change. But there are substantial factors sustaining them that strongly suggest that radical change is unlikely, and that it would be unlikely to happen suddenly. Of course the strategic situation' is not static. We can expect global and regional competition and tension to continue, arid regional conflicts to break out. But new developments, and the degree to which they are likely to involve Australia, must be assessed. They are not sufficient reasons in themselves for us to place the Services on a higher level of armament, as some critics would have us do. A major feature of last October's conflict in the Middle East from our strategic point of view was the manner in which the United States of America and the Soviet Union successfully managed the crisis in their relations and used their influence to limit the conflict. 
This outlook does not mean that we can simply sit back and rely on the ANZUS Treaty. This Government would not want to take that attitude. Our alliance and working defence relationship with the United States continue important of course - in terms of the global balance, of our regional standing, of the long-term contingency of serious deterioration in our strategic situation, and of defence force in several important practical respects. But we are now required by strategic and international political developments - and we ourselves wish - to deal on our own with any local situations that may arise, to assert an independent strategic influence, and to pursue political- policies more independently of United States views and interests. Therefore, we must keep in being a viable national defence force with manifest capability for expansion, and maintain its development at the modest rate now required by the assumption of larger national responsibility, by the current strategic guidance, and by longer term uncertainties. It is against this background that the 5-year defence plan is prepared and specific proposals are brought forward each year for approval. This planning process readily permits adjustments if any change in circumstances is indicated by our regular strategic reviews. 
As I have previously stated in this House, the low threat probability at present requires some restructuring of the defence force and economies in some areas of defence. This I have been vigorously pursuing, as I have made clear in the Parliament and elsewhere. It was essential that reductions be achieved in manpower, with all the savings which follow in pay and allowances and general running and administration costs. But even after the manpower economies I announced in August, defence Service manpower will still be 39 per cent above the 1963 level. Again I am pruning back on the accumulation of excess stocks. We simply cannot go on wasting resources first of all in new production and then in the storage of over-large stocks for which there is no prospective use in present circumstances. All this is being achieved without impairing in any significant way our real defence capability. The aim is by efficient and economical management to reduce expenditure on maintenance and current consumption so that resources may be freed for capital purposes, particularly for the acquisition of necessary new equipments which are the basis of our defence capability in the decades ahead. 
The 5-year forward defence plan which has been prepared by the Secretary of the Department of Defence, the  Chairman  of the Chiefs of Staff Committee and the Chiefs of Staff - the Defence Force Development Committee - accords with the principles I have been outlining. The plan contemplates the allocation of very substantial resources to defence to ensure an adequate defence capability - approximately $8,000 in 1974 prices over the 5- year period 1974-79. The plan provides for a shift of resources from consumption and maintenance spending to spending on investment and durable capital items, namely new equipment and infrastructure of bases, training and educational facilities, more efficient storeholding, and living and working accommodation that accords with community standards. Some 25 new major works proposals are included with costs ranging from $lm to $20m as well as very many lesser proposals with a substantial total cost. 
The determination of a proper equipment program, with items that satisfy the strategic needs of the present and form a basis for projected future needs is a complex matter. We need to identify the force capabilities relevant to Australia's future strategic circumstances; to conduct analytical studies of the kinds of weapons and equipments which would best provide those capabilities; and to put these into a total equipment program which takes account of the long lead times and the long life times of major equipments and brings forward projects for decision at the right time. The House knows that the Government has already reached a decision on 3 major items of procurement. There has been no attempt, of course, to deal with the actual items of procurement themselves. There has been some discussion about the timing of the announcement of the procurement of the items to which I have referred. I want to say something on that. 
As the Opposition knows, its threat to withhold Supply in the Senate was made only last week; yet 3 weeks ago I told the House of Representatives that these decisions would be announced in April. Three weeks ago I announced in this House that I would be making a decision on. major items of procurement and would inform the Parliament of it. Previous Ministers for Defence who are now members of the Opposition should know that destroyer and long range maritime patrol aircraft submissions had long been in preparation for last year's Budget. In both cases I suggested that the proposals should be revised. That was done and recommendations were made to me by the Defence Force Development Committee on 28 March. I accepted the recommendations. They were approved by Cabinet on 7 April. 
The attempts of Opposition spokesmen to dismiss those decisions as electioneering displays either a woeful ignorance of the processes of defence decision-making or a contemptuous view of the gullibility of the Australian public. 
Honourable members will recall that in August last year the Government endorsed a new destroyer program for the Navy with a decision to be made after further investigation of suitable ships. Officers of my Department started these further investigations in September 1973. After much hard work the group reported in early March. The work of this group was reviewed by the Defence Force Development Committee, which, on 28 March, submitted its final recommendations for the 1974-79 defence program, including the decision to purchase the ships at this stage. 
Since coming to office I have repeatedly criticised my predecessors for failing to replace the Army's tanks. That would save millions of dollars each year in maintenance costs as well as give the Army more modern equipment. The Army has been evaluating tanks since 1970. However, the previous Government received no recommendation from its Minister for Defence on tank replacements. It simply was not interested in efficiency. 1 received a recommendation from the Defence Force Development Committee on 28 March confirming the ability to include the replacement of tanks in the 5-year defence program. In the case of all the equipment decisions reached by the Government the Defence Force Development Committee recommendation preceded the Opposition's decision to deny Supply. In the case of all these decisions the Defence Force Development Committee was able to draw on the results of extremely detailed studies that were conducted and carried out by Service personnel and officers of the Department of Defence. The Opposition pays those people a gratuitous insult by stating that those defence decisions were made simply as a last minute electoral expediency. 
In some cases where equipment can be purchased from various manufacturers on competitive terms I have declined to name a particular brand so as to maximise the Government's purchasing position. The decisions that have been announced are not the be-all of the Government's determination to redevelop the Services. However, our decisions will be made only after rigorous analysis and announcements will be made only after proper consideration of the work of my advisers. I compliment all those involved in enabling the series of decisions to be reached for the very hard work that they have done. 
Honourable members will recall that last year I suspended action for the purchase of a number of major equipment items, particularly the new destroyers for the Royal Australian Navy. I was not satisfied that studies had been made in sufficient depth or that all the possible alternatives had been looked at. Following further detailed investigation of this and other projects, the Government has taken decisions in respect of three major equipment proposals recommended to me by the Defence Force Development Committee. The decisions are to acquire destroyers for the Royal Australian Navy, long range maritime patrol aircraft for the Royal Australian Air Force, and armour for the Australian Army. 
The Government did not agree last year to go ahead with the previous Government's destroyer program - the so-called DDL - because it was too uncertain in risk and too high in cost. But the Government did endorse the need for a new destroyer program for the Royal Australian Navy and the investigation of alternatives. These investigations have now been completed. The capabilities of some 50 or 60 representative ships in all, ranging in size from about 500 tonnes to 5,000 tonnes, have been studied. 
The Government has accepted the recommendation of the Defence Force Development Committee that we should, as the first step, acquire 2 destroyers of United States design, known as the patrol frigate, and the Government has agreed that negotiations should be opened with the United States Government for this purpose. Further proposals will later be necessary for the acquisition of additional destroyers of a type to be determined at the time. 
The patrol frigate ship design has resulted . from an extremely well researched development program. Assuming congressional authorisations, a production run of 50 ships in the United States is expected by the Administration. The main armament consists of a missile system which can launch either surface to air or surface to surface missiles. Each ship can also carry 2 helicopters for surveillance and attack roles. These capabilities are at present somewhat deficient in other units of the Australian fleet. The ship will also have a 76mm gun and anti-submarine torpedo tubes and provision for fitting at a later stage a close-in weapon system for point defence against aircraft or missiles. The selection of the patrol frigate will result in earlier introduction of new destroyers into service with the Royal Australian Navy than would have been the case with the DDL project. 
It is proposed that the 2 patrol frigates be procured in the United States with a considerable cost saving. This would also ease the problem of overload of work on Williamstown dockyard which would otherwise occur. Indeed, the present program for the 3 dockyards doing naval work - Williamstown, Garden Island and Cockatoo - is by about 1976 expected to be very heavy. This is because of the normal program of ship and submarine refits, the modernisation of 4 River class destroyers recently approved, the construction of guided missile destroyers, the construction of the oceanographic ship also recently approved, the planned extended refit to HMAS 'Melbourne', and other possible work. If the- construction of 2 destroyers were added, the resources of the 3 dockyards would be overtaxed. Without destroyer construction for Williamstown, and with re-scheduled work between the dockyards, a reasonably steady workload is achieved at Williamstown and Garden Island dockyards by early 1975 through to at least 1980. This workload would be equal to or more than the productive capability of the present work force, and at Williamstown in particular would require a build-up in production labour of about 25 per cent. 
I turn now to our maritime aircraft needs. Given Australia's ocean-archipelago environment, long range maritime patrol aircraft are a necessary part of Australia's force structure at all times for both military and civil purposes. We at present have one squadron of 10 modern Lockheed Orion aircraft and one squadron of 12 obsolescent Neptune aircraft. The latter will reach the end of their life in 1977. On the basis of advice from the Defence Force Development Committee, the Government has decided that the Neptune aircraft will be replaced by 8 modern long range maritime aircraft of a type to be decided. The competitors are the United States P3 type and the British Nimrod. Negotiations will commence immediately. The new aircraft will have a very substantial advantage in speed, endurance and other performance characteristics over the Neptunes, and one-for-one replacement is not justified. It is planned that the Australian BARRA sonobuoy system for detecting sub marines and ships be fitted to the selected aircraft. 
The utility of these aircraft for military purposes is well understood. Honourable members may also be aware of the substantial contribution that long range maritime patrol aircraft make in the support of civil needs. I have recently instructed that no less than 800 hours per annum of maritime aircraft flying shall be available in support of civil surveillance needs. In addition, over 500 hours are usually flown each year on civil search and rescue missions, and maritime aircraft assist in scientific research. Detailed studies have shown that the maritime aircraft force decided on will be adequate for these purposes as well as for the military purposes of the aircraft. 
Modern armour is essential for the Australian Army as part of an adequate ground force capability. The Army's present Centurion tanks are almost at the end of their useful life. The Army's fire support vehicles, of which it has only 15 of an interim type, likewise have operational and training deficiencies, and the numbers are inadequate. The desirable characteristics of various types of armoured vehicles have been the subject of detailed study in Army and in the Defence Department. It has been decided that there is a continuing need for both medium tanks and fire support vehicles, which would be complemented by armoured personnel carriers already in Army inventory in sufficient numbers. The Government has accordingly approved as a first step the acquisition of 53 modern medium tanks of a type yet to be decided. The competitors are the German Leopard' and the American M60 tanks, both of which have been evaluated in Australia. Contractual negotiations will be entered into immediately. It is contemplated that further tanks may be acquired at a later stage. The Government has also accepted a proposal for the acquisition of 45 modern fire support vehicles by mating the United Kingdom manufactured Scorpion turret to the armoured personnel carriers already in Army inventory: the Army has adequate armoured personnel carriers for this purpose. 
This round of equipment decisions - and of course more will follow under the 1974-79 program that provides for some 40 equipment decisions spread over 5 years - accords with the total Defence Plan, the strategic prospect, the capabilities needed, the equipment going out of service, military doctrines and technology, and the resources available. The Defence 
Plan will call for later definite decisions on further equipments. These include, for example, a fast combat support ship for the Navy. It will be recalled that I directed study of a less complex and less costly ship, and the Navy is developing a proposal. There is low level anti-aircraft capability on which I expect the Government to take a decision in the coming year after analysis is complete. The replacement of the Mirage aircraft which make up our tactical fighter force will probably require decisions within 2 or 3 years - but not now. The future of naval aviation has been intensively studied. No decisions should be taken now, but a better estimate is needed of the possible life of HMAS 'Melbourne' and advantage will be taken of a forthcoming major refit to estimate how far the life of 'Melbourne' could be extended, and to weigh other relevant factors. 
The decisions which I have announced in respect of destroyers, long range martitime patrol aircraft and armour, will commit the Government to new capital expenditure, presently estimated to be about $330m, which will be spent mainly oyer the next 8 years. There is of course substantial continuing expenditure on equipment projects previously approved and shortly coming into service, such as Oberon submarines, medium lift helicopters for the Royal Australian Air Force and Sea King helicopters for the Royal Australian Navy. Except for the new Royal Australian Navy destroyers, final selection of the new equipments has not been made. It is my intention to seek proposals in open competition from the 2 contending suppliers of the long range maritime patrol aircraft, and the 2 contending suppliers of the medium tanks. The Government's bargaining position will be carefully preserved during the further development of the contractual aspects of these projects. 
My aim is to see that the equipment finally selected provides the best possible overall result in terms of operational performance, cost, delivery time-scale, product support, and Australian industry involvement. It will also be ensured that the contractual and financial terms and conditions are satisfactory, with adequate break clauses ensuring minimum cost penalty to Australia should contractual conditions not be met. In the case of new destroyers, which have the United States Navy as the source, negotiations will be commenced with both the United States foreign military sales organisation and United States equipment suppliers. 
Final commitment would only be made when we have achieved satisfactory investment costs, acceptable performance capability, satisfactory industrial offset programs, and agreed financial and contractual terms and conditions. 
Central to our consideration of the industrial aspects is the need to be selective in what we do. We must ensure that there are developed locally sufficient technological skills and resource capabilities to support the equipments throughout their service life. This must be done with due allowance for those support capabilities which for operational reasons must remain integral with the Services themselves. It is this policy of selectivity which will bring industry into contact with the advanced technology which is a feature of modern defence equipment. 
Our defence industry is presently going through a period of major readjustment. As I said in August 1973 much of this readjustment is necessary because change was avoided for so long by our predecessors. Capacities in our factories and in industry have been based on concepts of production more in keeping with World War II philosophies than present day strategic assessments. To cope with present problems of adjustment, my colleague, the Minister for Secondary Industry and Supply  (Mr Enderby)  has been most active in efforts to obtain alternative commercial work loads of a suitable type for defence factories. Longer term solutions more in line with the current strategic situation are being pursued with vigour. 
The studies into rationalisation of the aircraft industry to which I referred last August are nearly completed. Action is also being taken to refer the question of the future of the aircraft industry to the Industries Assistance Commission. In the meantime the Government has continued to support the industry. The Nomad project approval was extended to 70 aircraft and sales are now in prospect in a number of areas. We have also continued to apply pressure to overseas suppliers of equipment in the further development of offset contracts for Australian industry. The total achievement to date in this field is some $4Sm, of which some $20m has been won by our aircraft industry. 
In the area of defence research and development, Australian defence scientists and engineers have a deservedly high reputation and it is our intention that the capability built up over many years should be retained and fostered. Our standing amongst our allies is such that we pool a great deal of research and development information with them to our common benefit. We cannot give complete coverage to all fields of scientific and technological endeavour but we must concentrate our own efforts on areas of particular significance to us. Surveillance is one such area of importance to Australia. I have recently announced the Government's intention to complete at a cost of some $14m the development in Australia of the BARRA sonobuoy for detecting submarines and ships. This program, the largest research and development project ever undertaken in Australian defence establishments and industry, promises to provide our maritime forces with a sonobuoy without equal. Radar surveillance is also of considerable importance to us and we have been watching overseas developments closely. I expect to announce shortly a program of very advanced research on the application of new techniques in this field. Another project being carried out for use in the modernisation of the River Class Destroyers which I announced last year is the development of a much improved active sonar system known as Mulloka. 
I turn now to the area of defence manpower in which the Government has done so much in the comparatively short time since it came to office. One of the very first things this Government did was to honour its promise to abolish conscription. Liability for the call-up ended on 5 December 1972. The National Service Act was subsequently amended to abolish the obligation to render national service. This Government is maintaining an adequate sized Army by voluntary means. The size of the all volunteer Army is now about 31,000. This compares with an Army of only 23,500 in 1965, in the face of the various commitments which our predecessors then saw. Much of the success in maintaining an all volunteer Army is due directly to the improvements made by this Government to pay and conditions for servicemen. 
Let me go . through some of the main improvements made in the last year for personnel of the Navy, Army and Air Force. Most importantly there have been substantial pay increases that were long overdue. These were recommended by the Committee of Inquiry into Services' Pay (the Kerr-Woodward Committee), which worked out a new and simplified pay structure for the Services. We now have concepts and principles for the fixation of Service pay that are comparable with those applying for the community at large, and which ensure that servicemen will not be disadvantaged with their pay. We have set up a Committee of Reference for Defence Forces Pay. It has a judge of the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission as Chairman and a commissioner of that body and a senior retired serviceman as members. 
This Government also adopted the recommendations of the Joint Select Committee of Inquiry into the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Legislation (the Jess Committee). Australian servicemen now have a retirement benefits scheme that has few, if any, equals in Australia Or anywhere else. Benefits under the Defence Service Homes Act were extended to all permanent members of the defence forces, and the amount of the loan has been increased from $9,000 to $12,000. This Government has increased the range of re-settlement benefits available to serving members. It has also provided repatriation benefits for all members for disabilities arising from their service, not necessarily war service. This Government has provided a re-engagement bounty of $1,000 payable to eligible members who are prepared to undertake a further 3-year period of service. It has been decided to appoint a defence forces ombudsman. It has authorised progressive upgrading of Service housing, to ensure that the standards of domestic living are compatible with the quality of life in the Australian community at large. Standards for new barracks accommodation have also been greatly improved. 
On 2 April 1974, this Government tabled in the Parliament a report and draft Bill on the Defence Force Disciplinary Code. This Bill eliminates obsolete offences, reduces general levels of punishment, and modernises such matters as sentencing, trial and review. It will ensure effective discipline in the defence force, but at the same time it will ensure that the rights of individual servicemen are preserved. Re-engagement rates of servicemen finishing their contracts and signing on again have seldom been higher. Recruiting into the Services overall has been satisfactory, particularly in view of the abundance of jobs in the civilian community. The main shortfall - and this is not such a large one - is that we need 300 or 400 more fit young men for the Army's Field Force. Much is being done to improve the training and the professional education of servicemen. 
The Government has recently approved - what our predecessors failed to do - the establishment of an Australian Defence Academy. lt will provide, in the one establishment, education at a tertiary level for officer cadets of all 3 Services, for some cadets from overseas, and for selected serving officers. The Government has also approved proposals under which the orientation and initial military training of Army officers will be centralised, in the early 1980s, in one training establishment. 
Turning to matters of Service organisation, I am pleased to be able to say that the Government's decisions that 1 announced in May 1973 on the future size and shape of the Australian Regular Army, are progressing smoothly. Essentially, the Government decided to maintain the divisional structure but reorganise the Regular Army Field Force on the basis of 6 battalions, each with appropriate combat and logistic support forces. Battalions are being manned to an effective operational training strength. In reorganising the Army, priority is being given to increasing the Army Field Force; that is where bur front-line soldiers are. In 1973-74 the Field Force will increase by some 2,000. There will be offsetting reductions in the Army's support area, by making better use of the nearly 20,000 personnel it employs. The new Army structure will provide an adequate deployable capacity in present circumstances. Last week I tabled the Report of the Committee of Inquiry into the Citizen Military Forces. I said then that there must be no doubt that this Government is determined to improve the CMF, that it will give this country an Army Reserve which is attractive to the young men and women who wish to serve in it, and which, with the Regular Army, will also provide a viable base for expansion should this be necessary in the future. 
In previous statements I have referred to an inquiry in hand concerning the future disposition of bases and facilities within Australia for our defence forces. The first stage of that review has been completed and is under examination in the Defence Department. As to particular projects, we are continuing with the construction of the naval support facility at Cockburn Sound. This year also the modernisation of dockyard facilities at Williamstown has commenced. There are many other major and minor projects in hand. It is expected that expenditure on housing in 1973-74 will almost double that in 1972-73. 
In addition, and as a complementary measure to the housing construction program, dwellings are being purchased on the open market and consideration is being given to the development of a hirings scheme under which the Services will obtain houses and fiats on medium term leases. Consideration is being given to acquiring a large training area in the northwest of Australia for joint service training, including combined exercises with forces of other countries. 
To effect the integration of the staffs of the former departments of Navy, Army and Air into a new defence organisation under a Chief of Defence Force Staff and Secretary to the Department, establishment proposals have been made to the Public Service Board. Legislation and regulations to redistribute powers now resident in the separate boards of administration of the Services are in preparation. The organisational arrangements and establishment for defence procurement will be finally decided when the Government has received the report of a committee headed by  Sir Walter  Scott. In the meantime the Service boards are functioning with a representative of the Secretary replacing the former permanent heads. The fabric of ministerial directives and the system of control and communication to apply when the new organisation comes into existence are in preparation. They will be discussed in detail with the 3 Services. Already the interim steps taken by the Government towards the new defence organisation for the country have greatly increased consultation and a sense of common purpose among all the Service and civilian advisers and administrators assisting the Minister in the control and support of the Navy, Army and Air Force. 
Before I conclude I wish to say a few words about Australia's relations with neighbours and allies. Last week we received in Canberra distinguished guests from both New Zealand and Papua New Guinea - the New Zealand Minister for Defence and the Papua New Guinea Minister for Defence, Foreign Relations and Trade. Defence co-operation with both these countries is basic to our long term perspective. With New Zealand these relations are long standing, but the talks with  Mr Faulkner  and his team enabled us to consider what new directions may be desirable in the light of changing circumstances and to review a number of important questions of common interest. With Papua New Guinea, the talks last week with  Mr Kiki  provided valuable guidance for the defence relationship between Australia and Papua New Guinea after Papua New Guinea becomes independent, and what contributions will be welcome and useful from us. 
We are maintaining full support to the Five Power Arrangements, and the 2 Royal Australian Air Force Mirage squadrons in Malaysia comprise the largest single contribution of the 3 external powers, Australia, Britain and New Zealand, and they help Malaysia and Singapore in developing their air defence capability. We are to review the position next April, but I would expect the Mirages to stay on so long as they are welcome and relevant to the needs of our countries and the region. Our defence aid and co-operation programs with these 2 countries and with Indonesia, an associate of the greatest importance to Australia, continue. Progress is being made in developing a worthwhile joint exercising program over the years. We received a good deal of support in our efforts last year to prune the South East Asia Treaty Organisation. It is now a more realistic organisation, which we believe is capable of worthwhile work. 
I mentioned earlier Australia's relationship with the United States. When I was in the United States early last January, I was able to re-affirm publicly in New York and privately in Washington, to the Secretaries of State and Defence, Drs Kissinger and Schlesinger, and to other senior members of the United States Administration and the United States Armed Services, the importance I and my colleagues in the Government continued to attach to Australia's alliance and practical working defence relationship with the United States. I re-affirm this again to this House. The relationship with the United States requires management, of course- Our interests are not identical. Our views will sometimes differ. We entertain on our territory United States installations whose presence and functions required the Government to satisfy itself that adequate regard was paid to Australian sovereignty. The agreements under which the facilities are maintained are not necessarily agreements that, in present day circumstances, this Government would wish to conclude in present form. However, we have been able to effect adjustments that in our view serve to make the continued operation of these important facilities compatible with our sovereign status and consistent with our interests. We now see no grounds that would move us to depart from our firmly held policy not to renounce international treaties into which Australia has entered. 
The record I have reported to the House this afternoon represents solid achievement by this Government and by the Department of Defence and the 3 defence Services. Compared with a decade ago, our state of defence preparedness is relatively high and we are making prudent provision to allow timely expansion should this become necessary in the future. I believe this policy is right. With the greater responsibilities we now face, Australia cannot simply run down its defence effort because the present period is one of relative tranquility. However, the present strategic prospect does allow us to control the defence burden on the nation, to favour capital investment over current consumption, to institute more efficient and economical management and to give the taxpayer more value for his dollar. I have been determined that this opportunity should not be neglected. 
What I am submitting to the House, therefore, is a record of achievement in regard to the nation's defence capability; major improvements in conditions of service of our servicemen and women; greater efficiency and economy in defence organisation and spending; and a prudent and responsible defence posture for present circumstances and the future strategic prospect. I submit,  Mr Speaker,  that my report is worthy of the full support of this House, as I am confident it will win the endorsement of the nation. I present the following paper: 
Australian Defence - Ministerial Statement, 9 April 1974.  and move: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Civilians are not employed in the Defence Forces as such. The total reduction in the civilian manpower strength in the Defence Department (including those attached to the Navy, Army and RAAF) and the Department of Supply from 30 June 1973 to 31 December 1973, was 2,521. 
Re-engagement Bounty Scheme (Question No. 49) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Expenditure incurred under the Re-engagement Bounty Scheme during 1973 was 817.6m. 
Purchase  aH  Aircraft from New Zealand (Question No. 41) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. A contract for the supply of the aircraft was signed with Aerospace Industries, New Zealand on 28 November 1973. 
37 aircraft are being purchased at a total project cost of$2.765m. 
UnitedNations: Persons Appointedfrom Australia (Question No.  86) 
 The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
A revised plan for the rationalisation of the Australian aircraft industry is in the final stages of preparation by the Departmental/Industry Working Group. It is hoped that this plan will be considered by the Government in first half of this year. 
In replying to the speech made by the honourable member for Darling Downs I assure him that there is no question of a misappropriation of funds. The honourable member was referring, of course, to the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund. I give him an unqualified assurance that there is no substance in his question. 
The honourable member would know that as far back as last September there was a meeting which involved members of the trade unions and Ministers of this Government who were directly concerned. At that time it was decided that there would be a further review of the employment of workers in the Government defence industries as well as those in the naval dockyards. It was then decided that a committee would be established. That committee has already reported to the Government, but it reported in the short term on alternative work for the defence industries. The committee has now been reconstituted and it is looking at the problem from the point of view of providing alternative work in the defence industries in the long term. The committee will report to the Government in due course, and naturally the Government will make an announcement at that time. 
The honourable member raised the question of the funding of the defence industries and asked whether the Department of Defence would be compensated for the amount that would be required to maintain the defence industries at their existing level of employment. This is of course a matter for the Government to determine; it is a question of policy. There is no question of an inadequacy of funds for this project at this time, and naturally the Government will give due consideration to the position if further funds are required. 
It always has. 
I know that the honourable member objects to discussions that have taken place, as he has suggested over a lengthy period, but I am sure that he will agree that these are necessary. The discussions are continuing both at ministerial level and at departmental level. The question of restraint is naturally one that is being considered. I am sure that the responsibility for any restraint that must be exercised by members of the armed forces serving with indigenous forces in Papua New Guinea will be conveyed to them, as it should be. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Committee of Inquiry into the Citizen Military Forces on the Army Cadet Corps dated June 1974. 
I did see the statement referred to by the honourable member for Brisbane. It is incorrect. In 1973 I had a statement issued to all schools in Australia where school cadets were located informing them that- it was the Government's view that membership of Cadet Corps should not be compulsory. Indeed, the Millar Committee report, which I tabled in this House yesterday, stated at page 24: 
Where - as in the present situation - the Australian Government supports cadet units by finance and manpower, it is entitled to place conditions on their use, including the condition of voluntary service. Such a condition should not be evaded by intraschool devices. 
The report went on to say: 
There is no case for compulsory cadet service applicable to all schools with Cadet units when service in the Regular Army or the Army Reserve is on a voluntary basis. The element of compulsion should never be stronger in Cadets than in the Reserve. 
Where there is a range of organised extra-curricular activities, including Cadets, and the school requires all students to participate in one or another, no student should be allotted to Cadets against his will. 
This is in conformity with the instructions which I gave last year and which are well known to all schools. The Millar report on school cadets has not been considered by the Government, but this House may be assured that when the report is being considered by the Government I will strongly recommend that the recommendations made by the Millar Committee be accepted. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the report of the Committee of Inquiry into Integration of the Medical Services of the Armed Forces, March 1971. 
I present the report by the Tertiary Education (Services' Cadet Colleges) Committee, January 1970. Because of the limited number of these reports available, copies have been placed in the Parliamentary Library for perusal by honourable members. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
and (3) Consultations have been proceeding between relevant Australian Departments and United States officials on detailed procedures for implementation of the arrangements agreed upon in principle during my visit to Washington. It is expected that these consultations will be completed in the near future, and a public announcement made. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
 The answer to  the  honourable member's question is as follows: 
(D- 
681 
634 

The data sought in respect of officers who applied for extension of short service commission is not centrally recorded and is therefore not readily available. The information is recorded on individual records of service. In view of the magnitude of the task involved in extracting and collating this information by manual means, I feel it would be inappropriate for me to authorise the allocation of staff to undertake it. 
124 
As no readily available record is held of the number of applications for extension of short service commissions, it follows that the information relating to the number of applications rejected could only be obtained by manual clerical effort which I do not feel 1 could support. However, the number of short service commissions extended was 150. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) There are long-standing arrangements under which ships from the navies of friendly and allied countries visit each other's ports and facilities, by permission in each case of the host Government. When the facility at Cockburn Sound is completed I would expect that under these arrangements there would be calls there too from time to time by ships from friendly and allied navies, including the USN and RN. No arrangements beyond this long-standing practice have been entered into or are contemplated. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The total annual cost to the Australian Government for the manning and administration of the North West Cape facility is estimated at $600,000 of which $30,000 is directly attributable to the maintenance of Australian personnel at North West Cape. The remaining $550,000 is for the normal pay and allowances of the personnel located at the base. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) In my response to the question without notice asked by the honourable member for Stirling on 7 March 1974 (Hansard page 140) I indicated that there were no plans for development of an Army base as such in Western Australia. I made it quite clear that what was under consideration was the acquisition of a large training area in the vicinity of Yampi Sound as part of the Government's policy in relation to the defence of continental Australia. The area would be used for Joint Service Advanced Tactical Training. 
I personally inspected a possible location last March and any statements attributed to me recently in this regard refer to the acquisition of a training area. Some development would of course be necessary to provide facilities for training exercises. 
and (4) There are at present no proposals for new major Defence establishments in Western Australia but a number of existing facilities are being improved or modified in the course of the normal works program. Work is proceeding on the construction of the naval support facility on Garden Island in Cockburn Sound and present planning envisages completion by the end of 1978, except for the Armament Depot and Jetty and the large ships wharf. The expansion and redevelopment of Learmonth Airfield is also in hand and completion is scheduled for September 1974. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Very few complaints have been received regarding the quality of foul weather clothing issued to Naval personnel. 
There is no evidence that the foul weather clothing provided for Naval personnel is in any way inferior to the clothing provided for members of the other two Services. Certain specialised garments of heavier materials are issued to members whose duties involve exposure over long periods to heavy rain or spray, but the normal Naval foul weather clothing used by the large majority of Naval personnel is very similar to that provided for the other two Services and is made from material to a Defence Specification which is common to all three Services. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Charges (both before civil courts and Naval tribunals) of Use and/or Possession: 1971. 11; 1972, 11; 1973, 20; 1974,27. 
There have been no Naval personnel charged with the pushing of drugs over this period. 
After disciplinary action had been taken against the majority of them the following have been discharged: 1971, 7; 1972,8; 1973, 12; 1974,3. 
While still in the Navy all personnel requiring medical treatment for physical effects are so treated. Counselling and guidance is given to those members who are retained in the Service after being charged and convicted. No treatment is given after discharge as Naval personnel are not discharged until they are fit to undertake civil employment. 
Twenty-one Naval personnel in Victoria have recently been charged with use or possession of drugs. A civilian employed by the Navy was charged in a civil court in June 1974 with drug pushing. 
A close liaison is maintained at all times by Naval authorities with both the Victorian State Police and the Federal Narcotics Bureau. In the investigation of recent cases in Victoria all available information was given to the Victorian Police. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No. The train is used by civilian passengers also. 
and (3) During 1974 I understand the train has carried an average of 130 naval passengers for the journey Crib Point to Spencer Street and 15 for the return trip. I am not aware how many civilians have used the service. 
No charge is made to the Department of Defence. Passengers are required to purchase a return ticket at their own expense. 
Alternative arrangements would entail cost to the Department of Defence in terms of finance and manpower. 
There are buses at HMAS 'Cerberus' provided for duty travel. They are not to cater for leave travel. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The target strength of the Naval Police is 365. 
As at 16 July 1974 there were 303 Naval Police. 
None. However, 22 sailors who are not members of the Naval Police are currently employed on Naval Police duties to alleviate the current shortfall. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: ( 1 ), (2) and (3) Rottnest Island consists of some 1 800 hectares of which the Army currently controls some 50 hectares centred around Kingston Barracks. The area is used extensively for military training purposes, particularly by the Special Air Service Regiment and Army Reserve personnel. 
In addition, a number of parcels of land previously under Army control and totalling 56 hectares was offered to the Western Australian Government in 1969 but the transfer did not eventuate because of differences of opinion on value. 
In June, the Prime Minister wrote to the Premier of Western Australia proposing, in respect of the areas originally offered in 1969, to dedicate them, subject to conditions to be mutually agreed upon, for tourism, park and recreational purposes to be vested in trustees under Section 54 of the Lands Acquisition Act. 
The Army occupied land continues to be required for defence purposes. However, the Prime Minister has asked the Premier for details of how the Western Australian Government intended to use the areas on Rottnest Island, including the areas occupied by the Army, and has proposed an indepth study, which would have regard to all interests involved, with the object of arriving at a mutually acceptable solution. A response from the Premier of Western Australia is awaited. 
Migrants in Non-urban Areas (Question No. 240) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Merrett Rifle Range at Williamstown, Melbourne, continues to provide an essential training facility which is used extensively by the Australian Regular Army and the Army Reserve and Cadets as well as by the other Services and the Rifle Club movement. 
It is established policy to relocate the range but difficulty has arisen in identifying a suitable alternative site. The Prime Minister has been in correspondence recently with the Premier of Victoria and as a consequence it is expected that Australian Government and State Government officials will meet at an early date to investigate and report upon alternative sites. 
As opportunity permits, sections of the range are being released and last April the Department of Services and Property was authorised to negotiate with the City of Williamstown for the lease of 40 acres for recreation purposes. That area was additional to an area of 20 acres previously offered for the lease for the same purpose. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The document has not been tabled. It is a classified document that has not been tabled by Governments in the past It is not my intention to table it now. 
and (3) There are various paragraphs in the document with reference to the fifteen year period of the assessment I do not propose to risk distortion of the presentation by quoting them out of context I refer to the honourable member to my statements to the House of 22 August 1973 and 9 April 1974, both of which drew substantially on the Defence Committee's paper on the 'Strategic Basis of Australian Defence Policy', 1973. I also refer the Honourable Member to my speech to the National RSL Congress in Perth on October 29, a copy of which is available in the Parliamentary Library. This also drew on the Defence Committee paper and quoted extensively from it 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Not specifically; the article is part of the general public debate on Omega. Carriage of this matter is with the Minister for Transport. 
Strategic and foreign policy aspects of the proposed Omega installation in Australia are under examination by the Parliamentary Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. I understand that the Committee has discussed the arguments presented in the article in question both with the author and with Officers of my Department. Fuller information is available in the Committee's transcript of evidence, particularly pages 8 1 to 143 and 300 to 337. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Navy hires buses in the Melbourne area as required to transport to Williamstown the Fleet Maintenance Party and personnel from ships refitting at Williamstown who live at 'Lonsdale' or the Midway Hostel at Maribyrnong. 
The number of people using these buses varies from day to day. Present requirements are down and as it is now expected they will not rise again, the number of buses on hire has been reduced. The economies of long-term hire as against daily hire are an important factor here. 
At present one bus from 'Lonsdale' and one from Maribyrnong, both normally filled and supplemented where necessary by Service transport are being used to transport personnel to Williamstown. 
The arrangements are the most economical and convenient in the light of the variable commitment. Hiring arrangements are cancelled when reducing numbers become reasonably firm and long-term bus hire is no longer economical. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
) The orders of dress for the Army are under continuing review by the Department of Defence (Army Office). Suggestions received from any source are examined by the appropriate Army authorities and implemented if found to be acceptable and practicable. Enquiries are currently being made to establish whether there is any dissatisfaction with the current orders of dress. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In 1973-74, 62.3 per cent of defence equipment expenditure was local, compared to 58. 1 per cent in the previous year when the majority of expenditure had been committed or incurred by the previous government. 
Yes. 
In April this year I announced the Government's intention to proceed with the acquisition of four new major equipments namely 2 new destroyers for the RAN, 8 Long Range Maritime Patrol Aircraft for the RAAF, and 53 modern medium tanks and 45 fire support vehicles for the Army. Contractual negotiations for the supply of these equipments are now proceeding and at an appropriate future time I would hope to be able to give details of Australian industrial involvement arising from these major purchases. 
The process of evaluation provides for each major equipment of system to be considered on its merits, the final selection providing the Services with the best overall result in terms of operational performance, delivery timescale, product support and Australian industrial participation within the financial constraints under which we operate. Hence it is not possible to give specific examples as each decision is taken on the totality of factors involved. 
Australian defence production is nearly always for much smaller quantities than is the case in countries such as the United States and the United Kingdom. This contributes to higher unit costs. Nevertheless, apart from the obvious benefits resulting for our defence preparedness, there are considerable advantages in the employment given in highly skilled operations and in the introduction of new technological processes. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (3) On August 8, 1974 the Secretary-General of the United Nations was informed that, in response to his request for an increased contribution to the United Nations Force in Cyprus, Australia was prepared to provide a military contingent consisting of an independent rifle company of 170 men and appropriate headquarters and support elements to serve for a period of six months from their date of arrival in Cyprus. A reply indicating whether or not the United Nations wishes to accept this offer is now awaited. 
The decision to make the offer was taken by the Prime Minister, the Treasurer and the Ministers for Foreign Affairs and Defence. 
On 22 July 1974 the Secretary-General of the United Nations convened a meeting of all Governments already contributing contingents to UNFICYP (including Australia by virtue of its civil police contingent), announced that he was seeking to double the present strength of UNFICYP to about 5000 men and asked representatives to indicate whether their governments could increase the size of their contingents. 
If the Australian offer is accepted and if the UN mandate continues to be renewed, it is expected that as a general rule Australian personnel would be rotated on a six monthly basis. 
The Australian Army now consists entirely of volunteers. Conscription was abolished when the former Liberal/CP. Government was defeated. A specific unit together with some individuals would be nominated for Cyprus duty and all members of that unit would be expected  to  participate in the assignment. 
I did not hear all of the speech made by the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier)  but I heard sufficient relating to the Government's decision to purchase tanks overseas for me to appreciate that he has, as in most other subjects, a complete lack of knowledge and understanding of this matter. The honourable member raises a subject about which the previous Government ought to apologise to this nation, for its complete neglect for not making a decision that ought to have been made long ago to replace the Centurion tanks now in this country. As I pointed out to the House some short time ago, the last tanks ordered for in Australia were ordered by the last Labor Government. It has taken the new Labor Government to replace those tanks. 
Of course the honourable member is on very weak ground, and obviously he has no understanding of the situation. In point of fact he is suggesting that we ought to build the tanks in Australia. That may be a very commendable suggestion, but the honourable member ought to look at the economics of the proposition. I have proposed that we should replace the Centurion tanks which, as I have just pointed out to the House, are about 25 years old and therefore are past their life. The cost of maintaining these tanks in the long term would be much greater than it would be to replace them, quite apart from the fact that they are no longer regarded as satisfactory equipment for the defence inventory of Australia. The honourable member ought to understand, when he talks about the United States of America and the tanks built there- he is referring of course to the M60-that no decision has been made by this Government. It has 2 options; either to purchase the M60 from the United States of America or to purchase the West German Leopard. When I made my statement on the subject I said that I would be making further inquiries from both the United States of America and West Germany to ensure that we get the best buy it is possible to get for Australia. That means not only to acquire a tank suitable for the Army's requirements but indeed also to acquire a tank under terms and conditions that would provide the best tank possible in offset arrangements for Australia. It is only in these circumstances and only in this way that it would be possible for this nation to replace the Centurion tanks. The honourable member suggests that we should have the expertise in Australia to build the tanks. But of course what he is proposing is that we set up in Australia the expertise and equipment to build the first order of 53 tanks. I am sure the honourable member would appreciate the cost involved in providing all of the equipment and the expertise that would be required to build 53 tanks only. That may be only the first pan of the order that is required by the Department of Defence and by the Australian Army. There may be more to follow. But to build 53 tanks and to set up all that is required to achieve that is beyond the capacity of this country. We would pay, not the amount we will pay for either the M60 or the German Leopard, but 3 times that amount and there would be no tanks to follow. The honourable member has no understanding of this problem. When he talks about the United States of America endeavouring to sell tanks around the world his statements may be true. But we will acquire 53 tanks. As I have already indicated to the House no decision has yet been made on whether we will acquire them from the United States of America because 2 types of tanks are under consideration. But those 53 tanks represent one month's production in the United States. 
How could we match that kind of production in this country in time of peace? There would be no further requirement to build tanks in Australia after we had set up all that would be required to build those 53 tanks. I think that the honourable member should do his homework in these matters. He often raises these subjects. But he has no understanding at all. If he has been advised by someone from the Department of Defence then he has been badly advised. 
Let me repeat for honourable members the position as it stands at this time. I have inspected both types of tanks. There has been a full evaluation by experts from my Department of both the M60 and the German Leopard tank. No decision has yet been made because, as I have said frequently in this House and publicly, whatever equipment we require for the defence forces of Australia we will ensure that it is acquired under the best possible terms and conditions. It will not be only a question of whether that item of equipment is the most suitable for the defence forces but also there will be the guarantee that there is a maximum amount of flow-back to this country in terms of expertise and offset arrangements. That is exactly what is being done at this moment. 
Let me indicate to the honourable member what can happen in these circumstances. The previous Government, formed by the Party to which the honourable member belongs, decided to build 3 destroyers in Australia. Based on 1972 costs the DDL program would have cost $335m. Obviously there would have been an escalation of costs. Before the program was on the drawing board the figure was $335m. It would be difficult to estimate the cost of those 3 destroyers in 1975 or 1976 when the drawings would have been completed. It would not have been $335m but probably closer to $500m for the 3 destroyers. When I investigated the program myself, I found that only 25 percent of those 3 destroyers were actually to be built in Australia. The rest of the destroyers was coming from overseas. That indicates that the honourable member has a complete lack of understanding of the problems involved in defence procurement in this country. 
I am satisfied that what the Australian Government intends in terms of its program for the procurement of tanks is the right decision. A decision will be made by April 1 975. Those tanks will provide not only an overdue replacement for the Centurian tanks but also the most modern equipment for the Australian armed forces. The proposal is to purchase 53 tanks as a first order. I think that we will be getting those tanks under the best terms and conditions which this country could hope to obtain from another country. Of course, in these circumstances the honourable member - 
Despite the interjection from the honourable member he obviously has no knowledge of this subject at all. It would be completely beyond the capacity of Australian industry to provide the expertise, as I have said, and the equipment to build 53 tanks and then to stop. No industry in Australia would be prepared to undertake an enterprise of that kind. The honourable member for Bendigo only displayed a lack of knowledge when he spoke tonight. He was on very weak ground, and I am sure that he will appreciate my point. The honourable member should understand that the tanks that will be acquired for the Australian Army will be the most modern that are available and that they will be acquired at a reasonable price and on a basis that will provide a maximum flow-back to this country in terms of offset arrangements and expertise. 
Pursuant to section 147 of the Defence Act 1903-70 I present for the information of honourable members the annual report on the Royal Military College of Australia for the period 1 February 1973 to 31 January 1974. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (3) No women have been appointed or promoted to senior positions in my Department since 2 December 1972. The Department does not discriminate against women; they rarely apply for senior positions. For less senior positions women are applying and being engaged. Of University  Graduates  recruited during the past two yean about one third are women. 
Postmaster-General's Department: Training in Financial and Auditing Procedures  (Question No. 395) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The establishment which has been approved for the National Disasters Organisation at Canberra comprises a Director-General (Major-General) and sixteen others. There are thirteen public service and four service positions. The establishment has absorbed five positions from the former Directorate of Civil Defence which has been abolished. Two of the public service positions will soon be relocated with the Department of the Capital Territory, to operate the A.C.T. Emergency Service. 
The first joint Commonwealth/State exercise, Exercise Hunter, is being held in the Newcastle area on 25-26 October 1974. The aim of the exercise is to test procedures designed to meet a large emergency resulting from the crash of a loaded passenger aircraft into the residential/industrial complex. 
It is planned that exercises of this type will be held annually, in differing States, designed to study a variety of disaster situations. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The RAAF is an effective, well trained organization which maintains a state of operational preparedness appropriate to assessed defence requirements. 
and (3) Squadrons are at their full peacetime strength in aircraft and are manned to approximately 95 per cent of personnel establishment. 
Adequate logistic support is available to meet approved peacetime rates of effort. This support is designated to ensure that aircraft are not grounded for a period in excess of 24 hours for want of a particular spare part. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The total number of employees engaged in research and development work is 5700. 
The largest number are employed at Salisbury/Woomera, South Australia, and in Melbourne, Victoria, with a smaller number at Canberra and Sydney. A very small unit is maintained at Innisfail, Queensland, and a few are overseas. 
The nature of the work being undertaken is: 
Research and development on specific defence projects. 
Consultancy and investigation work for the Defence Forces and Government Departments or industries engaged on Defence work. 
Consultancy and investigation work for other bodies on matters in which the establishments have special facilities and skills. 
Background research required for the proper execution of the above functions or which is significant to the defence requirements of Australia. 
The total expenditure for the year 1973-74 to maintain the program was $6 1 ,0m approximately. 
The Minister for Defence, on the recommendation of the Defence Science Board, decides the nature of the programs as a whole and also the major projects undertaken in research and development work. 
Department of the Environment and Conservation: Research and Development Staff (Question No.  884) 
I announced in a Press statement on Wednesday, 25 September- yesterday that pensions granted in respect of members of the defence forces who retired before 1 July 1974 are to be increased. More than 12,500 pensioners, including widows and children, will benefit from the increases which are to be back-dated to the first pension day in July. A full statement on this matter appeared in the Press this morning. I am sure the honourable member will have the opportunity to get further details from that Press statement. 
I have read the article referred to by the honourable member for Phillip and I have asked for a full inquiry by my Department. From answers I have received to inquiries made so far, it appears that the article is substantially correct. An incident did occur at a social function and, as a result of that incident, a complaint was made by a prominent New South Wales parliamentarian and the officer was transferred. In this case the officer was obviously prejudged, and therefore I believe that the incident should be fully investigated. Incidentally, the prominent New South Wales politician is the Premier of New South Wales,  Sir Robert  Askin. 
The honourable member has asked a series of questions about the Australian Army Reserve. He is in a position and has the right at any time to be fully briefed on these matters by officers of the Department of Defence. The honourable member for Barker would know that there has been some reduction in the strength of the Army Reserve, although I dispute the figure which he has given to the House. On the question of the policy that arises from the recommendations of the Millar Committee, he would also know that a number of these recommendations have already been instituted and indeed are now operating. Surely the honourable member for Barker would be in a position to read the Press release which I issued a few weeks ago and which announced an immediate increase of 12 per cent in the salary of those members who are serving with the Army Reserve. The question of a further increase in salary has now been referred to the Committee of Reference, that is, the committee which is established for the purpose of investigating salaries and other conditions of service not only of the Army Reserve but of members of the full time service as well. This Committee now has the matter under consideration and I expect a report to be issued to me in the very near future. The recommendations of the Millar Committee are matters which will be determined as a result of Government policy. I have indicated that some of the recommendations have already been implemented but those which clearly relate to Government policy will be decided by the Government and announced at the appropriate time. 
I could begin by agreeing with the interjection made a few moments ago that the whole of this debate has been an exercise in cheap political activity on the part of members of the Opposition, who have sought during the whole of this debate to ignore completely the Bill that is now before the House in order to deal with what they believe are a number of issues that affect Tasmanians generally. When I speak of Tasmania I will not bow to anyone in this House in any way at all, having regard to my commitment to the State of Tasmania. Indeed I have been accused on a number of occasions, even when I was the  Deputy  Prime Minister, of giving too much consideration to Tasmania and probably to my own electorate of Bass. If this is criticism, it is fair criticism and I am not ashamed of my record. But I want to say to the honourable member for Flinders  (Mr Lynch),  who has just completed his speech- a very carefully prepared speech- that he has had nothing to say about the Bill itself except in his opening statement. 
The history of the legislation and the Bill which we now have before us highlights what can be described as the concern of Tasmanian members of this Parliament. As a result of the initiative which was displayed first of all by the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Coates)  and by me as the  Deputy  Prime Minister when we sought to have the tobacco tax that was being applied in Tasmania removed, we reached an agreement with the Premier of Tasmania. It is a well known fact that as a result of the discussions which took place at that time it was agreed that Tasmania would be compensated for the loss of the additional revenue which it was expected to incur as a result of the removal of the tobacco tax, and at the same time Tasmania would be able to cease going before the Grants Commission as a claimant State. 
I listened to some of the speech of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  this afternoon, and quite frankly it appalled me that a Leader of  Her  Majesty's Opposition could sink to the depths to which he sank this afternoon. He had no thought at all for the facts, and no consideration for any kind of case that might arise from the Bill which we have before us. Indeed the whole of the right honourable member's speech was one of sneers and certainly not tears for the people of Tasmania. After all, it must be remembered that those who now sit in Opposition formed the Government of this country for 23 years. During the whole of that period the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  was a member of this House and I was a member for about 18 years of that period. Therefore we can testify to the contribution made by the Government led by  Mr McMahon  and by all of those who led the Liberal-Country Party governments before him over that 23-year period. We know the kind of assistance that was given to Tasmania during the whole of that period. Let us compare the figures. I shall give to the House in a few moments the figures which will illustrate how the revenue for Tasmania has increased during the period of office of the Whitlam Government. If anyone wants to make a comparison I ask him to compare the contribution- indeed the very generous assistance- that has been given to Tasmania by the Australian Government under the Whitlam administration- with what was given during the period of the previous Liberal-Country Party governments. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  spoke about freight rates. Of course Tasmanians would be concerned about an increase in freight rates. Because of that concern the 5 honourable members who represent Tasmania in this House made an appeal to the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  and to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  to have this matter reconsidered. It was as a result of the discussions between those 5 Tasmanian members, the Tasmanian Labor senators, the Minister for Transport and the Prime Minister that the decision was reconsidered and the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  was able to announce in Tasmania at the weekend that it had been agreed to provide a subsidy of $2m to Tasmania. 
This is in addition to the Sim subsidy that has already been paid in respect of the passenger service between Sydney and Tasmania. So altogether a subsidy of $3m is now being paid by this Government to Tasmania because the Government acknowledges that there is a disadvantage. 
I do not believe that any honourable member in this House, either on the Government side or on the Opposition side, would not acknowledge that Tasmania has a geographical disadvantage. It is one of the reasons why the Tasmanian members in the Federal Parliament had to bring this matter to the attention of previous governments. It is therefore quite surprising that the Leader of the Opposition should this afternoon refer to this freight increase of 25 per cent, conveniently ignoring the decision to provide a $2m subsidy and completely ignoring the increase in freight rates for which his Government was responsible in the period between 1970 and 1972. For the benefit of the House and for the benefit of the Leader of the Opposition I will recite them. In August 1970 the Government of the day- a Liberal-Country Party Government- increased the freight rate for all Tasmanian trades by  121A  per cent. In July 1971, not quite one year later, it again increased by 12V4 per cent the freight rates from Sydney to Tasmania and from Melbourne to Tasmania. This was the Government of which the present Leader of the Opposition was a member. Yet he spoke as though his Government, of which he was the tragic Treasurer, had never been guilty of applying freight increases to Tasmania. There was an increase of 25 per cent in not quite 12 months beginning in 1970. 
Let us look at the record in 1972. In August 1972 there was a removal of the concession for dense cargo between Melbourne and Tasmania and Sydney and Tasmania. It increased the freight rate by 25 per cent between Melbourne and Tasmania and by 12 per cent between Sydney and Tasmania. Again the concessions for heavy cargo were removed. That caused an increase of 22 per cent. I am talking about the Liberal-Country Party Government of which the Leader of the Opposition was then the Treasurer- the tragic Treasurer of the McMahon Government. In the same year there was a surcharge for hazardous cargo. That Government removed it. It caused an increase of 20 per cent. Then the concession for industrial machinery was removed. That meant an increase in freight rates of 18 per cent. In the same year the rate for newsprint machinery increased by 1 7 per cent. That is the record for 1970. If one goes back over the record of the previous governments- the 
McMahon Government and those that preceded it- one will find that they consistently increased freight rates between Tasmania and the mainland of Australia but on no occasion did they meet that increase with a subsidy. There was no subsidy provided at any time. I challenge any one of the Opposition members to get up and say when a subsidy was provided in this way. There were increases in freight rates but no corresponding subsidy. 
-That is quite right, they are humbugs. As I said earlier, it was quite clear that the honourable members from the Opposition were not interested in debating a practical proposal that would provide generous assistance for Tasmania. I outlined earlier how this Bill arose. It arose because we believed that the Tasmanian Government was entitled to some improvement in its financial affairs. When we are debating a Bill which involves an amount of $ 15m it should be remembered that this is the amount that was asked for by the Premier of Tasmania- no more and no less. It was not reduced. The Treasury officials and I- at that time I was the  Deputy  Prime Minister- agreed that if this was the requirement of the Tasmanian Government it represented a fair proposal, and the $15m was granted. 
The speeches by the honourable gentlemen opposite had precious little to do with the Bill before the House, which concerns the payment of an additional financial assistance grant to Tasmania. However, it might be as well to correct some of the misleading statements which were made. The Leader of the Oppositon referred at length to the financial problems being faced by local government authorities in Tasmania. He has suddenly become interested in local government. For 23 years honourable members opposite could not find it possible to make a grant directly to local government. Now with the advent of the Labor Government's direct grants to local government it suddenly becomes popular and proper, but is criticised again by the tragic Treasurer of the McMahon Government. 
Who will forget his administration in that period and particularly his last Budget of 1972? He referred to the problems of local government. It should be noted here that he conducted a gallup poll by sending telegrams to a number of local governments in Tasmania. I believe that some of them gave a fair and reasoned reply. 
-The taxpayers paid for it. He considered it to be an accurate gallup poll. I believe that some of them gave a fair and accurate assessment of the position. Most of them, or a great number of them, were directed to members of his own Party. Surely no one in this House would seriously think that a member of his own Party to whom a telegram had been addressed would not reply in the terms that the Leader of the Opposition wanted on that occasion. Nevertheless the gallup poll was collected and it went out at the taxpayers ' expense. 
It was noted by the honourable member for Denison that the Leader of the Opposition failed to mention the fact that the present Labor Government is the first Australian Government to provide funds specifically for local government. It has accepted the recommendations of the Grants Commission for payments totalling $56.3m in 1974-75, of which $1.7m will be for authorities in Tasmania. Both the Leader of the Opposition and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition referred to shipping freight rates. I have dealt at length with this question. It will be interesting to hear the comments from the Leader of the Opposition tomorrow about freight rates generally and the extent to which freight rates were increased by the Government of which he was a member. We have asked that the Nimmo Royal Commission report to this Government on the problems of Tasmania. It is the first time that a royal commission has been established to examine freight rates affecting the State of Tasmania. We believe that it is correct and proper that the Government should wait for the report from  Mr Nimmo.  We have indicated that we expect the report to be provided to the Government as promptly as possible. When that report has been received the Government naturally will give consideration to its recommendations. In the meantime we as a government have recognised that Tasmania does have special problems and for that reason, as I have already indicated to the House, action has been taken to relieve any disability that may flow to Tasmania as a result of increased freight rates. While on the matter of shipping, mention can be made of the fact that the Australian Government has agreed to provide $ 1.4m to the State for the purchase of a vessel and some associated equipment and works to provide a shipping service to King Island. That is an important initiative which has been welcomed by those who have a genuine interest in the welfare of Tasmania. 
The Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  referred to the apple industry in Tasmania. Early in 1974 the Australian Government agreed to join with the governments of Queensland, Western Australia and Tasmania in underwriting on a dollar for dollar matching basis the financial returns on apples exported at risk during 1974 to the United Kingdom and Europe. The grant estimated to be payable to Tasmania in 1974-75 is $2m. Can members of the Opposition point to any comparable assistance that was provided when they were in government? The Leader of the Opposition also referred this afternoon to the apple industry. The Liberal-Country Party Government was in office for 23 years. During that time it introduced in this Parliament legislation which required those who earned their living from their orchard operations in Tasmania to remove their fruit trees in return for the payment of a certain amount of compensation. If there is any disability in the apple industry in particular or the fruit industry in general in Tasmania, it is as a result of the inactivity of the former Liberal-Country Party Government over that long period of 23 years. 
I have said that the present Australian Government has been generous to the State of Tasmania. Let us have a look at what it has done for Tasmania. Last year it provided $19m for education, which represented an increase of 1 1 1 per cent on the amount provided the previous year. This year the amount provided has doubled again. I seek leave to have incorporated in Hansard a document showing the results of the Government's activities in the field of health and its program for Tasmania. 

<graphic href="090131197010013_74_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="090131197010013_75_0.jpg"></graphic>

In the field of science, the Antarctic Division has been retained and developed in Hobart. The new housing agreement has meant an 86 per cent increase in housing expenditure in 1973-74 compared with the previous year. Over $2m has been allocated this year in the field of urban and regional development for the State-wide strategy plan. I have referred already to the $2m subsidy for transport. In addition, a $lm subsidy has been provided for the passenger service between the mainland of Australia and Tasmania. 
I could go on quoting the advantages that Tasmania has gained since the advent of the present Government. For example, the general revenue grants are up from $101m in 1973-74 to an estimated $130m in 1974-75, which represents an increase of nearly 30 per cent. General purpose capital funds, comprising capital grants and Loan Council borrowings, have been increased from $64m in 1973-74 to $76.4m in 1974-75. Tasmania will, of course, share in a wide variety of new or expanded programs of specific purpose assistance to the States. For example, the grants for tertiary education have been increased, as I have already indicated to the House, from $11.4m in 1973-74 to an estimated $22.5m in 1974-75. The Budget includes provision for the payment of $ 1.7m to local government authorities in Tasmania, as recommended by the Grants Commission. As has been noted by the honourable member for Denison, Tasmania receives much more Australian Government assistance than the other States in per capita terms. For example, the funds for Tasmania in 1973-74 totalled $565 per head of population, compared with the average for all States of $335. We were told this afternoon by the Leader of the Opposition that there is no generosity on the part of the Australian Government towards Tasmania. Those are the figures. Tasmania received $565 per head of population, compared with the average for all the States of Australia of $335. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2)I explained at the time that as any anomalies arose I would be only too pleased to have them reviewed. 
There are a number of matters raised by and on behalf of serving and retired members of the Forces thai are already under examination by the Defence Department in consultation with the Services and the DFR &amp; DB Authority. Details of certain proposed changes designed to improve the scheme and its administration are expected to be presented to the Government for consideration in the near future. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Until the Australian Government Actuary has completed his investigation it will not be known whether the assets of the  DFRB Fund as at 30 September 1972 will be more or less than is fair and reasonable for meeting the future liabilities being assumed at that date by the Australian Government for existing pensioners and contributors. 
There is no DFRB Fund for the new scheme: all contributions are paid into Consolidated Revenue and benefits are payable from the same source. 
) and (4) A report of the examination by the Australian Government Actuary will be made to the DFRB Board which, in turn, will submit a report to me for tabling in the Parliament. If surplus assets are disclosed the action taken will be a matter for a decision by the Government and appropriate legislation.  'Defence Hardware': Expenditure  (Question No. 674) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I ) The term 'Defence hardware' has been taken to mean capital equipment items, excluding buildings, works and acquisitions. Total defence expenditure, expenditure on Defence hardware and expenditure on hardware as a proportion of total defence expenditure during each of the last ten years is then as follows: 
The level of expenditure on items other than hardware has increased greatly during the period. In particular, the rise in manpower costs has been most marked. Expenditure on service and civilian pay and allowances and DFRDB has increased from $200m in 1963-64 to $854m in 1973-74. This expenditure now represents 60 per cent of total Defence expenditure. In the same period the per capita costs of service manpower have risen 255 per cent from $2582 to $9176; and total permanent force strengths have increased from 52,626 to 67,495. 
Since December 1972, the Labor Government has approved plans to proceed with the construction and development of capital equiment with an estimated total cost of $800m. In addition, we have recently announced our firm commitment to purchase the following additional items of major equipment, at a total cost of approximately $330m: 
Two Patrol Frigates 
Eight Long-Range Maritime Patrol Aircraft 53 Medium Tanks 45 Fire Support Vehicles 
) The following variations have occurred in category definitions during the past ten years: 
Before 1970 the former Department of Air included the value of spares for the first five years of an aircraft's service life in capital equipment costs. Since that time only the first year's spares have been included with the initial equipment purchase: the balance being regarded as maintenance costs. 
b ) During the years 1 968-69 to 1 970-7 1 . expenditure on the Antarctic Division of the then Department of Supply was included in total defence expenditure This variation has not caused  r.ny  significant changes in total amounts or r ventages. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Service personnel returning from abroad are subject to normal Customs and quarantine control. Strict measures are enforced, in association with civil officials and in accordance with civil procedures, to prevent the entry to Australia of plant and animal diseases when Service aircraft, ships, vehicles and associated equipments arrive from an overseas source. These include steam cleaning of vehicles and equipment and decontamination of aircraft. 
I am aware of the difficulties now being experienced by Air Tasmania. I also, of course, appreciate the service it is providing in Tasmania, an appreciation which I think is shared by the Tasmanian Government and the people who use the airline. I have already asked the Department of Defence to advise me whether there are surplus aircraft available for which Air Tasmania may be able to tender. It will be remembered that on a previous occasion I made it possible for Air Tasmania to tender for a surplus DC3 aircraft. It was not successful in its tender at the time. However, I have asked the Department to investigate the possibility of releasing another surplus DC3 aircraft. If I receive information that an aircraft is available Air Tasmania will be advised accordingly. 
On behalf of the Minister for Education, for the information of honourable members I present a report entitled 'Technical Education in the Australian Capital Territory' dated September 1974. 
My attention has been drawn to the claim of the defeated Liberal member for Isaacs, which appeared in an article in the Melbourne 'Age' to which the honourable member has referred. A very adequate reply to the false claims made by  Mr Hamer  was published under  Mr Beazley's  name yesterday. But for the information of honourable members I think that it should be said clearly that  Mr Hamer  has presented a false case by taking the financial year 1973-74 which includes only 6 months of this Government's new initiatives in education. In 1971 and 1972 the previous Liberal-Country Party Government spent about $112m on education. This Government, the first that has shown real care for the needs of Australian education, will spend about $780m in 1974 and 1975 under the Karmel programs. 
As honourable members know, this dramatic increase in the total level of Australian Government involvement in schools is in accordance with the policy of providing resources where they are needed most. Those who have the greatest need have the first call on government funds. The total Australian Government spending on education in the 1974-75 financial year, including the acceptance of the major recommendations of the Kangan Committee, will amount to more than $1.5 billion. It is hardly necessary for me to remind honourable members that the Opposition has no policies for significant increases in education spending. In fact, during the May election campaign the Leader of the Opposition talked about reducing education expenditure by $260m. I am sure that the honourable member for Isaacs will be fortified both by the statement made yesterday by the Minister for Education,  Mr Beazley,  which appeared in the 'Age' and by the figures which I have provided for the information of honourable members today. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The main purpose of the Bill before the House is to amend the States Grants (Schools) Act 1972-1973 and the States Grants (Schools) Act 1973 to increase the level of the Australian Government assistance available to both government and non-government schools in Australia. At the time it introduced the 1974-75 Budget the Government announced its acceptance of the recommendations by the Schools Commission that the programs of capital and recurrent assistance available to both government and nongovernment schools under the States Grants (Schools) Acts 1972-73 and 1973 should be supplemented in recognition of the reduced purchasing power of those grants brought about by cost increases. 
The report which was prepared by the Schools Commission following its investigation of the effects of educational cost increases has been made available to this House. The Commission has measured the effects of unexpectedly high cost increases in the provision of educational facilities and services in schools in Australia upon the programs of Australian Government assistance. It has recommended additional sums to be added to grants to States so as to restore the original purchasing power of these programs. The Government has accepted the Schools Commission's recommendation that the funding principles and procedures set down in the report of the Interim Committee for the Australian Schools Commission, 'Schools in Australia' should continue to operate for the period during which the legislation giving effect to the Committee's recommendations operates. In adopting the Commission's current recommendation on additional grants, the Government is leaving unaltered the principles and intent incorporated in the States Grants (Schools) legislation passed by this Parliament in December 1 973. 
The present legislation makes available a further $64.47m in recurrent grants to schools and $ 14.43m in capital grants up to 31 December 1975. Of these sums government schools will receive $35.6m in recurrent grants and $ 11.83m for capital purposes. Nongovernment schools will receive an additional $23.67m towards recurrent costs and $2.5 lm for capital expenditure. An additional $8.2 9m will be added to programs which apply to both government and non-government schools. This new initiative on the part of the Australian Government will be welcomed by those interested in improving both the quality and availability of education to all Australian children irrespective of their financial circumstances, their parentage, thenreligious beliefs or where they live. 
It will be interesting to discover the attitude of the Opposition to this Bill. Honourable members will recall how bitterly the Opposition attacked the States Grants (Schools) Bill 1973. It was not until the Country Party members in another place revolted that the Bill was passed there and the urgently needed funds were allowed to flow to schools throughout Australia. Is the 'New Deal ' for education heralded by the Karmel program too much for the Liberal Party and their friends to support? Earlier today the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden),  in a personal explanation to the House, undertook to support the Labor Government's educational expenditure. This is a welcome change of heart from the parliamentary performance in December last. 
The Government is anxious to ensure that there is no erosion in the value of the Karmel initiatives due to increases in capital costs and salaries. What has been commenced must be brought to fruition and this Bill, with its substantial increases in recurrent and capital funds, will do just this. The present legislation will ensure that the qualitative improvements which the Government sought to achieve in schools throughout Australia when it adopted the recommendations of the Karmel report, 'Schools in Australia', will still be achieved and as a result every child attending a primary or secondary school in this nation will benefit. I commend this Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Chipp)  adjourned. 
It is not correct to say that the Woomera rocket range will be closed down but it has been evident for some time that the workload foreseen for the range after 1976 could not sustain the present level of operations there. The workload, of course, is primarily dependent on British requirements. It is not something over which the Australian Government has much control. The Government therefore has decided to run down range activities after that date but to hold instrumentation and facilities in readiness for revival. The whole operation will require a great deal of administrative and technical planning and consultation with the British who are our partners in the Woomera project. Woomera village will continue to operate, although probably at a reduced level. In particular staff who may be declared redundant will be deployed elsewhere in the Australian Public Service. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Members of the Space Research Group at the Weapons Research Establishment have had several papers published in internationally distributed scientific journals, including papers dealing with research into the characteristics of quasars. 
The Government's priorities have necessitated staff reductions in the Defence Research Laboratories and these are being achieved by non replacement of wastage. All available manpower resources are now required for essential Defence activities. The activities of the Space Research Group were non-Defence in nature and its activities have been terminated and the staff redeployed to other defence research duties. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Radars presently deployed at Australian military installations are designed for surveillance, and possess no limited low level capability. They have no over-the-horizon capability. 
A program of research into over-the-horizon radar and its application to Australian defence- known as Project JINDALEE- was announced in April 1974. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) BAC 1-11 -Two, Mystere 20-Three; H.S. 748-Two. 
These aircraft have not been used to transport troops or military equipment during the period 2 December to 30 September 1974. 
QANTAS charters to carry troops or equipment within Australia have not been used. 71 QANTAS charter flights overseas were made during the period 3 December 1972 to 25 September 1974 inclusive. 
The cost of QANTAS charter flights made during the period 3 December 1972 to 25 September 1974 inclusive was $2,373,605, 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. HMAS PERTH departed on 3 1 July 1 974 for the USA for modernisation and essential associated refit work which commenced on 3 September 1 974. 
Yes. 
HMAS BRISBANE and HMAS HOBART are programmed to be modernised to the same standards as HMAS PERTH. 
and (5) The expertise and experience to install the Naval Combat Data System and the Tartar Digital Update does not currently exist in Australia. HMAS PERTH is being modernised in the USA so that a baseline may be developed for utilisation at Garden Island Dockyard. The USN has agreed to provide and demonstrate to the RAN an operable weapon and control system when installed in a US shipyard. The USN does not have any responsibility for the operability of the systems which will be installed in Australia. Therefore, it is most important that Garden Island Dockyard be provided with an operable system which can be used as a comparison during systems installation and checkout in HMAS BRISBANE and HMAS HOBART. 
Furthermore, the RAN is taking the opportunity to train appropriate personnel by on-the-job training at Long Beach Naval Shipyard during HMAS PERTH'S modernisation. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. In fact the Patrol Frigate which the Government plans to purchase for the RAN from the United States will be fitted to take an advanced type of surface to surface missile. 
-For the information of honourable members I present the Defence Report 1974. 
-The answer to the right honourable member 's question is as follows: 
and (2) I refer the right honourable member to the Prime Minister's answer to Question No. 964 on the 1973 Notice Paper (Hansard, 27 September 1973, page 1719) in which he drew attention to the impracticalities of attempting to list all the consultations in which Departments are engaged with other Departments. I was kept properly informed of all important developments. 
Inter-departmental Committees (Question No. 287) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I refer the right honourable member to the Prime Minister's answer to Question No. 964 on the 1973 Notice Paper (Hansard, 27 September 1973, page 1719) in which he drew attention to the impracticalities of attempting to list all the consultations in which Departments are engaged with other Departments. I was kept property informed of all important developments. 
Inter-departmental Committees (Question No. 288) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) I refer the right honourable member to the Prime Minister's answer to Question No. 964 on the 1973 Notice Paper (Hansard, 27 September 1973, page 1719) in which he drew attention to the impracticalities of attempting to list all the consultations in which Departments are engaged with other Departments. My Department keeps me properly informed of all important developments- this is a satisfactory procedure for the purposes of my ministry. 
Inter-departmental Committees (Question No. 289) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I refer the right honourable member to the Prime Minister's answer to Question No. 964 on the 1973 Notice Paper (Hansard, 27 September 1973, page 1719) in which he drew attention to the impracticalities of attempting to list all the consultations in which Departments are engaged with other Departments. I was kept properly informed of all important developments. 
Inter-departmental Committees  (Question No.  292) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The future options available for tactical airlift capability including short range transport aircraft, are under examination. The Canadian proposal for Australian participation in the development of their jet aircraft called DHP-72 will be considered in this context. 
and (3) The timing of decisions and the total cost of Australian participation will depend on the outcome of this examination. 
The life-of-type of RAAF aircraft is subject to periodic review; Caribou first entered service with the RAAF in 1 964 and on the basis of current assessment the aircraft is not expected to reach its life-of-type before 1983. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The primary responsibility for enforcement of Fisheries, Customs, Quarantine and Immigration Laws lies with appropriate civil agencies of both the Australian and State Governments. Questions as to the gravity of the situation should be redirected. 
The bulk of the surveillance effort in support of law enforcement agencies is provided by the Defence Force. 
Systematic Naval patrols of the north west as a routine matter were instituted in August 1973, at a frequency agreed with the Australian Government authorities responsible for fisheries protection. They replaced an ad hoc system of surveillance by ships on passage. 
An additional Patrol Boat was ordered to Darwin earlier this year, increasing the strength there from 3 to 4, and near continuous patrols have been mounted in and around the King Sound area since mid-August. Surface patrols have, where possible, been co-ordinated with or supported by aerial reconnaissance. 
No. 
The composition of the Patrol Craft Force is reviewed periodically in the context of the development of the five year defence program. 
Information on this aspect can be obtained by reference to House of Representatives Hansard of 2 August 1974, (pp 1 103, 1 104) where the Prime Minister answered a similar question from  Mr Snedden. 
Australia's Coastline: Surveillance by RAAF Aircraft  (Question No. 1097) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Systematic aerial patrols of the north and north west coasts by RAAF long range maritime patrol aircraft were introduced in February this year. This was the direct result of consultations between myself and my colleague the Minister for Customs and Excise. Surveillance arrangements also provided for additional Services assistance to meet specific tasks at the request of the authorities responsible for law enforcement. 
and (3) From mid- July, the rate of aerial surveillance of the north west coast has been increased significantly. This effort is continuing and will be maintained while the need for it continues. 
The information requested by the right honourable member is set out in the following table: 
As I have already explained in this House, in reply to the honourable member's earlier question on this matter, there are a number of matters raised by and on behalf of retired members of the forces that are already under examination by the Department of Defence in consultation with the Services and with the Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Authority. I cannot see any real need for the appointment of a parliamentary committee, as he suggests, to inquire into these matters. However, if the honourable member wishes to submit terms of reference to me, which I presume would incorporate the anomalies that he is referring to, then I would be happy to examine the matter on its merits. 
-Pursuant to section 30 of the Canberra College of Advanced Education Act 1967-70 I present for the information of honourable members the report of the Council of the Canberra College of Advanced Education for the year 1 January 1 973 to 31 December 1973. 
-For the information of honourable members I present a statement entitled 'Australian Defence Estimates 1974-75' together with the memorandum of arrangments between the United States and Australia on the patrol frigates. 
On page 1282 of Hansard, during his Budget Speech, the Treasurer referred to a more detailed statement on defence matters being made in this Parliament. I therefore ask the Minister for Defence, through you  Mr Speaker,  whether this is the statement which he intends to make in the Parliament or does he intend to make a statement in the Parliament at a later time? Why is the statement being made by tabling it rather than the statement being made in the normal course to which the Opposition might have a chance to reply? 
The answer to the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party is yes, this is the statement that I had proposed to make in the House of Representatives. I have tabled it now so that honourable members will have the opportunity either to reply to it or to add to it during the Estimates debates. It has been tabled in plenty of time for that to be done. I think the honourable member is well aware that during this session the procedure has been that statements prepared by Ministers and relating to thenown departments have been tabled and not read in the Parliament. I understand that is the arrangement that has been made between the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  and the Opposition. 
-Then I accept that no arrangement had been made. So far as I am concerned, this arrangement has applied, and Ministers have tabled ministerial statements. 
I shall not detain the Committee for any great length of time but there are one or two comments that I should make. I begin by saying that probably the most thoughtful and constructive speech that came from the Opposition was made by the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard).  Although I did not agree with everything that he had to say in relation to the matter before the Committee, he at least did make a contribution which was constructive in one or two ways. I congratulate him for it. This is the way in which the debate on the estimates of the Department of Education should have been conducted in this Parliament. 
What I rise to do at this stage is not only to answer one or two of the criticisms that may have come from the Opposition. I dismiss the speech of the shadow Minister for Education, the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen).  I thought it was an extraordinarily poor performance from one who had been appointed by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  to speak on education in this Parliament. There was no contribution in any way at all. I think that even those of his own Party who support him on the Opposition side must have been disappointed with his contribution. There was only one speech from the Opposition side that I ought to commend and that, as I said, came from the honourable member for Bennelong. 
I rise merely to express the regret that I feel, and which I am sure all honourable members on this side of the Committee feel, that the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  is not here tonight to be able to reply to the debate. This Parliament has never had a Minister for Education who has been so dedicated and who has been able to achieve so much in so short a time as has  Mr Kim  Beazley. No one is more dedicated. Those of us who sit on this side of the Committee know this. 
I could not help but pick up the remark of the honourable member for Moreton earlier tonight when he said: 'I have been in this Parliament for nearly a quarter of a century'.  His  claim was 5 years in excess of the period he has been here. He has not been here for 20 years. I have been here for 20 years and I was elected before the honourable member for Moreton. Those of us who were here in those days will remember that the then Prime Minister of Australia, now  Sir Robert  Menzies, said often when we who were then on the Opposition side of the Parliament established for the first time an education committee- we did so because we were not satisfied with what was being done for education in this country- that education constitutionally was a State responsibility which would not be intruded upon by the Commonwealth. How often were we told that by members who now sit on the Opposition side of the Committee? They were members of the Party which was then in Government. 
That committee, which was led and given a great deal of direction in education by the present Minister for Education, through his initiative and enterprise, was able eventually to force acceptance of the principle that education was no longer the responsibility of the States and that not only should the Commonwealth accept the responsibility for tertiary education in this country but also should it accept responsibility for primary, secondary and technical education. Who was the architect of this program on behalf of the Labor Government? It was the Minister for Education, the honourble member for Fremantle. No one has achieved more in this field. Is it any wonder that tonight in this chamber no Opposition member could criticise the Government's education policy or what has been achieved by it in terms of education. 
If I have any sympathy for members opposite it is because of the difficult job they had. No government has achieved more than this Government has achieved since 1972 in the field of education. One should quote the records because not one Opposition member has mentioned figures. One cannot blame them because even before 1972 they were not thinking about education. During the election campaign of 1972 they opposed our education program. But what has the Labor Government done? In 1973-74, the first financial year for which this Government accepted responsibility, educational expenditure doubled. In 1974-75, the financial year with which we are now dealing in these Estimates, $l,535m will be spent on education. For the first time in Australia's history we are now spending more on education than on defence and, as Minister for Defence, I must acknowledge that the priority is right. Let any Opposition member stand and suggest that we should not spend what we are now spending on education. Let him say that we have no right to intrude into State education and that we should not give a better deal to primary, secondary and technical education students in Australia. 
I have been a member of the Australian Parliament for a long time. There are some of us, including myself and the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds),  who remember the Education Committee that was set up by the Labor Party and how we fought to bring about a better deal for education in Australia. I suggest to honourable members who have spoken in this debate tonight that they study the Hansard record. It contains pages of reports from and speeches by Opposition members, when government members, opposing our policy for a better deal for education. It is no wonder that the honourable member for Moreton, the Opposition's shadow Minister for Education, is no longer in the chamber.  His  speech was empty of value although full of platitudes and possibly humourous to Opposition members. He knew now difficult it would be for him to criticise the policies of the Government or of the Minister for Education. He referred to the questionnaire sent out by the Schools Commission to nongovernment schools. It was, of course, sent out with the complete co-operation of the non-government schools. The Schools Commission should have the fullest possible information that it can obtain in relation to independent schools. Representatives of the independent schools agreed to the questionnaire. We should have the fullest possible information on non-government schools just as we should have such information in respect to government schools. It is not beyond the capacity of the independent schools to answer the questionnaire. If they want to participate, as I believe they do, in an equitable distribution of funds available for education they will agree that there is a responsibility to co-operate with the Australian Government. 
Not one argument was raised by Opposition members which could offset the Government's record in the field of education. I remember, as I am sure the honourable member for Barton who has served with me on the Labor Party's Education Committee for many years will recall, that when we suggested that tertiary education should be free in Australia- that tertiary fees should be abolished-  Sir Robert  Menzies could not accept this as a responsibility of any Australian government although I give him full credit for setting up the Murray Committee of inquiry many years ago. That responsibility has now been accepted and I do not believe that any Australian government- this Government or a has not been here for 20 years. I have been here for 20 years and I was elected before the honourable member for Moreton. Those of us who were here in those days will remember that the then Prime Minister of Australia, now  Sir Robert  Menzies, said often when we who were then on the Opposition side of the Parliament established for the first time an education committee- we did so because we were not satisfied with what was being done for education in this country- that education constitutionally was a State responsibility which would not be intruded upon by the Commonwealth. How often were we told that by members who now sit on the Opposition side of the Committee? They were members of the Party which was then in Government. 
That committee, which was led and given a great deal of direction in education by the present Minister for Education, through his initiative and enterprise, was able eventually to force acceptance of the principle that education was no longer the responsibility of the States and that not only should the Commonwealth accept the responsibility for tertiary education in this country but also should it accept responsibility for primary, secondary and technical education. Who was the architect of this program on behalf of the Labor Government? It was the Minister for Education, the honourble member for Fremantle. No one has achieved more in this field. Is it any wonder that tonight in this chamber no Opposition member could criticise the Government's education policy or what has been achieved by it in terms of education. 
If I have any sympathy for members opposite it is because of the difficult job they had. No government has achieved more than this Government has achieved since 1972 in the field of education. One should quote the records because not one Opposition member has mentioned figures. One cannot blame them because even before 1972 they were not thinking about education. During the election campaign of 1972 they opposed our education program. But what has the Labor Government done? In 1973-74, the first financial year for which this Government accepted responsibility, educational expenditure doubled. In 1974-75, the financial year with which we are now dealing in these Estimates, $ 1,535m will be spent on education. For the first time in Australia's history we are now spending more on education than on defence and, as Minister for Defence, I must acknowledge that the priority is right. Let any Opposition member stand and suggest that we should not spend what we are now spending on education. Let him say that we have no right to intrude into State education and that we should not give a better deal to primary, secondary and technical education students in Australia. 
I have been a member of the Australian Parliament for a long time. There are some of us, including myself and the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds),  who remember the Education Committee that was set up by the Labor Party and how we fought to bring about a better deal for education in Australia. I suggest to honourable members who have spoken in this debate tonight that they study the Hansard record. It contains pages of reports from and speeches by Opposition members, when government members, opposing our policy for a better deal for education. It is no wonder that the honourable member for Moreton, the Opposition's shadow Minister for Education, is no longer in the chamber.  His  speech was empty of value although full of platitudes and possibly humourous to Opposition members. He knew now difficult it would be for him to criticise the policies of the Government or of the Minister for Education. He referred to the questionnaire sent out by the Schools Commission to nongovernment schools. It was, of course, sent out with the complete co-operation of the non-government schools. The Schools Commission should have the fullest possible information that it can obtain in relation to independent schools. Representatives of the independent schools agreed to the questionnaire. We should have the fullest possible information on non-government schools just as we should have such information in respect to government schools. It is not beyond the capacity of the independent schools to answer the questionnaire. If they want to participate, as I believe they do, in an equitable distribution of funds available for education they will agree that there is a responsibility to co-operate with the Australian Government. 
Not one argument was raised by Opposition members which could offset the Government's record in the field of education. I remember, as I am sure the honourable member for Barton who has served with me on the Labor Party's Education Committee for many years will recall, that when we suggested that tertiary education should be free in Australia- that tertiary fees should be abolished-  Sir Robert  Menzies could not accept this as a responsibility of any Australian government although I give him full credit for setting up the Murray Committee of inquiry many years ago. That responsibility has now been accepted and I do not believe that any Australian government- this Government or a 
-The honourable member will be aware that announcements have been made concerning grants to both government and non-government schools. Indeed, a statement appeared in the Melbourne Press this morning indicating that additional grants have been provided for non-government schools in the State of Victoria and, as he himself has already indicated, in 4 other States as well. I shall consider in detail the remainder of the question asked by the honourable gentleman and let him have a reply as quickly as possible. 
I presume that the honourable member is referring to the remarkable statement made by the honourable member for Barker, who is the Liberal Party spokesman on defence. I think that the statement was made on 24 October. In that statement he did list as a first task for the defence force in the late 1970s operations in aid of the civil power, involving antiriot operations where the police are forced to ask for help from the defence forces. I find it incredible that the Liberal Party which says it expects to regain the government in the mid-1970s foresees in the late 1970s an Australia beset by riots and other disorders beyond the control of the police. I cannot really say with any confidence what Australia would be like in the late 1970s if the Liberal Party did become the government in the mid-1970s. But on the more likely assumption of continued Australian Labor Party rule, the chance of such a situation developing is, I think, quite remote and I certainly would not regard anti-riot operations as a high priority task of the Australian armed forces. 
The honourable member is obviously referring to the remarks made by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition on the television program 'Monday Conference'. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition said over and over again that a Liberal Government would cut expenditure in all government departments by not less than 8 per cent. Based on the 1974-75 financial year, a cut of 8 per cent in the defence vote would mean a reduction of $ 128m. But the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition then went on to say that health, education and social welfare expenditure would be excluded. If the 8 per cent cut had to be spread over other departments, the reduction in the defence vote could well be $200m. This could only mean a reduction of manpower in the Department of Defence and a re-organisation of the Department in terms of equipment procurement and other matters. If manpower were reduced by 10,000 this would mean a saving of $50m in the first year in which the cut was made, and a saving of $ 100m in subsequent years. I am sure that honourable members will appreciate that a cut of 8 per cent producing a reduction of 10,000 in personnel and a saving of $ 100m would have serious effects on the Army itself. It would not be possible to maintain a 3 task force Army, as we have already determined we will maintain. It would mean that bases such as Townsville, Enoggera and Oakey would probably have to be disbanded. The implications of what the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition said on the television program about cutting expenditure by 8 per cent across the board show clearly and conclusively that the effect on the Department of Defence and other departments would be disastrous. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) None. Stand-off air-to-ground missiles are not part of the weapon inventory of the RAN or RAAF at this time, but the possible need is under investigation. 
( Bass - Minister for Defence)- I present for the information of honourable members a statement on the investigation into the incident at the School of Artillery at North Head, Sydney, on the evening of Friday, 30 August 1974. Due to the limited numbers of this statement available at this time I have arranged for reference copies to be placed in the Parliamentary Library. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report on the meeting of the Australian Education Council on 4 October, 1974. Due to the limited number available at this time I have arranged for reference copies of the report to be placed in the Parliamentary Library. 

 -Mr Chairman, it - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)Order!  I called the Minister for Defence. 
-Yes, I am. 
The  DEPUTY  CHAIRMAN-I did not see the honourable member rise, but the Minister did rise. In the Committee a Minister does not necessarily close the debate unless he so chooses. 

 -The Deputy Chairman gave me the call. I understood this debate was to last for 2 hours. In those circumstances I expected to be the last  speaker.  In any case the honourable member for Chisholm is at the bottom of the list of speakers. I indicated that I would be prepared to reply to this debate at S.3S p.m. and it is almost that time now. I have listened with a great deal of interest to those honourable members from both sides who have spoken in this debate. Perhaps I should comment first on the speech of the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan). 
-Yes, the honourable and gallant colonel. I would not take from him his record of service in the Army over a long period but I remind the honourable member that there are other honourable members in this Parliament who have also had Service experience. As the honourable member spoke about the size and shape of the Army I think the record should be put right. During the period when the Opposition was in government- a coalition of the Liberal Party and the Party to which the honourable member now belongs- in 1965 it suggested there should be conscription. That Government called up for service every young man in Australia. It instituted a ballot system. Every young man who qualified and who was selected according to his birth date was obliged to serve for a period in the armed forces. Is the honourable member suggesting that we should return to those conditions? Not one member of the Opposition, from the Liberal Party or the Country Party, was prepared to admit that there would be a return to conscription. Indeed during the last election campaign in May of this year both the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  and the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  stated unequivocally that they would not return to conscription. Let us have a look at the situation. I shall deal firstly with 1964, a period during which the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan)  was still serving in the armed forces of this country and very shortly before we became committed to the Vietnam war. In that year the field force was 10,499 men. The total strength of the Army in 1964 was 22,681. In 1965, when these forces were committed to Vietnam, the strength of the Army was not 30,000, as it is today, but 25,3 14. The strength of the Army in 1965, when the Party to which the honourable member for Riverina belongs was in government, was slightly more than 25,000. 
When I became Minister for Defence I set out, as a matter of policy, to determine what should be the size and shape of the Army in this country. It not my own decision; it was on the recommendation of the Chiefs of Staff, those who had responsibilities - 
-The only thing the honourable member will be remembered for as Minister for the Army is ensuring that all helicopters would be named after him or his electorate. I received a recommendation from the Defence Committee that the strength of the Army should rise to 34,000 by 1976 and that it should be reviewed in 1976. These are the same people who advised the members of the Opposition when they were in government. The Government accepted the recommendation. The Government agreed that we would provide an Army of 34,000 by 1976. 1 intend now to compare the size of the present Army with the size of the Army in 1965. The honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  had the temerity to say earlier that there was a reduction of 9,000 in 1972. Of course there was a reduction because I made the decision to end conscription. That was a proper decision to make. As a result of the Government's decision naturally there was a fall in the strength of the Army, but today it is back over 30,000 and it will rise to 34,000. 
For the benefit of honourable members opposite, the number of applications for enlistment in the Army in the September quarter was the highest figure in peacetime in this country for a September quarter. The honourable member for Farrer, who usually makes a carefully prepared and I think in some respects informed speech, made one very important point. He referred to the amount that is now being spent on equipment in this country. It is true that this is always a matter of concern for any Minister. The amount has been gradually falling but it is not a matter of concern for Ministers for Defence in Australia alone. I think this problem is being experienced by all countries where defence procurement is beyond their control in terms of the amount of equipment that must be purchased from other countries. So, it is a matter of concern, but the honourable member also knows that there is a deliberate 5-year program. What may be spent in the first year may be doubled in the second or third year but the deliberate program is for 5 years. 
-That interjection comes from that well known strategist. I wish to make some comment in the very short time that is available to me on the statement made by the honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes).  He is the shadow Minister for Defence. I am one of those people who has always believed that a shadow Minister has something to contribute in this Parliament. When I was the shadow Minister for Defence I set out to make a number of recommendations and to put forward a number of propositions about what should be done in terms of defence and the reorganisation of the Department of Defence itself. All these issues were dealt with by me as the shadow Minister for Defence. They are now, of course, in the course of preparation and they will be introduced as legislation in this Parliament or be given effect to by regulation. More has been done in this 2-year period than was done by any Minister for Defence from the Opposition side in the last 20 years. I made the point about the shadow Minister for Defence. Anyone who had the opportunity to listen to the honourable member for Barker this afternoon and, indeed, during the last 2 years, would know that he has not made one practical contribution to defence in this country. Not one idea, not one positive suggestion has come from the honourable member for Barker. He is, of course, responsible on behalf of the Opposition to make statements in relation to defence. He does that from time to time but he can never make up his mind. 
Let me refer again to the question of Army strength. During the last election campaign in May, as has been pointed out earlier this afternoon, the honourable member for Barker said that the strength of the Army should be 36,000. In other words it should be 2,000 more than I had determined earlier this year. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)That  is not a point of order. 
In May the honourable member for Barker said that there should be 36,000 men in the Army. Nobody disputed that. It was 2,000 more than the figure I had given. Only a few days ago he said he did not think he would be able to increase the size of the Army. So, what does one accept from the so-called spokesman on Defence? I repeat that there has not been one positive or constructive suggestion during the whole of the period when he has been the shadow Minister for Defence that the Government could even consider as being worthwhile for incorporation into the defence legislation of this country. I think one can dismiss the criticisms of the honourable member for Barker. 
I would welcome constructive criticism from members of the Opposition. Some of the speeches I listened to this afternoon were constructive. I have already referred to the honourable member for Farrer. Certainly there were constructive suggestions from honourable members of the Government side who spoke in this debate. They certainly spoke with much more sincerity and purpose on matters relating to the Department of Defence and our defence policies than did honourable members on the other side of the House. If one examines the expenditure for defence for the financial year 1974-75, which is now under consideration, one would see that it is still much higher in terms of the gross domestic product, than the honourable member was referring to earlier, than was being spent by the then Government, that is, those who are now in Opposition, during the 1960s. Until Australia was committed to Vietnam the proportion never rose above 2.6 per cent. The honourable member can check the figures. Despite the priorities in terms of social policies and other domestic policies that we enunciated to the people of Australia in 1972 and again this year and the commitments and new directions in relation to those policies, we will not neglect the defence of Australia. I think this has been demonstrated in the 2 years in which this Government has occupied the treasury bench. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to increase certain pension benefits payable under the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act 1948-1973 and the Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Act 1973-1974. Honourable members may recall that when I introduced the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits (Pension Increases) Bill in May of last year I explained that the increases, which applied in respect of servicemen who contributed to the defence forces retirement benefits scheme, were an interim measure only. There were sound reasons for adopting that course. The Government's aim is to ensure that in the matter of post-retirement pension adjustments, all its retired employees receive comparable treatment, irrespective of the differences that may exist in the benefits structures of the various schemes. 
The 1973 interim adjustments of DFRB pensions were based on proposals to increase superannuation pensions payable to retired public servants, which are now incorporated in the Superannuation Act, and complied with that aim. There were, however, some difficulties in the way of applying the same adjustment method to pensioners under the new defence force retirement and death benefits scheme, the legislation for which was introduced at the same time as the pension increase Bill. It was decided therefore to defer the question of a permanent method for adjusting servicemen's pensions under both schemes until all relevant aspects had been thoroughly examined. 
I would have hoped by this time to have been in a position to announce details of the adjustment arrangements to apply in the future and have them incorporated in the principal Acts. The Government, however, has properly recognised the need to examine various other proposals that have been put to it in recent months for the annual adjustment of benefits arising from a person's retirement and, more importantly, any effects their possible introduction may have in the future on the pension updating arrangements currently in force. These inquiries are not yet complete. This Bill provides, therefore, for further interim increases this year, which will be payable with effect from and including the pension pay day of 4 July 1974. Legislation will be introduced next year to provide for future permanent methods of adjustments. I should make it clear, however, that if any pensioner does not receive from this and last year's interim adjustments the full benefits of the increase which the future permanent method would have provided for him during the period concerned, his pension payments will be adjusted retrospectively to the pension pay day of 4 July 1973. 
The increases in both DFRB and DFRDB pensions as proposed by this Bill will be related to the 16.2 per cent increase in average weekly earnings during the 12 months ending 31 March 1974. In the case of DFRB pensioners, that is those who retired before 1 October, 1972, the amount of the increase is determined by applying that percentage to a notional Consolidated Revenue share of the total pension payable, which comprises the amount of the pension adjusted last year plus the amount of last year's pension increase. In practical terms, the 16.2 per cent will be applied, in the great majority of cases, to almost 80 per cent of the total pension currently payable. For pensioners retired under the conditions of the new DFRDB scheme a notional Consolidated Revenue share of fivesevenths of the total pension payable is to be adjusted by 16.2 per cent except where retirement occurred within the 12 months preceding 1 July 1974, when the percentage will be proportionately reduced in relation to the number of months served during that year. Widows' pensions and the 'additional' pension payable in respect of eligible children will be increased in proportion to the increase that would have applied to the deceased serviceman if he were still alive and drawing pension. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr McLeay)  adjourned. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows:  ( 1 ), (2), (3), (4), (5) and (6) The Government's present thinking and intentions regarding the future defence relationship between Australia and an independent Papua New Guinea was detailed in my Statement on Australian Defence Estimates 1 974/75 tabled in Parliament on 24 October 1 974. 
I think the answers to the right honourable member's questions are contained in that Statement. 
United States Establishments in Australia  (Question No. 1238) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) My colleague the Minister for Foreign Affairs, whose Department is conducting the consultations referred to, has advised me that the negotiation of these matters is continuing. The procedures to apply to the facility at Amberley have been agreed and an instrument to implement these procedures requires only one or two formalities before being put to the Executive Council. The procedures to apply at Alice Springs are being negotiated. 
and (3) It would be premature to release the details. In each instance, however, provision is being made for the involvement both of Australian Government Departments and authorities, and civil contractors. 
The matter is taking no longer to settle than is to be expected having regard to the number of agencies and parties involved. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
During my visit to Canada last January I had further discussions with the Canadian Minister for National Defence on possibilities for closer co-operation between Canada and Australia on defence procurement. Subsequently there were developments on the official level concerning the establishment of suitable procedural arrangements. 
Yes. 
Canada has recently agreed to a procedure proposed by Australia under which each will exchange annually details of major new equipment proposals being considered for authorisation in the next financial year. Australia has now sent such information to Canada in respect of financial years 1974-75 and 1975-76. Desk officers have also been appointed in each country to keep informed on developments in the other country and to be focal points for information and action. Where both countries have identical or closely similar requirements, there will be further consultation on the scope for co-ordinating the procurements. Also, as opportunity offers, there will be discussions on defence procurement co-operation during visits of Ministers and officials to Ottawa and Canberra. The foregoing will supplement existing arrangements between Canada and Australia under which there is a regular exchange of defence information, including on equipment. 
See(3). 
The procedure outlined in (3) is similar to arrangements already operating satisfactorily between Australia and New Zealand. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: ( 1 ), (2), (3) and (4) I refer the right honourable member to the Prime Minister's answer to question No. 41 (Hansard 3 October 1974, pages 2233-2239) in which he provided details of Councils upon which both Australian Government and State Ministers are represented. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Whilst no consideration has been given to Australian participation in the development of an advanced Harrier aircraft in association with Britain and the United States of America the VTOL concept has been under Defence evaluation along with fixed and rotary wing contenders in the context of the possible long term needs of the Services. 
Plans for the development of the RAAF tactical fighter capability are being prepared. Should an advanced Harrier be proposed in response to Air Force Staff Requirements, issued as part of this development plan, the aircraft would be considered along with other contenders. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Since this question was put on notice I have tabled on 24 October 1974 a statement on the 1974-75 Defence Estimates. In this statement I brought up to date decisions taken since my statement on 4 April 1974 when I first tabled the report of the Committee of Inquiry into the Citizen Military Forces. If you refer to pages 8, 9 and 10 of my statement on the Defence Estimates it contains a full explanation of action taken so far on the recommendations of the CMF Committee. 
National Committee on Discrimination in Employment and Occupation  (Question No. 1372) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The first stage in the construction of the Cockburn Sound Naval Base involved the building of the causeway from Point Peron to Garden. Island This was completed in 1 973 at a cost of$9.5m. The second stage includes the works presented to the Public Works Committee in April 1972, with the exception of the Armament Depot and Jetty and the Large Ships Wharf. This stage is estimated to cost $26m (October 1974 prices),' and is scheduled for completion by December, 1978. In addition equipment associated with the works is estimated to cost $9.9m (September- 1974 prices). All housing to be provided on the mainland for personnel working on Garden Island is estimated ai $1.5m (October 1974 prices). 
The Government after long and careful consideration decided, in 1973, that in the context of the current strategic assessment and the. priorities of expenditure, that the Armament Depot and Jetty and the Large Ships Wharf should be deferred for later consideration. These works will now be considered along with other major works projects for priority listing in the Five Year Program Cycle 1973-76 -1979-80. 
The answer to the right honourables member's question is as follows: 
The capital cost of the Cockburn Sound Naval Base for works and facilities to be completed by December 1 978 is currently estimated at$46.9m made up of: 
The causeway between Point Peron and Garden Island $9.5m 
Works to be constructed on Garden bland S26.0m 
Equipment associated with Works $9.9m 
Housing on the mainland for married personnel S 1 .5m 
The completion of construction of the approved works is scheduled for December 1978. Planning is proceeding towards annual deployments of a task group of ships to the west during 1977 and 1978 for periods of up ito three months. After 1978 it will be possible to base ships for extended periods at the Cockburn Sound Facility. Other works still to be considered but which will not prevent the operation of the Facility by December 1978 include the Armament Depot and Jetty, and Large Ships Wharf. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The matters raised have been dealt with in a number of Ministerial statements the most recent of which was in my statement to the House tabled on 24 October 1974. Relevant information is also contained in the 1974 Defence Report tabled on 22 October. 1974. 
The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 

The matters raised have been dealt with in a number of Ministerial statements the most recent of which was in my statement to the House tabled on 24 October 1974. Relevant information is also contained in the 1974 Defence Report tabled on 22 October 1 974. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 have asked the Committee of Reference for Defence Force Pay, which is considering Reserve Force pay and certain related matters, to include in its consideration an assessment of the effectiveness of tax exemption in terms of the attraction and retention of Reserve personnel. 
When the Committee's Report is received the Government will consider the matter. At this stage, however, I am unable to say when a decision will be made. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) In October 1 97 1 in Brisbane I stated that the target for defence spending would not fall below the level set by the Liberal-Country Party in recent years which was 3.2 per cent to 3.5 per cent of the then Gross National Product. 
It is difficult to compare defence expenditures in real terms because there is no price index entirely suitable for the task. However using the Consumer Price Index it can be calculated that in December 1971 prices the 1973-74 Defence Outlay was 3.2 per cent less than the 1971-72 Defence Outlay. For 1974-75 we have at this stage only the estimated outlay at the time of budget presentation. The actual outlay will depend upon supplementary estimates in the Autumn Session which will, of course, reflect the year's price rises. The only valid comparison between 1 973-74 Defence Outlay and 1 974-75 Defence Outlay is between the two estimated outlays at the times of the respective budgets. Again using the CP1 index, it is calculated that the 1974-75 estimated Defence Outlay in June 1973 prices, is 3.4 per cent greater than the 1973-74 estimated Defence Outlay. Thus, as well can be judged, the 1974-75 Defence Outlay is equivalent in real terms to the 197 1-72 Defence Outlay. 
It is estimated that Defence Expenditure for 1974-75 will be 2.77 per cent of Gross Domestic Product. An equivalent real expenditure is a lower percentage of GDP than that which applied in 1971-72 because under this Government there has been substantial real growth of the GDP. 
-For the information of honourable members I present an exchange of notes between the Australian and United States Governments providing for amendments to the agreement of 9 May 1963 relating to the establishment of a United States Naval Communication Station in Australia, together with a statement by myself on those amendments. Due to the limited numbers available, I have arranged for reference copies of these papers to be placed in the Parliamentary Library. I seek leave to have the text of my statement incorporated in Hansard. 
I do not want to detain the House. No one spoke in opposition to the Bill. As a matter of fact the honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes),  the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett),  and the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan)  who spoke in this debate all supported the Bill. It is true that they made one or two points about which there is some contention. Indeed I believe that those honourable members, particularly the honourable member for Herbert, know that there are problems that were considered by the Jess Committee of which he and I were members. These matters have been under consideration by my Department and me. Honourable members will also appreciate that it is not an easy matter to arrive at a decision on some of the anomalies that they know exist in the legislation. When I introduced the Bill - 
You know nothing about it, so for goodness sake be quiet. 
You know nothing about it. 
You know nothing about that either. You have displayed that on many occasions. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! 

Look, you at least ought to remain silent. I remained silent while you were speaking. Now at least have the courtesy to do the same for me. You invited me to respond. I am doing that. You have no courtesy at all. 
-This matter has been brought to my attention and has been considered by the Department of Defence. It would be difficult for me to make a decision and to authorise the replacement of the bridge unless I had full knowledge of what was required by the State Government in this respect. I suggest that the proper course would be for the Minister for Lands in New South Wales to ask the Premier of New South Wales to communicate with the Prime Minister in relation to this matter. If it were taken up at this level I would be happy to reconsider the matter. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) During 1973-74 management consultant firms have been used Tor the following purposes: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
(a) $36,000. 
The repairs required form part of a program to rectify damage caused to Army property in Queensland at that time and will be undertaken as soon as possible. 
-It is true that I received yesterday a minute from the Department of Defence indicating that Air Vice Marshal Hurditch was submitting his resignation. I accepted his resignation. He indicated that he had expressed some opposition to the reorganisation of the defence departments. It would be unusual, of course, if there were not some officers and indeed some civilians within the Defence Department who did not express opposition to the reorganisation. But the great majority of the personnel of the Defence Department- servicemen and civilians- have accepted the reorganisation. I have read some statements made by journalists which have suggested that Air Vice Marshal Hurditch had resigned and that his resignation would be followed by that of other officers. The suggestion that 2 admirals intend to resign has not been brought to my attention. What the honourable member should understand is that the situation has changed. It is now much easier for officers to resign under this Government than it was previously. As a result of the changes in the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits legislation, an officer can now retire before what would have been his normal expiration of service and can receive his entitlement. 
-Under the previous Government, he could not do that. I have been asked the question: 'How much will he receive?' Naturally, I am not in the position to indicate nor would I want to indicate to the House how much Air Vice Marshal Hurditch will receive under the DFRB scheme when he retires. However, I can say to honourable members that under the legislation, as it now exists, an Air Vice Marshal with 34 years service would receive a pension of about $14,000 a year. But because there is automatic commutation, which again was provided under the DFRB legislation, an Air Vice Marshal in this position would be able to commute his pension, receive a lump sum payment of $56,000 and a reduced pension of $1 1,000 a year. This is the situation that exists today. Therefore, it is understandable that some officers who believe that they have reached the peak of their career and have no hope of further advancement should seek to retire and take another position. 
There have been a number of resignations over the years since the defence forces retirements benefits legislation was introduced. These retirements have been amongst senior officers who were about to retire or who would be very close to their retirement anyway. I have stated in the House before- I want to repeat it today- that I am not unduly concerned when older senior officers who have nearly reached their retirement age retire in order to provide opportunities for younger servicemen to be promoted to their positions. There is nothing exceptional about this. 
Finally, I want to say to the honourable member for Barker, who is interjecting, that he is smarting from the announcement by the Leader of the Opposition of his Party's decision in regard to defence spending. The honourable member for Barker said during the debate on the Estimates that the Opposition would actually increase defence expenditure, yet the Leader of the Opposition said last week that there would be a cut in Government expenditure right across the board. It would include expenditure on education, health and social welfare. But the plain fact is that if the honourable member for Barker happened to become Minister for Defence, and I doubt that very much- even the members of his own Party are not satisfied with his performance in that respect- he would be faced with a drastic cut that would not only reduce defence expenditure but also would certainly bring about a spate of resignations that would alarm even the honourable member. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (b) The consolidation of the information sought would reveal an operational capability which I feel would not be appropriate for me to release. 
Department of Science: Requests from Voluntary Organisations (Question No. 1454) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Paragraph 195 of the Report said: 'So far as the Committee can ascertain there is not even one lawyer in the Attorney-General's Department or in any of the Defence Group of Departments who has specialised knowledge of United States procurement law '. 
There are officers in the Department of Defence and in the Attorney-General's Department who are knowledgeable in United States procurement law. 
-The improved conditions relate largely to the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund. In addition, as the honourable member will know, since this Government accepted responsibility for defence it has initiated a number of reforms for serving members of the armed forces. For example, there is the matter of rehabilitation and reconstruction for all regular force members who upon retirement are now entitled to the same conditions that the previous Government granted only to national servicemen. The Government has provided the benefits of the defence service homes legislation to all serving members of the forces. It has provided repatriation entitlements to serving members of the forces. One could list many areas in which this Government has accepted the responsibility that it acknowledged prior to becoming the Government for improving the conditions and pay and allowances of serving members of the forces so that we would be in a position to establish in this country a defence forcecomprising the Army, the Navy and the Air Force- on a volunteer basis. This has been done. 
The shadow Minister for Defence, the honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes),  as he usually does in these debates has neglected to offer any suggestion about what he would do about reorganisation and about the conditions he says apply in the Services today. There was nothing from the shadow Minister for Defence; he never had an idea. He was completely bereft of any suggestions about what ought to be done. Indeed, he did not do his homework. I am satisfied from what he said that, apart from making some accusations against civilians in the Department of Defence- those who happen to be civilian public servants- and speaking in a detrimental way about them personally, he had nothing at all to suggest. He suggested that a council ought to be established when the reorganisation takes place. He has suggested that the council ought to comprise myself as the Minister, the Chief of Defence Force Staff,  Sir Victor  Smith, the Secretary of the Department of Defence,  Sir Arthur  Tange, and the 3 Chiefs of Staff. I have been meeting with those people once a month for some time now and we have had under discussion no doubt the things that the honourable member has in mind at this time. But if he had read the report he would have seen that when referring to a defence council  Sir Arthur  Tange said: 
I suggested to the Chiefs of Staff that a Council be established, presided over by the Minister for Defence, and having as members the Minister or Ministers Assisting the Minister for Defence, the Secretary of the Department, and the Chief of Defence Force Staff; the object being to provide the Minister with a system of collective policy advice and information and to facilitate the issuing by turn of policy directions to the Department. 
In discussion, the Chiefs of Staff and others argued that there is no need to formalise arrangements of this kind which can be made by the Minister ad hoc, and therefore the proposal was withdrawn. 
If the shadow Minister for Defence, the honourable member for Barker, had read the report he would have seen that reference to a council in a statement made by  Sir Arthur  Tange. It is quite clear that the Chiefs of Staff themselves argued against the establishment of a council. As I have said, I regularly meet with the Chiefs of Staff, the Secretary of the Department of Defence and the  Chairman  of the Chiefs of Staff Committee. I can call a meeting whenever I believe that a meeting is necessary. We have been meeting regularly each month. Secondly- and again the honourable member for Barker is wrong- the chiefs of Staff regularly seek to interview me, and they do so at any time. They themselves ask for a meeting. 
It is not too surprising that the honourable member for Barker has raised this matter of public importance this afternoon. After all, he was in great difficulty last week, having predicted an increase in defence expenditure. But he has never said to what extent a government, in which the honourable member would expect to be the Minister for Defence, would increase defence expenditure. No reference to any increase has been made by the shadow Minister for Defence. He has not said by how much he would increase the $l,500m being spent on defence during 1974-75, nor has he compared the expenditure with the gross national product. So once again the honourable member for Barker slides out when it comes to making a decision in relation to expenditure. Last week the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  confirmed what he had said previously, that there would be an across the board cut in the expenditure of departments which, in my estimation, would be about $ 1,000m. That across the board cut would obviously include expenditure on defence, because when he said that there would be a cut in government expenditure he indicated 3 areas that would receive priority. The first was education, the second was social welfare and the third was health. So quite clearly from the statement made by the Leader of the Opposition, the Department of Defence would be included in any examination which was made for the purpose of reducing government expenditure. 
When I made my statement on defence reorganisation on 19 December 1972 I announced 5 major objectives which this Government had to modify and improve in the form of defence administration which was bequeathed to us by our predecessors. These objectives and the defects in defence administration to which they are related were developed further by  Sir Arthur  Tange in his report to the Government on defence re-organisation. As honourable members will know, the Government adopted the Tange report progressively and in its entirety, and defence administration has since been developing progressively towards the final steps which can be taken when, as I plan, the amending defence legislation is introduced into the House early in the autumn session. It is curious that the defects referred to by the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, for example, and the measures it has proposed to correct the defects in most cases merely restate the Government's objectives as announced in 1972 and the detailed translation of these in the Tange report into re-organisation activity and in the progressive implementation of its recommendations. 
The task of reorganisation of a very large and complex activity such as Australian defence has necessarily been slow, particularly where considerations such as departmental structure and classification have to be submitted and approved by an external authority- the Australian Public Service Board. In this context, minor misunderstandings grow and ill-founded criticisms add to the general problem of maintaining the morale of people engaged in a major administrative activity which is being subjected to progressive and substantial change. Every step is being taken to inform all concerned as opportunity permits but it is quite clear that criticism, both from within and without the Services, is to a very large measure based on a failure to appreciate the reasons for and the significance of the changes which are being planned. 
Great play has been made of the resignation rate of Service officers, and it would be surprising if such a trend did not become evident in a period when activity participation by our forces and warlike operations overseas have come to an end and a substantial period of low or minimum threat is the assessment of all specialised advisers to the Government. In addition, the Government has amended the defence forces retirement benefit scheme to permit easier retirement from the Services after 20 years service and to provide adequate resources to establish defence personnel in second careers should they so wish. This, as well as the factors I have mentioned, has undoubtedly led to some increase in the rate of resignations. There is, however, no cause for alarm as the resignation rate is no more than is necessary to retain in peacetime the young and vigorous servicemen and servicewomen, a trend which we anticipate will continue in the next few years. 
As I pointed out publicly in a document which I release monthly and which gives the number of enlistments and resignations for that month, it is quite clear that the number of enlistments in the 3 Services is satisfactory. What evidence is there of an alarming rate of officer resignations? Our regular forces had a total of 6,698 officers in June 1965. Today there are 9,788 officers, an increase of 46 per cent. Let us look at the ratio of male other ranks servicemen to male officers. In June 1 97 1 there were 8.2 Army other ranks per officer compared with 6.2 today. The Navy ratio was also 8.2 other ranks per officer compared with 7.2 today. For the Royal Australian Air Force the figure was 5.6 in 1971 compared with 5.1 today. Clearly, the officer situation in the Services gives no cause for alarm. 
Naturally I have discussed this matter with the Chiefs of Staff, naturally I have asked the chiefs of personnel of the Services about resignations. The latest advice I have had from them is as follows: 
Navy: The impact on Navy's ability to meet commitments has been negligible. However, there have been internal difficulties arising from officers being posted at short notice to relieve officers who have resigned- even though we have kept this to a minimum. The current resignation rate does not give cause for alarm. 
Army: Officer resignations have not affected Army's ability to carry out its functions overall. However, the resignation of some officers in the middle rank bracket will, if continued in the future, give some cause for concern. It is a fact that resignations have caused some posting turbulence. 
At the same time, however, they have increased the opportunities amongst other officers for promotion and are leading to a younger officer structure. 
Air: Resignations have had an impact on the Service, but by observing manning priorities, we have been able to meet all our commitments. 
I would like to turn now to the last part of the motion moved by the honourable member for Barker which relates to the implementation of defence policies which would remove the underlying cause of such resignations. Again the honourable member has not offered any suggestion about what ought to be done in this respect. I have already decided that it is advisable from time to time to provide an opportunity for servicemen to express an opinion about what should be done if there are problems within the Services. Naturally, of course, there will be some difficulties at times such as this. When we were changing from the activity which was undertaken by servicemen during the period of office of our predecessors, particularly the last few years of their period of office, I never doubted that there would be some changes in the basic philosophy and attitude of servicemen generally. One can understand that. I believe that we can look at the situation in the Services and give servicemen the opportunity to express an opinion. I have discussed this matter with Admiral Smith,  Chairman  of the Chiefs of Staff, and  Mr Wilfred  Jarvis, the sociologist who contributed so well to the inquiry into the Citizen Military Forces. We decided that a study should be conducted which would examine the following areas: 
Environmental aspects of Service life including pay, benefits, working conditions, housing, effects of military life upon family relationships, leave, superannuation, etc. 
b ) Effects of organisation structures and customs including impediments to internal and external communications, leadership styles, recruitment, induction, training, promotional opportunities, disciplinary codes, peer relationships, etc. 
Psychological factors, including opportunities for achievement, recognition, creative thinking, accepting responsibility, decision making, personal growth, intellectual growth, emotional fulfilment, job satisfaction, group participation, career development, etc. 
Reciprocating relationships between each Service and the civilian community, the Public Service, other services, the Government, the Parliament, the trade unions, etc., as perceived and evaluated by members. 
The study will be under taken by  Mr Wilfred  Jarvis and will require the participation of all members of the forces. As it happens,  Mr Jarvis  is to meet the Chiefs of Staff tomorrow to discuss the matter in greater detail. So once again I have shown, as in the case of the inquiry into the Citizen Military Forces something which was never undertaken by the previous Liberal-Country Party Government. It would never have conducted an inquiry into the Citizen Military Forces. I set up such a committee of inquiry. The report of that inquiry, as is known to all honourable members, is now available. Many of the recommendations have already been adopted by the Government.  Mr Wilfred  Jarvis served on that committee. I believe that he served, as did the other members of the committee, with very great distinction. There is an opportunity for someone with  Mr Jarvis'  background, ability and understanding of these problems to investigate the kind of problems that are bound to develop within the armed Services from time to time. I have never denied that there could be problems. There will always be problems. This is not the first occasion on which one has read about the resignation of officers from the Services. I have not taken the opportunity, nor would I want to, of making any comparison between the resignations to day and the resignations which took place when the honourable member for Barker was a member of the previous Liberal-Country Party Government. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Building D44 was occupied prior to 1965 as an Australian Services Canteens Organization (ASCO)-operated canteen comprising a billiard room, ladies lounge and tavern. ' 
(a) The building was used by the WRAAC as a canteen, until its closure in September 1973. The building was unoccupied until June 1974, when permission was given the Brisbane Army Officers Wives Club to use part of it for community purposes until an Army requirement arose. 
Use of the unoccupied building since June 1974 by the Officers Wives Club is considered to be appropriate and to good advantage and arrangements are being made for a newly formed Other Ranks Wives Club to also use the Building. 
Yes, in August 1973. However, an economic survey found that it would be unprofitable to reopen the canteen in the building for the 2nd Engineers Regiment in opposition to the Enoggera Area canteen (the Dalziel Club). 
Present planning envisages continued use of part of the building by the Army Wives Clubs and concurrent use of the building at lunch time and after work by 2nd Engineers Regiment as a day recreation centre and games room including provision of a billiard table, soft drink vending machine, cigarette machine and juke box. 
-Pursuant to section 14(1) of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act 1948-1973, I present a supplement to the twenty-fifth report of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Board on the operation  of the  Act for the period 1 July 1972 to 30 September 1972, incorporating financial accounts and the report of the AuditorGeneral on those accounts. 
-Pursuant to section 16(2) of the Defence Forces Retirement and Death Benefits Act 1 973- 1 974, 1 present the second report of the Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Authority dealing with the General administration and working of the Act for the year ended 30 June 1974. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits (Pension Increases) Bill 1 974 which has now been passed by both Houses of Parliament provides for adjustments of pensions granted under the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act 1948-1973 and under the Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Act 1 973- 1 974 with effect from and including the pension payday of 4 July 1 974. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Only one (1) Fl machine gun manufactured at Lithgow Small Arms Factory was captured from suspected members of the Provisional IRA in Northern Ireland. 
An Fl sub machine gun, which had been stolen from 4 Cadet Brigade Adelaide in 1972, was recovered from a house in Belfast in April 1 974. 
and (S) The security of weapons and security procedures in general are subject to continuing examination. However, in view of thefts of weapons that had occurred. I did instruct that there be a comprehensive review of the present security facilities provided so that I could be reassured on this important matter. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The United States Navy plans to acquire a total of SO Patrol Frigates on an annual appropriation basis. To date the only firm order placed is for the lead ship although funds have been approved by the U.S. Congress for the acquisition of a further 3 vessels. No details have been released by the 
U.S. Government of orders placed for Patrol Frigates by other countries. 
I have seen the advertisement referred to by the honourable member which features the statement 'No Threat for Fifteen Years- Lance Barnard', and detailing the contents of its next issue. I can only describe this as one of the most scurrilous and misleading of business practices. I have not in fact contributed to this edition of the magazine nor would I contribute to any edition. I express my disgust at the use of my name without my permission to imply the existence of an article when in fact there is none. The title implied is mischievous. I have never used the phrase 'No Threat for Fifteen Years'. This is a meaningless paraphrase by a man who is incapable of grasping the clear statement by the Government's strategic advisers. It simply reinforces my conviction that this is a publication incapable of serious analysis. I will discuss with my colleague, the Minister for Services and Property, the question of whether this advertisement is a breach of privilege. If it is, the appropriate action will be taken. 
I will reply to the first part of the honourable member's question; I think the rest of it quite properly ought to be put on the notice paper. The statement made by the British Minister for Defence clearly outlined the decision of the Defence Department of the United Kingdom in relation to its commitments east of Suez. The honourable gentleman would appreciate, of course, that Prime Minister Wilson kept the Prime Minister of Australia fully informed of the contents of that statement before it was made. We accept the United Kingdom decision to withdraw its garrison forces from Singapore. However, it has decided to leave elements of the Royal Air Force in that area and they will continue to operate with elements of the Royal Australian Air Force which are located at Butterworth. At the same time the United Kingdom Minister for Defence made it quite clear that his country would continue to co-operate with Australia and New Zealand and the other countries which are parties to the Five Power Arrangements. The Australian Government believes that the United Kingdom Government acted quite properly in this  matter. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The detailed information on the number of Soviet naval vessels which visited the Indian Ocean during the period August 1973 to November 1974, to the extent that such information is publicly available is: 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) A Joint Committee, representative of the Australian and State Governments has been set up to examine and report to both governments on possible alternative areas. A number of sites have been listed for detailed examination on the ground and these examinations are proceeding. 
Approximately 120 acres (48.6 ha) by disposal, leasing and permissive occupance 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
103. 

The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
Not applicable. 
The Services have no knowledge of any request for duty being directed to a person on the Retired List. 
Strengths of Defence Reserves at September 1974 are set out below: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) There are no records within the Department of Defence of any requests from voluntary organisations for financial assistance to establish or maintain a federal headquarters. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The right honourable member is obviously referring to a speech entitled'Official Secrecy, Open Government and Making Democracy Democratic' delivered by the present Minister for Labor and Immigration on 1 7 September 1 972. 
Tests by the Materials Research Laboratories* in the ordinary course of their defence work usually relate to quite specific aspects of technical performance, composition, or function against specifications, often for one consumer. Results frequently are not suitable for general dissemination because the method of collection of samples, the comprehensiveness of the range of products tested and the range of tests conducted have not been designed in accordance with accepted consumer product reporting practice. Further, specification requirements may be explicit for particular purposes. 
* Formerly known as the Defence Standards Laboratories. 
However, where resources permit, the expertise built up in the laboratories will be made available to assist other Australian Government agencies working in the field of consumer protection. 
The terms of reference of the Interim Commission on Consumer Standards include the following: 
to encourage, and where necessary contract with, appropriate laboratories to test consumer products and publish the results'. 
The Interim Commission recently contracted with the Materials Research Laboratories for the testing of a number of samples of paint. Tests are being carried out in collaboration with the Explosives Factory Maribyrnong of the Department of Manufacturing Industry and the results of the tests will be published by the Minister for Science in due course. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) The Government is not at present providing financial support to any defence related research and development projects in the non-government area. 
Technical advice is frequently provided to the non-government area although the incidence of specific defence related projects or programs in that area is very limited. 
At present no financial support is provided. 
The Government sub-contracts to Industry and to the Universities specific research and development tasks. Expenditure in 1974/75 on such tasks is estimated to be approximately one million dollars. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As Gross National Product figures are no longer available expenditure on defence has been given as a percentage of the Gross Domestic Product. 
Actual expenditure on defence during 1973-74 represented 2.8 per cent of the Gross Domestic Product for 1973- 74. 
The estimated expenditure on defence for 1974-75 at current prices represents 2.9 per cent of the latest Department of Treasury estimate of Gross Domestic Product for 1 974- 75 at current prices. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Exercises were conducted in one or more building(s) occupied by this Department on the following dates: 
Canberra area: 5.6.73; 22.1 1.73; 14.5.74; 17.7.74. 
Melbourne area: 11.4.73; 2.5.73; 16.5.73; 20.6.73; 28.6.73; 11.7.73; 31.7.73; 6.8.73; 13.8.73; 15.8.73; 31.8.73; 11.9.73; 24.9.73; 1.10.73; 2.10.73; 7.10.73; 24.10.73(2); 26.10.73; 30.10.73; 1.11.73; 26.11.73; 4.12.73; 22.1.74; 6.2.74; 22.2.74; 5.3.74; 7.3.74; 13.3.74(2); 25.3.74; 27.3.74; 8.4.74; 19.4.74; 7.5.74; 21.5.74; 18.6.74; 25.6.74; 2.7.74; 8.7.74; 22.7.74; 15.8.74; 29.8.74; 6.9.74; 12.9.74; 18.9.74; 23.9.74; 26.9.74. 
In addition, during the period 20.3.73-13.9.74, 23 separate exercises were conducted in Victoria Barracks, Melbourne, as a result of alarms being activated. 
Sydney area: 24.4.74. 
Brisbane area: 25.5.73; 29.6.73; 30.8.73; 5.10.73; 10/11.11.73; 23.11.73; 26.2.74; 8.5.74; 3.7.74; 16/20.11.74. 
Adelaide area: 22.6.73; 16.8.73; 6.12.75; 23.5.74; 26.9.74. 
Perth area: 11.12.73; 28.1.74. 
Hobart area: 1 1 . 4.73; 28.9.73. 
All officers and employees in the particular building(s) in which the exercise was conducted took part on each occasion. 
(a) Canberra area: 109; 329; 109; 41. 
Melbourne area: 83; 83; 83; 83; 83; 100; 274; 27; 13; 7; 100; 93; 100; 93; 93; 93; 93 (6); 93; 90; 93; 274; 93; 53; 53; 135; 6; 70; 15 (30); 53; 53; 50; 250; 250; 6; 250; 52; 48; 43; 40; 404; 404; 404; 158; 20; 10. 
Sydney area: 600. 
Brisbane area: 521; 521; 60; 521; 2; 521; 521; 521; 521; 1. 
Adelaide area: 123; 31; 31; 31; 31. 
Perth area: 165; 165. 
Hobart area: 46; 42. 
To test the adequacy of emergency evacuation procedures and carry out fire drills. 
Yes. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (11) I refer the right honourable member to the information provided by the Minister for the Media in reply to Question No. 1581 (House of Representatives Hansard, 4 December 1 974 Page 4590). 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Copies of press releases issued by the Defence Minister are distributed by hand to the Press Gallery from the Defence Minister's office, by distribution from the Ministerial Document Reproduction Unit, by publication in the Australian Government Digest, and by mail to interested organisations and individuals. 
There is a list of people who regularly receive copies of the Defence Minister's press statements and this list is constantly changed. Broadly, however, statements are issued to all Members and Senators, media organisations, Government Departments, Embassies, political party organisations, business organisations, libraries and individuals from whom requests are received. 
The number of copies circulated depends to an extent upon the particular subject matter of the statement, but in general, statements are sent regularly to about 1000 addresses. 
Part of the cost of producing and distributing press releases for the Defence Minister is included in costs relating to salaries and administration of the Depanment. Other costs are borne by the Ministerial Document Reproduction Unit, which is part of the Department of the Media. The costs attributable to Ministerial press releases have not been separately indentified and it is therefore not possible to give a precise answer to this part of the right honourable member's question. 
Normally, one member of my Department is engaged part-time in the addressing, parcelling and delivery of Ministerial press releases. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (5) I refer the honourable member to the information provided by the Special Minister of State in reply to question No. 1862 (House of Representatives Hansard, 5 December 1974, pages 4841-4847). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (4) Negotiations are being conducted with the Bell Helicopter Company which will lead to firm project costs being established for the production of 56 military helicopters only. The civil production program will not proceed. 
In 1973 Iran ordered 489 Bell military helicopters. It is understood that there were no LOH type aircraft included in that order. 
and (4) The estimate of cost should the original project run to completion is $45.6m. including an amount to assist in the commercial production of 1 16 civil helicopters, support cost for 75 military helicopters and expected escalation. While not final the expected order of project costs for 56 military helicopters is about $32m. 
Telephones: STD Calls  (Question No. 1804) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information requested was provided in answer to  Dr Forbes'  question on notice No. 1524, contained in Hansard on 5 December 1974 pages 4727-4728. For the honourable member's convenience the type of ship description was slightly simplified from the earlier format. 
Department of the Media: Grants  (Question No. 1552) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) As at the end of December 1974, the posted strength of Army personnel serving at the following locations were: 
Cyclone Trixie has been one of the most intense cyclones recorded on the north-west coast of Western Australia. This cyclone has been a much larger system than Darwin's cyclone Tracy. The diameter of its eye was estimated on 18 February as 24 nautical miles compared with Tracy's  1  nautical miles. The development and movement of the cyclone, however, have been predicted with accuracy by the regional director of the Bureau of Meteorology, Perth,  Mr R.  Southern, with whom the National Emergency Operations Centre has been in regular contact throughout the period. Onslow has been the most seriously affected of the coastal towns, and there have been difficulties in communicating with the area. Telephone - reports, however, indicate no casualties but some damage, especially to power reticulation systems, and flooding. The condition of the airstrip is not known at this time. 
On Monday, 17 February, an offer was made to the Western Australian Government to position Hercules aircraft at Pearce Royal Australian Air Force Base for deployment if and when the State Government required them for evacuation and disaster relief tasks. This offer was accepted by the Western Australian Government. One Hercules aircraft is presently located at Pearce, with a second aircraft on standby at Richmond. Depending on flying conditions in the area and upon the condition of the airstrip at Onslow, it is likely that the Western Australian Government will request the Pearce based aircraft later this morning to fly electricity and other repair teams into Onslow. There is the possibility that other airstrips in the vicinity- for example, that at Learmonth- could be used if necessary. The National Emergency Operations Centre in Canberra has been manned on a 24-hour basis since the first cyclone warning was issued on Sunday night, 16 February, and has remained in operation throughout this period. The NEOC has been in constant contact with the Western Australian State Emergency Service and the regional office of the Bureau of Meteorology in Perth. Naturally, the National Disasters Organisation has been in direct contact with the State Emergency Service centre in Western Australia and the Department of Defence, as in the case of Darwin with cyclone Tracy. The Natural Disasters Organisation has indicated that whatever assistance is required from the defence forces will be made available. 
-Yes, the Department of Defence has recalled from the cadet corps units throughout Australia the .303 rifles. There are 3 reasons for this. The first is that the recommendation for this action was contained in the report of the Millar Committee which investigated the Australian cadet corps and pointed out that the 303 rifle in many cases was far too heavy for cadets. 
I am merely quoting what is in the report. The honourable members may dispute it if they wish to do so. The second reason is that we do not manufacture .303 ammunition in Australia; it has to be imported and it is very costly. The third reason is the question of security which has been raised in this House on a number of occasions. It is well known that there have been problems of security in relation to armouries located at Australian schools for the cadet corps. Basically, they are the 3 reasons. The 22 rifle will be retained for shooting practice and the 7.62 millimetre SLR will be made available to cadet corps units for shooting practice and for ceremonial purposes. 
In the last part of his question, the honourable member asked whether it would be possible for cadet corps to purchase .303 rifles. This is a matter for my colleague,  Senator James  McClelland, the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, to determine. Once rifles have been declared for disposal, it is a matter for him to determine what should happen to them. But if the honourable member is asking for my own personal view, the answer would be no. I would be reluctant to allow .303 rifles to be purchased by school cadet corps and kept under their own management in armouries at the schools. 
In 1943 Cabinet took a decision, at the request of the Defence Committee, to establish a chemical warfare field experimental station at Proserpine in Queensland. It is quite clear that during this period mustard gas was used to train servicemen for defensive action. I understand that some 400 volunteers were used. There have been persistent reports in the media since the end of 1 974 concerning this matter. The Official War History' published in 1958 devotes a full chapter- chapter 17- to this matter. It outlines the action and the decision of the Cabinet at that time. The Cabinet papers which were released in 1974 and the departmental papers which were made available for public scrutiny in 1973 added nothing to the information that was already available in the official war history. 
I come now to the other point which has been raised in the media concerning the rights of those who volunteered during the period referred to. It is quite clear that this is a matter which comes under the jurisdiction of my colleague the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation. Any volunteer who was at Proserpine during that period and suffered a disability as a result of the use of mustard gas and has after-effects would have a prima facie case to have that disability accepted as a war-caused disability under the Repatriation Act. I have asked my Department to ascertain, if it is possible to do so at this stage, the names of servicemen who volunteered at that time. It may not be possible for me to find the names of all those who took part in the experimental exercises at Proserpine between 1943 and 1945. However, repatriation records are usually most thorough. It is clear that the names of servicemen who volunteered to serve at Proserpine during this period would be clearly recorded in repatriation files. So any exservicemen who has been so affected should make an immediate application to the Repatriation Department. At the end of the Second World War the station was closed down and all stocks of mustard gas in Australia were destroyed. 
I turn to the last question asked by the honourable member. Australia's obligations, both nationally and internationally, concerning chemical weapons are derived from the Geneva protocol of 1925 and the biological chemical weapons convention of 1 972. These clearly outlaw the use of toxic chemical agents in war, except in retaliation, and also prohibit the production, development and stockpiling of biological weapons. As a matter of policy the Australian Government has decided, quite properly in my opinion, that the stockpiling, production or even development of chemical agents in this country is strictly prohibited. One final point in relation to this matter- 
-As I have been asked by honourable members on the opposite side of the House for a full explanation on this matter following reports which have appeared in the media, I believe that they would want a comprehensive reply to the question, and they are getting it. Finally, I say to the honourable member for Phillip that we adhere strictly to the Geneva protocol and the convention of 1972 in relation to these matters. 
-The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
None. 
There are no plans for the installation of underground bunker shelters at this stage. The use made of underground shelters by the Egyptian Air Force has been examined. Protective measures to be taken by our Forces will be kept under study so that all possible design developments can be incorporated in our defence systems to meet any future threat. However operational aircraft at selected RAAF bases are being provided with protection against sympathetic weapon explosions on adjacent aircraft. 
No cost of the Egyptian shelters is available but it is understood that the cost of less elaborate systems used by other countries is of the order of $A200,000 for single aircraft. 
-For the information of honourable members I present a statement, an exchange of letters and schedules relating to the transfer of defence power to Papua New Guinea. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (5) There have been delays in proceeding with rationalisation of the aircraft industry. At the Departmental/Industry level agreement has been reached on the basis parameters for rationalisation but the procedural aspects of the preparation of detailed estimates and other documentation have meant that the Minister for Manufacturing Industry has not yet been able to put submissions to the Government. I suggest that any further questions on this subject be directed to my colleague the Minister representing the Minister for Manufacturing Industry. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The composition of the Defence Science Board is: Chairman: 
For the information of honourable members I present a report by the Director-General of Natura] Disasters Organisation on the Darwin relief operations 25 December 1974-3 January 1975. Due to the limited number available at this time I have arranged for reference copies to be placed in the Parliamentary Library. 
There has been some increase in the Soviet naval strength in the Indian Ocean, but it has been quite minimal. As the honourable member would be aware, the Prime Minister has already indicated the policy of the Australian Government in relation to the Indian Ocean area. We would not want to seeindeed we would discourage- any build-up by either the United States or the Soviet naval elements in that area. 
-The strategic basis document which the defence advisers provided for the Government in 1973 pointed out that on trends at that time they had not been able to detect the likelihood of any threat to Australia in that period. But they went on to say that this was not to say that there would not be any threat or could not be a threat to Australia in that period. Indeed, I have pointed out from time to time that it is always much more difficult- again I am referring to the strategic basis document- to be able to assess what the position is likely to be, for example, at the end of a 10-year period. There is nothing new about a strategic basis document. Some gentlemen on the opposite side may have forgotten that the first one was provided for the Government of the day in 1971. It was provided at a time when the right honourable member for Higgins, who was formerly the Prime Minister, was the Minister for Defence. The right honourable member for Higgins addressed the Imperial Services Club in Sydney in 1971 as the Minister for Defence. During his speech he said that he could not see any direct threat to Australia within the next decade, that is, within the next 10 years. He went on to say that he could not see any likelihood of an attack on Papua New Guinea in the same time span. He went on to say further that if there were a likelihood of an attack there would be sufficient and ample warning. 
This was said by the right honourable member for Higgins in 1971 as the Minister for Defence. If he was not quoting from the strategic basis document of that time, he was correct in terms of the advice to the Government of that time contained in the strategic basis document, that is that there was no likelihood of a threat to this country in the next decade. I point out that when this statement was made by the then Minister for Defence in 1971 it must be remembered that we still had troops in Vietnam. Our forces were still committed to that country. But this was the assessment made by the advisers to the Government of that day and contained in the strategic basis document. I believe that it is correct and proper for a government to be advised by those who are in a position to assess the likelihood of a threat or of no threat to this country. The position is constantly kept under review. The strategic basis document itself is constantly reviewed; there will be a third review some time in 1975. Finally, I say to the honourable member for Macarthur that no one has suggested that there is no threat to Australia in the next 15 years. The possibility could always exist and it is always more difficult to be able to predict what kind of threat and when it is likely to occur after the end of the 10-year period. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) The 5,700 employees referred to are the staffs of the Weapons Research Establishment at Salisbury with its range facilities at Woomera; the Materials Research Laboratories at Maribyrnong with outposts at Alexandria, New South Wales; Woodville, South Australia; and Innisfail, Queensland; the Aeronautical Research Laboratories at Fishermen's Bend, Victoria; and the Central Studies Establishment, Lyneham, Australian Capital Territory. These establishments with their headquarters at Canberra comprises the former Research and Development Division of the Department of Manufacturing Industry which was transferred to the control of the Department of Defence as from 1 July 1974. The abovementioned establishments are staffed by scientists, engineers, experimental and technical officers supported by administrative and industrial staffs. They are engaged on many classified and unclassified tasks and it would be impracticable to provide a listing of these or the allocation of staff to each. 
The Division has now been incorporated together with the research, development design and trials establishments previously operated by the Australian Defence Services, into the Science and Technology Organisation of the Department of Defence, thus bringing all defence scientific activities under one central control. The total staff of the new organisation as at the end December 1974 was 6258. 
The locations mentioned in my reply to question No. 869 covered only the activities of the Research and Development Division. Activities are also carried out by: 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member's attention to the answer provided to question No. 1239 (Hansard, page 1 129 of 5 March 1975). 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member's attention to the answer provided to question No. 1242 (Hansard, page 1028 of 4 March 1975). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) No. All recommendations made to the Minister for Defence for Australian gallantry awards in Vietnam have been.determined and awards promulgated. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
All proposals for the construction of naval vessels are assessed to determine the feasibility of local design and construction. The tasks currently being undertaken in naval dockyards are of sufficient range and complexity to exercise and develop appropriate design skills necessary for future warship construction. 
I have seen the allegations that volunteers, including prisoners, were used during mustard gas trials on a small island off the Queensland coast during the Second World War and that deaths resulted. The incident referred to is similar to one that is mentioned in the Australian official war history which was published in 1958 and concerns Brook Island which, as the honourable gentleman will know, is only 20 miles off the Australian coast and is located between Townsville and Cairns. The island referred to in the allegations is said to be 200 miles off the coast. Secondly, in the exercise to which I have just referred, Beaufort bombers were used and not B42 Liberators, as suggested in the allegations. I quote from the official war history concerning the exercise at Brook Island: 
Over four tons of mustard gas were dropped from Beaufort aircraft on a small tropical rain-forest island off the north Queensland coast. The island had been prepared with gas defences, sampling apparatus to measure gas vapour concentrations and animals for physiological investigations. Volunteers clad in various kinds of British, American and Japanese and experimental impregnated and impervious clothing were landed immediately; jungle-trained Australian troops with the minimum of protection carried out manoeuvres for several hours over the contaminated territory. 
The accounts of the Brook Island trials differ in several important details from the allegations that have been made. First, there is no mention of substantial American participation: No personnel were on the island when the bombs were dropped. The volunteers were drawn from scientific staff and Australian troops. Although severe injuries are acknowledged, no indication is given of deaths resulting from the trials, and the mustard gas used was not expected to cause death. 
A search of the official Royal Australian Air Force and United States Air Force histories, and of Royal Australian Air Force operational records, as well as questioning of the scientific staff present during Brook Island trials, do not confirm the allegations that Australia was involved in a trial in which prisoners from American gaols were subjected to mustard gas bombing. May I say, in relation to the exercise on Brook Island, that the same situation would apply as to the one raised with me some time ago in relation to the gas trials at Proserpine in north Queensland. If any volunteer who participated in the exercise involving Brook Island is suffering from the after-effects of mustard gas, he would have a clear case to have that disability accepted as a war-caused disability under the Repatriation Act, and it should be referred immediately to my colleague, the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation. Finally, I have asked that additional inquiries be made through the United States authorities to determine whether any information available from that source would either confirm or refute the allegations that have been made. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The only program administered by the Department of Defence that may relate to the above Parliamentary Question is that for the annual grants to the United Services Institutes of Australia. 
To subsidise the Institutes in each State and the Australian Capital Territory towards expenses associated with a purchase of library books and periodicals of a Service nature, and other expenditure of an administrative nature such as rent, allowances to librarians, printing and stationery, etc. 
Branches submit detailed annual reports on their activities and audited financial statements to the National Council of the Institute which in turn submits this information to the Department; the grant made is authorised by the Minister for Defence within the Appropriation for this purpose. 
The date of the inception of the grant is not clear; the earliest written evidence which can be traced of funds having been appropriated by Parliament specifically for the purpose appears in the Appropriation Act 1903-4. However, most Institutes have Royal Charters dating back prior to Federation, and it is thought that the States may have supported the Institutes in the earlier stage. 
Funds are provided each year under a specific item of the Appropriation Act. 
and (8) Not applicable. 
See answer to Part (4) above. 
-( 14) Not applicable. 
See answer to Part (4) above. 
1 6) and (17) Amounts paid over in each of the last three years were: 
The answer to the honourable member's questions is as follows: 
and (2) The conditions of eligibility for campaign and general service medals are approved by the Sovereign on the advice of the Government. Variations in the conditions also require the Sovereign 's approval. 
Conditions of eligibility are prescribed in accordance with the particular situation, regard being had to the intensity of operations. 
Personnel posted to a combat zone for operational service may be required to serve a minimum period to qualify for a campaign medal. Personnel not posted for operational service but who are sent to a combat zone on temporary duty, such as staff officers or transport aircrew, may qualify for a campaign medal after a prescribed period in the area or after a certain number of visits. This is to ensure that they do not lack recognition of the risks undertaken by thenaccumulated service in the area. 
Medibank Scheme: Cost  (Question No.  19SS) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
As I announced last year, long range planning provides for a centralisation of the professional military training of army officers. It is planned that in the early 1980s a new training school, which will incorporate the training functions of the Officer Cadet School, will be established at Duntroon and will be accommodated in existing buildings that will be vacated consequent on the establishment of the Academy. 
A decision has been made to reduce expenditure for travel facilities- not for postings- to a minimum. The reason for this is that there has been an over-expenditure. The appropriation for travel by Army was determined for the financial year 1974-75. Army had reached that appropriation. Therefore I issued instructions that travel for the remainder of this financial year should be restricted to the essential movement of Army personnel. In relation to finance, which arises from the question, I point out that as far as the vote for defence purposes is concerned, in the last financial year of the previous Liberal-Country Party Government- that is 1971-72-the expenditure was $1,2 17m. This year the defence vote will reach $ 1 ,800m. 
The honourable member would know that an investigation is now under way to ascertain the amount of surplus that will be available from the defence force retirement benefits scheme. The Government will make a decision about the distribution of that amount when the actuarial calculation has been made. 
Three Opposition members have spoken in this debate. I think that possibly the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  endeavoured to be constructive in at least one or two matters that he raised. The honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  the shadow minister who represents the Shadow Minister for Tasmania, so-called, in another place knows nothing about Tasmania. In fact he represents an electorate that has no affiliation with Tasmania in any way at all. I believe that he has made two visits, possibly three, to Tasmania. Nothing constructive came out of his speech, yet we are dealing with a Bill that provides for the reconstruction of the Tasman Bridge. I listened to him with a great deal of interest, but he had nothing constructive to offer. The Opposition had the responsibility of the Government of this country for 23 years. There was no suggestion during the period of office of that Government that it would assist in Tasmania in any way at all. Certainly there was no suggestion that it would provide financial assistance for a second bridge across the Derwent. These decisions have now been made by this Government, and the honourable member for Wentworth knows very well that the Australian Government took a deliberate decision to provide a second bridge across the Derwent. It is largely a matter for the Tasmanian Government and the people of Tasmania to determine where that bridge should be constructed and how it should be constructed. That matter is now being undertaken. So it is the responsibility of the Tasmanian Government and the Tasmanian people, and the Australian Government has promised to provide financial assistance. 
I come back to the Bill itself. It is remarkable that those honourable members on the Opposition side who spoke before me in this debate, rarely touched on the Bill. As usual, the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  displayed a remarkable aptitude for talking about some other subject rather than the Bill before the House. 
Tasmania has suffered 2 disasters in recent years. The first one was the bushfires of 1 967. 1 mention the bushfires of February 1967 because one could well make a comparison if there were to be criticism of the action of the Australian Government in relation to the Tasman Bridge disaster. Honourable members from Tasmania will recall what happened in February 1967. It was a very great disaster. I think it took the Tasmanian Government about 3 weeks before it was able to get any financial assistance in detail from the then Australian Government, that is, those who now sit in opposition. I think at one stage that the then Australian Government sent the then Minister for Air to Tasmania to consult the Tasmanian Premier at that time. But if one compares the action of the Government of that day with the action of the Australian Government with regard to the second tragedy- the Tasman Bridge disaster- then it could be seen that we acted promptly. 
Let me spell out in detail what happened on that occasion. I was appointed by the then Acting Prime Minister, the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns),  to liaise with the State Government of Tasmania and with the Premier of Tasmania to ensure that there would be financial assistance to that Government to provide whatever facilities were required at the time and for the reconstruction of the bridge itself. Within a few hours I had arrived in Hobart and within  2Vi  hours, I and the Premier of Tasmania had reached an agreement on the provision of a sum of money of up to $ 13m to help the Tasmanian Government in its reconstruction of the bridge and to meet other requirements at the time. Within a matter of 2Vi hours a decision had been made. I think the honourable member for Wentworth might look at the records and study his own Party's attitude in relation to the bushfires of 1967 and see how long it took his Government to act, and how long it took Tasmanian members in this Parliament to be able to pressurise the then Government into taking some action in relation to that tragedy. But of course the honourable member for Wentworth knows as much about that incident as he knows about Tasmania generally. He is the shadow minister representing the shadow minister for Tasmania in another place. It would have been appreciated by honourable members on this side of the House if there had been some constructive suggestion from the honourable member for Wentworth, but he offered no constructive suggestions and I think that he completely ignored the Bill. 
I have spoken about the prompt action of the Australian Government and of the decision which was made within 2 'A hours to provide financial assistance. As a result of the decision which was taken so soon after the disaster, it was then determined that the first payment for this purpose would be authorised, as the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Coates)  pointed out only a short time ago, in the Appropriation Bill which was introduced in this House only recently. It allocated a sum of $6m for this purpose. Of course the honourable member for Wentworth who is the Opposition spokesman on these matters did not participate in that debate. Probably he did not catch up with it. But $6m has already been provided. 
Some criticism has been made of my own actions in relation to the defence forces and the part they played in the disaster. I think I ought to put on record exactly what occurred at that time. In addition to reaching an agreement with the Tasmanian Premier, as I have already indicated to the House, to provide an amount of up to $13m to assist in the reconstruction that was required for the bridge and for other purposes, I also provided immediately assistance which the Premier felt was necessary from the defence services. Let me place on record what we did. 
The Navy provided a work boat and personnel to assist civil authorities in ferrying search parties to and from the scene and in recovery work. It provided a clearance diving team consisting of 3 officers and 1 1 sailors for search, recovery and inspection duties from 6 to 17 January. I repeat, from 6 to 17 January. Honourable members will recall that the disaster occurred on 5 January. These people were on the scene on 6 January- the day after the disaster occurred. There was a provision for the Royal Australian Navy HS748 aircraft to transport the diving team from Sydney to Hobart on 6 January 1975. That is, the Navy diving team was there the next day, only a few hours after the disaster occurred. The Navy provided escorts and fresh provisions to Army LCM8s being sent to Hobart for ambulance work. Those escorts and provisions left the day after the disaster. 
Now I come to the Army's contribution: Two landing craft medium LCM8s were despatched to Hobart and have operated since 16 January 1975. They acted as ferries for emergency transport for vehicles across the river and they are still there. Indeed, as I put it to the Premier of Tasmania, if additional assistance had been required in this way, it would have been made available immediately. 
I come to the next point- the question of the Bailey bridge. This matter was raised by both the honourable member for Wentworth and the honourable member for Mackellar. I think they both ought to be brought up to date on this question. One of the matters which I discussed with the Tasmanian Premier at the first meeting, that is the meeting which we had on 6 January when we agreed on certain facilities and financial assistance being made available, was the possibility of providing an emergency crossing for the Derwent River. This was a matter which largely had to be determined by the Tasmanian Government. I immediately promised whatever assistance could be given from the defence forces. 
As a result of the decision of the Tasmanian Government, I offered 3020 feet of Bailey equipment to bridge the Derwent River between Dowsing Point and Courtoys Point. The bridge, on the decision of the Tasmanian Government, was to be erected by the Public Works Department of Tasmania. The request which I received as the Minister for Defence and also because of my other responsibility of liaising with the Tasmanian Premier, was to provide the Bailey bridging by 14 April- that is, that portion of the Bailey bridge which was required by the Public Works Department of Tasmania at that time. The amount of Bailey equipment which was required by the Public Works Department of Tasmania was delivered to the site on 1 4 April. 
That is the date on which it was requested by the Tasmanian Government. The Public Works Department, as I have indicated, is to erect the bridge. We have provided, as I have also indicated, 3020 feet of Bailey bridging. As the Public Works Department requires the bridging it will be made available to it on the site. I sent Army engineers to Hobart to look at the proposed site, that is the alternative site, for the provision of emergency bridging and the Army engineers made certain recommendations. So in every respect we have met the request of the Tasmanian Government in relation to the provision of emergency bridging. I repeat for the benefit of the honourable member for Wentworth that the date on which it was asked for was 14 April. The portion of the bridging that was required by the Public Works Department was supplied on that date. We are completely up to date with the program. As further Bailey bridging is required it will be made available. 
I want to emphasise that the decision to erect an emergency bridge was one for the Tasmanian Government. It indicated that it would prefer the Public Works Department to erect a bridge and I concurred with it. It is the Tasmanian Government's decision. I made Army engineers available to inspect the site and to work with the Public Works Department to ensure that it had available to it all the assistance that it asked for. As far as I am aware the approaches to the emergency bridge site are now being constructed, as the honourable member for Denison pointed out. The Public Works Department will proceed with the construction of the emergency bridge when the work required to be done at the site has been completed. So everything that has been asked for by the Tasmanian Government has been met. 
The  Department of  Air also provided some assistance. An Iroquois helicopter provided support for the Tasmanian health services from 7 January to 22 January. That is, 2 days after the disaster occurred a helicopter was available and it operated until 22 January. At that time it was not considered necessary for it to remain in service any longer. During that period a total of 29.9 hours was flown, including 2.7 hours at night, and 40 medical patients and 135 passengers were uplifted. Therefore it can be seen that the 3 Services participated and did so at very short notice. I think that the assistance they provided was appreciated not only by the Tasmanian Government but also by the people of Tasmania who, in a sense, the honourable member for Wentworth has denigrated. I think that the whole purpose of his speech was to denigrate the people of Tasmania and he did that because of what he thinks was a wrong choice by the State Government. He mentioned that, as did the honourable member for Mackellar. 
Perhaps I ought to remind the honourable member for Wentworth that there was a change of government in Tasmania in 1 969. A Party of the same political colour as himself was in power for 2 1/2 years before being turned out of office, and quite properly so, by the people of Tasmania. Although it was in office for only half of the normal 5-year term it was in office for long enough for the people of Tasmania. I think that the honourable member for Wentworth would do well if he were to do some homework and bring himself up to date by looking at the record of the last Liberal Government in Tasmania. If he were to do so he would not advocate the removal of the Labor Government that has ruled for so long in Tasmania's history. The comments of the honourable member for Wentworth are a fair indication of how much he, as the representative in this chamber of the so-called shadow Minister for Tasmania, knows about the State of Tasmania 
Let me return to the Bill itself. Agreement was reached immediately on the detailed arrangements. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  agreed to provide up to $ 13m- and more if required. The Prime Minister made it perfectly clear at the time that the Australian Government would accept responsibility for restoring the bridge to the condition in which it was before the disaster occurred. That is a firm commitment of the Australian Government. But it was not only the bridge that was affected; the people also were affected. I acknowledge that the honourable member for Wentworth did deal with some aspects of the position of people in the Hobart area who may have been affected one way or another. It will take time to restore this bridge. Everybody concedes that. In the meantime there is a responsibility upon the Australian Government and the Tasmanian Government to do whatever they can to alleviate any of the problems that have arisen as a result of the disaster. I believe that that has been done and that it has been done very well indeed. 
Let me point out to the House that having made the initial decisions which were, as I have already pointed out, made quite promptly- in a matter of a few hours- the Prime Minister himself went to Tasmania for discussions with the Premier of Tasmania and to look at the damage to the bridge. As a result of those discussions he appointed a very distinguished Australian and, a very distinguished former public servant,  Sir Roland  Wilson, to advise him on what policies the Australian Government should adopt for the future. I hope that the honourable member for Wentworth is not going to be critical about the Prime Minister's choice in this respect. It was a very good one. It was acknowledged by the Premier of Tasmania and the people of Australia and I am sure that it will be acknowledged by the Australian Parliament as a whole.  Sir Roland  Wilson acted very promptly indeed. He made recommendations to the Government in a very short space of time.  His  recommendations are now given effect in 2 Bills. One already has been passed, that is, an Appropriation Bill. The second is this Bill, which is a Bill for an Act relating to an agreement between Australia and Tasmania relating to the restoration of the Tasman Bridge on the Derwent River in Hobart. So it can be seen that prompt action has been taken by the Australian Government. 
I certainly do not disagree with the point that has been made by the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott).  Since the Australian Government will be involved to the extent that it will be, both financially and in other ways, of course the Australian Parliament, and the people of Australia for that matter, are entitled to know what progress is being made. However, I envisage that as a result of this agreement other legislation will be introduced and naturally the legislation that comes into this Parliament will come as a result of the recommendations of the Commission headed by  Sir Allan  Knight. That is the purpose of setting up the Commission. I do not envisage a situation where it would be necessary or vital for that Commission to report to this Parliament every 3 months. Naturally, it would be expected to report to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and to the Tasmanian Premier, but I do not think that those matters would concern the Parliament at this time. 
As I have already pointed out, I would expect that as a result of those considerations, discussion and decision that are made by the Commission, further legislation would come before this Parliament. In that case, the honourable member for Wentworth, together with all other honourable members, would have the opportunity to debate that legislation. Nevertheless, I take his point that the Parliament is entitled to be kept fully informed. I think this will be done and I will certainly draw this matter to the attention of the Prime Minister. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill- by leave- taken as a whole and agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment. 
Report adopted. 
I have made a number of statements in this Parliament concerning the strategic basis document, and I think I should make those statements available to the honourable member. He will find in those statements exactly what has been said in relation to the no threat period. He will be able to read the recommendation made by the Defence Committee. The honourable member is well aware of those people who represent the Department of Defence on the Defence Committee. The statements have been clearly defined by myself in this Parliament. I cannot recall the statement referred to by the honourable member which was said to have been published in the Melbourne 'Herald'. What I have said in relation to the no threat period is that all the areas that have been examined by the Defence Committee show no likelihood of a threat to the Australian mainland in that period. 
-For the information of honourable members I present a statement on the appointment of a Development Council for the Australian Defence Force Academy. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (3) In my answer to Question No. 1463 I stated that there are officers in the Department of Defence and the Attorney-General's Department who are knowledgeable in United States procurement law. 
In relation to the Department of Defence or the Defence Group of Departments, that was also the position throughout the period covered by the honourable member's question. 
To the extent that the Question relates to the AttorneyGeneral's Department, it is a matter for the AttorneyGeneral. 
-The answer to the right honour- - able member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member's attention to the answer provided to question No. 1240 (Hansard, page 1446-7 of 9 April 1975). 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Four patrol boats are currently operating with the Third Patrol Boat Squadron on fishing surveillance. Of these, HMAS 'Aware' which has been temporarily assigned to the Squadron, returns to Jervis Bay in May for Search and Rescue and other duties. Consequent, upon damage caused by cyclone Tracy HMAS 'Attack' is undergoing repairs at Cairns and is expected to rejoin the Squadron in October. 
The Third Patrol Boat Squadron, periodically augmented by the reserve manned patrol boat HMAS 'Acute' operating from Fremantle, is responsible for fishery surveillance of the coastal area from North- West Cape to Gove Peninsula. 
The answer to the right honourable member 's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member's attention to the answer provided to question No. 1553 (Hansard, pages 1655/6of 15 April 1975). 
I did see a statement attributed to the honourable member for Moreton which referred in particular to patrol boats. It is surprising that the honourable member for Moreton is not aware of the background to the gift of Attack class patrol boats to Indonesia because when the negotiations first began he was the Minister for the Navy. 
-The Prime Minister said that the honourable member for Moreton is still at sea. The first inquiry about patrol boats for Indonesia was made through the Department of Foreign Affairs to the Department of Defence in 1970. The negotiations continued to the stage where the then Minister for Defence,  Mr Fairbairn,  met the Minister for Defence from Indonesia. On 8 June 1972 the then Prime Minister,  Mr McMahon,  said in Jakarta that the Government hoped that under a $20m 3-year defence aid program 2 Attack class patrol boats would be made available to Indonesia, and also that patrol boats for surveillance purposes would be made available as well. I simply honoured an agreement that had been made by the previous 
Liberal-Country Party Government. Is the honourable member for Moreton suggesting that I ought to renege on an agreement made by the previous Government? That may have been his decision; it was not mine. As the Prime Minister has said, sound relations with Indonesia are fundamental to the security of the nation. Therefore I intend to honour that agreement. I turn to the final part of the criticism of the Government by the honourable member for Moreton because 2 Attack class patrol boats have now been made available to Indonesia. The first of them was tied up and put into mothballs by the same honourable member when he was the Minister for the Navy. The second Attack class patrol boat was used to ferry naval reservists around Sydney Harbour. 
On a sunny Sunday afternoon. The honourable member's knowledge of defence is about as good as his knowledge of history. I have said that because when he made his famous statement reported in London about the situation on a sunny Sunday afternoon, he referred to the last Prime Minister- in Great Britain, I presume- who made a mistake in referring to a strategic basis assessment. He said that the last Prime Minister who had made this mistake was Pitt at the beginning of the Thirty Years War. He was only 200 years out. Pitt, of course, was Prime Minister of England at the beginning of the nineteenth century during the Napoleonic Wars. To return to the question of patrol boats, it is quite clear that the decision was made by the previous Government. If it was not a firm decision, it was a commitment that the then Prime Minister entered into. I was not prepared to go back on an agreement. In any case, I agreed with the decision. I thought that a proper decision had been made. But out of this, and from what I have said to the House today, it comes through quite clearly that the Opposition would do much better to put  Dr Forbes  back as the shadow Minister for Defence. 
I saw in the last edition of the 'Bulletin' the article written by  Mr Peter  Samuel. It was full of inaccuracies, contradictions and personal abuse. Any Minister, any member of the public or any journalist is entitled to criticise a Minister and the Minister expects to be criticised. But let me give the House 2 examples of the inaccuracies. In the first instance  Mr Samuel  gave the impression that he had seen the strategic bases document. In point of fact  Mr Peter  Samuel has not seen that document. Secondly, he made a claim that the- number of Nomad aircraft being built in Australia has been reduced. This Government has increased the number from 11 to 70. So much for the inaccuracies. 
What I am not prepared to accept from this or from any other journalist is the personal abuse of my staff or, for that matter, reflections on myself. He gave the impression in the article that I had been plagued with illness. I have not missed a day from the Parliament or from my duties since this Government was elected to office in December 1972. So much for that type of malicious propaganda and statements which I think ought to be answered. Far worse than any of these- I understand the latest issue of the 'Bulletin' has retracted that statement, and I accept that- is the personal reference to and abuse of my staff. I want to examine this matter because there are 4 male members of my staff. First I refer to my principal private secretary,  Mr Jim  Brassil who has been with me for some years. He is a Bachelor of Arts with Honours, a Bachelor of Economics, he has a Diploma of Education, he is an Associate Fellow of the Australian Institute of Management and he formerly was a senior executive in education administration. He is a very valued officer, I turn to the next member. My private secretary,  Mr Hugh  Craft, is a Master of Arts from Cambridge, a Bachelor of Arts with Honours and formerly a foreign affairs career officer.  His  most recent post was a second secretary in Athens. These are the people referred to by  Mr Peter  Samuel as poor staffers. I respectfully suggest to him that he prints their records in the 'Bulletin' with his own qualifications alongside them. 
I come to the other 2 male members, first of all  Mr Derek  Woolner who holds a Bachelor of Arts degree from Sydney University. He was formerly research officer on defence and foreign affairs in the Parliamentary Library. He has provided invaluable assistance to me over the years, not only in Government but also when I was in Opposition. I think most members of this Parliament, particularly those who were formerly Ministers and those who are now Ministers, would appreciate that  Mr Woolner  is probably the most informed research officer in this Parliament. I come to the last of these poor staffers,  Mr A.  M. Koch, who is well known to honourable members in this Parliament. I turn to his record because he also is said to be a poor staffer. He served as a gunner officer in Bougainville and New Guinea, and is a graduate of the Army Staff College. He served with the Defence group of departments for 22 years and served with Ministers from the other side of the House when they were in government.  His  service includes 2 years in the Australian Embassy in Washington. He was awarded the Military Cross for bravery in New Guinea. I respectfully suggest to  Mr Peter  Samuel that he print his record of service along with that of  Mr Koch.  I do not think he will be prepared to do it. 
The final reference I make to this article is to  Mr Samuel's  reference to the Secretary of the Department of Defence,  Sir Arthur  Tange. It was not meant to be complimentary.  Sir Arthur  Tange was appointed by the previous government. He is probably the most experienced and one of the most respected secretaries of a department under this Government. He has served all governments with equal loyalty. I value his judgment and I value the opportunity to work with him. I can express only disgust and disappointment that a journalist would stoop to the tactics  Mr Samuel  used on this occasion. 
I seek leave to make a statement relating to defence. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Committee of Reference for Defence Forces Pay titled 'Reserve Forces Pay and Allowances'. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
One aviation technician, a RAAF Warrant Officer Engineer, left Indonesia on completion of his posting to the RAAF Sabre Advisory Unit during the period in question. The progressive withdrawal of this unit was the subject of a press release which I issued on 17 February 1975. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
In my reply to question No. 236 I pointed out that although the total area of Rottnest Island was some 1800 hectares, the Army controlled area was only some 50 hectares. I went on to say that the Army occupied land continued to be required for Defence purposes but that the Prime Minister had asked the Premier of Western Australia for details of how his Government intended to use the areas on Rottnest Island, including the area occupied by the Army, and had proposed an in-depth study which would have regard to all interests involved, the object being to arrive at a mutually acceptable solution to the question of general community and Army use. 
I understand that the Premier of Western Australia has not yet responded to the Prime Minister's proposal. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There are three patrol boats based at Cairns, four patrol boats based at Darwin and one patrol boat based at Fremantle currently assigned to the surveillance of the Northern and Western coasts of Australia. The Fremantle boat is reserved manned and consequently only performs surveillance duties periodically. 
The maximum sailing time required to reach any pan of this coast is four days, but in practice this is usually reduced to two days or less because patrol boats operate in areas of known activity. 
The sailing time to cover Ashmore Reef is one and a half days transit from base (Darwin). Two further days would be required to cover the other off-lying reefs as far south-west as Rowley Shoals. Additionally, the off-lying reefs from Ashmore Reef to Rowley Shoals are covered byair patrols. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to establish the office of Defence Force Ombudsman and to define his powers and functions. Honourable members will recall that it was announced in the policy speech of 1972 that the Labor Government would create an office of military ombudsman. On 6 March 1975, my colleague, the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby),  introduced the Ombudsman Bill 1975 to establish the office of the Australian Ombudsman and, as may be expected, the provisions contained in the Defence Force Ombudsman Bill follow very closely those in the Ombudsman Bill. However, there are some significant differences between the 2 Bills and I wish to confine my remarks largely to explaining these differences. 
The function of the Defence Force Ombudsman will be to investigate complaints made by members of the defence force, former members of the defence force or their dependants with regard to any action in relation to a matter of administration which arises from the fact that a person is serving or has served in the defence force. The Defence Force Ombudsman is also given power to investigate any of these actions even though a specific complaint has not been made to him. The jurisdiction of the Defence Force Ombudsman covers not only actions which may be taken by the defence force or the Department of Defence but those which may be taken by other departments and authorities. Thus the jurisdiction of the Defence Force Ombudsman will encompass a very wide range of matters affecting a serving member, an exmember, or their dependants. 
Because there are adequate review and appeal provisions already in existence, the Defence Force Ombudsman will not be authorised to investigate matters arising out of disciplinary action taken against a member of the defence force. While it is the intention that complaints arising out of a person's service in the defence force will come within the jurisdiction of the Defence Force Ombudsman, some matters will no doubt arise which are common to all Government employees. Provision has therefore been included in the Bill for the Defence Force Ombudsman to refer matters to the Australian Ombudsman for investigation if the Defence Force Ombudsman considers that they could be more effectively investigated by that office and if the Australian Ombudsman agrees. 
Honourable members will appreciate that the relationship between those in command and those under command in a disciplinary force such as the defence force is a very important and particular relationship. Because of this, provision has been made in the Bill requiring a serving member of the defence force to attempt to have his complaint dealt with by the Services authorities before submitting the matter to the Defence Force Ombudsman. The Defence Force Ombudsman is, however, given a discretion to deal with a matter which has not been so submitted if he considers that there are special circumstances justifying the member from refraining from so submitting bis complaint. A further protection for the serviceman is a provision permitting a matter to be referred to the Defence Force Ombudsman if the member of the defence force has not received an answer to his complaint within 28 days of submitting it to the Service authorities or if the member is not satisfied with the decision given. Provision has been made in the Bill for the Defence Force Ombudsman to report to both the principal officer of the defence force and the principal officer of the department or authority concerned in the matter that he intends to investigate. This provision will ensure that the defence force is aware of matters affecting its members. The powers of the Defence Force Obudsman in connection with his investigation of a matter are similar to those contained in the Ombudsman Bill. That is, he will be able to require persons to give information regarding the matter under investigation, and he will be able to make the same type of reports to the authorities concerned, to the Prime Minister and to Parliament as the Australian Ombudsman. In addition the machinery provisions relating to the appointment of the Defence Force Ombudsman and his staff are the same as those of the Australian Ombudsman. Honourable members will recall that in November 1 973 the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitiam)  announced that it was proposed that  Mr D.  O. Hay, the former Secretary to the Department of External Territories, would be appointed as Defence Force Ombudsman when the necessary legislation had been passed. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Adermann)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The destroyer HMAS Swan and the RN submarine HMS Odin, attached to the Australian submarine squadron, took part in SEATO Maritime exercise PX5 1 , or ' SEAFOX ', which was held in waters off the Philippines from 27 February to 13 March 1975. Australian participation, which was relatively minor, was duly announced. 
I am advised that the Prime Minister has never made such a statement. 
The Australian Government understands that China's territorial claims on the South China Sea relate to islands in that sea, and the waters within a twelve-mile radius of those islands. The naval exercise PX51 did not therefore utilise waters claimed by the Chinese to be Chinese waters. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes, an approach was made on 26 December 1 975 . 
No, the Society was advised that the offer was noted and on 27 December clearance was given for an RSPCA Inspector to visit Darwin. 
There is consultation at the national level, and on a continuing basis between the Natural Disasters Organisation and the Federal Secretariat of the Royal Societies for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in Australia to ensure cooperation at all times. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
All possible additional uses of Woomera are being examined. The Armed Services are keeping the special characteristics of Woomera in view for training and trials purposes. Australian Government Departments and Authorities in the non-defence sphere have been made aware of the facilities and capabilities of the area and have been invited to consider possible uses. To date, however, no firm proposals have emerged. 
While Woomera remains operational, it will continue to be made available from time to time for projects conducted on behalf of other Governments. 
Political Detainee in Indonesia (Question No. 2415) 
The honourable member obviously is confused about his seasons; but it is true that I indicated publicly that the reorganisation legislation would be introduced into the Federal Parliament as soon as practicable. I am sure that the honourable member will appreciate that it is complex legislation requiring a great many alterations to the provisions which already apply. However, I am happy to inform the honourable member that I have been assured that the legislation will be available for introduction this session. 
-Pursuant to section 10a (2) of the Royal Australian Air Force Veterans' Residences Act 1953-1965 I present the annual report of the RAAF Veterans' Residences Trust for the year ended 30 June 1974. 
I appreciate the interest of the honourable member for Herbert in this matter. He will be aware of the undertakings that I have given in this House to introduce a firm basis for updating DFRB and DFRDB pensions. The matter has been actively pursued. I can say now that the Government will be considering a firm proposal in the very near future. I expect then to be able to make a firm statement about the conditions, the way in which they will be updated and, incidentally, whether the adjustments will be retrospective. 

 -Mr Speaker, it is a very important question. However, I should be very happy to arrange for a debate on conscription. I should like very much to have the views not only of the honourable member for Riverina and the right honourable member for Higgins but also of the honourable member for Moreton. 
Let me conclude my answer to this question by referring to the Army Reserve. For 23 years the previous Government allowed the Army Reserve to run down. It certainly used the Army Reserve as a means of allowing those who were not prepared to accept national service in this country to have their service carried out within the Army Reserve. The strength of the Army Reserve today is about 20 000. Last week I gave effect to one further recommendation of the Millar Committee, the first committee that has ever had the opportunity to investigate the Army Reserve and its future in this country. I have now given effect to most of the recommendations of the Millar Committee. I am determined that, together with the all-volunteer force in this country which stands at a much higher strength than it did under the previous Government, there will be a total concept of one force comprising the volunteers, the regulars and the Army Reserve. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Staff of the Natural Disasters Organisation in Canberra on 24 December 1974 were: 
-The statement by  Sir Richard  Peek would have been more or less correct had it been prefaced by the qualification 'in the absence of any defence equipment purchases in the next 15 years'. Such a proposition as he has advanced is absurd. The 5-year rolling program within the Department of Defence allows decisions on equipment purchases to be made each year. The honourable member will recall that last year I announced equipment purchases for tanks for the Army, patrol frigates for the Navy, and long range maritime patrol aircraft for the Air Force. Next year, that is in the financial year 1975-76, further major decisions will be made under the 5-year rolling program and announced at the appropriate time. It is quite incredible that a former Chief of the Naval Staff, who was for a long time acquainted with the method under which equipment is purchase for the Department of Defence and who should have had some knowledge of the 5-year rolling program, should display quite a lamentable lack of knowledge and understanding. 
There are no known sunken aircraft wrecks in the area described. None of the Services has used the area for ditching or dumping aircraft. The nearest known wrecks are an American Liberator aircraft on Hinchinbrook Island; a Mitchell bomber of the United States Army Air Corps submerged on King's Reef near Murdering Point; and a partial wreckage of a Royal Australian Air Force Kittyhawk in Rockingham Bay, north of Cardwell. 
It should be remembered that Townsville was a major re-supply centre during World War II. As a measure of then activity, there are 37 identified aircraft wrecks in the area between Townville and Cairns, most of which aircraft were flown by the United States Army Air Corps. It is difficult and time consuming to establish the location of submerged aircraft wreckage especially in cases where the crashing of aircraft has not been accurately recorded. 
Mine counter-measure vessels and clearance diving teams are made available to assist civilian communities in cases of national need. I can assure the honourable member that although these resources are fully committed at this time I will ensure that a Navy diving team is made available as soon as possible to confirm that there are no wrecks in the area specified in his question. 
Since my announcement on 17 October that the Woomera range activities would be run down and instrumentation and facilities held in readiness for a revival, negotiations have been proceeding with officials of the British Government. These negotiations will determine the arrangements for the completion of some British trials which will run beyond the period of the present agreement and the level of maintenance necessary to ensure that in the event of a requirement of either country, the range could be reactivated without prohibitive cost. It is intended too that the minor trials within available capacity will be conducted while the range is under care and maintenance. Included among these will be some types of military training operations. Of course, Woomera village will continue in existence, although at a reduced level of population. 
I find it quite extraordinary that an article purported to be written on current defence issues can be so inaccurate and lacking in substance. Firstly, the statement that our Defence Chiefs have been told to stick to a 'no threat' doctrine is a complete fabrication. It has no factual foundation whatsoever. No such direction has been issued. The statement also constitutes a completely unwarranted slur on the integrity of Australia's service Chiefs of Staff and on the Secretary of my Department. 
In answer to the second part of the question, I can say that work on the implications of a national defence posture as distinct from the forward defence policy adopted by previous governments is proceeding in my Department. The field is complex and, because of the neglect of previous governments, largely unexplored. I emphasise that I am not looking for some finalsome definitive- report, for to do so would be to misconstrue the nature of the study process which will be continuing on a permanent basis. As the studies progress and reach conclusions, we will be looking for guidance from these studies regarding strategic concepts, force structure and capabilities, defence infrastructure and so on. The author of the article claims also that the Government has a major problem with the study because the opinion of the Department of Defence remains wedded to the traditional forward defence view. Again this is a complete fabrication. The article further went on to assert that previous governments had also issued directives in relation to the strategic bases document. I am not able to confirm or deny the accuracy of that part of the article, but I refuse to believe that my predecessors- Ministers for Defence in any other government- would issue such a directive. 
The writer claims that despite amalgamation, the Department of Defence has the staggering number of 254 officers in the second division, compared with 41 second division officers in the Treasury, 21 in the Department of Urban and Regional Development and 26 in the Department of Overseas Trade. This is just another complete fabrication. In fact, my Department which has wide ranging responsibilities, has 86 second division officers, not 254 as alleged. Five other departments have a greater number of second division officers and this includes the Treasury which has 94 second division officers. There are other fabrications in the article with which I shall not bother to deal. I can only say that the writer appeared to be trying to convey that he had inside information. However, as I have indicated, the basis of this article is essentially fabrication and uninformed speculation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. . 
and (4) Information on the 'D' Nonce system was made publicly available on 11 December 1973 following a meeting of the Defence Press and Broadcasting Committee of which I am Chairman. The number of 'D' Notices was reduced from seven to four, and the Notices were declassified. I issued a Press Release on these matters on 11 December 1973. My Department prepared subsequently a booklet providing a general introduction to the essential elements of the 'D' Notice system and including the texts of the current Notices. This booklet has been given wide distribution among the media. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
I refer the honourable member's attention to the answer provided to question No. 266 (Hansard, page 196 of 12 February 1975). 
See (3) above. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
and (4) I refer the honourable member to the comments in paragraph 3 of the Prime Minister's answer to Question 2243. (Hansard, page 2 1 98 of 1 4 May 1 975 ). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
and (4) The review was not a formal definitive exercise but rather an on-going application of the policy to substitute civilians for servicemen in those positions not demanding predominantly military skills or expertise as each military establishment was reviewed on a position by position basis. The results of this continuing action have been reflected, in general terms, in the civilian and military manpower statistics contained in the annual 'Defence Reports' since 1965. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
and (4) I refer the honourable member to the comments in paragraph 3 of the Prime Minister's answer to Question 2243. (Hansard page 2 198 of 13 May 1975). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
and (4) The medical tests required to be undertaken by applicants for entry into the three Armed Services are kept under review in the light of medical developments. The present standards may be found in a Joint Service Publication JSP(AS)701- Joint Services Manual of Recruit Medical Procedures. This document incorporates the results of recent revision and is not classified. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
The Committee of Inquiry into Integration of the Medical Services of the Armed Forces was tabled by me in the House of Representatives on 25 July 1974, (Hansard page 638). 
See answer to Question (3) above. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
The report on Defence Legal Services Committee of Review was tabled by me in the House of Representatives on 7 November 1973, (Hansard pages 2887-8). 
See answer to Question (3) above. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
and (4) I refer the honourable member to the comments in paragraph 3 of the Prime Minister's answer to Question 2243 (Hansard, page 2 198 of 1 3 May 1975). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
and (4) I refer the honourable member to the comments in paragraph 3 of the Prime Minister's answer to Question 2243, (Hansard page 2198 of 13 May 1975). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
The Moreshead Committee Report was tabled by me in the House of Representatives on 30 May 1973. (Hansard page 2873). 
See answer to Question 3 above. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
and (4) I refer the honourable member to the comments in paragraph 3 of the Prime Minister's answer to Question 2243. (Hansard page 2 198 of 13 May 1975). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
and (4) I refer the honourable member to my statement on 25 July 1974 (Hansard page 638) when I presented the Report by the Tertiary Education (Services' Cadet Colleges) Committee. 
Army Base in Western Australia (Question No. 2309) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
and (4) I refer the honourable member to the comments in paragraph 3 of the Prime Minister's answer to Question 2243 (Hansard 2 1 98 of 1 3 May 1975). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
and (4) I refer the honourable member to the comments in part 3 of the Prime Minister's answer to question No. 2243 ( Hansard page 2 1 98 of 1 3 May 1975). 
HMAS Leeuwin: Judge Rapke's Report (Question No. 2311) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
and (4) The enquiry was conducted in camera as to do otherwise would defeat the whole concept if the young lads interviewed during the enquiry felt that they were speaking on the record. The Judge's findings were made public but the report itself was kept confidential as it included names of children, events, times and places which should not be made public. This was in line with most juvenile courts procedures when dealing with youthful offenders or suspects whereby the accused and witnesses are protected from publicity. At that time, I, as  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, was given access to the Report and I accepted the reasons for which it was not being made public. These reasons are still valid. 
RAAF Laverton: Court of Inquiry (Question No. 2312) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
and (4) I refer the honourable member to the comments in part 3 of the Prime Minister's answer to question No. 2243 (Hansard page 2 198 of 13 May 1975). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
and (4) I refer the honourable member to my answer to Question No. 266 on 12 February 1975 (Hansard, page 196). Since 1970 Paint Manufacturers have been required to undertake their own testing for approval purposes and to make the results available to the Government Paint Committee. The Materials Research Laboratories carry out selected tests to validate the Manufacturers 'test results. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
and (4) I refer the honourable member to my answer to question No. 266 on 12 February 1975. (Hansard, page 196). Prior to 1970 the Central Testing and Research 
Laboratories was the laboratory responsible for testing of anti-corrosive (long-life protective) coatings for the Government Paint Committee. Since 1970 the Paint Manufacturers have been required to undertake their own testing for approval purposes and to make the results available to the Government Paint Committee. The Central Testing and Research Laboratories carry out selected tests to validate the Manufacturers' test results. 
Rationalisation of the Australian Aircraft Industry  (Question No. 2364) 
-The figures that the honourable member has requested naturally are not available readily, in my mind, but I can assure him that they are available in the last Defence report which I tabled in this Parliament. If the honourable member is not able to check the figures himself, I will do so and let him have an answer today. 
The shadow Minister for Defence is most indignant, but he will remember that only a few days ago I offered to him a privilege that I gave to his predecessor but which was never accorded to me when I was shadow Minister for Defence in the Opposition for years. I offered to the honourable gentleman the opportunity to be briefed by officers from my Department on any matter relating to defence at any time he should make a request to them except of course on matters of policy. I hope that the honourable gentleman will have the decency to acknowledge this and that this is a privilege which has been accorded to him but which was never given to me. 
Let me deal with his question. So far as the long range maritime patrol aircraft are concerned, I made a statement in the House of Representatives in which I acknowledged that the Government had decided to buy long range maritime patrol aircraft. It was a firm commitment. There was no equivocation about that at that time. I said that we would be examining 2 aircraft- the P3C Orion aircraft and the British Nimrod aircraft. As a result of the evaluation by experts from the Department of Defence over a period of 12 months the decision was finally made to purchase the Orion aircraft. I am sure, since it was the unanimous decision of the Defence Force Development Committee, that the honourable member for Moreton would hardly quarrel with the decision of that Committee. As I say, it was a unanimous decision and, also, it was the unanimous request of the Royal Australian Air Force. This Government has made a suitable purchase to increase the fleet of long range maritime patrol aircraft for this country. 

That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the defence legislation to give effect to reorganisation of the higher management of the Defence Force and of the Department of Defence. The Bill makes amendments to some 14 Acts, though most of these changes are consequential upon the significant changes introduced into the Defence Act. When the Government took office, I announced- on 19 December 1972- the intention of the Government to move towards integrating defence management, firstly, by providing more effective central military control of operations and related military activities and, secondly, by creating a single Department of Defence comprehending the staff in the 4 existing departments. A study was launched into the best way of achieving this. In December 1973, I announced the abolition of the separate Departments of Navy, Army and Air, and the intention to create by statute the office of Chief of Defence Force Staff with power of command of the Defence Force and located in the Department of Defence as a very senior statutory officer; and to redistribute, by legislation and regulations, the functions performed by the Naval, Military and Air Boards. The legislation now introduced will give effect to these objectives. 
The general control and administration of the Defence Force is to be vested in the Minister. A new office of Chief of Defence Force Staff, directly responsible to the Minister for Defence, is created and the present office of Chairman, Chiefs of Staff, provided by administrative means and lacking statutory function or authority, disappears. Subject to the Minister's directions, the Chief of Defence Force Staff will have command of the whole of the Defence Force and, under him, each Chief of Staff will command the arm of the Defence Force of which he is the Chief. The administration- as distinct from command- of the Defence Force is to be vested jointly in the Secretary and Chief of Defence Force Staff, subject to, and in accordance with, any directions of the Minister and except for matters falling within the command of the Defence Force or other matters that may be specified by the Minister as a further exception. This integrated organisation will then replace the 5 government departments and 3 boards of administration previously responsible for defence administration. The Service Boards are to be abolished. This means a substantial increase in the direct authority of individual Chiefs of 
Staff. It also ensures clear definition of the responsibility falling upon individual office holders- the Chief of Defence Force Staff, the individual Chiefs of Staff, the Secretary to the Department- as compared with the anonymity of Service Board decisions. 
Under new section 9 (3), as proposed to be inserted in the Defence Act by clause 7 of this Bill, the 4 statutory officers created by this legislation will have right of access to the Minister in respect of their responsibilities- something which they have today only by administrative arrangements. The legislation will make clear that the Chief of Defence Force Staff (CDFS) and the Service Chiefs under him are the advisers on military matters to the Minister. The Secretary, as Permanent Head/Chief Officer of the Department will have legal responsibilities under the Audit Act and Treasury Regulations, will be the link with the Government administration at large, and will be the adviser on policy, on organisation and on financial planning and programming. Ministerial directives establishing the arrangements for the inter-relation of the high level Service and civilian positions in sharing of responsibility in appropriate areas, and stating the responsiveness expected of the departmental structure to the operational priorities of the Chiefs of Staff, have already been drafted, in full consultation among the Chiefs of Staff and Secretary. 
Four heads of departments under the old systemleaving aside a fifth, the head of the Department of Supply which administered defence science as well as other matters- will be replaced by one Permanent Head. On 28 January this year, the restructuring of the Department of Defence into the functional groupings approved by the Government was implemented to the extent possible pending the abolition of the Service Boards. There has already been a significant increase in the direct participation by officers from the Navy, Army and Air Force in the Defence Department business of strategic assessment, works and equipment programming, and advising on the use of total manpower. Naturally I accept that further changes to the defence organisation may be required from time to time. Indeed, it will be important to maintain an ongoing analysis of the organisation, the absence of which has been a major deficiency in the past. 
Turning from the fundamental matters dealt with in the legislation, I should mention that the opportunity has also been taken to make other amendments to the Acts being amended which are required for administrative purposes. Formal legislation will in future refer to the Australian 
Navy, Austraiian Army and the Australian Air Force instead of the Naval Forces of the Commonwealth, the Military Forces of the Commonwealth, and the Air Force of the Commonwealth respectively. I may say that this has nothing to do with the use of the prefix 'Royal'. That usage derives from the consent of the Sovereign and these changes in legal terminology will have no effect on the use of the prefix which, as the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  stated categorically in a Press conference in London on 20 December last, will continue. References to national service which are no longer necessary are being deleted from the Acts being amended. I would like to now refer to particular amendments being made to the Acts affected. 
Defence Act 
I have already referred to the main proposals to implement the Government's decisions contained in amendments to the Defence Act. I should also mention that the Chief of Defence Force Staff will have the command of the Defence Force subject to the command in chief vested in the Governor-General by section 68 of the Constitution. The appointment of an officer of the Defence Force to be Chief of Defence Force Staff will be made by the GovernorGeneral and provision is also made for the Governor-General to appoint an officer of the Navy to be Chief of Naval Staff, an officer of the Army to be Chief of the General Staff and an officer of the Air Force to be Chief of the Air Staff. A Chief of Staff will exercise the command of his service under the Chief of Defence Force Staff. As a basis for binding instructions on matters of administration, including those with financial implications, to be issued by each Chief of Staff to his subordinates, provision is made for the Secretary and the Chief of Defence Force Staff jointly to authorise a Chief of Staff to administer matters relating to his arm of the Defence Force. I would naturally expect that a wide range of matters now being administered by the Service boards will become the responsibility of the individual Chiefs of Staff. The Secretary and the Chief of Defence Force Staff would be concerned principally with important matters of defence policy and administration particularly those affecting the whole of the defence forcethe aggregates and the common policies- which I, as Minister, and the Government look to them to co-ordinate in the interests of consistent application of policy requirements, including financial requirements. I should draw honourable members' attention to clause 46 of the Bill which amends section 98 of the Defence Act to prohibit the passing of the death sentence by any Service court-martial. 
Naval Defence Act 
The amendments to this Act include the provisions for the abolition of the Naval Board and for necessary consequential amendments. 
Air Force Act 
The long title of the Act is being amended to bring it more into line with the Naval Defence Act and the Defence Act, and the Air Force Regulations relating to the Air Board are being repealed. 
Supply and Development Act 
This Act and the Defence Act are being amended to enable defence research and development activities to be transferred to the Department of Defence and to permit other changes in the responsibilities of the Department of Manufacturing Industry. 
Other Acts Amended 
The amendments to the remaining Acts are consequential on the abolition of the Service boards and on the changes in the formal designations of the arms of the defence force. The amendment to the Remuneration Tribunals Act substitutes the office of Chief of Defence Force Staff for the office of  Chairman,  Chiefs of Staff Committee. In my statement to the House on the 4th December last year I stated: 
For too long, defence administration has remained entangled in cumbrous procedures, working in an atmosphere which encourages division and contest, because of the fatal error 16 years ago in not abolishing the single Service departments as was recommended even then. 
The new organisation will be the basis for more direct participation by officers from the Navy, Army and Air Force in the business of planning capabilities on a defence, rather than a single Service, basis to satisfy the country's strategic needs. I am confident that the concerns of individual Services will both be fully expressed and fully weighed in this new system. I am also confident that we will have a greater sense of joint endeavour, which is a prime objective. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Killen)  adjourned. 
I ask the Minister for Supply: Have quantities of radioactive waste from British nuclear establishments been dumped in Australia? In particular were lead-lined boxes of radioactive waste flown from Britain and buried on the Maralinga testing site? If so, how much of this material was dumped? When did the dumping start and when did it cease? Why was this practice not disclosed to the Australian public? 
