1 point out that members of the New Guinea Constabulary have been recruited from many parts of the world - mainly from Australia - but 88% of the Police Force in New Guinea is made up of local people. Let me say here that we can be proud of our Police Force in New Guinea, particularly on two very serious occasions. I recall the events on Bougainville, which received most exaggerated reporting in our Press. The area was likened to the Congo and so on. Seven hundred police were there. On the Gazelle Peninsula another very difficult situation was held. One thousand police were there.- On both those occasions order was maintained and in the process not one person was injured through police action. 
by leave - In harmony with the Government's approach indicated in the Governor-General's Speech the Government intends to introduce some immediate changes within the provisions of the present Papua and New Guinea Act which will give Ministerial Members drawn from the Papua and New Guinea House of Assembly increased powers both individually in relation to the functions of their departments and collectively as members of the Administrator's Executive Council. During the parliamentary recess there were Ministerial discussions in Canberra with the Territory Select Committee on Constitutional Development, which were helpful to both sides. 
Following the recommendations of the Select Committee on Constitutional Development set up by the first House of Assembly the Papua and New Guinea Act was amended in May 1968 to provide for further constitutional development in Papua and New Guinea. The main changes made at that time provided for increased participation by elected members in the executive government of the Territory through a system of Ministerial offices and the replacement of the former Administrator's Council by the Administrator's Executive Council. It was emphasised that these arrangements were essentially transitional in character. It was stated that under section 25 the role and functions of Ministerial Members and Assistant Ministerial Members could be adapted in the light of experience. 
The Act sets out that the functions of Ministerial office holders are generally to assist in the administration of the Government of the Territory to the extent and in the manner provided by arrangements approved by the Minister for External Territories under section 25. In 1968 in accordance with the amendments to the Act 7 Ministerial Members and 8 Assistant Ministerial Members were appointed from elected members of the House of Assembly. 
These office holders were selected from elected members of the House jointly by the Ministerial Nominations Committee of the House and the Administrator before being nominated to the Minister for appointment. There are Ministerial Members for Agriculture, Stock and Fisheries, Education, Labour, Posts and Telegraphs, Public Health, Public Works, and Trade and Industry. At present Ministerial Members share responsibility with the departmental heads for overall departmental activities and for the framing of policy proposals including proposals for expenditure. 
The Government considers that the time has now come to invite Ministerial Members to assume more responsibility in the administration of the government of the Territory. New arrangements have therefore been approved for Ministerial Members under section 25 of the Act. I table the approved arrangements. These include also the arrangements applying in respect of Assistant Ministerial Members. Subject to the overall responsibility of the Minister for External Territories, acting through the Administrator, these approved arrangements provide that a Ministerial Member will be fully responsible to the Administrator's Executive Council for the day-to-day running of the department instead of, as at present, acting jointly with the departmental head and sharing the responsibility with him. 
As set out in the approved arrangements a Ministerial Member will within the framework of broader Government policy make decisions regarding policy and administration in day to day activities related to the matters for which he is responsible. He will formulate plans and proposals for departmental expenditure including draft departmental estimates. It is the Government's intention that these changes should come into effect in practice at once and without waiting for amendments to Territory Ordinances which will be necessary. 
The Government looks to officials who may now hold statutory powers by delegation or otherwise to exercise these with the concurrence of the Ministerial Member in the spirit of these arrangements. 
Some changes are also being made in relation to the Administrator's Executive Council. Again these changes are within the framework of the existing Papua and New Guinea Act. The Council has been exercising increasing authority over the past 2 years and its scope is now being further enlarged. Under the present arrangements the Council advises the Administrator, who is broadly free to accept or disregard the advice. However, the Government has been consulting the Council on a widening range of issues and has increasingly accepted the Council's views. In future the Council's authority will be enhanced in 3 ways: Firstly, it will be consulted on all significant policy issues; secondly, it will advise on the more important departmental questions referred to it by a Ministerial Member; thirdly, it will have a greater voice in the procedures for the framing of the Territory budget, as explained later. May I interpose that I propose to delegate powers which will be advised at a later date. 
Apart from these specific matters the Government has been giving and will continue to give increasing weight to the views and advice of the Administrator's Executive Council. This increase in the power and. influence of the Council is qualitative in character. It is not to be measured in terms of specific powers, individual acts of administration or areas of policy or increased financial delegations, but it will be apparent by the degree to which the Administrator's Executive Council in future influences the Government's attitude on important issues. An example of this kind of increasing influence is the recent reference to the Council by the Minister of the question whether the Papuan Medical College should become part of the University of Papua and New Guinea. This is a matter related to the responsibilities of the Ministerial Member for Health. The Council concluded that it was highly desirable for the Medical College to become part of the University provided arrangements could be made for Government controls to be maintained over costs and the broad direction of the medical course. Such a formula would meet the difficulties previously seen by the Government and the Government has said it accepts the Council's conclusion so that if the University agrees to the Council's recommendations they will be put into effect. 
Having regard to the changes I have mentioned, regulations will be made under the Act to govern some procedural matters including the recording of Council decisions and their transmission to the Commonwealth Government There will also be changes in the procedures by which the Territory budget is framed so that elected members of the House of Assembly will have a greater say in the budget. The Administrator's Executive Council will be invited to establish immediately an Estimates Sub-committee. Officials of the Territory Treasury will keep the Sub-committee closely in touch with plans and progress in respect of the forthcoming financial year's estimates. The Sub-committee will be invited to discuss the draft estimates with the Minister for External Territories before these are finalised. After those discussions no important alterations will be made in the draft estimates without the knowledge of the Estimates Sub-committee and without their having a full opportunity to comment. Throughout the period during which the budget is being framed it is expected that the Estimates Sub-committee of the Council will keep in touch with the existing Budget Committee of the House of Assembly, a body made up wholly of elected members, with a view to informing themselves of any points which members of the House may wish to have considered in the draft estimates for the following year. 
Self government will not be forced on the people against their wishes. Nevertheless the Government considers steps should be taken now so that the elected representatives of the people take on additional responsibilities in the government of the Territory. The Government is satisfied that the changes now proposed accord with the climate of opinion of the House of Assembly and of the Territory generally. The changes I have outlined reflect the Government's approach of progressively transferring responsibility to elected members of the Territory House of Assembly. The new arrangements are a definite and material step along the road to self government. 
Further constitutional changes to be put into effect later this year are now under examination. None of the changes I have outlined requires amendment to the Papua and New Guinea Act. Important or major changes in the constitutional arrangements for Papua and New Guinea of the sort that might be expected to require substantial amendment to the Act should in the Government's view await consideration by the Territory House of Assembly of the report of the Select Committee on Constitutional Development so that such substantial amendment of the Act would be decided upon in the light of the views of the Territory people. 
I present the following papers: 
Yes, there have been very considerable steps taken in providing land for the local people of the Gazelle Peninsula. As no doubt most people realize there has been a great increase in population in that area. I think the population has increased by about 50% over the last 10 years. There are two stages in the process of providing land. First of all, the Development Bank has acquired two plantations in the Kokopo area amounting to about 1,600 acres. This land will be provided on a commercial basis to the people in that area. Provisions have been made by the New Guinea House of Assembly to enable the Bank to undertake this type of scheme. 
The second area to be provided for local people comprises about 9,000 acres and this land is situated pretty well in the Gazelle Peninsula. Here again, this land was acquired some years ago by the Administration. I think that about 302 blocks will be provided for local people and the apportionment will be made by a land board on which there will be one expatriate and five local people. I might say that the Tolai people of the Gazelle Peninsula seem to be reluctant to move away from their traditional areas. Last year over 300 blocks were thrown open in the New Britain area at Cape Hoskins, which is not so many miles away. Unfortunately, only about 6 Tolais applied for these blocks. So it would appear that they are reluctant to move away from that area. As to the last part of the honourable member's question dealing with the statement made by the Leader of the Opposition that our stewardship in New Guinea compared unfavourably with that of the Germans, or words to that effect, I would say, as I have said before on several occasions, that the Leader of the Opposition is prone to make some irresponsible and misleading statements. He has not substantiated this statement, and 1 would say that it is not true. 
In answer to the honourable member's question I point out that this decision was taken by the court. On this I do not have any comment. I will look at the other matters which the honourable member raised and advise him later. 
Unfortunately, I suppose that Australia's image has suffered very considerably by the visit of the Leader of the Opposition. He has aided those people who denigrate Australia's efforts in our very difficult task there. Of course the Leader of the Opposition did not choose to look at all that has been done by Australia in Papua and New Guinea. I recollect reading an article in one of our newspapers which described the present situation in West Irian. I make this point only by way of contrast. According to my recollection of the article, it said that 60 cents per capita was spent on the people there. On the other side of the border the figure is $60 of Australian money, not taking into account the other money which is spent there. I suppose one can compare the two countries. Twenty years ago the Territory of Papua and New Guinea was in just about the same situation as West Irian. It had been ravaged by war; all that was left was, I think, 2 schools and 2 hospitals. Last year I opened a hospital at Goroka which cost $2m. Papua and New Guinea now has 31 high schools, a university, an institute of higher technical training and an agricultural college. All of these were provided by Australia. The allusion to wages and so on is, of course, utterly ridiculous. In Papua and New Guinea the minimum wage is equivalent to S20 a month, but in, for instance, some African countries the minimum wage is only $8 to $12. The same situation applies in some countries in the Pacific area. 
The last part of the question was in reference to  Mr Toua  Kapena. I believe a vast majority of Australians would deplore the gross insult to a very respectable and distinguished Papuan and Ministerial Member. He is a man who is held in very high regard by his people and for whom I have great personal respect and regard. The Leader of the Opposition did not stop there; he also described the House of Assembly as a rubber stamp, which is quite in contrast to what he said in a Press statement. But this is not unusual. I have a copy of a Press statement he made at Port Moresby on 1 2th January. He said: 
We have tried to impart a feeling not only of urgency but of self-confidence in the ability of New Guineans to make their own decisions. There are New Guineans who are well equipped to fill the highest political and administrative positions in their country. Indeed, no Australian could claim the contrary without reflecting on Australia's record of administration at its crucial point. 
The House of Assembly and its members should now be taken seriously as the representatives of their people and treated by all Australians with proper respect and seriousness. 
Yes. 
by leave - On 5th March the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  told the House:  1 have been misrepresented in this matter. 1 refer to a new matter which was introduced concerning the conduct of the District Commissioner. This was not the first time, when we were visiting council chambers at the requests of Councils, that District Commissioners interrupted. On this occasion, the District Commissioner had to be put in his place. He has since, for this and earlier incidents, been withdrawn from Rabaul. 
The House will remember that the Leader of the Opposition's personal explanation arose during a persona] explanation by the honourable member for Evans  (Dr Mackay).  In this it was made quite clear that the District Commissioner had interjected to correct a statement made by the Leader of the Opposition in Rabaul that a native child had been killed during revolver practice. The District Commissioner pointed out that the boy had been . injured - not killed. I have had the opportunity of making inquiries into this matter. The statement by the honourable member for Evans was wholly correct, lt was not contradicted by the Leader of the Opposition. In the Government's view the District Commissioner acted correctly. 
The Leader of the Opposition alleges that the District Commissioner has been withdrawn from Rabaul on account of this and earlier incidents. The officer concerned left Rabaul to proceed on his normal recreation leave.  His  leave had been authorised by the Administrator orally on 26th November and this was formally confirmed in writing on 24th December. He was entitled to 142 days recreation leave on 8th February, has taken only 5 weeks and will resume duty at Rabaul on 1 6th March. 
The Leader of the Opposition has unfairly and with no justification attacked a loyal, capable and highly regarded officer of the Administration who as a public servant cannot speak for himself. As the responsible Minister, it is my duty to put the facts before the House in proper defence of this officer. 1 present the following paper: 
Papua and New Guinea - Imputation Against a Public Servant - Ministerial Statement, 12 March 1970.  and move: 
Tha* the House take note of the paper. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I agree with the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  that no-one likes to see delays perpetrated on distinguished academics, as in this case, but after all there were unfortunate circumstances associated with these delays. I point but that  Mr Idris  was at liberty to go on leave immediately he made application to return but he chose to wait until he received his permit for a further 12 months extension. I can assure the House that when it was brought to my notice that he was waiting in the Territory of Papua and New Guinea before taking his leave, I gave the permit within a couple of days. I learnt of this on, I think, 5th January and I gave permission on 8th January. Those are the circumstances in the case of  Mr Idris. 
Referring now to the case of  Dr Khan,  this was a new application to enter the Territory. We have obligations to ensure that in relation to these appointments we do not, as a government, appoint somebody who promotes views and attitudes antagonistic to the people of Papua and New Guinea. 
The people of Papua and New Guinea. Obviously the honourable member for Barton is not concerned about these sort of checks. In a debate in this Parliament last April, reported at page 1496 of Hansard, I pointed out what was necessary to obtain a permit to enter the Territory. These are some of the requirements: The applicant must not be adversely regarded from a security point of view; he must be of good character; he must have ample funds for his stay in the Territory and for his return or onward journey. These sort of things apply to anybody. Are we to make exceptions for academics? I cannot accept the viewpoint that we should make such exceptions for academics. 
It is not easy to obtain all this information within a few days. In the case of  Dr Khan,  he did not apply for a visa when he made application to enter the Territory and inquiries by the Department of External Territories do not commence until an application for a visa has been made. NonEuropeans are permitted to enter the Territory for 2 years, as are Europeans. In the case of non-Europeans the person concerned has to obtain an annual extension. This is our policy and it is a policy endorsed after consultation with the Administrator's Executive Council. That Council agrees with this situation. I see no reason to change this policy because after all we have an obligation and we cannot make special exceptions for academics. 
But this is Government responsibility. Australia is trustee for Papua and New Guinea, as the honourable member for Fremantle well knows. We make these decisions and they are quite delicate decisions. We have made these decisions and we propose to maintain them. I think they are quite reasonable. It was unfortunate in the case of  Mr Idris.  He was at liberty to go on leave but he chose to wait until he received his permit to again enter the Territory. As I pointed out, I made the permit available as soon as possible. In the case of  Dr Khan,  I was informed that he had not made application for a visa. I think the honourable member for Fremantle said there was a 7-week delay in the case of  Mr Idris,  yet according  to  my calculation it was 5 weeks - but that is neither here nor there. These cases are unfortunate and we will see whether we can tighten up the procedures to try to avoid these sort of misunderstandings. 
In answer to the honourable member: Apparently this was a decision of the House of Assembly yesterday. I have not yet received the details of this. As soon as I have the details I will examine them carefully and will see what is to be done in that regard. As regards  Mr Percy  Chatterton's allegations about criminals coming into Papua and New Guinea, again I am not aware of any relevance of that. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Fifty-seven officers of the Royal Papua and New Guinea Constabulary have previously served in countries other than Australia. 
The countries and numbers involved are - 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Bureau of Statistics (Papua and New Guinea) published on 21st October 1969 a Statistical Bulletin on the flow of investment between the Territory of Papua and New Guinea and overseas countries in 1967-68. A copy of this Bulletin is available in the Parliamentary Library. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) None. 
(b) Ordinances reserved by the Administrator for the Governor-General's pleasure. 
The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
(a)-126 (b)- 148 
(a) (i)- $1,700 
(i)- $2,400 
(ii)- $46,225 
(ii)- $75,000 
(a) (i)- 29 acres (b) (i)  -  87 acres 
(ii)- 528 acres 
(ii)- 3,200 acres 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
None, subject to qualifications and experience. 
Since the introduction of the single salary structure in August 1968, all positions carry the local salary classification, additional remuneration for overseas officers being paid by way of special allowance. 
The following table shows the rules of salary and allowances specified for local officers and overseas officers in each of the positions referred to- 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
female indigenous staff 
97 typists plus 10 stenographers 
111 telephonists. 
female expatriate staff 
323 typists plus 84 stenographers 
49 telephonists. 
There are also 168 female indigenes at present training as typists in the Training Technical Division. 
Papua and New Guinea - Administration Employees Formerly Employed in African Countries  (Question No. 177) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Forty-nine members of the Administration staff (excluding Police) have previously been employed in African countries. 
The countries and numbers involved are - 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Towns in the Territory of Papua and New Guinea not yet included in any local government council area are - 
Kavieng and Samarai - both of which are about to be included in adjacent Council areas. 
Lae, Madang, Rabaul and Port Moresby. Proposals for the establishment of urban local government councils in these towns by 1st July 1970 were announced in the House of Assembly on 5th September 1969, and details are at present being considered in consultation with representative committees of residents of these towns. 
Wau, Bulolo, Bereina, Kwikila, Buin and Mumeng. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is set out in the following tables: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The compensation payable to dependants will be determined by the extent of their depend ency and their relationship to the deceased worker. The maximum amount that can be claimed under the Workers' Compensation Ordinance 1958-1967 is $8,600, this maximum amount being payable in a situation where the dependant or dependants are totally supported by the earnings of the deceased worker. Claims for compensation in this case are at present being examined by the Territory Department of Labour in consultation with the Public Solicitor. 
A Mining Warden's Court, convened by the Mining Warden of the Bougainville Gold and Mineral Field, assisted by two qualified and independent assessors, enquired into the accident. It found that the accident was not due to negligence or incompetence. 
The Public Solicitor of the Territory of Papua and New Guinea is examining the matter to determine whether a common law action will lie and will take action on behalf of the people concerned if this seems justified. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In addition to Messrs Mola, Lapun and Lue from Bougainville electorates and Messrs Toliman, Tammur, Titimur. Maneke. Urekil and Ashion from New Britain electorates, Messrs Guise, Awol, Somare,Langro, Lus, Lokoloko, Oala-Rarua 
Abal, Koraea, Neville and Poe have been given facilities to visit the areas referred to by the honourable member. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Administration estimates that the cost of holding a referendum in the Gazelle Local Government Council area would be approximately $6,400. 
The answer to the honourable members' question is as follows: 
Expenditure incurred in the Territory of Papua and New Guinea in the last financial year by Commonwealth departments and instrumentalities which receive financial support from the Commonwealth Budget is shown below: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Legal aid in (he Territory of Papua and New Guinea is supplied mainly by the Public Solicitor. The Public Solicitor provides legal aid before all courts of the Territory, both in civil and criminal cases, to 'impecunious' persons, whether indigenous or expatriate. 'Impecunious' is considered subjectively and in relation to the circumstances of each individual case, having regard to the probable cost of alternative means of representation and the means, if any, of the applicant. Where the applicant has sufficient means to make more than a trivial contribution towards the cost involved, it is the duty of the Public Solicitor to assess a reasonable charge for his services having regard to the capacity of his client to pay, the necessity for representation and the hardship the client might suffer if he were compelled to obtain representation other than by the Public Solicitor. Applications to the Public Solicitor for legal aid to defend criminal charges before the Supreme Court are subject only to this means test. However, where an application is made for representation in the lower courts the Public Solicitor also has regard to: 
whether the instructions disclose a defence to the charge; 
whether the defence is such that counsel is required to present it adequately; 
the nature of the charge and the consequences attendant on a conviction including the likely penalty and other consequences such as loss of employment; 
any special circumstances of the particular case which render the provision of counsel desirable; 
the availability of counsel, having regard to the priorities of other applications. 
In considering applications for legal aid to appeal from conviction in lower courts to the Supreme Court, and from the Supreme Court to the Full Court, the Public Solicitor has regard also to the probability of an appeal being successful. 
Applications to the Public Solicitor for legal aid in civil cases are subject both to the means test and to the requirement that there appears to be a good cause of action. In addition, due to the volume of applications for such aid and the limited number of lawyers available, the Public Solicitor gives priority among such applications according to the nature of the action and the circumstances of individual cases. Broadly, all applications by impecunious persons in matters relating to the restoration of land titles, workers' compensation, or to claims by relatives arising from death are granted. Other applications requiring action in the Supreme Court are granted if there appears to be a good cause of action and counsel are available. Legal aid by the Public Solicitor in summary cases is limited to the preparation of complaints or defences unless special circumstances make the provision of counsel desirable. 
In addition to his assistance in actual court proceedings, the Public Solicitor advises indigenous persons generally as to their legal rights and obligations and as to ways and means of enforcing their legal rights. 
When the Public Solicitor is unable to act for a person otherwise entitled to legal aid from the Public Solicitor due to possible conflicts of interests legal aid is made available on the same principles as apply to legal aid from the Public Solicitor either through the Department of Law or through the briefing of private practitioners through that Department. 
Under the Poor Persons' Legal Assistance Ordinance 1951 a person committed for trial on an indictable offence may apply to a Supreme Court Judge for legal assistance for his defence, and if the Judge considers it desirable that assistance should be provided the Administrator may arrange legal aid. Due to the availability of the services of the Public Solicitor in trials for indictable offences this Ordinance is rarely invoked. 
Applications to the Public Solicitor for Legal Aid. 1969 
 The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
The emergency police actions in these areas in 1969 were carried out by members of the Police Force who would otherwise have been engagedin routine duties and drawing their salaries and allowances accordingly. The additional costs incurred by the Administration in transferring police toRabaul and Kieta, providing transport and equipment and paying extra duty payments were - 
$45,000 in respect of the emergency force at Kieta for the period 20th August, 1969 to 15th October, 1969; 
$109,000 in respect of the emergency force at Rabaul for the period 1st September, 1969 to 31st December, 1969. 
 The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
The Native Employment Ordinance prescribes minimum payments and conditions for indigenous workers. The minimum cash wage is $52 a year in the first year of employment, $58.50 in the second year and $65 thereafter, for continuous employment with the same employer. In addition to the minimum cash wage the worker and, in prescribed circumstances, his dependants are provided by the employer with food or money in lieu, clothing and other articles, medical treatment and housing, all at specified standards. The value of food, clothing, other issues and housing is currently estimated at $181 per annum making an all-up minimum wage payment valued at $233 per annum in the first year of employment. 
The same minimum wage provisions and employment conditions as stated in answer (1) above apply to all workers regardless of sex and irrespective whether the employee is the wife of an already employed worker. 
There is no prescribed minimum wage for non-indigenous employees. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Under the Papua and New Guinea Workers' Compensation Ordinance 1958-1969 in the circumstances described, a lump sum payment of $2,700 would be made to a fully dependent widow and weekly amounts of 67 cents would be made for each dependent child under the age of 16 years. 
Workers' compensation payable to an employee who is permanently and totally incapacitated from injuries arising out of or in the course of employment would be $7.60 per week for the worker, $1.84 per week for the wife and 67 cents per week for each dependent child. 
The  answer to the honourable member's question is shown in the table below: 
The following explanatory comments on the second table are required - 
In some cases, the general occupations or callings referred to cover several different designations and/or grades of Public Service positions. In these cases the various designations and grades are shown. Where appropriate, the minimum and maximum rates are also shown. 
Where expatriates are not employed in certain designations or grades this has been indicated. 
Local officers may qualify for a family needs allowance depending upon salary, location and family size, e.g.  a  local officer employed in Port Moresby who maintains a family of four and whose salary is less than $930 per annum would receive an allowance to raise his salary  to  that amount ($17.83 per week). 
Various additional allowances apply to local or overseas officers or both (e.g. incharge, uniform and instrument allowances). These have not been included as the rate of allowance varies with particular circumstances of employment. 
Since the introduction of the single salary structure in August 1968, all positions in the Public Service of Papua and New Guinea carry the local salary classification. An allowance is paid to overseas officers to provide a rate of remuneration equivalent to that paid at comparable levels in Australia plus an element to attract expatriate staff to the Territory and to compensate them for working and living there. The figures quoted in the table include the single rate of overseas allowance. Married overseas officers are paid an additional $6.90 per week. 
MEMBERS OF THE HOUSE OF ASSEMBLY 
The following basic remuneration is paid to local and expatriate Members of the House of Assembly - 
Fee 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. Fifteen expatriate detainees are currently serving sentences in corrective institutions in Papua and New Guinea, including one detainee serving a 4 year prison term. 
In appropriate cases, however, an expatriate prisoner may be removed to Australia pursuant to an order under section 3 of the Removal of Prisoners (Territories) Act 1923-1968 or, if he has been convicted of a serious offence, he may be deported from Papua and New Guinea pur suant to an order under the Migration Ordinance 1963-1969. 
 The answer  to  the honourable members question is as follows: 
Quantities of crops grown in Papua and New Guinea inthe 5 years from 1959-60 to 1963-64 - 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
An estimated 700,000 dwellings were entered twice in 1969 by malaria service personnel in the course of their duties. There is no breakdown of figures into dwellings occupied by Papuans and New Guineans and those occupied by expatriates. 
The control of the disease malaria is the medical reason for Administration employees entering dwellings. 
The Papua and New Guinea Malaria Control Ordinance 19S7 authorises Administration health workers, after at least 24 hours notice in writing specifying the intended date and time of entry, to enter any building and to take such steps as may be necessary for the eradication of mosquitoes and the prevention of their breeding. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
UV- 
Ca) No industrial councils have functioned in the last 5 years. 
A Board of Inquiry into rural wages and related matters was appointed in 1964. 
Four Arbitration Tribunals have been appointed under the Industrial Relations Ordinance 1962-1966. A Public Service Conciliation and Arbitration Tribunal has been established and replaces the Public Service Arbitrator appointed under the Arbitration (Public Service) Ordinance 1932-1968. 
The following table gives information on the date of establishment and membership of the boards of inquiry and arbitration tribunals: 
The following awards have been registered in the period 1st January, 1965 lo 28th February 1970: 
1965 
Kavieng Urban Cash Wage Award 1965 (superseded by No. 6 of 1969). 
Port Moresby Urban Cash Wage Award 1965. 
Lae Urban Cash Wage Award 1965 (superseded by No. 11 of 1967). 
Wau-Bulolo Timber Industry (Annual Leave) Award 1965. 
Port Moresby Qualified Tradesmen Award 1965 (superseded by No. 6 of 1966). 
Clementsons (N.G.) Pty Ltd, No. 1 1965. 
Clementsons (N.G.) Pty Ltd, No. 2 1965. 
South Pacific Post Pty Ltd (Printing Industry) Award 1965 (superseded by No. 11 of 1968). 
Rabaul Qualified Tradesmen Award 1965 (superseded by No. 7 of 1966). 
Lae Stevedoring Award 1965 (superseded by No. 2 of 1968). 
Port Moresby Annual and Sick Leave Award 1965. 
Rabaul Annual and Sick Leave Award 1965 (superseded by No. 8 of 1967). 
1966 
Samarai Urban Cash Wage and Leave Award 1966 (superseded by No. 6 of 1968). 
Port Moresby Stevedoring Award 1966. 
Popondetta Urban Cash Wage and Leave Award 1966 (superseded by No. 7 of 1968). 
New Britain District Certificated Tradesmen Award 1966. 
Rabaul Stevedoring Award 1966. 
Port Moresby Qualified Tradesmen Award 1966. 
Rabaul Qualified Tradesmen Award 1966 (superseded by No. 2 of 1969). 
Lae Qualified Tradesmen Award 1966 (superseded by No. 2 of 1970). 
Lae Annual and Sick Leave Award 1966 (superseded by No. 11 of 1967). 
Goroka Annual and Sick Leave Award 1966 (superseded by No. 8 of 1969). 
Wau-Bulolo Timber Industry Award 1966. 
Milne Bay District Shipping Award 1966 (superseded by No. 3 of 1970). 
Kavieng Stevedoring Award 1966 (superseded by No. 3 of 1969). 
1967 
Port Moresby Shipping Award. 
Madang Qualified Tradesmen Award 1967 (superseded by No. 5 of 1969). 
Madang Annual and Sick Leave Award 1967 (superseded by No. 13 of 1967). 
Mount Hagen Urban Cash Wage and Leave Award 1967 (superseded by No. 4 of 1969) 
Northern District Sawmilling and Timber Industry Award 1967. 
Wewak Stevedoring Award (superseded by No. 7 of 1969). 
Wewak Urban Cash Wage and Leave Award (superseded by No. 9 of 1969). 
Rabaul Urban Cash Wage and Leave Award (superseded by No. 2 of 1969). 
Royal Papua and New Guinea Constabulary Award 1967. 
Hoskins Sawmilling and Timber Industry Award 1967. 
Lae Urban Cash Wage and Leave Award 1967 (superseded by No. 2 of 1970). 
Wakunai -Sawmilling and Timber Industry Award 1967. 
Madaag Urban Cash Wage and Leave Award 1967 (superseded by No. 5 of 1969). 
Samarai Stevedoring Award (superseded by No. 10 of 1969). 
Royal Papua and New Guinea Constabulary Award (No. 2) of 1967. 
Madang Stevedoring Award 1967 (superseded by No. 11 of 1970). 
1968 
Royal Papua and New Guinea Constabulary (Allowances) Award of 1968. 
Lae Stevedoring Award 1968 (superseded by No. 9 of 1970). 
Royal Papua and New Guinea Constabulary (Allowances No. 2) Award 1968 
Lorengau Urban Cash Wage and Leave Award. 
Rabaul Shipping Award 1968 
Samarai-Alotau Urban Cash Wage and Leave Award 1968 (superseded by No. 4 of 1970). 
Popondetta Urban Cash Wage and Leave Award 1968 (susperseded by No. 6 of 1970). 
Cape Rodney Sawmilling and Timber Industry Award 1968 (superseded by No. 7 of 1970). 
Vanimo Sawmilling and Timber Industry Award 1968. 
Naval Civilian Workers (Lombrum) Award 1968. 
South Pacific Post Pty Ltd Award 1968. 
Papua and New Guinea Printing Company Pty Ltd Award 1968. 
1969 
Kieta Stevedoring Award 1969. 
Rabaul General Employment Award 1969. 
Kavieng Stevedoring Award 1969. 
Mount Hagen General Employment Award 1969. 
Madang General Employment Award 1969. 
Kavieng General Employment Award 1969. 
Wewak Stevedoring Award 1969. 
Goroka General Employment Award 1969. 
Wewak General Employment Award 1969. 
Samarai Stevedoring Award 1969. 
1970 
Port Moresby Waterside Workers Award 1970. 
Lae General Employment Award 1970. 
Milne Bay District Shipping Award 1970. 
Samarai-Alotau General Employment Award 1970. 
Daru General Employment Award 1970. 
Popondetta General Employment Award 1970. 
Cape Rodney Sawmilling and Timber Industry Award 1970. 
Daru Stevedoring Award 1970. 
Lae Stevedoring Award 1970. 
Airline Pilots (Papuan Airlines Pty Ltd) Award 1970. 
Madang Stevedoring Award 1970. 
(4)- 
Nil. 
Four awards have been declared to be Common Rules by the AdministratorinCouncil. These are: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No statistics on the ownership of secondary industries in the Territory of Papua and New Guinea have been prepared. 
The Government's policy is to encourage increasing participation by Papuans and New Guineans in the ownership and managementof enterprises. Nevertheless, it is recognised that overseas capital is necessary to establish secondary industry in a developing country and it is to be expected that the bulk of such investment in the Territory should come from Australians with consequent Australian ownership. As mentioned in the Governor-General's Speech it is proposed to ask the Territory House of Assembly for legislation to establish a statutory corporation to acquire equity in major investment projects in the Territory. One of the principal functions of this new institution will be to take up shares in appropriate enterprises and hold them for future disposal to the people of the Territory. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The latest statistical tables on indigenous workers in Papua and New Guinea, comparable with the tables for the year ended 31st March 1967 published in the Annual Reports for Papua and New Guinea, cover the year ended 30th June 1968. These statistics comprise twenty-two pages. A copy has been placed in the Parliamentary Library. 
As from 1967-68 labour statistics are being collected for the year ended 30th June in lieu of 31st March. The 1967-68 Annual Reports for Papua and New Guinea closed before the 1967-68 labour statistics had been compiled. These will, however, appear in the Annual Reports for Papua and New Guinea for 1968-69. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Records in respect of the first House of Assembly are incomplete. Records for the second House are fairly comprehensive. The available information is set out in the attached tables. 
There is a standing instruction to all Administration radio stations that no candidate for House of Assembly elections may use Administration radio for political campaign purposes. No such use was made of Administration radio by candidates prior to either the 1964 or the1968 House of Assembly elections. One Ministerial Member was broadcast over Administration radio within a month of the 1968 elections.  Mr S.  Giregire gave a talk about passionfruit in January 1968. The talk had been recorded before January. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Rents payable by  an  officer or employee (either expatriate or indigenous) of the Public Service of Papua and New Guinea were published in a Schedule in Gazette No. 19 of 1st April 1965. That Schedule, with the rents converted to decimal currency, is as follows - 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Under the Child Welfare Ordinance 1961-1968 of the Territory of Papua and New Guinea an allowance not exceeding Seven dollars per week may be granted by tha Director of Child Welfare where one or both of the parents of a child under the age of sixteen years is imprisoned. In addition, the Administrator makes ex gratia grants to other dependants of persons in prison in deserving cases. Such grants are made by way of rations in subsistence farming areas and by cash, not exceeding Five dollars per family per week, in urban areas. However, such grants are required only in a few cases, as relatives in need are usually supported by kinsmen under traditional arrangements which are a feature of the family relationship of Papuans and New Guineans. The obligation to help a relative is often a binding customary obligation. Welfare officers regularly visit all major corrective institutions in the Territory and detainees are encouraged to discuss with them domestic matters including fears they may have for the well-being of their families. The decision whether to make grants of assistance or not is made on the basis of actual need, having regard to the customary support or other assistance that is being received by dependants of detainees. 
The  answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
Industrial safety in the Territory of Papua and New Guinea is provided for by the Industrial Safety, Health and Welfare Ordinance 1961, and orders made under the Ordinance; the Industrial Safety, Health and Welfare Regulations 1965; and sections of other Ordinances, such as the Papua and New Guinea Electricity Commission Ordinance 1961-69. Action by the Administration to enforce the law consists of inspections of industrial safety by Labour Department Inspectors; appointment of specialist Industrial Safety Officers from among engineers of the Department of Public Works, Commonwealth Department of Works and officers of other Government Departments to carry out inspections and provide expert advice; advice and assistance to employers on industrial safety by the Technical Advisory Service of the Labour Department; and courses of lectures, film screenings and a safety pamphlet service run by Labour Department. 
Whether death or injury has been due to an employer's failure to observe industrial safety laws is a matter for determination by the courts in the light of the legal provisions. In cases where it appears that death or injury may have been due to the employer's failure to observe the indus trial safety laws, the cases are investigated by the Administration's Department of Labour and referred, if necessary, to the Territory Crown Solicitor. To date no employers have been prosecuted for failure to observe the industrial safety laws. 
In cases where it appears that death or injury may have been due to the employer's failure to observe the industrial safety laws, the New Guinean or European concerned is told of his common law rights to sue for damages. 
When the common law right of a Papuan and New Guinean worker to sue for damages is involved, the case is automatically referred to the Public Solicitor. When the common law right of an expatriate worker to sue for damages is involved, the worker is advised to seek private legal advice or, if financially unable to follow this course, to seek assistance from the Public Solicitor. 
International Labour Organisation: Convention on Equal Pay  (Question No. 346) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 1. (a) The Fourth Committee of the General Assembly on 12th December 1969, adopted the following draft resolution of Papua and the Trust Territory of New Guinea: 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Owners of registered taxis: 
There are fourteen companies or individuals who own taxis. Shareholdings are not classified by race but from inspection of records it appears that one public company has a small number of indigenous shareholders and' the Development Bank holds 25,000 shares; one transport business owned by an indigene holds the licences for both the taxis in one centre; and the remaining twelve owners are nonindigenes. 
Licensed taxi drivers: 
Records are not maintained on a basis of race but it is understood that almost all drivers are indigenes. 
The answer to the honour able member's question is as follows: 
Under the Firearms Regulation Ordinance 1963-1965 firearms in the possession of members of the public must be registered. Registration may be refused upon grounds of age, safety, convictions in relation to firearms offences, or upon the ground that the owner has no substantial reason for requiring the firearm or that there are other substantial reasons, e.g., the number of firearms in the owner's locality, for the refusal. A person must not be in possession of a firearm unless it is registered in his name or unless it is registered in his employer's name and there is in force a permit allowing him to carry it. The Ordinance imposes a number of restrictions upon the possession of lirearms. A person who has a firearm in his possession is required to take all reasonable precautions to ensure its safe-keeping. It is an offence to be found drunk in physical possession of a loaded firearm. A person must not, without reasonable excuse, carry a firearm exposed to the public view in a public place within the boundaries of a town. A special licence or permit is required by the Ordinance for the possession of a pistol or a highpowered firearm. The Ordinance does not require that a firearm that is the property of the Crown or the Administration and is carried by a member of the Defence Forces, of the Public Service or of the Police Force should be registered or licensed. 
(i) The Army in the Territory of Papua and New Guinea holds sufficient weapons for issue to all members of the Army, both expatriate and indigenous. Under normal circumstances, members of the Army working permanently on base tasks, i.e., at Murray Barracks, Port Moresby would not have firearms on permanent issue. Firearms are secured in a central armoury and issued as required for activities such as guard duty, annual range practices and training. Members of units engaged in field work would normally have weapons on permanent issue. The issue of ammunition to Army members is controlled. 
The 197 expatriate and 25 indigenous commissioned officers of the Regular Constabulary Branch of the Police Force are issued with pistols. Firearms are not issued to other ranks on a personal basis except in the case of detachments on posts on the West Irian border for the duration of their postings. However, .303 service rifles held by detachments of the Police Force on the basis of one for each member on the strength of the Regular Constabulary and the Reserve Constabulary plus 10%. There are now about 3,338 indigenous members of non-commissioned ranks in the Regular Constabulary and there are about 144 expatriate and 80 indigenous members of the Reserve Constabulary. In addition, a total of 61 shotguns are held by police stations in the field for temporary issue to police officers at such stations. 
253 pistols and 313 shotguns are held by Administration Departments available for temporary issue to field staff in appropriate cases. Provision is made in the Firearms Regulation Ordinance for the issue of permits allowing employees to carry registered firearms. The practice is to attach such permits to the certificates of registration for each firearm. 21,486 firearms are registered They are not registered by race. 
As indicated in (2) above, a pistol is issued to each commissioned officer of the Regular Constabulary Branch of the Police Force. Pistols are issued to Administration officers during posting or patrols in areas where personal danger may be anticipated. The issue of Departmental pistols to such officers is at the discretion of the senior departmental officer at each location, having regard to his assessment of the employees concerned and their requirements and is not determined by the grade or classification of the officer. Administration officers may be licensed under the Firearms Regulation Ordinance to posses personal pistols. Application for such licences are dealt with on their merits but consideration is given to any need that the officer may have for the use of the pistol for official purposes. 
The Firearms Regulations Ordinance 1963- 1965 prohibits the discharging of firearms in or over a public place within the boundaries of a town, or over any occupied land (except with the land owner's consent). The Firearms Regulation Ordinance does not at present provide for pistol clubs although the Firearms Regulation Ordinance 1969 will, when brought into force, provide for licensing of such clubs upon compliance with prescribed conditions. Meanwhile officials of each pistol club in the Territory have adopted a constitution recommended by the Police and have accepted police supervision and advice as to their ranges, the type of pistols to be used, safety measures, etc. Members of such clubs have been issued with pistol licences containing conditions requiring that the pistol be used only at a pistol club and that the licence will not be renewed unless the licensee produces evidence of having attended at least 75 percent of club matches. Other conditions are imposed in respect of some pistol licences, e.g., the pistol is to be used for official purposes only. Official instructions of long standing have been issued to officers both of the Regular Constabulary Branch and the Field Constabulary Branch (i.e. officers of the Division of District Administration) in relation to official pistol practice on small ranges. Since the incident at Pomio. regulations under the Firearms Regulation Ordinance have been prepared and submitted to the Administrator's Executive Council. The draft regulations are now being revised to provide further requirements sought by the Administrator's Executive Council, including controls on target practice. 
Specialist opinion is that although the bullet still remains at the base of the lung there is no present disability and that it is unlikely that the bullet will cause future disability. Representation is in the hands of the Public Solicitor in connection with any claims for compensation. It is under stood that the Public Solicitor has sought an opinion from Sydney counsel. 
East-West Micro-wave Link: Kalgoorlie Television Station (Question No. 223) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (3) Yes. 
At the time of hearing, composition of the Transport Control Board was: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It has not been found necessary for any instructions to be given pursuant to this section of the Act. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) Expatriates - Under the Papua and New Guinea Migration Ordinance 1963-1969 all immigrants (the term includes all persons not born in the Territory, whether entering for short visits or for longer term stay) other than members of the Defence Forces of Australia, certain diplomatic and consular officials and members of the crew of certain vessels during the stay of their vessels in Territory ports, are required to be in possession of entry permits. Before an entry permit is granted, a short term visitor (e.g. a businessman or tourist) must hold a ticket to a destination beyond the Territory (or a return ticket) or lodge a landing bond. A person entering for long term or permanent stay must, as a general rule, be eligible to enter Australia in similar circumstances and must lodge a landing bond and have either assured employment or sufficient funds with which to maintain himself whilst in the Territory. Limited numbers of certain key professional and technical non-European workers required for essential Territory enterprises are permitted to enter the Territory for a period normally not exceeding 2 years. In all cases normal immigration requirements of health and character must be met. There are no restrictions under the Migration Ordinance on the exit of immigrants from the Territory except in relation to the taking of children out of the Territory if they are the subject of certain court proceedings. 
Indigenes - Indigenes and other persons born in the Territory are not required by law to possess permits to enter the Territory. However, since carrying companies are subject to heavy penalties for carrying persons who, by not holding entry permits, become on entry to the Territory prohibited immigrants, in practice all people entering the Territory are issued with entry permits to facilitate their travel. The Migration Ordinance at present requires that an indigene obtain, unless exempted, a permit to leave the Territory and that a bond be lodged by the applicant or his sponsor. An amendment of the Migration Ordinance recently assented to by the Governor-General will enable indigenes to leave the Territory without having firstly to obtain exit permits - unless they are persons, or members of a class of persons, declared under the Ordinance to be protected persons, in which case a special exit permit will be required and a bond will have to be lodged. Provision also exists, under this amendment, for the issue of documentation which will permit the holder to enter the Territory without having to obtain an entry permit. This legislation has not yet been brought into operation pending drafting of appropriate regulations. These provisions are common to Papua and the Trust Territory of New Guinea. 
Since my answer of 1st October 1964, Nauru has become an independent Republic. Migration from any of Australia's external territories to Nauru is, therefore, a matter for consideration by the Nauru Government. Conversely, any applications by Nauruans for migration to Australian external territories would be considered in the same way as any other applications. Norfolk Island has a new Immigration Ordinance which permits entry for periods of up to 30 days without having firstly to apply for an entry permit  provided a return or  onward ticket is held. This may be extended to 60 days but any longer stay requires an entry permit. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Chartered helicopters were used by the police in the Gazelle Peninsula between 3rd September and 12th September, 1969 and between 8th December, 1969 and 17th January, 1970. The helicopters were shared with other Departments. During the periods mentioned the police used them nearly every day. 
Records of landings by police helicopters were not maintained but as far as I have been able to ascertain no landings were made at meetings. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. Under the Workers' Compensation Ordinance 1958-1969, workers' compensation is not paid to the widow of a New Guinean worker killed in -the course of his employment unless the widow is either wholly or in part dependent upon his earnings before his death, or unless a local court certifies that she was a dependant by native custom. 
The widow or dependants of a European worker would not be paid workers' compensation unless they were wholly or partially dependent on his earnings before his death. 
As the result of an item that I saw in the Press, I made inquiries in regard to the permit for  Dr Khan  to enter the Territory. My inquiries revealed that the Australian High Commissioner in New Delhi was requested to make this permit available to  Dr Khan  on 14th March. A subsequent inquiry has elicited the fact that  Dr Khan  had changed his address and so far he had not been located. But I think that this has been remedied in the past few days. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Australian Commissioner:  Sir William  Dunk, C.B.E. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am not prepared to add to the information supplied by the honourable the Attorney-General. 
Papua and New Guinea: Driving under the Influence of Liquor Offences  (Question No. 577) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following figures relate to proceedings in respect of charges of driving under the influence of intoxicating liquor or a drug contrary to section 9 of the Motor Traffic Ordinance 1950-1967 during the year ended 30th June 1969: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(1) 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
28th November 1969. 
6th February 1970. 
The Tribunal has not yet heard or determined any matter. It has presided over two conferences in respect of a claim. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Married female indigenous staff 
13 typists plus 1 stenographer 
40 telephonists. 
Married female expatriate staff 
218 typists plus 36 stenographers 
26 telephonists. 
Interstate Standing Committee on Uniform Building Regulations (Question No. 123) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following is the text of the motion adopted by the House of Assembly for the Territory of Papua and New Guinea on 17th March 1970: 
That in conformity with the policy of the Australian Government of involving the indigenous people of Papua and New Guinea increasingly in the processes of decision making, this House recommends that - 
applications for permits to enter and reside in the Territory in respect of which refusal is contemplated for reasons other than that the applicant has a criminal record shall be referred to the Administrator's Executive Council for consideration and recommendation before a final decision is made; and 
any application in respect of which a decision has not been arrived at thirty days after its receipt shall be reported to the Administrator's Executive Council with an explanation of the reason for the delay. 
No changes have been made in the procedure for granting permits since the motion was adopted. However so far as concerns the entry of non-Europeans, under the present procedures, which were adopted on the recommendation of the Administrator's Council in 1966 and 1967, the Administrator's Executive Council considers applications involving groups of persons or individual applicants in some cases. 
As I told the House of Representatives on 17th March, I am having an examination made to see whether procedures can be tightened up to keep delays to a minimum. 
A statement will be made tothe House of Assembly in due course on the whole matter. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Fees are charged by the Administration for education provided at Territory primary and secondary schools, technical colleges, postsecondary training institutions and for adult education in Papua and New Guinea. 
In relation to fees charged at Territory primary and secondary schools the position is: 
(i) an annual school equipment charge in respect of students attending Administration and mission primary and secondary schools, 
a fee in respect of boarders attending Administration secondary schools. This fee is used to defray pan of the cost of maintenance of boarding school students. 
(i) The annual school equipment fees were introduced in 1967; they have remained at the rate of $1 per child at primary schools and $3 per child for pupils at secondary schools. Where more than1 child from a family attend a school, the total fee payable is $1 at primary and S3 at secondary schools, 
The annual boarding school fee was introduced in 1970 after consultation with and with the support of the Administrator's Executive Council. On the Council's advice the fee varies from sub-district to sub-district from $10 per child a year to a maximum of $30 depending upon the level of economic development. 
Provision is made for both the school equipment and boarding school fees for individual students to be lowered or waived in cases of hardship. 
Estimated revenue for 1970 from school fees is as follows: 
School equipment fees  -  $176,000 
Board school fees- $138,000 
Information on fees charged at the other educational institutions in the Territory, including over 30 post-secondary training institutions, will be communicated to the honourable member when available. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There has been no uprising in any part of Bougainville. If the question refers to settlements before the leasing of land at Rorovana (near Kieta) last August the position is - 
Special Mining Lease No.1 - Panguna. Landowners receive payments in accordance with the New Guinea Mining Ordinance as follows: - Occupation fee of $2 per acre. - Compensation to be assessed by the Mining Warden having regard to the damage to surface and improvements, severance of land from other land, loss of surface rights of way and all consequential damage. - 5% of the royalty payable to the Administration in respect of the lease. 
Ancillary land in connection with the Copper Projects not included in the Special Mining Lease - 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Fees and Allowances 
Members of the House of Assembly are paid the following fees and allowances - 
Speaker- $5,000 per annum plus an allowance of $300 per annum. 
Ministerial Members- $5,000 per annum. 
Assistant Ministerial Members  -  $3,750 per annum. 
Elected Member nominated to Administrator's Executive Council  -  $3,750 per annum. 
Chairman of Committees- $3,000 per annum plus an allowance of $300 per annum. 
Official Members - no fee, but are paid an allowance of $400 per annum for their duties connected with the House. 
Other Members  -  $3,000 per annum. 
Electorate Allowances (which vary according to the type of electorate and the estimated cost to a Member of reasonable travel within bis electorate)  are - 
Open Electorates- $400 to $1,200 per annum. 
Regional Electorates- $750 to $3,000 per annum. 
Members also receive a postage and telephone allowance of $50 per annum. 
The following travel facilities are provided - (i)Fares 
All Members are provided with fares to and from meetings of the House or its Committees and on approved business of the House. 
In addition Ministerial Members and Assistant Ministerial Members are eligible for fares between their homes and Port Moresby up to 12 times a year. Ministerial Members, Assistant Ministerial Members, and Members of Standing and Select Committees of the House are provided with fares for travel on official business outside Port Moresby. 
Travelling Allowance 
Ministerial Members and Assistant Ministerial Members resident outside Port Moresby receive allowances of $850 per annum and $700 per annum respectively in lieu of travelling allowance for periods spent in Port Moresby and in travelling to and from Port Moresby on official business. 
Ministerial Members, Assistant Ministerial Members, and Members of Standing and Select Committees of the House receive the cost of accommodation and meals plus $2 per day when travelling outside Port Moresby on official business. 
Official Members resident outside Port Moresby receive $13 per day when obliged to stay in private accommodation during meetings of the House or its Committees. When otherwise required to travel on official business of the 
House they receive the travelling allowance appropriate to their Public Service or Statutory office. 
Other Members receive $13 per day during travel to and from meetings of the House or its Committees and while attending sittings of the House. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Expatriate personnel of the Public Service may be eligible for retirement benefits under either the Superannuation (Papua and New Guinea) Ordinance 1951-1969 or the Retirement Benefits (Contract Officers) Ordinance 1967-1969. Personnel who are not eligible for benefits are: 
temporary employees who have not been accepted as contributors under either Ordinance, 
contract officers who have exercised their right of election not to contribute for benefits under the Retirement Benefits (Contract Officers) Ordinance. 
and (3)- 
Superannuation (Papua and New Guineu) Ordinance - Contributors to the Superannuation Fund elect to contribute for full pensions at either ages 55 (50 for females) or 60 (55 for females). 
A contributor who retires or resigns after reaching age 50 (45 for females) but who is not entitled to full pension is eligible for a pension which is certified by the Commonwealth Actuary to be four and one-fifth times the actuarial equivalent of the net amount of the contributions actually paid by him. 
A contributor who resigns before reaching age 50 (45 for females) is entitled to refund of contributions. 
Full benefits are payable under the Superannuation Ordinance to a Provident Account contributor on retirement on or after 50 years of age (45 for females). A Provident Account contributor who resigns before age 50 (45 for females) is entitled  to  an amount equal to the contributions paid by him with compound interest on those contributions  to  the prescribed rate. 
Retirement Benefits (Contract Officers) Ordinance - The benefits paid under this Ordinance  are  not related to age on retirement but to length of service. 
Social Services: Reciprocal Agreement with Malta  (Question No. 625) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Under the Customs (Cinematograph Films) Proclamation 1962 a film, including advertising material associated with a film, may not be imported into the Territory or registered for distribution if, in the opinion of the Chief Censor, or on appeal, in the opinion of the Appeal Censor, the film is - 
blasphemous, indecent or obscene; 
likely to be injurious to morality or to encourage or incite crime; 
likely to be offensive to the people of a friendly nation or to the people of a part of the Queen's dominions; and 
depicts any matter the exhibition of which is undesirable in the public interest. 
The Proclamation also establishes a Censorship Advisory Panel to advise the Chief Censor. Where registration is refused application may be made by the importer for permission to reconstruct the film along specified lines so as to meet the objections and the Chief Censor may approve registration of the film as altered or amended. 
The Chief Censor is the Comptroller of Customs. Members of the Advisory Panel are - 

 Mr C. Kirke 

 Dr J. T. Gunther 

 Mrs Evertius Romney and 

 Mr Sinake Goava 
There is one vacancy. 
The Appeal Censor is  Mr B.  Fairfax-Ross. 
(a) Since November 1963 no films made in Australia have been banned in the Territory. (b) The following films admitted into Australia have been banned in the Territory during the period in question - 
Batase 
Tamango 
The Young One 
La Ronde 
The Mercenaries, and 
The Comedians. (4)The censorship certification in Australia of thefilm 'Safari' asnot suitable for children' was retained in the Territory but some minor excisions were made for Territory exhibition purposes.This is the only case since November 1963 of censorship in the Territory additional to that in Australia. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Under the Printers and Newspapers Ordinance a person who prints a paper, book or newspaper is required to register details of his undertaking with the Registrar-General, to keep copies for a period of six months and to print on the paper, book or newspaper the name and address of the printer and that of the person who employed him to print it. Under the Discriminatory Practices Ordinance it is an offence to publish or distribute written matter which is threatening, abusive, insulting, provocative or offensive with intent to stir up hatred, ridicule or contempt against any section of the public distinguished by colour, race or ethnic, tribal or national origin. Under the Territory Criminal Code it is an offence to sell, display or advertise any printed matter which is obscene or tends to corrupt morals. The same applies to the carrying on of a business dealing with such matters or assisting in the carrying out of such activities. The Defamation Ordinance provides that a person shall not unlawfully publish defamatory matter concerning another. The Commonwealth Crimes Act which places certain restrictions on publishing extends to the Territory. Under the Parliamentary Powers and Privileges Ordinance it is an offence, unless the House of Assembly so directs, to print or publish outside the House any words or matter published in the House.It is also an offence to publish any words or any cartoon which tends to bring the House into haired or contempt. The Postal Regulations provide for the registration of certain publications and periodicals. The Director of Posts and Telegraphs may remove from the Register any such material which in his opinion is profane, blasphemous, indecent, obscene, immoral or seditious and may refuse to accept for transmission through the post, or confiscate parcels, containing any such material. 
Under the Printers and Newspapers Ordinance printing presses and newspapers are registered with the Registrar-General of Births, Deaths and Marriages. The Director of Posts and Telegraphs carries out the functions under the Postal Regulations mentioned in the last paragraph of (I) above. There are no other officials, members of boards or tribunals specifically empoweredto censor or license books, periodicals or pamphlets printed or produced in the Territory. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) 200 European expatriate staff were employed by the University as at April 1970, 
6 non-European expatriate staff were employed by the University as at April 1970. 
(a) Academic staff are appointed forterms according to their classification. Professors are appointed initially for six years, lecturers and senior lecturers for three years and tutors and senior tutors for one year. The contracts of nonacademic staff range from two to six years in duration. (b) Permits for appointments of less than two years are for the period of appointment only. Permits for appointments of two years or more are for two years in the first instance. 
Yes. Extensions for Europeans are normally for two years. Extensions of non-European permits may be considered on the circumstances of the case but are normally for one year. This arrangement gives effect to the policy of admitting limited numbers of highly skilled or key non-Europeans for limited periods. The Administrator's Council was fully consulted before this policy was introduced in 1966 and it recommended some amendments in the policy and administrative arrangements proposed. As adopted the policy and arrangements include the changes recommended by the Council. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Native Employment Ordinance 1958-67 under which agreement workers are employed in Papua and New Guinea does not prescribe penalties for breaches of agreements by agreement workers. The Ordinance provides that an agreement may be terminated by a court, upon application by the agreement worker or the employer. The court may: 
make an award to the agreement worker for loss of wages, allowances, issues, etc., where the agreement is terminated because of the actions of the employer, or 
make an award to the employer for outofpocket expenses where the agreement is terminated because of the actions . of the employee. 
The Ordinance provides that an agreement worker must be paid his accrued current wage or such portion as he elects to receive on the last day of each lunar month (i.e. 28 day period) after the commencement of the agreement. These wages may be paid instead at other times mutually acceptable to the employer and the worker. The accrued current wage' excludes deferred wages which are paid on termination of the agreement. A minimum of one third or one half of the wages payable to the worker, depending on the length of the agreement, is paid as deferred wages. 
The Ordinance provides that all agreement workers are entitled to: 
recreation leave at the rate of 6 days for each year; and 
long service leave at the rate of 18 days for each 5 years. of continuous service with the employer, plus Sundays and public holidays occurring within the period of leave. Recreation leave accrues annually for agreement workers accompanied by their families, and at two year periods for unaccompanied workers. Long service leave accrues at the end of each period of S years. Pro rata recreation and long leave is given in cases where agreements are terminated except on the ground of serious misconduct by the agreement worker. 
No. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The prescribed minimum wage for the Territory which applies to the Kandrian sub-district is $52 per annum for the first year of employment, $58.50 per annum for the second year and $65 per annum for the third year and thereafter of continuous employment with the same employer. The minimum wage also includes payments in kind in the form of rations, clothing and other prescribed articles, accommodation, and medical treatment at specified standards. 
Money in lieu of rations may be paid to an employee if a labour inspector appointed under the Native Employment Ordinance issues a permit either: 
to an individual employee; or 
to an employer in respect of each of his employees who resides in the area specified in the permit. 
The issue of a permit is dependent in part on whether there is an adequate supply of native food readily available to the employee. A casual worker may be paid money in lieu of rations if there is agreement between the worker and the employer. 
An employer, if requested, may pay a weekly amount equal to the value as assessed by the Secretary for Labour in lieu of tobacco to a person entitled to a weekly issue of tobacco. Currenly the money allowance in lieu of food and other articles, for the Kandrian Sub-district is $1.85 per week and the payment in lieu of tobacco is 13 cents per week. 
(a) 97. (b) 104, of whom 58 are provided with accommodation and 46 do not require accommodation. There is no provision for payment of an allowance in lieu of accommodation, medical treatment and other issues, the cost of which is met by the employer as required. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
17th November 1958. 
Section 6 of the Ex-Servicemen's Credit Ordinance 1958 established the Board consisting of an officer of the Department of the Treasury, an officer of the Department of Agriculture, Stock and Fisheries and an officer of the Department of Lands, Surveys and Mines. Officers who have from time to time constituted the Board are: 
L. Anthony - Acting -Director, Department of Lands, Surveys and Mines 
E. Clout( - Acting Director, Department of 
Lands, Surveys and Mines W. L. Conroy - Director, Department of Agricul- culture, Stock and Fisheries 
S. Grove - Director, Department of Lands, Surveys and Mines 
C. Henderson - Director, Department of Agriculture, Stock and Fisheries 
E. Macinnis - Director, Department of Lands, Surveys and Mines 
K. Milner - Acting Director of Finance 
P. J. Newman-Treasurer 
J. Nunn - Land Settlement Officer 
H. Reeve - Treasurer 
The functions of the Ex-Servicemen's Credit Board were taken over by the Papua and New Guinea Development Bank on 1st January, 1969 following which the Board ceased to operate. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Land Board was established in New Guinea in 1925 in Papua in 1931. 
Pre-war the Board comprised the Director of Lands as Chairman and other Administration members After the war the Board consisted of either the Director of Lands or the Chief of the Division of Lands. More recently, a permanently appointed Chairman plus two Government members have been given Territory-wide jurisdiction while the District Commissioner and two members of the public including one indigene have district jurisdiction. Current permanent members are: 
Chairman:  Mr L.  J. Dawe of the Department of Lands 

 Deputy Chairman:  Mr W.  Logan and  Mr H.  K. Gee both of Department of Lands 
Permanent Members:  Mr G.  T. Linsley of Department of District Administration,  Mr G.  K. Graham Department of Agriculture and  Mr R.  L. Claringbould of Department of Trade and Industry. 
There are also members for each district consisting of the District Commissioner one indigenous member and one expatriate member. These usually sit with the  Chairman  or a  Deputy Chairman  but may on occasion meet without him. Last year in the Gazelle Peninsula a programme to help ease population pressure on land in the area was started with the release of tracts of lands for settlement purposes. A special land board to deal with the allocation of blocks was established consisting of the District Commissioner with four indigenous members. 
Defence Expenditure in Australia (Question No. 764) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There are 954 oil palm leases to indigenes in Papua and New Guinea whose minimum and maximum holdings are IS acres and 20 acres respectively and whose average holding is 17 acres. There is one lease of 4.500 acres for a nucleus estate operated by a public company in which the Papua and New Guinea Administration has a 50% equity. The development of the palm oil industry in Papua and New Guinea is based on the establishment of nucleus estate plantations which extend to independent indigenous smallholder producers the use of highly capitalised oil milling facilities. To obtain good quality palm oil the fruit must be processed on being harvested and central processing using modern equipment is essential. Nucleus estate plantations are designed to produce sufficient fruit to supply the minimum economic throughput for a modern oil mill. The nucleus estate and processing facilities are surrounded by the indigenous smallholder blocks. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) The Papua and New Guinea Customs 
Ordinance makes it an offence to bring prohibited imports into the Territory. Under the Ordinance, prohibited imports include any works or articles which are blasphemous, indecent or obscene. The Ordinance authorises prohibition of imports subject to any specified condition or restriction, (b) Under the Discriminatory Practices Ordinance ii is an offence to publish or distribute written matter which is threatening, abusive, insulting, provocative or offensive with intent to stir up hatred, ridicule or contempt against any section of the public distinguished by colour, race or ethnic, tribal or national origin. 
Under the Territory Criminal Code it is an offence to sell, display or advertise any printed matter which is obscene or tends to corrupt morals. The same applies to the carrying on of a business dealing with such matters or assisting in the carrying out of such activities. 
The Defamation Ordinance provides that a person shall not unlawfully publish defamatory matter concerning another. 
The Commonwealth Crimes Act which places certain restrictions on publishing extends to the Territory. 
Under the Parliamentary Powers and Privileges Ordinance it is an offence, unless the House of Assembly so directs, to print or publish outside the House any words or matter published in the House, lt is also an offence to publish any words or any cartoon which tends to bring the House into hatred or contempt. 
The Postal Regulations provide for the registration of certain publications and periodicals. The Director of Posts and Telegraphs may remove from the Register any such material which in his opinion is profane, blasphemous, indecent, obscene, immoral or seditious and may refuse to accept for transmission through the post or confiscate parcels containing any such material. 
The Comptroller of Customs has responsibility for determining which imported books and periodicals should be prohibited. 
The Director of Posts and Telegraphs carries out the functions under the Postal Regulations mentioned in the last paragraph of (1) (b) above. 
Since November 1963 no books printed in Australia have been banned in the Territory. The publications 'A Time Too Soon' and 'Playboy' Magazine, Vol. 16 No. 12, have been admitted into Australia but banned in the Territory. 
No books or periodicals printed in Australia or admitted into Australia have been subject to excisions before being admitted into the Territory in the period mentioned. 
Panguna Copper Project: Landslide (Question No. 586)  Mr Clyde  Cameron asked the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: (0 What is the name of each married worker killed in the landslide at the Panguna Copper Project. 
What is the amount of workmen's compensation that is or will be paid to the wife and/or children of each of these workers. 
What is the name of the mining warden at Bougainville and what are the names of the independent assessors who inquired into the Panguna tragedy. 
Has a finding as to the employer's negligence or incompetence been published. 
When is it anticipated that the Public Solicitor of the Territory of Papua and New Guinea wilt be able to finalise and determine whether a common law action will lie against the employer. 
 The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
John Floyd Lemon was the only married worker killed in the accident. 
The amount of workmen's compensation to be paid has not been determined. The Public Solicitor of the Territory of Papua and New Guinea is handling the claim for  Mrs Lemon. 
The name of the Mining Warden, Bougainville Gold and Mineral Field, is Hector James McKenzie. The assessors were Neil Robert Collier, B.E. (Civil), M.I.E. (Australia), and Edwin Keith Carter, B.S., Ph.D., Assoc. Member A.I.M.M. and Member Geol. Soc. 
It is expected that the findings of the court of inquiry held by the Mining Warden will be published shortly. 
The Public Solicitor is examining the transcript of evidence and finding of the Court of Enquiry held by the Mining Warden's Court on 11th February 1970, and of the coronial enquiry and depositions by Coroner M. L. MacKellar. He is considering whether a common law action should be initiated against the employer in the light of the evidence. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
42,083 as at 30th June 1968. This is the latest year for which plantation worker statistics are available. 
Available figures do not show by whom plantation workers are recruited. The following figures give a breakdown for 1968, in the form requested for plantation workers, of the channels of recruitment of agreement workers, most of whom would be employed on plantations. 
6,627 Cb) 807 
Nil 
Nil 
The remaining 14,877 agreement workers offered themselves for employment. 
Of 12,145 agreement workers engaged in 1969 25 were accompanied by their families. 
The employment agreements entered into by the 12,120 workers in 1969 who were not accompanied by their families were almost in all cases for two years. Only 12 workers are known to have entered into agreements for one year. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Article 62 of Convention 110 provides as follows: '62. Workers and employers, without distinction whatsoever shall have the right to establish and, subject only to the rules of the organisation concerned, to join organisations of their own choosing without previous authorisation.' 
Article 64 provides as follows: '64. Workers' and employers' organisations shall not be liable to be dissolved or suspended by administrative authority.' 
Article 67 provides as follows: '67. The acquisition of legal personality by workers' and employers' organisations, federations and confederations, shall not be made subject to conditions of such a character as to restrict the application of the provisions of Articles- 62, 63 and 64.' 
(a) Section 11 of the Ordinance requires an industrial organisation consisting of not less than twenty employees or four employers to register under the Ordinance. Section 28 prescribes penalties for persons acting on behalf of an organisation to which Section 11 applies and which is not registered. 
Section 26 of the Ordinance gives the Registrar power on grounds stated in the Ordinance to cancel the registration of an industrial organisation. 
Section 41 (4) states that the Registrar may, by order, remove from office the secretary or treasurer of an industrial organisation who is, in his opinion, not capable of performing effectively the duties of his office. 
Section 56(1) of the Ordinance states the objects for which funds of an industrial organisation may be expended; these do not include support of a political party. Section 56(2) states that the provisions of Section 56 (1) do not apply to prevent an industrial organisation from accepting and expending for a special purpose donations made voluntarily for that purpose, (e) It is specified in the Schedule to the Ordinance that the rules of an industrial organisation must provide for the taking of decisions by a secret ballot in respect of strikes or lockouts. 
 The  answer  to the  honourable member's question  is  as follows: 
(3) and (4) The Housing Commission was established on 1st July 1968 and by 30th June 1969 had completed 279 dwellings, 159 of which had been allocated to tenants. In addition the Commission allocated 13 dwellings built by the Administration but made available to the Commission. 
Records do not distinguish between indigenous and expatriate applicants for housing. Applicants whose weekly income exceeds $60 per week are ineligible to rent a dwelling and those earning more than $4,000 a year are Ineligible to purchase a Housing Commission home. 
At 30th June 1969 1,499 applications were outstanding. These included applications by Local Officers of the Administration who are on the waiting list for Administration houses that are being built in the centres concerned. 
Housing Commissioner - G. E. Stolz. Associate Commissioners - 
W. D. Stedman, General Manager, Ansett Airlines of Papua and New Guinea. 
Sicklinger, Managing Director, Morobe 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The respective salaries and allowances of local and overseas officers of the Public Service of Papua and New Guinea employed in the positions referred to are: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Family Needs Allowance is an allowance paid to a married indigenous public servant if the salary he receives is less than assessed minimum living needs. 
The allowance is based on the costs in different parts of the Territory of a regimen of minimum living needs for family units of 
Man and wife; 
Man and wife and one child; 
Man and wife and two children; and 
Man and wife and three children. 
Papua and New Guinea: Arbitration Tribunal (Question No. 818)  Mr Clyde  Cameron asked the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
Who are the two members of the Territory of Papua and New Guinea Public Service Conciliation and Arbitration Tribunal who are not holders of an office of profit under the Crown. 
Are any members of the Tribunal bona fide members of (a) an organisation of employees or (b) an organisation of employers. 
If so, who are they. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 

 Mr Gavera Rea and  Mr To  Meriba Tomalaka. 
(a) Yes. (b) No. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Workers' Compensation Ordinance 1958-1969 of the Territory of Papua and New Guinea does not define the criteria to be used in assessing dependency upon the earnings of a deceased worker. Whether or not a widow was dependent upon the earnings of a deceased worker before his death is a question of fact to be determined according to the circumstances of each case. 
In the 5 years ended 31st March 1970. widows or dependants of New Guinean workers who were killed during or in the course of employment, have been awarded compensation as follows: 
Full compensation in 42 cases (including 22 cases of compensation as dependants under native custom). 
Less than full compensation in 21 cases (including 10 cases of compensation as dependants under native custom). 
There has been no case in which a claim for compensation has been refused on the ground that the person concerned was not dependent on the earnings of the worker at the time of death. There have been 59 cases in respect of which the Court has refused compensation on the grounds that the worker's death was not the result of his employment. 
Not known. In cases of compensation for widows and dependants of European workers the parties concerned make claims and take action for recovery of compensation through their legal representatives or if they are financially unable to do so, through the Public Solicitor. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) (b)  Mr Kereku  has appeared before the courts at Rabaul in connection with seven criminal charges since 7th December 1969. On 8th and 9th December when the first charges were brought before the District Court  Mr Kereku  was represented by the Public Solicitor's Office in applications for bail. 
On 8th December he appeared before  Mr K.  Wallers, R.M. in the District  Court  charged with behaving in a riotous manner on 7th December 1969 at Rapindik, contrary to section 30 (e) of the Police Offences Ordinance 1925-1966. He was remanded in custody until 22nd December. The charge was heard by  Mr Wallers  on 22nd and 23rd December. He was not represented at this hearing. On 23rd December he was convicted of the offence and fined $20.00 in default 2 months imprisonment. The fine was paid on 20th February 1970. 
On 9th December, he appeared before  Mr Wallers  in the District Court charged with behaving in an offensive manner at Rapindik on 7th December 1969, contrary to section 30 (d) of the Police Offences Ordinance 1.925-1966. This charge was based upon the same facts as the charge referred to above, to which it was an alternative. The hearing of the charge was adjourned to 22nd December. No evidence was called in respect of this alternative charge, and the charge was therefore dismissed. He was not represented in these proceedings. 
On 8th December 1969  Mr Kereku  also appeared before  Mr Walters  in the District Court on a charge of escaping from lawful custody on the same day (8th December 1969) at Matupit, contrary to section 3 of the Criminal Law (Escapes) Ordinance 1968. The hearing of the charge was adjourned by  Mr Walters  first until 22nd December, then to 24th December, and again until 7th January 1970. On each occasion  Mr Kereku  was remanded in custody. Finally, the hearing was brought forward to 30th December and at the conclusion of the hearing  Mr Walters  convicted him of the offence and sentenced him to 1 month's imprisonment cumulative on a sentence imposed upon him on 22nd 
December. (See (vi) below.) He was not represented at this hearing. An appeal was lodged against the conviction and sentence. The appeal was heard by  Mr Justice  Minogue in the Supreme Court on 14th April 1970. He was represented in the appeal proceedings by the Public Solicitor.  His  Honour quashed the conviction. 
On 9lh December  Mr Kereku  appeared before  Mr Walters  in the District Court charged with assaulting  Mr Martin  Tovadek, thereby occasioning him bodily harm on 7th December 1969 at Kokopo, contrary to section 339 of the Queensland Criminal Code in its application to the Territory of New Guinea. The hearing of this charge was adjourned by  Mr Walters  first to 22nd December and then to 5th January 1970.  Mr R.  N. Desailly, R.M. then adjourned the hearing until 12th January 1970. On each occasion,  Mr Kereku  was remanded in custody. On 12th, 13lh and 14th January, the charge was heard by  Mr Desailly  who then committed  Mr Kereku  for trial upon the charge before the Supreme Court. Bail was granted pending trial. He was not represented at these committal proceedings. 
Also on 9th December,  Mr Kereku  appeared before  Mr Walters  in the District Court charged with assaulting  Mr Vin  Tobaining, thereby occasioning him bodily harm on 7th December 1969 at Vunanami contrary to section 339 of the Queensland Criminal Code in its application lo the Territory of New Guinea. The hearing was adjourned, and  Mr Kereku  remanded in custody until 22nd December. The prosecution then elected to proceed on the alternative charge of unlawfully striking  Mr Tobaining  and  Mr Walters  dismissed the assault charge. He was not represented at this hearing. 
On 18th December,  Mr Kereku  appeared before  Mr Walters  in the District Court charged with assaulting  Mr Vin  Tobaining al Vunanami on 7th December 1969, contrary to section 30 (a) of the Police Offences Ordinance 1925-1966. The hearing of the charge lasted until 22nd December, when  Mr Waiters  convicted  Mr Kereku  of the offence and sentenced him (o 6 months' imprisonment.  Mr Kereku  was not represented at these proceedings. An appeal was lodged against the conviction and sentence. The appeal was heard by  Mr Justice  Minogue in the Supreme Court on 14th April 1970 and, on 15th April 1970,  His  Honour quashed the conviction. He was represented in the appeal proceedings by the Public Solicitor. 
On 6th January 1970,  Mr Kereku  appeared before  Mr Desailly  in the District Court charged with assaulting  Mr Damien  Tokurapa, thereby occasioning him bodily barm on 7th December 1969 at Matalau contrary to section 339 of the Queensland Criminal Code in its application to the Territory of New Guinea.  Mr Desailly  adjourned the hearing and remanded  Mr Kereku  in custody on the charge until 14th 
January.  Mr Desailly  heard the charges on 14th, 15th and 16th January and then committed  Mr Kereku  for trial before the Supreme Court.  Mr Kereku  was not represented in the committal proceedings. On 17th February, the Crown announced in the Supreme Court that no evidence would be led against  Mr Kereku  on this charge in the Supreme Court. He was represented by the Public Solicitor in the proceedings before the Supreme Court. 

 Mr Kereku made no application for legal aid until 11th January, when he requested legal aid in the Supreme Court. The earlier appearances by the Public Solicitor's Office on 8th and 9lh December were made in response to a request by  Mr Oscar  Tammur. The first formal granting of legal aid occurred when  Mr Kereku  was interviewed by the Public Solicitor on 12th February. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) The cash portion of the prescribed minimum wage payable to plantation workers in Papua and New Guinea is $52 per annum in the first year of employment, $58.50 per annum in the second year and $65 per annum in the third and subsequent years of continuous employment with the same employer. 
The value of the prescribed issues of food, clothing, other issues and accommodation for a worker unaccompanied by his family, is estimated at $181 per annum. 
Statistics of actual wages (including value of rations and issues but excluding accommodation) paid to plantation workers in Papua and New Guinea as at 30th June 1968 are contained in Table 10D of Labour Information Bulletin No. 6 published by the Papua and New Guinea Department of Labour. These statistics include part-time and piece rate workers and do not show the 'cash' and 'in-kind' components separately. The table below summarises the information for plantation workers shown in Table 10D of Labour Information Bulletin No. 6. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
None. 
and (5) The Adult Education Council is an advisory body only; it advises the Administrator on adult education and comprises representatives of Administration departments, voluntary organisations and indigenous interests. The actual conduct of adult education activities are undertaken by Departments, voluntary agencies and individuals. 
There are 5,976 adult students enrolled in courses conducted by Department of Education. The courses being provided are - 
Basic literacy: The aim of the course is to teach English as a second language and to promote literacy. The course also contains an element of general education, including simple arithmetic. 
Secondary classes (evening and correspondence): The classes are designed to cater for working adults who wish to further their formal education. A range of secondary school subjects is provided including English, Mathematics, History, Social Studies. 
Technical: The courses provided are primarily intended for trade apprentices but persons working in a trade who can satisfy a headmaster that the course would be of value to them may also enrol. Electrical, mechanical, building and light engineering trades are catered for. 
Creative activities: Subjects available include languages, art, woodwork, cooking, shorthand, typing, car maintenance. 
A wide range of courses is conducted by other departments and organisations which are attended almost exclusively by Papuans and New Guineans. They relate to such activities as farming, small businesses and co-operatives. Courses are also conducted for women and young people to teach skills needed in the home and in employment. 
The courses are concerned largely with the introduction of new food crops and cash crops, improvements in diet and health education; the promotion of women's interests and activities: the detection and control of diseases of humans, animals and crops; and improving production methods to provide money income. The aims are to make village life more attractive and raise living standards generally. 
and (4) There are 5,500 Papuans and New Guineans enrolled in adult education courses conducted primarily for them, i.e., literacy, secondary and technical classes. 
There is no recorded breakdown into racial groups of adult students attending other courses conducted by the Department of Education but it is estimated that of the remainder 80 are Papuans and New Guineans and 396 are expatriate students. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The latest year for which statistics have been completed is 1968. The table below gives the required information for 1962 to 1968. Information for earlier years is not available. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In the last two years the Department has found only one case where the possibility of negligence seemed to justify a reference to the Crown Solicitor. 
Advice on common law rights to sue an employer for damages is available to New Guineans from officials of the Department of Labour, District Administration offices and other Administration officers throughout the Territory all of whom would in appropriate circumstances discuss the possibility of a claim being made and the way in which it could be done. No figures are available for the number of occasions on which such advice may have been given. 
At least 27 such references were made in 1969. Only 1 of these cases has been finalised. In this case the indigenous worker received $300 damages. 
Repatriation: Assistance to Ex-servicemen (Question No. 784) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Papuan and New Guinean seamen are employed as crew on some ships engaged in overseas trade between the Territory of Papua and New Guinea and Australia. 
The lowest actual wage being paid is $12 a fortnight with meals, accommodation and issues supplied without charge by the employer. Actual wage rates range up to $22.50 with free meals, accommodation and issues. 
The M.V. Slott recently berthed at Port Kembla with New Guineans in its crew and the Seamen's Union considered that living conditions were not satisfactory. A thorough investigation was made by the Administration when the vessel returned to Port Moresby. The inspection revealed 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (7), (9) Between August and September 1969 a survey was conducted of the boundary of a native reserve near New Massawa plantation in the Bainings Local Government Council area of the East New Britain District. 
The survey party was molested on a number of occasions, notably on 29th September and 7th October, by some local residents. On 7th October 1969 an incident occurred in which a Patrol Officer is said to have thrust aside ToRangis Magiar, a member of the Bainings Local Government Council, in attempting to control a potentially dangerous situation. 
The patrol officer's name was Lapthorne. He was appointed an Assistant Patrol Officer on 9th November 1964; by virtue of his office he is  a  commissioned officer of the Field Constabulary. 
On 30th October 1969, in the Local Court at Lassul Bay, also in the Bainings Local Government Council area of the East New Britain District, the following were convicted and sentenced on the following charges: 
together and in company with others, behaving in a threatening manner towards another person, James Edward Underwood, a surveyor, contrary to section 30(d) of the Police Offences Ordinance 1925-1966 at New Massawa on 29th September 1969: 
ToRarigis Magiar 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The information requested is set out below. The licences are issued by a number of authorities in centres throughout the Territory and the figures for each category are not necessarily on the same basis. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Statistics of plantation workers 
The answer to the  honourable  member's question is as follows: 
There are 307 tea leases held by indigenes totalling 3,399 acres. The minimum area is 8 acres, the maximum is 17 acres and the average is II acres. In addition indigenous produced tea is also planted on land held by customary tenure but figures on areas involved are not available. There ire also 10 non-indigenous tea plantation leases comprising 10,893 acres. The smallest of these is 370 acres, the largest 2,200 acres and the average amounts to 1,089. 
The development of the tea industry in Papua and New Guinea is based on the establishment of nucleus estate plantations which extend to independent indigenous smallholder producers the use of highly capitalised tea processing facilities. To obtain good quality tea the leaf must be processed on being harvested and central processing using modern equipment is essential. Nucleus estate plantations are designed to produce sufficient leaf to supply the minimum economic throughput for a modern tea factory. 
1 am sorry to change the subject of this debate but I propose to refer to the remarks of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  who introduced the subject of Papua and New Guinea. It is quite easy to understand why he spoke on that subject: He did not want to talk about the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign. You would think that on the day before the Campaign is to reach its height - a Campaign about which this Government has clearly stated its views - the Leader of the Opposition would come out and give a lead to his Party. Instead he sidestepped the issue. He said not a word about the Moratorium. I suppose he thought that all he had to do was get out in front of Parliament House under a couple of Vietcong flags and address the crowd. There he was safe from members of this House taking him to task about things he said. The honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  started his speech very gamely - and very lamely - on the subject of the Moratorium but quickly changed to another subject. 1 congratulate him on his foresight. 1 think every Australian is aware of the damage done to our dependent Territory of Papua and New Guinea by the recent visit there of the Leader of the Opposition. The Leader of the Opposition was very concerned because at a recent Press conference I was asked whether I considered that morale in Papua and New Guinea had declined following the visit of the Leader of the Opposition. I replied that undoubtedly it had. I have had representations from many people in the Territory asking that the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  go to the Territory and reassure the people that they will not be pushed into self-government and independence by 1976. What concerns many people of the Territory, as I mentioned at the Press conference, is that the average Papuan and New Guinean does not understand our particular form of government and the relationship of the Leader of the Opposition to the Government. The average Papuan thinks that the Leader of the Opposition is part of the Government and has a hand in forming Government policy. Because of this the people of the Territory were left confused by the visit of the Leader of the Opposition. 
The honourable gentleman's predecessor, the right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell),  was greatly respected in the Territory. He had the confidence of the community. The Opposition's present policy of pushing the Territory into self-government by 1972 if, of course, it gets into power - a big 'if - and independence by 1976 represents a drastic change from the policy pursued by the right honourable member for Melbourne Our policy is 1 of political change sanctioned by the people of Papua and New Guinea through their elected House of Assembly. The visit to the Territory of the Leader of the Opposition has caused them great concern. I do not want to stress only my views on this matter so 1 will read from the 'Age' a statement by  Mr Lokoloko  the most distinguished Ministerial Member for Health, who said: 
Economic development must come first. We agree with the Australian Government's policy that the timing of independence is a matter for the people of the Territory to decide for themselves. The move for independence is being made by the Pangu Party, which has 10 members in the Assembly and claims to be a national party. Its voice does not come from the people. Its members who speak of independence have no experience of PapuaNew Guinea and have never ever worked with the people of Papua-New Guinea.  Mr Whitlam  has made a bitter attack on the wishes of the people of the Territory. He is trying to impose his own wishes on them. I am afraid his words may encourage more pressure from the Afro-Asian bloc at the United Nations to foe critical of what Australia is doing in Papua-New Guinea. 
This is just what happened. The Leader of the Opposition has helped to rubbish by misrepresentation and innuendo the image of Australia in the world. 
If the honourable member for Fremantle will listen and not disturb me I will give him the story about wages - a subject on which he has so much to say. Tonight the Leader of the Opposition invited the people of Australia to read the answers given to questions which he had placed on the notice-paper. I think he has placed about 102 questions on the noticepaper, all but 10 of which have been answered He did not make use of those questions. He was like the old gold prospector panning away looking for a trace of colour; tonight he did not get pay dirt with any of his questions. The only one to which he referred was an example of- his complete misrepresentation of the facts. He referred to the low cash wage in the Territory. By referring simply to the low cash wage he misrepresents the true position. It sounds like a big issue if you do not take all other factors into account. Certainly there is a cash wage. The officers of my Department went to a great deal of trouble to ascertain the wages paid in various under-developed countries. 
Tn Papua and New Guinea the minimum wage is 81c per day - cash 18c, rations 53c, and accommodation 10c. 
Let me continue. In the British Solomons it is 60c per day cash. This is not a minimum wage. This is the genera! wage. Accommodation is supplied but not included in the value I have quoted. 
The Opposition is trying to distract me. Honourable members opposite do not like this sort of thing. In Ghana the wage is 68c per day and it is an all cash wage. That is the lot; they get nothing else. You can have a wonderful life on 68c per day and nothing else. In Kenya the wage is 46c  peT  day cash plus the value of accommodation. In Tanzania it is 48c per day, and it is an all cash wage. These are not minimum wages; this is the general run of wages. In Ceylon it is 47c per day cash, plus the value of rations. Accommodation is supplied but it is not included in that value. In the Central African Regublic the daily rate is 30c cash plus accommodation. In Malawi it is 25c per day cash and a daily meal is supplied. But these cash wages in underdeveloped countries are misleading. Honourable members must understand the sort of products that these people produce. They are similar to what is produced in Papua and New Guinea - copra, cocoa and coffee. They are products produced by the countries with the lowest standard of living in the world. These are labour intensive industries. The prices for these products are subject to very considerable fluctuations. This is thi basis of prosperity in all these countries. Most reluctantly, we have to accept this. The Leader of the Opposition has not said how he would push up these wages and thereby put everyone out of business. 
The Leader of the Opposition would put everyone out of businessThere would be no alternative. 
I did not interrupt you. Kindly keep quiet. 
I can understand the concern of the Leader of the Opposition because he has misrepresented. He has been condemned. 
The Leader of the Opposition when be was in New Guinea said that the wages paid were the lowest in the world. I do not see how he can deny that statement. 
I showed the Leader of the Opposition the figures and I am going to stick to them. I will refer now to economic development. We have made great efforts to get the people of Papua and New Guinea into an economic situation and we have succeeded. Australia's efforts in this regard are magnificent. No other underdeveloped country has advanced to the same extent as Papua and New Guinea. When he was in the Territory the Leader of the Opposition commented that there was no economic development controlled by indigenes in, I think, 5 towns. Incidentally, he stayed at a motel at Rabaul which cost $120,000. Local indigenes have a large shareholding in it and there are 4 indigenes on the board of directors. I will detail some of the operations in Port Moresby. There is the Kila Kila Cooperative Society, the Elavala and Tonabada Co-operative Societies and a very considerable shoe repair shop. 
The Opposition does not like to hear these things. It says there is no economic development in the Territory. This shoe repair shop is a very large operation which has been financed by the Development Bank. Three New Guinea people took over this shop which had been operated by Europeans. They are building it up into a very excellent business. Members of the Opposition do not like to hear this. Then there is Allied Enterprises, a metal fabricators and furniture making business. There are SO small stores in villages within the urban area. Now I refer to Rabaul where there is the Palnamadaku Furniture Manufacturing Co., the Tolai cocoa project and the New Britain Co-operative Association Ltd. The Tolais hold 700 trading licences and there are more than 1,000 native owned vehicles in -the Gazelle, most of which are used for commercial purposes. 
In Lae there is the Co-operative Wholesale Society Ltd headquarters with a Territorywide organisation having branches at Moresby and Rabaul. In Mt Hagen there is a garage and guest house owned by the local government council. At Madang nothing is wholly owned but Namasu is 40% owned by the Mission and the remainder by indigenes. 
On the agricultural side in Papua and New Guinea 40% of the entire produce is produced 6y native people. Here again it is important not to accept the view of the Leader of the Opposition; otherwise some people might suspect my views. Rather I shall quote from the report presented to the United Nations Trustee Council. This is a completely independent body which is not altogether favourably disposed to Australia. An independent mission went to the Territory at the end of 1968 and prepared a report from which I will quote. Actually it is a precis of the views expressed by this mission. It states: 
The Trusteeship Council welcomes the 5-year Economic Development Plan which the Administering Authority announced in September 1968. The Council believes that this plan is a step which should accelerate the Administration's basic goal of increasing the economic self-reliance of the Territory and thus prepare the way for the meaningful exercise of self-determination. 
The Council is impressed by the $l,000m level of expenditure envisaged by the plan over the 5- year period and by the important dual emphasis on increased production and on increasing the role of the local population in all aspects of the Territory's activities. 
Not only would the Papuan and New Guinean interests be protected in all enterprises which might be instituted, but the Council also notes the major effort that would be devoted to education and training so as to provide the skills necessary for active participation. 
The Council notes that the indigenous involvement in the activities of the plan had been instituted from the start with its submission to, and approval by, the House of Assembly. 
The Council recognises that even under the plan, major changes will take time, but it requests the Administering Authority to report to the Council at its 37th Session regarding the progress made during the first year, particularly in the matter of indigenous participation. 
The Council notes with approval the Administering Authority's continuing effort to attract from outside sources the additional capital required for the Territory's development while at the same time continuing its policy of protecting indigenous interests and consulting them as appropriate. 
The Council is pleased that the Administration has pledged not only to consult the Administrator's Executive Council on investment matters, but has also promised to seek the approval of the House of Assembly for particular projects. 
It goes on in that vein and I feel that one can accept it as a quite independent view in favour of our operations there. In agriculture it says: 
The Council notes the efforts made by the Administering Authority to increase indigenous participation in the production of major agricultural products, particularly cash crops for export, and urges that this programme be expanded. The Council ako notes that in response to its earlier suggestion the Administering Authority is working actively in the field of agricultural research and is seeking new cash crops which might be successfully introduced in the Territory. 
The Council looks forward to further reports on the.'e questions especially indigenous participation in agriculture. 
This includes fisheries, forests, land tenure, industry and so on. lt covers aH the social advances. If the Council was concerned about the wage structure surely it would have mentioned this in the report. There is no mention of it in the report. The document goes on: 
The Council continues to endorse the recommendations of the 1968 Visiting Mission in this field as set forth by the Council in the report of the 35th Session. The Council notes the efforts to expand the labour inspectorial  staff  and hopes they will continue and that greater use will be made of indigenous staff. 
The Council welcomes &lt;he new ordinance to establish machinery for settling disputes and claims in the Public Service. The inclusion of Papuans and New Guineans on the Conciliation and Arbitration Tribunal, which will deal with these issues, is an important step. 
This was part of a Press statement and it is available to honourable members. Of course, no-one takes any notice of this because it spoils an argument against our efforts in Papua and New Guinea. 1 could go on with this point but I do not think I have to do so, because the Leader of the Opposition has condemned himself. He is condemned by the people of Australia for his visit to Papua and New Guinea. We do not have to do anything. It is all his own work. 
What concerns the people of Papua and New Guinea is this drastic change in Labor Party policy relating to New Guinea. At least the Leader of the Opposition is consistent. He went up there in 1964 and he said: 'Independence by 1970'. So he is consistent. Then he went on this visit. He was kind enough to acknowledge my assistance. I hoped he would go and see for himself; I hoped for better results. One would think the leader of a large political party would be careful in making his pronouncements, that he would observe and listen to what people had to tell him. that he would make a survey for himself. But what did he do? The very day he stepped on New Guinea territory he had a policy preconceived here in Australia and evidently supported by the Labor Party. The Labor Party supports this policy of self-government by 1972 and independence by 1976. This is the pronouncement. The indigenes do not have a say in the matter. The Labor Party would impose this on them whether they like it or not. 1 conclude with those remarks. 

 Mr WHITLAM (Werriwa- Leader of the Opposition) - J claim to have been misrepresented by the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Barnes). 
Can he cite any country in which plantation workers are paid less? 
He quoted several African and some Asian countries; be quoted only 1 Pacific country, namely the British Solomon Islands Protectorate. On that I need say no more than that his figures for the Solomon Islands do not tally with those given to me the previous day by the Minister for External Affairs. 
I stand by what I said. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Sinclair)  adjourned. 
The answer to part 2 (d) of the honourable member's question as published in Hansard 18th- 19th March (page 612) should read: 
(d) Ordinances returned wilh recommended amendments. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A licence was first issued to  Mr Bloxam  for the pistol on 9th June 1967. lt was renewed on 30th May 1968 and on 10th September 1969. 
Yes; on 9th April 1970. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) and (b) Under the Public Service (Papua and New Guinea) Ordinance the power to determine the salary classifications of and the rates of overseas allowance applicable to positions in the Public Service of Papua and New Guinea is vested in the Minister. In respect of the (Designations referred to this power has been delegated to the Public Service Board of Papua and New Guinea. The salaries, wages, rates of pay and other terms and conditions of employment of officers of the Public Service are open to arbitration under the Public Services Conciliation and Arbitration Ordinance 1969. 
The salaries and allowances applicable to adult female typists and telephonists and the overseas allowance payable to overseas officers in these positions a'nd the dates of effect are as follows: 
Papua and Nev? Guinea: Expatriates with Convictions  (Question No. 820) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. The Migration Ordinance 1963-1969 does not require that each expatriate convicted of a serious offence should be deported. 
The following is a summary of the offences for which convictions of expatriates have been recorded in hearings before the Supreme Court of the Territory since the Migration Ordinance came into effect on 1st May, 1964, and for which the offenders were not deported - 
The  answer  to the  honour able member's question is as follows: 
Provision is made for the conduct of corrective institutions in Papua and New Guinea in the Corrective Institutions Ordinance 1957-1969 and the Corrective Institutions Regulations 1959. Detainees are required to perform hard labour, or, in the case of detainees serving terms of imprisonment without hard labour, moderate work. Female detainees are employed so far as practicable on work within institutions such as sewing and washing. Corporal punishment is not permitted. No provision is made for solitary confinement m corrective institutions. Only one corrective institution, at Bomana near Port Moresby, has a maximum security area. A detainee may be placed in this area only by order of the Controller of Corrective Institutions. The maximum security area is used only for psychiatric cases, sexual offenders, escapers and recidivists. Regulation 137 of the Corrective Institutions Regulations 1959 provides that where a Corrective Institutions officer of the rank of Instructor, Assistant Superintendent or above considers that the conduct of a detainee is so violent as to render it advisable, any of the following means of restraint may be used: 
handcuffs; 
waistbelt of double leather sewn together and fastened by a lock around the waist with steel wristlets at equal distances at the sides in which to lock the wrists, the weight of the waistbelt not to exceed four pounds avoirdupois; or 
such other reasonable means as are. in the opinion of the officer, necessary or desirable. 
A'n order issued by the Controller on 27th April 1970 provided that notwithstanding this Regulation leg irons, leg grips or similar leg appliances shall not at any time or under any circumstances be placed1 on any detainee. Section 26 of the Corrective Institutions Ordinance provides that when a visiting Justice convicts a detainee of a Corrective Institutions offence he may sentence him to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 1 month in addition to the term which he is serving at the time of committing the offence. Under Section 27 of the Ordinance a Magistrate who convicts a detainee of a Corrective Institutions offence attended with circumstances of aggravation owing to its repetition or otherwise may sentence him to imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months in addition to the term which he is serving at the time of committing of the offence. 
The Visiting Justice for Kerevat Corrective Institutions was advised of the wearing of the leg irons by the detainee Klak on 25th March 1970. However, his report of 27 March 1970 did 'not reach the Administrator until 23rd April 1970 and the incident did not come to the attention of the Administrator until 21st April 1970 when he received a subsequent report dated 18th April from the Visiting Justice. 
Visiting Justices have been appointed to visit each Corrective Institution regularly. Under Section 14 of the Corrective Institutions Ordinance 1957-1963  a  visiting justice is required, among other things, to inquire into the conduct of officers and warders and the treatment and conduct of detainees, to inquire into any abuse or irregularity within the institution and to hear complaints made by detainees, and to make a Report of his visit to the Administrator. In addition, senior officers of the Corrective Institutions Branch make inspections of institutions from time to time. 
By order of the Superintendent of the Kerevat Corrective Institution, leg irons were placed upon the d'etainee Klak between 3rd December 1969 and 18th February 1970 and upon the detainee Tobebe between 5th March 1970 and 17th March 1970. They were removed each day for toilet and exercise. 
The Superintendent was acting in  a  situation where he had 2 very difficult remand prisoners and no maximum security facilities available. One of these prisoners had escaped several times while the other assaulted  a  warder and threatened to kill another. As the Superintendent's actions cannot be said to be contrary to a construction that could reasonably have been placed on the regulations and instructions as they existed at that time no disciplinary action is being taken against him. He is now o'n sick leave and has applied for a transfer from Kerevat. 
On 4th May 1970 the Administration made an offer of compensation on a 'without prejudice' basis to the two detainees through the Public Solicitor. 
Papua and New Guinea: Punishment of Prisoners  (Question No. 895)  Dr Klugman  asked the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
When were leg irons last used on (a) indigenes and (b) expatriates in gaols in the Territory of Papua and New Guinea. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
17th March 1970 (See answer to Question No. 873). 
Not known. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The amount of compensation cited in the answer to paragraph (2) of Question No. 296 is higher than the amount a New Guinean plantation worker who is permanently and totally incapacitated would have received but for his incapacitation. This results from the interpretation of the pay provisions of the Ordinance. The correctness of this interpretation is under further examination. 
1 want to move a routine amendment to clause 9 which reads: 
Section 28 of the Principal Act is amended - 
by omitting from sub-section (1.) the words Two hundred million dollars' and inserting in their stead the words 'Three hundred million, dollar^'; and 
by omitting from sub-section (1.) the words Forty million dollars' and inserting in their stead the words 'One hundred million dollars'. 
I move: 
Insert before paragraph (a) the following paragraph: (aa) by inserting in sub-section (1.), after the word "thirteen", the words "or section thirteen  AA";'. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with an amendment; report - by leave - adopted. 
The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
The basic salary of $1071-$1180 per annum was fixed by the Public Service Arbitrator in 1967 for qualified Papuan and New Guinean tradesmen in the Territory Public Service. That decision dealt with the salaries of local public servants generally. Copies are available in the Parliamentary Library. Overseas tradesmen receive the same basic salary plus an overseas allowance to bring their remunerationto a level comparable with that payable for corresponding kinds of work in Australia, plus a Territory allowance. The allowance of $360 per annum is an additional payment for married male overseas employees. A new claim in relation to the salaries of local public servants is currently the subject of proceedings under the Public Services Concilialion and Arbitration Ordinance 1969. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The salaries paid to local officers of the Territory Public Service as determined on the re-construction of the Service in 1964 were related to the conditions of Papua and New Guinea. 
In the course of hearings before the Public Service Arbitrator in 1965-66 some adjustments were made by the Administration. The Arbitrator's decision of May 1967 awarded further increases. 
Copies of that decision are available in the Parliamentary Library. 
Salaries now paid to local officers are in accordance with the Arbitrator's decision except that in some categories further upward adjustments have been made under the provisions of the Public Service Ordinance. 
The remuneration of overseas officers consists of the same rate of salary as for local officers plus an overseas allowance to bring their remuneration to a level comparable with that payable for corresponding kinds of work in Australia plus a Territory allowance. 
All salaries and allowances are open to arbitration under the Public Services Conciliation and Arbitration Ordinance 1969. 
and (4) No. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Land Board referred to has not yet been constituted pending the completion of surveys of the land to he allocated. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The organisations referred to in my answer to Question 818 are: 

 Mr Gavera Rea ; Central District Waterside Workers' Association. 

 Dr Reuben Taureka ; Public Service Association of Papua and New Guinea. 
In answer to the question of the Leader of the Opposition about the reported statement of  Dr Gunther  at the Waigani seminar, yes, I will be very happy to make a statement next week provided that I have the permission of the House to do so. I have a full recollection of the first time I met that first select committee. [ think it was in 1965, at a preliminary meeting at which  Dr Gunther  was present.  Mr Guise  was  chairman.  The first thing the  chairman  asked me was: What form of constitutional advancement or procedure would the Commonwealth accept? My answer was: 'It is not for the Commonwealth to say what form of constitutional development you require but for you to tell us what you want'. My recollection of the reaction of the committee was: 'Well, we would like you to give us some sort of guide lines as to what you feel would be a satisfactory operation'. I would refer the Leader of the Opposition to a statement made in this House on 21st April 1966 following the preliminary meeting and after I had made a submission to Cabinet on possible guide lines for the proceedings. That statement is probably available in the Library or wherever these statements are kept. It shows that Ministers of the Government met and discussed with the committee the various aspects of future constitutional change. Yes,  Mr Speaker,  I will be very happy to make a statement when I get the full facts of the case. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth' Actuary has made an investigation of the Papua and New Guinea Superannuation Fund in respect of the periods ending 30th June 1957, 30th June 1962 and 30th June 1967. 
The Commonwealth Actuary reported the results of these investigations to the Papua and New Guinea Superannuation Board on 29th September 1958, 18th March 1963 and 3rd November 1969, respectively. 
The Papua and New Guinea Superannuation Board is presently constituted of - 
a representative of the Department of External Territories -  Mr A.  W. Richardson, Assistant Secretary, Economic Affairs Division, Department of External Territories (appointed for 5 years from 13th March 1969). 
the Commonwealth Actuary -  Mr S.  W. Caffin. 
an elected contributors' representative -  Mr P.  J. Clay, Crown Solicitor, Department of Law, Papua and New Guinea Administration (appointed for 5 years from 2nd February 1968). 
These reports have not been tabled. 
For the information of honourable members I present a copy of a speech, made on Wednesday, 13th May, by  Dr J.  D. Gunther to the Fourth Waigani Seminar on the Politics of Melanesia, entitled 'Background to the House of Assembly'. I ask for leave to make a statement on this subject. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER  (Mr  Lucock)Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
On 15th May I undertook to make a statement concerning some allegations made in an address at the 
Waigani Seminar by the Vice-Chancellor of the University of Papua and New Guinea that there had been interference with the proceedings and deliberations of the House of Assembly select committees on constitutional development. On the day that  Dr Gunther's  remarks were published in the Australian newspapers a Press conference was held in Canberra for the Papuan and New Guinean advisers about to depart for the Trusteeship Council and for  Mr L.  W. Johnson, the AdministratorDesignate who will be the special representative at the Council. It is unfortunate that the newspapers which gave wide coverage to  Dr Gunther's  criticisms did not report  Mr Johnson's  comments. These were in form of the answers to questions: 
Do you have any comment to make on the remarks of  Dr Gunther  as reported in today's Australian'? 
Well, I haven't seen  Dr Gunther's  remarks and 1 would like to read what he has said. The Constitutional Committee, the current Constitutional Committee, consists of 14 members, of whom 2 were official members. I was one of them. This is a more or less standard practice in the formation of Standing and Select Committees in the House of Assembly - that there is proportionate representation on these committees. There are tcn official members in a House of 94. All standing committees of the House reflect the composition. So if you have a Standing Committee of ten or so you can expect one or two official members on it. The role of officials is really advising It is not the job of officials to initiate or direct discuss-on in any particular direction. I think it would be inappropriate for an official member to take a personal initiative. 
Without having seen  Dr Gunther's  statement can you see any justification for his claim about the present committee? 
Well  Dr Gunther  was an official of the 1964 Committee and perhaps he is referring to that. I was a member of the current Constitutional Committee and in fact I was  Deputy Chairman.  This was at the specific request of the members. 1 was reluctantly  deputy chairman  because 1 thought it was inappropriate that this position should be held by an official member. 1 regarded it as nol my province to take the initiative or to put up idea.s lt is obvious that the Government does have a viewpoint and the role of official member is to make sure it is known. It is inappropriate to direct discussion in any direction. I was never asked to do so, nor did I. 

 Mr Johnson's views accord with the Government's position. Both the previous Select Committee and the present Committee sought the Government's views on constitutional development in the Territory and on proposed developments in the Territory which might have a bearing on Australia itself. On 26th November 1965 the  previous Select Committee, chaired by  Mr Guise,  presented its first interim report to the House of Assembly.  Dr Gunther  had resigned  from that Committee on 24th November - only 2 days earlier. The report said, inter alia: 
The Committee is at present considering how these various alternatives can be put to the people in such a way that the people can understand the different possibilities and make a wise choice. 
The Committee is also concerned that the policy of the Australian Government with regard to constitutional development in the Territory should be clear before the people of the two Territories are asked to choose their future. Many of the choices affect the future of Australia as well as the future of Papua and New Guinea. 
Thus the Committee feels that it would be unwise to present possible alternatives to the people without first establishing just what future associations with Australia would be acceptable to the Australian Government. It is obvious that in all constitutional development of this Territory the Australian Government would have the closest interest. 
The Committee considers that it should have exploratory discussions with representatives of the Australian Government particularly on the matter of the range of special relationships between Papua and New Guinea and Australia that would be acceptable lo Australia. 
I first met the Select Committee on 17th January 1966. At this meeting the  Chairman  indicated a number of matters on which the Select Committee would seek the Government's views. I replied that many of the matters ra sed would need Cabinet consideration and suggested a later meeting with Ministers in Canberra. 
In a statement in the House of Representatives on 3 1st March 1966 1 informed the House of the wish of the Select Committee for exploratory discussions. I said that the Committee wished to discuss particularly the range of special relationships in the future between Papua and New Guinea and Australia which might be considered by the Government of the day.. I also said: 
Any proposals for changes in the composition of the House of Assembly would need to come before the Commonwealth Government this year for consideration so that if legislation to amend the Papua and New Guinea Act were decided upon it could be brought before the Parliament in due time and so that any legislation relating to proposals for adjustment of the Territory electoral boundaries may be considered by the House of Assembly in time to enable all actions necessary for holding of the elections to be taken. 
On 21st April 1966 I made a detailed statement in the House on the discussion which had taken place earlier that month between Ministers and the Select Committee. 
Any suggestion that this discussion with Ministers or that advice given by official members on the Committee had influenced elected members improperly was met by a speech by the  Chairman  of the Committee,  Mr John  Guise, in the House of Assembly on 9th June 1967 when he said: 
Last night a news item from 9PA spoke briefly about the select committee and in a part of it said that the select committee was forced to restrain its recommendations for fear of offending the Commonwealth Government by asking for too much. It is good that criticism of this nature is broadcast by the Australian Broadcasting Commission. It is a very healthy sign and, as a member and Chairman of this Committee, I accept and welcome this criticism. However, the news item gave me the impression that the report of the select committee committee does not go far enough and that its recommendations are too conservative and would no doubt, be pleasing to the Department of Territories and to the Commonwealth Government. 

 Mr Speaker, it has been a basic policy of the Committee that it would seek the views of the people on the matters it was examining and be guided by those views. In the second interim report it followed the wishes of the majority of the people by providing for increased representation in the House of Assembly of 1968. The committee visited all district headquarters for the purpose of finding out what steps the people wanted taken in the constitutional development of our country. 
It heard the views of our people and was able to obtain an indication of the amount of change desired. The Committee felt obliged to give effect to the views of the people and its recommendations were made in accordance with those views. The majority of the people desired to step forward. They wanted the members of the House of Assembly in 1968 to take a greater part in the future government of our country. They did not request radical changes. I am speaking of the majority view of the people. Members will, of course, be aware of the thoughts and opinions of their people and constituents in this matter and will be guided by this.  Mr Speaker,  the committee does not know the views of the Department of Territories at least I do not. The Committee has been concerned with the views of the people and all the local government councils of this Territory, and not those of any department whether it be the Department of Territories or the Commonwealth Government or the United Nations or any other outside body. 
In his address  Dr Gunther  says that he has reason to believe there is interference with the present Select Committee chaired by  Mr Arek.  This statement is at odds with the second interim report of this Select 
Committee on Constitutional Development which was tabled by  Mr Arek  in the House of Assembly on 12th March. It states: 
At its meeting on 16th December 1969, your Committees decided on a list of persons that it would wish to interview during its visit to Australia. The list included the Prime Minister, the Minister for External Territories, other Ministers, the Leader of the Opposition and certain officials and other persons. Arrangements were made by the Department of External Territories for discussions in accordance with the wishes of your Committee. Your Committee visited Australia and held official talks between Monday, 2nd February and Saturday. 7th February 1970. While in Canberra your Committee took the opportunity to discuss constitutional development with Professors Davidson and Sawer of the Institute ot Advanced Studies, Australian National University. The members also had talks with the High Commissioners representing Ghana and Ceylon In Australia. Your Committee also accepted an invitation to meet representatives of the Council on New Guinea Affairs for a general discussion about constitutional development. 
Your committee found this visit very informative and fruitful. Members also were able to clarify a number of points with the persons with whom they had discussions. The members were met on all sides by goodwill. 
The House will be aware that, following on the talks which your Committee sought with representatives of the Commonwealth Government in February last, there have been announcements in the Governor-General's Speech, on 3rd March, and by the Minister for External Territories in the House of Representatives, on 4tb March X970, of steps that the Commonwealth Government intends to take immediately to give increased powers to ministerial members. The relevant part the Governor-General's Speech and the Statement of the Minister are set out in the appendices to this report. 
The Constitutional changes now proposed are the direct result of your Committee's Canberra talks and reflect the importance that the Commonwealth Government places on the work of your Committee. The Committee is now reviewing the constitutional position that has been reached and will probably propose further talks with the Commonwealth Government later in 1970. 
So that members may follow the thinking of the people of Papua and New Guinea as expressed to the Select Committee, I am circulating reports of proceedings before the Committee. These reports are also being circulated to the Press. 
It is a matter for comment that the criticism contained in the statement which 1 have tabled should come from a  person  who was an official member of the Committee. The difficult position in which a public servant finds himself when acting as an official member of the House of Assembly and its committees has been referred to on a number of occasions in this House.  Dr Gunther  is reported to have said that as official members were appointed to the Committee by the legislature they were free to enter into general discussion without being restricted to any narrow official point of view. The Government does not see it as appropriate to equate the role of a member who holds office by virtue of election with that of a public servant who is a member of the House of Assembly by appointment by the Governor-General on the nomination of the Administrator. The Government regards  Mr Johnson's  explanation of the role of an official member of the House of Assembly serving as a member of the Select Committee on Constitutional Development as being entirely appropriate.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I present the following paper: 
Papua and New Guinea - Allegations at the Waigani i Seminar - Ministerial Statement, 2 1st May 1970. 
Motion (by  Mr Snedden)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Nine. 
(a) Seven. 
It is not possible to estimate future applications. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Recruitment of the crew of the M.V. 491-, was arranged by New Guinea Goldfields Ltd. 
The $22.50 referred to by the honourable member is a fortnightly rate and not a monthly rate. As stated in my answer to question 889, actual wages paid to Papuan and New Guinean seamen range from (12 a fortnight to $22.50 a fortnight plus meals, accommodation and issues. 
The agents were acquainted with the rates of pay offered to the crew of the M.V. 'Slott' and understood that food, accommodation, and other issues were also to be provided. Living conditions were considered satisfactory by labour and marine officials before the articles of employment were signed. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The Administration is empowered under the Native Employment Ordinance to prescribe the maximum fees to be charged or paid in respect of the services of a Native Employment Agent. No fees have been prescribed since the introduction of the Ordinance. 
This question concerns a matter of very great importance and I believe it would be more fitting should I seek leave to make a statement on some future occasion. I would be very happy to do this. In the meantime let me say in relation to this subject that these charges mentioned by the honourable member appeared in a 3-column article on the front page of the 'Australian' on Saturday. I issued a written Press statement relating to these charges and I thought that at least this could be reported in that paper in view of its seriousness. I might add that only 1 newspaper I saw took up these charges. Much to my surprise on Monday morning, there was a contribution by the same columnist on page 2. It made no mention of one word of my Press statement but he gave an interpretation of it. This indicates a sort of Press censorship. This columnist was not prepared to make my Press statement available to the readers of this paper but he served, to interpret this statement. We have seen quite a lot of this sort of thing in the Press lately - a sort of Press censorship. I made a remark on one previous occasion in this House to the effect that the great privilege of freedom of the Press is treated by the Press very lightly and I made the point that in authoritarian countries the difficulty is to suppress the truth but in our democratic countries the difficulty is to have the truth reported. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
John Fofoe Memugu.  (2) (a) Yes- $10 for legal aid and costs. 
Yes - S2 hospital fees. 
No. 
Small wound on left calf caused by power driven nail which was subsequently removed under general anaesthetic, and required four days' hospitalisation. -  Mr Memagu  has suffered no permanent disability. 
Papua and New Guinea: Newspaper Reports  (Question No. 10K4) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The Government has no proposals for and legislation to restrict freedom of speech (3) in Papua and New Guinea. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) A mission from the Papua and New Guinea House of Assembly comprising the late  Mr F.  C. Henderson, Assistant Administrator (Economic Affairs), Leader  Mr John  Guise, Member of the Administrator's Council,  Mr Tei  Abal, Under Secretary for the Department of Labour and  Mr Sinake  Giregire, Under Secretary for the Department of Agriculture, Stock and Fisheries, visited Malaysia from 18th July to 4th August, 1967, to study land resettlement schemes. 

 Mr J. P. M. Clifford,  Deputy Chairman  of the Malaysian Federal Land Development Authority, visited Papua and New Guinea from 12th to 23rd May, 1969, to study land resettlement schemes. 
The House of Assembly Mission submitted a report dated 6th September, 1967.  Mr John  Guise a member of the mission submitted a minority report dated 18th October, 1967. Both reports were tabled in the House of Assembly.  The report by  Mr Clifford  has not yet been received. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The family needs allowance payable to a married local public servant in Papua and New Guinea is such amount as may be necessary to rise his basic salary to the prescribed minimum pay applicableto thelocalityof which he is stationed. There are over 450 different localities at which local public servants are stationed and 7 different scales of 'prescribed minimum pay'. The scale of prescribed minimum pay' applicable to a particular locality is based on the costs of the regimen referred to in answer to Question 817 (Hansard, 5th May 1970 p. 1666). The following table sets out the scales of 'prescribed minimum pay' from which family needs allowance is calculated in respect of family units of (a) man and wife, (b) man and wife and one child, (c) man and wife and two children and (d) man and wife and three children. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) In individual cases, and where appropriate, the difference is explained to the worker concerned and he is also informed that advice about his common law rights to damages is available from the Public Solicitor. In addition, where a common law right appears to be involved, the Territory Department of Labour refers the case to the Public Solicitor, who advises whether a common law action or a claim for worker's compensation or both should be brought. The Administration has plans for a booklet for the information of New Guineans on aspects of the law, including the difference between the right to damages because of breach by an employee and the right to worker's compensation. 
 The answerto the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes, problems have arisen in the Administrative College. I would agree with the Leader of the Opposition that this is a most important institution. We want to preserve it in that sphere in which it plays a part in training the future public service administrators of Papua and New Guinea. Yes, there have been troubles there caused, I gather, by a number of factors. But, nevertheless, we are determined to get to the root of these troubles so that this College may continue as a most valuable institution. At present, I have nothing to add to those remarks. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (3) The names and positions of appellants and their respective grounds of appeal against a provisional promotion are notified by the Public Service Board to the officer who was provisionally promoted and to the various appellants. It is not practice for the Board to give any other publicity to the names and positions of appellants. 
Reports of the Promotions Appeal Committee to the Public Service Board are 'not public documents nor is information made public about the Board's action or the reasons for the Board's actions in connection with any particular report 
The particulars sought in the question are not known to me or the Department of External Territories. I do not seek such information or intervene in any way in the Board's discharge of its statutory responsibilities relating to provisional promotions or the settlement of appeals against provisional promotions. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Widows and dependants of European workers make claims and take action for compensation through their legal representatives. The Department of Labour in the Territory would not necessarily know of such cases. Its records show no cases of refusal. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Under the Workers' Compensation Ordinance 1958-1969, in default of agreement between the parties, the question of whether or not a widow is dependent upon the earnings of a deceased worker is determined by arbitration by a District Court. 
The Ordinance does noi define the criteria to be used in assessing dependency upon the earnings of a deceased worker. Whether or not a widowwas dependent upon the earnings of a deceased worker before bis death is a question of fact to be determined according to the circumstances of each case. 
The answer to the honourable member's question as . published in Hansard included male as well as female indigenous telephonists. The answer should have read: 
female indigenous staff 
97 typists plus 10 stenographers 
17 telephonists 
female expatriate staff 
323 typists plus 84 stenographers 
49 telephonists. 
There are also 168 female indigenes at present training as typists in the Training Technical Division. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Drafting of the regulations under the Ordinance has not yet been completed. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Police reinforcements were flown into Kieta as a result of disorder at and adjacent to the Panguna canteen on Friday evening, 24th April 1970. 
(a) Permit issuing offices both in Australia and overseas are provided with the names of persons previously deported an dare requested to refer to the Administration any further applications received from such people. 
The permit application form is being amended to provide for a statement to be made of any convictions, the penalty for which is a sentence of imprisonment for twelve months or more. 
The penalty for making a false statement in connection with entry is a fine of four hundred dollars or imprisonment for six months. 
Contracting companies normally require references from previous employers and certificates of competency where applicable. 
Conference on Cambodia  (Question No. 961) 
The answer to the honourable member's question as given in Hansard of 14th April, 1970, page 1113 included male as well as female indigenous married telephonists. The answer should have read: 
Married female indigenous staff 
13 typists plus 1 stenographer 
3 telephonists 
Married female expatriate staff 
218 typists plus 36 stenographers 
26 telephonists. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Female indigenous staff 
6 typists 
3 telephonists 
Female expatriate staff 
115 typists plus 22 stenographers 
9 telephonists 
by leave - On 2nd June I. undertook to make a statement about the activities .of a group known as the Warmaram group which is trying to bring about reconciliation among the Tolai community in the Gazelle Peninsula. On .1 1 thi May the Warmaram group itself stated its objectives. The statement reads: 
Following a meeting held in Lae in the  Morobe  District last week, a group of Tolais decided . to form a group called Warmaram. Warmaram is a Tolai word which literally means 'to mediate'. 
Warmaram is made up of the  Chairman,  Sam Piniau;  Vice-President, Robin  Kumaina;  Secretary, Paulias Matane; Assistant Secretary, John Vue; and a committee of six -  Dr  Himson Mulas,  Dr Alan  Tarutia.  Stanley  Vuai,  Rev. I.  Puipui  and Father  Paivu. 
The Warmaram term of reference is firstly that the Tolai people for a long time have been divided. 'We want to find a way in which we can unite'. 
And, secondly, the Warmaram and the Tolai shall try to solve misunderstandings amongst themselves by discussion and answering questions on general and specific problems. 
The Warmaram is not a Government move. It is a move made by the group themselves who arc deeply concerned about and for the welfare of the Tolai people as a whole. 
The group is interested in attending discussions and meetings organised by interested groups in the Gazelle Peninsula. The group realises that this would be a difficult task it is embarking on and urges everyone to co-operate. Because of the difficulties involved in the work the Warmaram requested assistance from the Government in money and kind. Some of the members of Warmaram are public servants. The various Government Departments have agreed to allow these men to participate in this mission. These members are not representatives of the Government - they are just a group amongst the whole Tolai people. 
The group consists of prominent Tolais and includes two doctors, two clergymen, a bank officer and public servants, lt has been made clear that the Government looks to a solution of the problems in the Gazelle by negotiation among the people themselves, a further test for local opinion to be held by genuinely democratic procedures at an appropriate time, lt was with this background that the group sought some Administration assistance in achieving their objectives. They sought the release of public servants from their normal duties. They pointed out that public servants with no other source of income would still have to provide for their families. If the project was to take 3 months or so. they would therefore need their pay over this period. They sought the co-operation of the Administration in publicising the group's aims through Radio Rabaul. 
These, requests were put to the Administrator in April. The Administrator undertook to consult the Territory Public Service Board about the availability of the Public Service members of the group, but stressed that responsibility for planning the initiative and carrying it out must be a matter for the group and not for the Administration. The Public 'Service Board approved the detachment of the officers of the Public Service concerned to special duties. These duties were to find facts and offer mediation and as might seem appropriate to make recommendations. These are functions that are frequently carried out by public servants in Papua and New Guinea and are part of the regular duties of many public servants there. Two weeks ago, for instance, public servants and police officers in Port Moresby were called on to negotiate and mediate between hostile groups from the Highlands and the Central District after 3 people had been killed. The Warmaram proposals were discussed with me, and 1 endorsed the concept that Tolais, including some public servants, should try to bring together the divided Tolai people. I considered that judgments on the proper functions of public servants in Papua and New Guinea should be made in the light of Territory conditions and Territory practice. 
The 6 public servants in the group will continue to receive their normal pay whilst working in the Gazelle with the group. The Administration is reimbursing the Reserve Bank for the salary of one of the Bank's officers who is a member of the group. The Administration also met the cost of travel and accommodation for all members of the group in connection with its initial meeting at Lae and the fares for their subsequent journey to Rabaul. Accommodation at Rabaul was not provided, even for the Public Service members of the group, because it was part of the group's plan that its members should work in their home areas. However, the Administration has undertaken to pay the expenses of all of the members of the group at the rate of $1 per day. In addition limited transport and office services and a modest entertainment provision have been made available to the group. Time has been made available on Radio' Rabaul to the extent of one interview in which all 'members of the War.maram group participated. The purpose of this interview was to make it clear that the Warmaram group was not established to destroy the Mataungan Association, the multi-racial council or any other organisation but te find a way by which all Tolai people could unite and live together in harmony. 
It had been claimed in some quarters that the group was conducting 'a secret Government-oriented political operation*. This was wrong. The group is not secret. Its public statement on 11th May demonstrates that. It is not* Government-oriented. The group was formed entirely on the initiative of the Tolais who composed it and, as they have said themselves, its only concern is the unity and welfare of the Tolai people. Again, the group is not conducting a political operation. Its purpose is one of fact finding and reconciliation. In this connection the Opposition has raised certain points, apparently based on a report in the Press of some words said to form part of a letter written solely for confidential circulation within the Administration, a purported copy of which was published in a newsletter in Port Moresby. I propose neither to affirm nor to deny the existence of any such letter or of any such reference. Nevertheless if we are prepared to look at facts rather than news sheet allegations the facts of what the Warmaram group has been doing show that it has been concerned not with political activity directed agains' individuals or against particular groups but with fact finding, exploration, mediation and conciliation. 
The objective of the Administrator is to promote action especially by Tolais themselves directed towards the re-establishment of harmony in the Gazelle Peninsula, and that is the concept I have approved. The facts since the group's establishment show that neither the Administration nor the Warmaram group has sought to engage in political attack on any individual or group. The situation in the Gazelle Peninsula which the Warmaram group is trying to resolve is unlike any situation which has ever been encountered in Australia. It has been debated in the House of Assembly al length and 20 elected members spoke. This was the motion that they adopted: 
That the House take note of the Paper and appreciates the action of the Administration in giving what support lies within its power to a group who have offered to attempt to find the solution to the problems of the Tolai people, particularly since that group has proposed to use mediation as its method and expresses its recognition of and appreciation to  Mr Robin  Kumaina and his colleagues who have shown a high sense of duty as citizens in coming forward and offering their services to mediate a solution to this grave division of their peoples, whose solution is or great importance to this country*. 
The Government welcomes the examination of this whole matter by the House of Assembly with its knowledge of local conditions. The House of Assembly has reached its own conclusions on the merits of the matter. The Government accepts this resolution as the judgment of the House of Assembly on the matters to which it refers and as the conclusions of the Territory's own legislature on this issue. I present the following paper: 
Papua and New Guinea - the Warmaram Group - Ministerial Statement, 9th June 1970. 
Motion (by  Mr Bury)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
Separate fees are not charged for indigenes and expatriates. 
Hospital accommodation is available only in public and intermediate wards. The fees which apply are as follows: 
Public wards 
ln-patient hospitalisation and attention $2 per admission irrespective of length of stay. 
Out-patient attention 20 cents a visit. 
Public ward charges are made in all major regional and district hospitals. No charges are madeat  rural  hospitals. 
Intermediate wards 
In-patient hospitalisation and attention where family income is less than $4,000 a year  -  $3.60 a day including professional attendance, drugs and dressings, and services such as X-ray. 
Where family income is $4,000 a year or more hospitalisation rate is $8.40 a day. This rate includes drugs and dressings and nursing attention but does not include other scheduled medical services such as X-ray and surgical attention. 
A surcharge of 50% applies where a person is entitled to a benefit under the National Health Act of the Commonwealth. However, as an interim measure, the maximum amount charged for hospitalisation has been fixed at $10.40 a day. These changes will shortly be incorporated in regulations under the Public Hospitals (Charges) Ordinance. 
Out-patient consultation $1.50 a visit. 
A number of Australian hospital/medical benefit funds operate in Papua and New Guinea. Some employers including the Administration act as agents in the collection and recording of contributions. Refunds are made by cheque from Australia. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Visiting Justice was told on 25th March 1970 that leg irons had been placed on Tobebe as well as on Klak. 
Due to an oversight by the Visiting Justice, he did not post bis report dated 27th March 1970 until after 18th April 1970. 
Yes, on 15th April 1970. 
None. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
 The answers to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Secondary school boarding fees for each pupil at a high school are fixed according to the sub-district from which the pupil comes. The rates of secondary school boarding fees payable in respect of pupils from each sub-district of the Territory are set out in the following table. The fees apply to pupils boarding at Administration High Schools and have also been applied by mission high schools. The maximum fee for each district within the overall ceiling of $30 was set by the Ministerial Member for Education acting on the advice of the local District Education Committee. The rates payable in each area within a district were set in turn by the District Education Committee subject to the Ministerial Member's approval. As shown in the table, the rates therefore vary within sub-districts. Provision is made for the fee for individual students to be reduced or waived by the District Education Committee in cases of hardship. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(1) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (b) (i) The patrol officer  Mr ScottBloxam  was 23 years of age. He had served in the Public Service of Papua and New Guinea for 4 years, including 2 years as an Assistant Patrol Officer at 3 locations, and2 years as a Patrol Officer at 3 locations,. 
The patrol officer  Mr Lapthorne  was 26 years of age. He had served in the Public Service of Papua and New Guinea for 5 years, including about 2 years as an Assistant Patrol Officer at 4 locations and the remainder as a Patrol Officer. 

 Mr Walters was 43 years of age. He had served in Papua and New Guinea for 194 years, including 16 years as a District Administration Officer, and 3 years as a full time Resident Magistrate. Prior to his appointment as a Resident Magistrate,  Mr Walters  had been a Magistrate for Hi years, including nearly 6 years in District Courts. 

 Mr B. K. Smith was 39 years of age. He had served inPapua and New Guinea for 1 1 years, including 10 years as anofficer of the Corrective Institutions Branch. He was first appointed officer in charge of the Kerevat Corrective Institution early in 1962, but later in that year was promoted Superintendent Grade 2 at Bomana Corrective Institution, a position he held until appointed to his present position as Superintendent Grade 3 at Kerevat Corrective Institution in October 1967. 
Sub-Inspector Fitzgibbon is 25 years of age. He had served as a Sub-Inspector in Papua and New Guinea for 3 years. Prior to his Papua and New Guinea appointment he had served as a police cadet and constable with the Queensland Police Force for about 6 years. 
Sub-Inspector Davis is 30 years of age. He had served as a Sub-Inspector in Papua and New Guinea for nearly 4 years at 4 locations. Prior to his Papua and New Guinea appointment he had served as a police cadet and constable with the New South Wales Police Force for about 9 years. 
Sub-Inspector Trebilcock is 36 years of age. He had served as a Sub-Inspector inPapua and New Guinea for 4 years at 4 locations. Prior to his Papua and New Guinea appointment he had served as a police cadet and constable with the Victorian Police Force for about 9 years. 
Sub-Inspector Dodd is about 35 years of age. He had served as a Sub-Inspector in Papua and New Guinea for 9 months at 3 locations. Prior to his Papua and New Guinea appointment he had served as a constable with the Victorian Police Force for 13 years. 

 Mr Harry West, the District Commissioner East New Britain District, was 47 years of age. He has served in Papua and New Guinea for 24 years.  His  experience includes service as a Patrol Officer for 8 years, Assistant District Officer for 4 years, District Inspector for 3 years,  Deputy 
District Commissioner for 3 years and since 1965 as a District Commissioner. For a period of 6 months from June 1958  Mr West  served as the Administrator's liaison officer with the Dutch Administration in Hollandia. In May and June 1967 he was special representative for New Guinea on the Australian Delegation to the United Nations Trusteeship Council. 

 Mr Errol John Emanuel who acted as District Commissioner East New Britain for part of this time was 51 years of age and has served in Papua and New Guinea for 24 years.  His  experience includes 8 years as a patrol officer, 8 years as an Assistant District Officer, 1 year as a District Officer, 6 years as an Acting District Commissioner. On a number of occasions since 1963  Mr Emanuel  has served as an acting District Commissioner at Rabaul, Samarai and Mendi. Since January 1970 he has been  Deputy  District Commissioner on special duty in Rabaul. 
The answer to the honourable members question is as folows: 
During the disturbances in September 1969, a patrol boat was sent to Rabaul, and in December, two patrol boats were in port at Rabaul having arrived on a scheduled visit as part of their fisheries surveillance patrol in the area. 
These movements were made under the authority of the Government. 
No. 
As no civil aircraft were available for transportation of the numbers required, a Hercules aircraft was used to transport additional police from Port Moresby to Rabaul. No Army units were deployed to Rabaul to supplement the police but in December a small number of Army signals personnel was sent to Rabaul to strengthen communication facilities with Port Moresby.' 
International Labour Organisation Convention: Restrictions on Female Employment  (Question No. 663) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 1 (a) &amp; (b) The Department of External Territories has reviewed these Conventions in respect of the Territory of Papua and New Guinea and considers that the relevant Law and Practice conform with the provisions of Convention No. 83. As to Convention No. 86, Article 3 provides for conditions different from Territory law and practice. 
No. 
(a) The position with regard to Convention No. 50 remains as stated on 26th August, 1969 in reply to question No. 1427. (b) Convention No. 64 has been reviewed in respect of the Territory of Papua and New Guinea. The relevant law and practice are considered to be in accordance with the provisions of the Convention, (c) &amp; (d) Conventions No. 82 and 111 are still being examined. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There were 3 cases where death occurred at the deceased worker's place of employment during working hours. Of these 1 was a case of drowning during an unauthorised break by the employee from his work, and in 2 cases the deaths were due to illnesses contracted prior to commencement of employment. In none of the cases was it established that the death of the worker was caused by accident arising out of or in the course of the employment or caused by disease due to the nature of the employment. 
Commonwealth Superannuation FundReview (Question No. 992) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
This information can be obtained from the Secretary of the Company at its registered office, 67 York Street, Sydney, N.S.W. 2000. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As stated in the answer to Question 1014 no fees have been prescribed since the introduction of the Native Employment Ordinance. The prescription of a maximum fee is optional. 
Repatriation General Hospitals: Costs per Occupied Bed (Question No. 1231) 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
The Internationa) Labour Organization Convention concerning conditions of employment of plantation workers (No. 110) stales about the periodical payment of wages: 
Wages shall be paid regularly. Except where other appropriate arrangements exist which ensure the payment of wages at regular intervals, the intervals for the payment of wages shall be prescribed by national laws or regulations or fixed by collective agreement or arbitration award. 
The relevant International Labour Organization Recommendation which is 'meant to provide guidance in the development of policy, legislation and practice', states: 
The maximum intervals for the payment of wages should ensure that wages are paid - 
not less often than twice a month al intervals not exceeding 16 days in the case of workers whose wages are calculated by the hour, day or week; and 
not less often than once a month in the case of employed persons whose remuneration is fixed on a monthly or annual basis. 
The payment of wages to workers governed by the Native Employment Ordinance would come under (b) above since their rates are fixed on an annual basis. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Leave conditions for expatriate and indigene alike may be agreed or negotiated in employment contracts or industrial awards. Conditions of leave for expatriate workers are one of the inducements offered by employers in private industry to attract skilled or experienced manpower and are not prescribed by award or legislation. A board of inquiry is currently inquiring into the minimum conditions of employment which are prescribed for agreement workers under the Native Employment Ordinance. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Some European workers employed in Pupua and New Guinea are granted leave fares between the Territory and Australia when they proceed on leave after a specified period of service. 
Arrangements for leave fares are one of the inducements offered to attract skilled or experienced manpower to the Territory and are not prescribed by award or legislation. It is known however that leave fares are reimbursed on an annual basis in some cases, on a biennial basis in others. Such arrangements are not comparable with those for indigenous agreement workers, for whom minimum conditions are set down by legislation. Their terms of contract are generally for 2 years and their fares between their villages and places of employment are paid on engagement and repatriation. The terms and conditions of rural agreement workers are at present being inquired into by a board of inquiry. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In one case the widow of a New Guinea worker elected to accept an offer of a sum less than the amount prescribed for payment to a widow fully dependent on an employee who died from injury by accident arising out of or in the course of his employment. 
(a) One; (b) None. 
(a) and (b). The widow who received part compensation elected to accept the settlement without taking the case to court. There was no other case requiring settlement or determination by a court. 
I am not aware of any directive given by  Mr Curtis  to  Mr Lalor,  but I do have a letter which was written to him. That is probably the same thing, and I am very happy to make a copy available to the Leader of the Opposition. The answer to the other part of the question is no, there has been no progress yet in introducing an ordinance to provide legal aid in the Territory. But as my colleague, the Attorney-General, pointed out the duties of the Public Solicitor are set out in a duty statement which, I think, covers a great area of necessity, I suppose mainly in the area which examines the asset situation of the average litigant. This appears to suffice for the present. Undoubtedly, if we feel later that some other examination is necessary it will certainly be carried out. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There is no single interdepartmental Committee established u consider the administration and development of Papua and New Guinea. Interdepartmental consultation takes place on a subject basis in some cases through formal interdepartmental committees and in some cases informally. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes, one. The editor of the Communist publication Tribune  Mr Alec  Robertson was refused a permit on 23rd July 1970 following his application on 22nd July ' for. a permit to leave for Rabaul on 24th July. 

 Mr Robertson is a member of the National Committee of the Communist Party of Australia. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The number of companies registered in Norfolk Island at 30th June, 1970, was 1,285. This figure includes 94 foreign companies. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
6. 
311. 
It should be noted that no Justice of the Peace in the Territory of Papua and New Guinea exercises the jurisdiction of any of the courts of the Territory by virtue of that office. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Nine structures were removed from Japlik in July, 1970. 
The structures had been erected during the period May/June 1970. 
The structures were occupied on a casual basis only. Seven persons were involved. 
It was not necessary to find accommodation for any families. Those who erected the structures had permanent residences in their home villages. 
No. 
International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights  (Question No. 1508) 
The  answerto  the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There are 79 legal practitioners residing in the Territory of Papua and New Guinea. 
Of these, 34 do not hold Administration positions, retainers or appointments. 
23 have their principal offices in Port Moresby, 4 in Lae, 6 in Rabaul and 1 in Madang. 
20 indigenous students are sponsored by the Administration for law studies in the Territory and 3 in Australia. No expatriate law students are sponsored by the Administration. 
 Mr Chairman,  unfortunately, I have  5  minutes only in which to answer the various questions which have been raised during the discussion of the estimates of the Department of External Territories. Obviously I cannot answer all questions raised. I am grateful to honourable members on this side of the House who, I believe, have covered the situation very well. Unfortunately, a lot of misrepresentation about Papua and New Guinea occurs. I regret that the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  has given one side of the picture only, just as his Leader- that, is, the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  - did. The honourable member seems to follow in the steps of his Leader and I suppose this is the proper performance from a follower. 
In the few minutes left to me, I wish to comment on the remarks of the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  who has moved an amendment of protest at the Public Order Bill which is concerned with law and order. That Bill was introduced into and passed by the House of Assembly in the Territory. I state at the outset that the people of Papua and New Guinea are very conscious of the meaning of law and order and what law and order has meant to their existence in the Territory. It was only a few years ago - this still happens in some areas - when  ten  iiic massacres occurred. Tribal group fought tribal group, one clan against another. Out of the blue, whole villages were massacred. This was the practice all over the Territory just a few years ago. That such events occur infrequently now demonstrates the most magnificent effort of the Australian patrol officers who have gone out among these primitive savage people. Generally speaking, there is probably one Australian patrol officer, a group of carriers and a few native policemen to a party. 
These people have brought over 2 million in the whole of the Territory under a reasonable control of law and order. There is nothing to equal this achievement in the world. Practically no loss of life occurred in the process. This is a demonstration of justice and fairness. These officers have been able to show the people that, by accepting Government rule and Government law, they can be safe. The people of the Territory are concerned about their existence and their freedom from massacre or murder and those frightful blow-ups which used to occur and still do occur in some remote areas today. They are very conscious of this. They are very concerned also about the tensions in this area. Undoubtedly tensions exist there. We are bringing practically a stone age people into our way of life in just a few years. Psychological tensions are created. There are misunderstandings, probably superstitions and suspicions. 
The honourable member will hear the story. I hope he appreciates it. The people of the Territory have these superstitions. They see stirrers coming into their area to make the most of these facts. There are elements in this world particularly in the Western world - Papua and New Guinea is not alone in experiencing them - which are seeking to undermine our way of life, our cultures, and our laws. 
I know that the honourable member does not like to hear this but I wish to explain the position. What do we see in every debate on the Territory in the United Nations? We see the Russian delegate  making  most irrational and irrespon- sible statements on Papua and New Guinea. In essence, he is denigrating our efforts there. He wants to see chaos. Well, is it not the aim of Russia and all those in the Communist area to cause chaos? It is the only way the Communists wi!l catch up with us. Honourable members will recall that, earlier when he was VicePresident of the United States of America, the present President of the United States of 
America met in Russia the then head of the Soviet Union- 
 Mr Khrushchev.  Discussing economic  advancement,  Mr Khrushchev  said: 'We will bury you'. What has happened is that Russia has gone down the scale. Nevertheless, its subversive activities have been most successful. We see this today in the United States of America where a few elements have been able to turn a large section of the American people against the war in Vietnam and has reduced their will to fight that war. That subversion has been a great success here. 
In the moment left to me, I return to what  Mr George  Dimitroff, who was once the SecretaryGeneral of the Communist International said. He stated: 
As Soviet power grows there will be a great aversion to Communist Parties everywhere. 
So, we must practice the technique of withdrawal, never to appear in the foreground, let our friends do the work. 
We must always remember that one sympathiser is generally worth more than a dozen militant commands. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Orderl The time allotted for consideration of the proposed expenditure has expired. 
Question put: 
That the amendment  (Mr Enderby's)  be agreed to. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A Co-ordinating Committee on Broadcasting in Papua and New Guinea was established in March 1966. The Committee comprises representatives of the following authorities: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The number of pupils who board and the number who pay boarding fees at 52 of the 56 secondary boarding schools is provided below. The details are listed on a district basis because a secondary school is usually attended by pupils from several sub-districts. The same information in respect of the remaining four boarding schools is not readily available but will be sought if required. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Recommendations on Future Form of Local Government - 
The Report states (pages 43-44) - 
The evidence does not persuade us that there is a more appropriate form of local government for the Gazelle Peninsula than that currently in force, to be supplemented at an early date by a town council for Rabaul itself and for any satellite township of which may be - established to serve the needs of Rabaul. We summarise our reasons for this conclusion as follows: 
The Tolai people have had 19 years of experience of local government at the village level and this we think gives them the necessary background to embark with confidence on the next development which must be the standard form of local government for an entire area and not merely for one race within it. 
The basic concept that all within a given local authority area are both taxed and represented is a fundamental democratic principle. It is the standard approach to local government. 
A retreat by the Tolai people to the native village council concept would, strictly speaking, require either - 
An amendment of the Local Gov- - .ernment Ordinance 1963 to reintroduce the requirement that only native councillors are eligible for election. This of course would force 116 other local authorities in the Territory, which are presently working well, to conform to the chauvinism of the Mataungan Association: or 
Special legislation for the Gazelle Peninsula which would, we think, make the Tolai people look foolish in the eyes of the rest of the Territory. 
The present system has the blessing of the Trusteeship Council of the United 
Nations Organisation and it would be unfortunate if it were necessary to abandon it because of unreasoning fears which have Hot been demonstrated to have any substance. 
The opposition to the present system has been shown above to be based on hypothetical fears deliberately whipped up for political purposes. There is in truth  tut  evidence of European domination or of the likelihood of such domination. We would however respectfully recommend that both the Administration and the House of Assembly remain constantly vigilant for evidence of such tendencies. If they should ever occur, it will then be time to provide against them. 
The present system has yet to be given  a  fair trial. It would be needlessly confusing and harassing to plunge the Tolai people into an intensive political campaign leading to a referendum when no credible basis for rejecting the present system has been demonstrated. 
No satisfactory alternative to the scheme proposed in the White Paper (Exhibit 4) presented at the House of Assembly by  Mr S.  M. Foley, M.H.A. on 5th September 1969 has been put before us.' 
The then Assistant Administrator (Services) stated on 13th November 1969 in the. House of Assembly that "The Administration considers that the immediate need is to discuss these and any other changes that may be proposed with the people involved. It intends to invite a representative group of leaders to Port Moresby for discussions with ministerial members and the Administration. In such discussions it is natural that the Administration will invite-: not only members of the Council and Mataungan Association, but representatives of other interested parties. The problems of the Gazelle are best solved by those most concerned in them. This Administration proposal will open the way for arrangements acceptable to the Tolai people to be arrived at through discussion.' 
The Government and the Administration have sought since that time to bring together to solve their differences both those Tolais who favour full representative local government and those who seek to exclude all except indigenous people from taking part. Whilst in Rabaul in the course of his recent visit the Prime Minister offered to meet the Mataungan Association and discuss their differences but this offer was refused. During his visit to the Gazelle area from 5th-7th August the Administrator of Papua and New Guinea,  Mr Johnson,  offered to meet and talk with the Mataungan Association. The full executive of the Association refused to meet him but he did meet  a  small group of Mataungan Association members. The Administration will, continue to support any initiative that it believes has even the slightest chance of resolving the differences. On 8th September a combined meeting of the Mataungan Association and representatives of the Gazelle 
Local Government Council was held to discuss the current problems in the Gazelle area. Further meetings with the objective of if possible solving these problems are planned. 
A statement of the Administration's intention to introduce urban local government in Rabaul and the other significant towns in the Territory was made in the House of Assembly on 22nd August 1969. Under the recently announced transfers of decision-making authority to the Ministerial and Assistant Ministerial Members, this is a matter for final decision by the responsible Assistant Ministerial Member under the authority of the Administrator's Executive Council. 
Recommendations on Land - 
The Report states (pages 44-45) - 
The density of settlement in the Gazelle Peninsula and in the Duke of York Islands calls fox both immediate and long-term action for the opening up of additional land and the resettlement of the people. To that end we recommend: 
The acquisition of alienated land adjacent to the most critical concentrations of population to supplement existing subsistence farming land. Some acquisitions are already in hand but the situation should be kept under constant review. 
Control through the local government council of the manner in which the land so acquired is distributed. 
Should the process of negotiation not prove satisfactory in obtaining the necessary land we recommend that serious consideration be given to amending the Lands Ordinance to provide for its compulsory acquisition on just terms as to compensation. 
The long-term solutions lie in the great resettlement schemes outside the Gazelle Peninsula. The reluctance of the Tolai people to migrate from the Peninsula and the suspicion which such proposals seem to engender amongst the Tolais should we think be countered by educational measures. 
A special feature of the land problem is the number of unresolved appeals to the Supreme Court of Papua and New Guinea. We recommend continuous sittings at Rabaul in the near future in order to dispose of these appeals and to that end temporary additions as required, both to the Court and the staff of the Crown Solicitor and Public Solicitor and also the provision of such facilities as airconditioning and an adequate Library for the duration of these sittings at least. 
The then Assistant Administrator (Services) stated on 13th November, 1969 in the House of Assembly that The recommendations concerning land are set out in paragraph 157 (A). The Commission proposes that land be acquired for Tolai resettlement in areas of critical concentration of population. The Administration accepts the rec ommendation. Indeed, the -Administration has already been following the policy embraced by paragraph 157 (A) (i). The plantations of Matanatar and Revalien, totalling 1,765 acres, are being purchased for this purpose. Further, with due regard to the needs of the Bainings people to participate in commercial development, the Administration intends to provide for an expansion of agricultural settlement outside the traditional Tolai area. 
This includes the use of the areas known as Vanapaladig, Japlik and Mandres, totalling 9,000 acres, and a portion of the Kerevat forest area of between 5,000 and 6,000 acres. 
This is substantial progress. The process will continue. I emphasise that there is no question of giving land away. Any plantations purchased will be subdivided and allocated on economically sound terms. 
The Commission also recommends that the Local Government Council controls the manner in which land acquired for resettlement is allocated. The Administration will read this as a recommendation to consult with the Council in the matter of allocation of lands purchased to relieve critical shortages. In this sense, the recommendation is acceptable.' 
Since then the two plantations (Revalien and Matanatar near Kokopo) have been purchased and negotiations taken place between Tolais and the Administrator for their disposition to relieve land shortages. Revalien will be divided into small individual blocks and negotiations onthe method of disposal of Matanatar are proceeding. A survey is under way of other plantations that would be suitable for division and allocation in areas of critical land shortage. 
A Land Board to consider applications for the land known as Japlik, Mandres and Vanapaladig and part of the Kerevat forest area was established with an expatriate  chairman  and six native members including representatives of the Gazelle and of the Bainings Councils. For some time a member of the Mataungan Association was also a member of the Board. When a vacancy occurred on the Land Board it was proposed to appoint an additional member of the Mataungan Association to the Board. He declined to take up the appointment. The Land Board has now completed allocation of blocks and some successful applicants are now moving on to the land. 
The Toriu River Valley road at present under construction will provide access from current Tolai land holdings to the Gazelle Peninsula isthmus and later to the Nakanai coast to the south of the Peninsula. The Tolais will be encouraged through a process of continuing education to settle in these areas. 
During his visit to the Gazelle Peninsula and as a further step towards solving the. problems which are facingthe Tolais the Administrator has proposed the establishment of two committees: a land policy committee to plan land purchases and distribution in the Gazelle Peninsula and an economic development committee. Representation on each committee has been offered to the Mataungan Association. 
Concerning the unresolved land appeals, the Supreme Court Calendar for 1970 provides for monthly sittings in Rabaul in addition to the New Guinea Islands circuit every second month. Sixteen Land Appeals had been heard in Rabaul by the end of the July sittings; these were all the cases ready for hearing. The strength of the Supreme Court has been raised from 5 to 6 judges. 
Three temporary positions of Principal Legal Officer and 2 of Senior Legal Officer have been created and filled in the Crown Solicitor's Office, and 6 positions of Principal Legal Officer, 3 of Senior Legal Officer, and 1 of Legal Officer have been created and filled in the Public Solicitor's Office. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have no knowledge of such a statement being made by Conzinc Kiotinto of Australia Ltd to the Australian Council of Trade Unions. The negotiations between the Company and the A.C.T.U. were restricted to the question of wage levels for expatriate construction workers. 
No. However the company has just signed an agreement to revise the conditions of employment and wages of indigenous workers on the project. This agreement was negotiated with the Bougainville Mine Workers' Union which represents the indigenous workers on the Bougainville project. 
. (4) and (5) A company is not required to obtain approval from the Administrator or the Department of Labour for private agreements set. ting wage rates unless the parties concerned were required to negotiate under the Industrial Relations Ordinance. However, where the parties are called upon by the Secretary for Labour to negotiate under the Ordinancethe agreement so reached has to be forwarded to the Industrial Registrar for registering as an award. In the case of the agreement between Bougainville Copper Ply Ltd and the Bougainville Mine Workers' Union the parlies were called upon to negotiate under the Ordinance and the resulting agreement is currently under consideration by the Industrial Registrar for registration as an industrial award. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I understand the company to which the honourable member refers is just establishing itself in the Territory and at present the General Manager is the only employee. 
I think honourable members could be forgiven for losing track of the actual matter of urgency after listening to 2 Opposition speakers. To bring this debate back to the point I will read again, for honourable members on this side of the House, the terms of the proposal for discussion. They state: 
The Government's failure to extend exemption from National Service to persons whose conscientious beliefs do not allow them to engage in  a  particular war or particular warlike operations. 
Obviously, as my colleague the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden)  has pointed out, this is a device to get the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  off the hook for an irresponsible and outrageous statement he made some time ago, a statement of advice to young men that they join the Army, as I recall it, but that later they refuse to serve. What would be the ultimate result of this operation? They would be dishonourably discharged, and this would hang around their necks forever in anything they wanted to do. What an extraordinary situation. I believe that every Australian values our security. If ever we valued it we should value it now. We have been a fortunate country, I suppose. For the whole of our existence we have been able to look to one of the greatest powers in the world in those days - Great Britain - to look after us. We have accepted this. We have grown up to be a nation in which we enjoy the greatest freedoms, liberties and opportunities of any country in the world. This has been brought about because we have been free to pursue our policies and our democratic government without fear of threats. 
We have had threats from overseas. I have lived through 2 world wars. They were 2 threats. Everyone in this country joined in the support of those wars to protect our way of life. Here again we have the vast majority of the Australian people behind us in the present operation in Vietnam. I remind the Opposition that the 1966 election was fought purely on the operation in Vietnam, and look at the overwhelming majority we had on that occasion. Now we have the whole of the Australian people behind us, and this is their concern, under the system of representative government we have inherited from Great Britain. In essence, if the Opposition's policy came into force what would our reputation in the world be? What would our reputation with the allies be if our men could choose to opt out of a particular war? Conscientious objection to war is one matter. Conscientious objection to a particular war is an entirely different matter. 
We have provision, as the Minister for Labour and National Service pointed out, for a judge to make a decision on conscientious objection to war. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  opened this debate and I gather from what he said that a person might object to this particular war but would fight in another war. He might change his mind in 20 years time and fight in another war. We would end up having a lot of perhapsers in our community. We would not know where they stood. How would our reputation stand with our allies - allies we need to preserve our situation in this part of the southern hemisphere? If ever a country needed allies to support it Australia does. Every country needs allies. Even Russia has to rely on the massive support of its Warsaw Pact allies. America has in Europe the NATO alliance. We must maintain the reputation that we will support our allies. A serious situation is developing for Australia. I support our involvement in Vietnam, as do the majority of Australians. Our policy is to support democratic countries to our north; to give them an opportunity to preserve their way of life. 
We came out of a very difficult situation a few years ago. It was only an accident that the whole of Indonesia did not go Communist. What would have happened if the Communists had taken over in Indonesia? Right at our back door we would have had a foreign country embarking on authoritarian practices, backed by Russia or China - I do not know which, but it would not make much difference as far as f am concerned. The Soviet Union, with massive support from the Warsaw Pact, is endeavouring to secure its position in 
Europe, lt has negotiated, a treaty with West Germany because it has ambitions of becoming a super military power. It has designs on expansion into the Indian Ocean. This, after all, is the policy that Czarist Russia had. Russia has pursued the policies of a super national power and a super military power in extending into the Indian Ocean. There was no outcry about the prospect of Russia making a naval base at Aden. There was no outcry over the former British territory of Socotra at the end of the Red Sea being used for training operations for Russian naval personnel. There seems to be a great effort by these propagandists to assist our enemies to prevent the British operating from the naval base at Simonstown. But they treat with complete equanimity a possible furtherance of Russia's expansion into the Indian Ocean and its development of a naval base at Aden. In the past Britain, a small nation compared to continental Europe, could usually rely on alliances to preserve a balance of power in Europe. We need alliances in our part of the world. Britain has always honoured her treaty obligations. I believe we are following our British traditions in doing these sorts of things. 
What an extraordinary policy is being advocated by the Labor Party - that a section of our community should be prepared not to accept the authority of Parliament. The government of the day makes a decision as to where danger lies and what wars we embark upon. As I said earlier, the 1966 election was fought on the issue of our involvement in Vietnam. We won an enormous majority. We had the support of the Australian people. The Leader of the Opposition has advocated that people should not obey the law unless they want to do so. Another leading member of his Party advocated the overthrowing of authority. I think he said: 'There is power in the streets, power in the universities and schools'. This policy, if put into effect, would subtract from the authority of Parliament. Where on earth would we be if individuals made decisions as to whether they would fight a war, irrespective of what the Parliament - the authority of this country - decided. This is quite an extraordinary position. It is an outrage that a party which seeks to be the next government should sponsor such a proposal and it is certainly an outrage that the Leader of the Labor Party should personally advance this incredible policy. 
The answer to the honourable member's question as it relates to the Administration of the Territory of Papua and New Guinea is as follows: 
and  (2)- 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes, because further circulars and action as in (2) were proposed. I am informed that the views put forward by the Association were given thorough consideration, when the further circular instructions and revised authorisations mentioned in (2) below were being prepared. 
The rules governing public statements by members of the Papua and New Guinea Public Service are set down in Public Service Regulations 17 and 18, made under the Papua and New Guinea Public Service Ordinance, authorisations by the Administrator pursuant to Public Service Regulation 17 (i) (b) and a direction issued by the 
Public Service Board of Papua and New Guinea pursuant to Section 128 of. the Papua and New Guinea Public Service Ordinance. 
The circulars issued by the Papua and New Guinea Public Service Commissioner in 1965, the Papua and New Guinea Public Service Board (which has since replaced the office of Public Service Commissioner) dated 1st September i 970 and the circular issued by the Department of the Administrator on 18th February 1970 promulgate, explain and remind Public Servants of these rules. 
Public Service Regulation 17 provides: 
An officer shall not - 
use for any purpose, other than the discharge of his official duties, information gained by or conveyed to him through his connexion with the Public Service; or 
except with the consent of the Administrator or an officer thereunto authorised by the Administrator, publicly comment upon administrative action or upon the administration of a Department. 
Nothing in paragraph (b) of the last preceding sub-regulation contained prevents an officer from publicly commenting upon civic affairs relating to the Territory.' 
Public Service Regulation 18 provides: 
Except in the course of official duty, an officer shall not divulge, directly or indirectly, any information concerning public business or any matters of which he has knowledge officially.' 
Pursuant to the power given to it by Section 128 of the Papua and New Guinea Public Service Ordinance the Papua and New Guinea Public Service Board in its circular of 1st September 1970 issued the following directions to all officers and employees of the Papua and New Guinea Public Service in amplification of the Regulations. 
An officer or employee shall not, unless he it specifically authorised or unless it is his official duty to do so: 
give to a news reporter information which he has through his work in the Public Service, or 
discuss matters concerning the administration of any Department or the public affairs of the Territory, other than civic affairs relating to the Territory, with a news reporter in circumstances such that the views of the officer or employee will be or will be likely to bethe subject of a press or radio report 
An officer or employee other than a Departmental Head, intending to make a public address or submit for publication an article on any matter concerning the administration of any Department or the public affairs of the Territory, except a matter which falls within the description 'civic affairs relating to the Territory' shall at least three weeks in advance, submit to his Departmental Head a copy of his proposed speech or article for approval by the Administrator or officer thereunto authorised by the Administrator. A Departmental Head intending to make such an address or submit such an article for publication shall similarly submit a copy of his speech or article to the Administrator for approval.' 
In 1968 a list of officers specifically authorised by the Administrator as in Regulation 19 (i) (b) to give information to Press representatives was drawn up and circulated to the Press. This list contained the names of 66 officers in Port Moresby. A revised list is now being drawn up by the Administrator. It rs expected to include approximately 130 names of officers throughout the Territory including officers in all of the Territory's 18 districts. 
When the authorisations by the Administrator were issued in 1968 the Administrator stated that he considered that authorised officers will be able to handle the bulk of Press enquiries but matters of major importance including policy issues or controversial issues should be referred to the Administrator or one of the Assistant Administrators or the official spokesman at Administration Headquarters. officers will have to use their own discretion in deciding if a matter falls into this category. 
Matters of policy, include questions concerning the budget, major moves on political developments, major organisational changes in the Administration or issues where major decisions are pending. Where a policy has been announced authorised officers are permitted to supply information at their own discretion. It is emphasised that the Administrator wants the public to be as well informed as possible about the objectives, policy achievements and view points of the Government. Within the bounds of common sense as much help as possible should be given to Press representatives by those authorised to deal with them'. ' 
An instruction issued by the Administrator last month emphasised the increased responsibility of Ministerial and Assistant Ministerial Members in the making of public statements. This was in line with the increase in responsibility of Ministerial office holders since the previous circular was issued. The Administrator stated that this did not alter the obligation of authorised officers of the Administration to provide factual information in response to Press enquiries. 
The term 'public affairs of the Territory' is used in this context to identify those matters for which Papua and New Guinea public servants are responsible ultimately to the elected members of the Papua and New Guinea House of Assembly or of the Australian Parliament. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: . 
The Board of Inquiry investigating rural minimum wages under the Native Employment Ordinance, minimum wage fixing machinery and related matters presented its report to the Administrator on 22nd September 1970. The report is being examined. 
The  answer  to the  honourable  member's  question  is as  follows: 
 Mr Speaker,  may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill, I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the States Grants (Debt Charges Assistance) Bill, the 
States Grants (Capital Assistance) Bill and the States Grants (Special Assistance) Bill. Separate questions may of course be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the 4 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The names, qualifications and positions of the persons who now constitute the Papua and New Guinea Electricity Commission are: 
Commissioner - 
A. Y. Rutter, M.B.E., F.I.E. Aust. 
Associate Commissioners - 

 K. Dowling, Company Director 
H. Johns, Manager and Company Director 
L. R. Niall, C.B.E., Company Director 
E. Ritchie, B.Comm., Departmental Head, 
Department of the Treasury, and Treasurer. 
With the exception of  Mr Ritchie  these persons were first appointed when the Commission was established in 1962.  Mr Ritchie  succeededH. H. Reeve, F.A.S.A., F.R.I.P.A., Assistant Administrator (Economic Affairs) in 1965. 
Employment and housing asat 23rd September 1970: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Loans approved in 1969-70 were: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The matter referred to is one which falls within the authority of the Ministerial Member for Labour in the House of Assembly for Papua and New Guinea. The Administrator on the advice of the Ministerial Member for Labour has provided the following information: 
(a) The offer was made by the insurance company without admission of liability on the basis that if the full amount was sought, they would contest liability, 
The question of 'permitting' the widow to accept does not arise. The offer of the insurance company was put before the widow by her legal adviser together with his advice, and it was accepted by her. 
There was no power in any person other than the claimant to accept  or  reject an offer of settlement. 
The widow was represented by the Public Solicitor and had she wished she could have refused the offer and contested the matter in court. 
One thousand dollars. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The total income received by life insurance companies operating in the Territory during 1969- 70 is not known. The premium income received by life insurance companies operating in the Territory during their financial years ended in 1969-70 was $3,180,000. 
Particulars of investments' made by life insurance companies in the Territory during 1969-70 are not known. However, investments by life insurance companies in Territory public loans in 1969-70 amounted to $7,340,000; this includes an amount of $6,290,000 invested in the special loan to finance the purchase of equity in the Bougainville Copper Pty Ltd for the 'benefit of the people of the Territory as a whole, In addition life insurance companies paid loans on mortgage and loans on security of policies amounting to $249,000 in the Territory in 1969-70. 
Particulars of the income of other insurance companies operating in the .Territory in 1969-70 are not available. The only available information about investments is that they invested $695,000 in Territory public loans in 1969-70, including SI 30,000 invested in the special  loan to finance the purchase of equity in Bougainville Copper Ply Ltd. 
The information requested is not available. 
The Treasurer of the Territory of Papua and New Guinea regularly approaches all insurance companies operating in the Territory for subscriptions to Territory public loans. 
At 30th June 1970 employment by insurance companies was: 
31 indigenous 
133 non-indigenous. 
These figures include agents and brokers. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question  is as  follows: 
The document referred to ls an internal working paper prepared by the Manpower Planning Unit of the Territory Department of Labour in August 1970, on the demand for and supply of professional manpower during the period 1971- 19S0. lt is as yet only in draft form and does not necessarily represent the assessments or views of the Administration, lt was sent on a confidential basis, to the major Administration Departments and statutory authorities, Commonwealth Departments in the Territory, the University of Papua and New Guinea and the Institute of Technology, with the object of obtaining their views on the validity of the assumptions underlying the projections and of the techniques employed. The findings in the document are at this stage only tentative and are subject to further evaluation. 
The Government is giving high priority to accelerating the pace of localisation in all areas of employment in the Territory. The Government will re-examine the present planned levels of intakes into tertiary and vocational training institutions in the Territory in the light of the reports of its manpower advisers, and a manpower expert at present making an investigation in the Territory under the United Nations Development Programme. The Government is also establishing a Committee of Inquiry into Higher Education which will examine the steps to be taken to achieve balanced growth of enrolments in tertiary and vocational training institutions in keeping wilh the availability of school leavers and the projected demands for trained manpower. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following marketing boards have been established in the Territory of Papua and New Guinea - 
Coffee Marketing Board: Copra Marketing Board. 
The names, qualifications and position of the persons who have previously constituted and who now constitute these boards are: 
Coffee-Marketing Board - 
Former Members - 
F. G. Downs (Chairman). Planter 
Bono Azanifa, Planter and Businessman H. R. Hagon, Planter and Businessman 
Present Members - Chairman - 
L. Murrell Planter . Members - 
H. D. Middleton, Planter. So'So  S'ubi,  Planter 
Salaen Sakaen, M.B.E., Planter and 
Businessman D. F. Falconer, Planter Official Member - 
L. Conroy, B.Sc. (Agric), Departmental Head, Department of Agriculture, Stock and Fisheries. B. Copra Marketing Board - 
Former Members - 
McDonald, O.B.E. (Chairman) 
Barrett, Planter 
R. Wilson, Planter and Company Director 
A.  Stanfield,  Planter  Stahl Salum,  Planter 
Nansen K.1 isa, Secretary,- Milne Bay Native Societies Association and Member, Board of Federation of Native Societies. 
E. P. Dwyer, B.Sc. (Agric.). Director, Department of Agriculture, Stock and Fisheries. 
H. Reeve, F.A.S.A., F.R.f.P.A.. Assistant Administrator (Economic Affairs). 
C. Henderson, O.B.E., B.Sc. (Agric), Director, Department of Agriculture, Stock and Fisheries. 
Present Members - 
Chairman - 
E. Fairfax-Ross, C.B.E.. Planter Members - 
V. Quinton, Planter and Businessman. 
A. Thurston, Planter and Businessman. 
Mahuru Rarua Rama. M..B.E., Secretary of Federation of Co-operative Unions and Member of the Development Bank Board. Gram Toubu, Planter. Official Member - 
L. Conroy, B.Sc. (Agric.). Departmental Head, Department of Agriculture, Stock and Fisheries. (3) Employment and Housing as at 27th October 1970: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No criminal prosecution or disciplinary proceedings have been taken against any police officer in connection with the case of  Mr Tabarang  Marum and his subsequent transfer to Finschhafen for the sittings of the Supreme Court under the mistaken impression that he was a man committed for trial before that Court  Mr Tambaron  Qwate An inquiry was undertaken and its conclusions were given independent consideration. Whilst this inquiry revealed the necessity of tightening certain procedures to prevent cases of mistaken identity arising in the future it concluded that no one person could be held sufficiently culpable for the somewhat unsual events which occurred so as lo be deserving of prosecution or disciplinary proceedings.  Mr Tabarang  Marum was admitted to hospital under the name of 'Tambaran'  Mr Tambaran.  Qwate, the, person committed for trial, was also admitted to hospital, tinder the name of 'Tombalar Narai'. A telegram requested thc police at Lae to arrange the movement of 'Tambaran' for the Supreme Court sittings. The police at Lae had no prior information as io the matter. When the police sergeant inquired at the Lae Hospital the superintendent, who knew the identity of the person to be transferred to Finschhafen, was absent. The official at the hospital brought to the police sergeant  Mr Tabarang  Marum. who was the only person admitted to the hospital under the name of 'Tambaran'.  Mr Tabarang  Marum did not ask why he was being taken to Finschhafen. The warrant of commitment was sent by post and ils delayed arrival contributed to the confusion which arose. 
The Departmental Head. Department of Law. is taking action with respect to procedures relating to warrants of commitment. 
As slated in the Prime- Minister's answer to the honourable member's question without notice relating to this matter (Hansard. 17th September 1970, page 1262). the allegations of assault upon the prisoner whilst in police custody have not been proved. No compensation has been offered to the prisoner in respect of the alleged assault and no claim has been made bv him or on his behalf. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Indigenes sit on boards, tribunals, committees and courts constituted under the following Ordinances: 
Apprenticeship Ordinance 1967 Section 35 
Associations Incorporation Ordinance 1966- 1968 Section 7 (1) 
Child Welfare Ordinance 1961-1968 
Section 36(l)(c) Coffee Industry Ordinance 1960-1967 
Section 14(7) Copra Ordinance 1952 
Section 9 
Firearms Regulation Ordinance 1963-1969 Section 36 
Pearl, Pearl Shell and Beche-de-Mer Ordinance 19U-1934 Section 42 Personal Tax Ordinance 1957-1965 
Section 14 (4) 
Port Moresby Water Supply Ordinance 1941-1951 Section 51 
Public Service (Papua and New Guinea) Ordinance 1963-1969 , Section 43 Section 67 
Public Services (Conciliation and Arbitration) Ordinance 1969 Section 6 
Royal Papua and New Guinea Constabulary Ordinance 1965-1969 
Section 48 
Section 50 Valuation Ordinance 1967-1968 
Section 33. 
In addition, the establishment of ad hoc boards on which indigenes may sit is provided under the following Ordinances: 
Public Service (Papua and N;w Guinea) Ordinance 1963-1969 Section 70 
Public Services (Conciliation and Arbitration) Ordinance 1969 Section  2. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Sub-Inspector R. B. Dodd is posted at Mount Hagen, Western Highlands District. 
Sub-Inspector D. J. Fitzgibbon is posted at Kieta, Bougainville District. 
Sub-Inspector H. J. Trebilcock has been posted to Bereina, Central District, but is at present on leave. 
Sub-Inspector V. L. Davis has resigned from the Royal Papua and New Guinea Constabulary. 
The four officers were reinstated following the decision of the East New Britain District Court that one had no case to answer upon the charges laid against him and the acquittal of the other three officers by the Supreme Court in respect of charges brought against them. (See Hansard, 17th September, 1970, page 1262.) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
On 20th August 1970 the Governor-General pursuant to the power conferred by section 15 of the Papua and New Guinea Act gave instructions to the Administrator of the Territory of Papua and New Guinea. The text of these instructions is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Expenditure incurred in the Territory of Papua and New Guinea in 1969-70 by Commonwealth departments and authorities which receive financial support from the Commonwealth Budget is shown 
In the November sittings of the Territory of Papua and New Guinea House of Assembly rural wages were increased by 50c. In the meantime the Administrator's Executive Council discussed the recommendations of the Cochrane report. As a result of those discussions legislation was introduced in that House to provide a minimum wage of $5.90. There is also legislation which provides for a minimum wages board to inquire into wages. 1 point out that this is a matter of great concern to the economy of the Territory. We are paying a considerably higher wage than are those countries which compete with the Territory on world markets. The Administrator's Executive Council is fearful that a decision to increase rural wages in 2 years time to $6.40, as recommended by the Cochrane inquiry, might have very serious repercussions on the economy of the Territory. 1 think it is right that we should heed the recommendations of the Executive Council because products such as copra, coffee and cocoa are produced in other countries which have the lowest standard of living in the world. If wages in the Territory go above an economic figure the Territory will be out of business. I support the action of the Executive Council in this regard. In any case the House of Assembly will have this legislation before it and will be able to give its views on the matter. I know that the Leader of the Opposition does not have very much respect for the opinions of the House of Assembly - he has said so before - but I assure him that this Government has respect for the opinions of the House of Assembly. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Neither Fund has invested in Territory industries nor directly m housing. Both Funds invest in public Loans of the Territory which are used to finance public works and services including housing. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) None (b) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
, (4) and (5) The study was carried out to facilitate the work of the newly established Administration Directorate of Transport. The report was made available to consultants appointed to carry out a UNDP sponsored transport survey of the Territory which commenced shortly after the Mannsell Report was received. This survey was an intermodal study of all forms of transport and the report by Maunsell and Partners became subject to review during the survey. The report provided valuable data for the UNDP consultants who otherwise would have been required to make their own investigations to assembly the data, and its conclusions and recommendations were absorbed in the report on the UNDP survey. 
The, answer  to  the honour  able member's  question  is  as follows: 
The matters referred to are ones which partly fall within the authority of the Assistant Ministerial Member for Transport in the House of Assembly for Papua and New Guinea. The following information includes information provided by the Administrator on the advice of the Assistant Ministerial Member for Transport insofar as the matters referred to are within the authority of the Assistant Ministerial Member for Transport. 
Ports currently under control of the Papua andNew Guinea Harbours Board are Port Moresby, Samarai, Lae, Madang, Rabaul and Kavieng. It is proposed that the ports of Wewak, Kimbe and Kieta will come under the control of the Harbours Board with effect from July 1971 and Oro Bay Port upon completion of construction estimated to be in September 1972. 
All other ports in the Territory other than privately owned wharves are under control of the Administration. 
The answer to the honour  able members  question is  as  follows: 
Under the constitutional arrangements introduced late last year for the transfer of greater responsibility to Ministerial and Assistant Ministerial Members in Papua and New Guinea, health matters, including malaria control, come within the final authority of the Ministerial Member for Public Health. 
I am informed by the Ministerial Member that, since my reply of 7th April 1970 to question No. 457 (Hansard page 770), a modification has been made in the use of DDT to combat malaria in Papua and New Guinea. 
The Ministerial Member has advised that, following successful trials, Malathion, an organophosphorous compound, is now added to DDT during spraying in operational districts except Morobe and the Highlands. DDT has been blamed by villagers for the apparent prevalence after spraying of vermin such as cockroaches and bedbugs and Malathion has proved effective in controlling these vermin. 
The Ministerial Member adds that sufficient supplies to cover these areas have been ordered and that in future all operational districts will be sprayed with a DDT-Malathion mix. 
The answer to the honourable member's-question is as follows: 
Expenditure records do nol readily disclose the cost of air fares by , destination. As I do not believe that a sufficiently important public purpose would be served by the provision of these details I am reluctant to authorise the effort and expenditure which would be involved in their preparation 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Twelve claims have been met. 
There are no formal applications outstanding. 
There have been a number of preliminary inquiries concerning eligibility. Information and application forms have been provided upon request. 
Steps taken to publicise the regulations amongst the indigenes include: 
A further news release to all media. 
A circular sent to all field staff outlining regulations and calling for increased publicity. 
Correspondence with the Territory State Branch of the RSL and some subbranches. 
Discussions with various interested people. 
The regulations have been widely publicised in the Rabaul area including the Ex-Servicemen's Association. 
Regular Forces: Resettlement in Civilian Life  (Question No.  2?74) 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The matter referred to is one which falls within the authority of the Ministerial Member for Labour in the House of Assembly for Papua and New Guinea. The Administrator on the advice of the Ministerial Member for Labour has provided the following information: 
No prosecutions have been launched. The offenders included indigenous employers endeavouring to establish various enterprises and it was decided that the better course of action was to encourage compliance rather than prosecute immediately. No award covers the workers involved but current legislation stipulates minimum conditions on a cash and kind basis. In the main contraventions were the noncompliance with ration scales, because of the abundance of local foodstuffs, although the cash component had been increased'. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The matter referred to is one which falls within the authority of the Ministerial Member for Agriculture, Stock and Fisheries in the House ot Assembly for Papua and New Guinea. The Administrator on the advice of the Ministerial Member for Agriculture, Stock and Fisheries has provided the following information: 
The Administration has initiated a complete technical and economic review of the present position of the rice industry in the Territory. However, marked differences in soils and climatic conditions would appear to present considerable difficulties in initiating schemes in the Territory similar to that in Fiji. The public investment implications of such a development for Papua and New Guinea would require policy consideration in depth in the light of competing demands on the Territory budget. However, if an economically feasible project can be evolved, international finance from sources such as UNDP/World Bank would be sought for its implementation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The membership at 31st December 1970 of each employees' organisation registered in the Territory of Papua and New Guinea is listed below: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The declared fishing zone, which is that part of waters proclaimed under the Fisheries Act forming a belt 9 miles wide adjacent to the territorial s.ea. extends along the whole coast of Papua and New Guinea, except where it is interrupted by islands belonging to Queensland and the territorial sea around those islands. 
Below are shown the foreign fishing beats so far licensed for the calendar year 1971 to fish in the zone and elsewhere in proclaimed waters. These boats are licensed under approved joint venture arrangements to undertake surveys of skipjack tuna and bait fish. The surveys are designed not only to enable the companies to determine their long-term proposals for commercial fishing but also to assist the Administration of Papua and New Guinea in controlling the development of fisheries according to the proven resources. 
Gollin K.yokuyo Fishing Co. Pty Ltd (an Australian/Japanese joint venture) 4 catcher boats. 
Kaigai Gyogyo Pty Ltd (Japanese capital, Australian or Territory partner not yet arranged) 5 catcher boats. 
Itoh &amp; Co. (Aust.) Pty Ltd (Australian company, Japanese capital, Australian, or Territory partner to be arranged) 6 catcher boats. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The matters referred to in (1), (4), (5) and (6) fall within the authority of Ministerial office holders. The Administrator on the advice of the Assistant Ministerial Member for Local Government and the Assistant Ministerial Member for the Treasury, has provided the following information: 
The Income Tax Ordinance provides that a taxpayer who has, during a year of income, paid personal tax for which he is personally liable to a Local Government Council is entitled to a rebate of the amount of that tax, up to a maximum of ten dollars, imposed in respect of any one financial year. No distinction is made between an individual and a company in the definition of taxpayer'. 
Proclamations establishing Councils for the towns of Port Moresby, Lae and Madang were approved by the Administrator's Executive Council on 21st January, 1971, and elections for these Councils are to take place on the 3rd April 1971. The establishment of a Council for the Rabaul township area was deferred by the Administrator's Executive Council but it is intended to place a recommendation for the establishment of the Rabaul Town Council before the Administrator's Executive Council seeking approval to proceed with its formation at an early date. 
Samarai and Bereina have been included in the surrounding Council areas but' proposals regarding the inclusion of the other minor towns mentioned have not yet been finalised. 
No consideration has been given to any scheme which would attempt to distinguish or discriminate between expatriates and other town residents when applying the provisions of the Income Tax Ordinance which relate to deductions of up to $10 for personal tax paid to a Council. The Local Government Ordinance precludes the imposition by a Council of a personal tax based on income but provisions exist which will enable urban councils to levy rates on land calculated in relation to the unimproved value of the land. 
As stated for the previous question, provision has been made for urban Councils to impose rates based on the unimproved value of the land. 
The answer to points (2) and (3) of the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Bureau of Statistics does not split taxation data in such fine geographical detail. However, based on the 1966 Census, distribution of the expatriate population indicates that approximately 55 per cent of those liable . to pay income tax would live in towns not covered by local government Councils. 
Based on the 1966 Census, as for the previous question, approximately 23 per cent  of  the residents in these towns arc expatriates. / ' 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The matter referred to is one which falls within the authority of the Assistant Ministerial Member for Lands in the House of Assembly for Papua and New Guinea. The Administrator on the advice of the Assistant Ministerial Member for Lands has provided the following information. 
(D- 
<para class="block" pgwide="yes">(2)- 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The matter referred to is one which falls within the authority of the Ministerial Member for Labour in the House of Assembly for Papua and 
New Guinea. The Administrator on the advice of the Ministerial Member for Labour has provided the following information: 
The Papua and Nev/ Guinea Workers' Compensation Ordinance does not distinguish between indigenous and European workers. A worker who is temporarily or permanently totally incapacitated is entitled to a maximum weekly payment of $31.80. If. however, a worker's annual salary is less than $1,336 but more than $800, this amount is reduced to $19.08 per week. Where a worker's annual salary is less than $800, the amount is $5.59 per week. These payments are made during the whole period that the worker is totally incapacitated.' 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report on the Territory of Christmas Island for the year ended 30th June 1970; the annual report on the Territory of Cocos (Keeling) Islands for the year ended 30th June 1970; and the annual report on the Territory of Norfolk Island for the year ended 30th June 1970. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The matter referred to is one which falls within the authority of the ministerial member for Trade and Industry in the House of Assembly for Papua and New Guinea. The Administrator, on the advice of the ministerial member for Trade and Industry, has provided the following information: 
Following expressions of concern by members of the House of Assembly and the Australian Parliament and Territory magistrates about the number of undesirable persons apparently entering the Territory, a system of character checking of applicants for entry permits was introduced in August 1970 and the permit application form was amended in November 1970 to require applicants to declare convictions for criminal offences. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The matter referred to is one which falls within the authority of the Assistant Ministerial Member for Social Development and Home Affairs in the House of Assembly for Papua and New Guinea. The Administrator on the advice of the Assistant 
Ministerial Member for Social Development and Home Affairs has provided the following information: 
(a) 1,354 
2,101. 
1968-1969-279houses 1969-1970-118 houses. 
In addition the Housing Commission took over 373 houses from the Administration in these periods. 
The Commission built houses inPort Moresby, Lae, Madang and Rabaul. The minimum rents were: 
for houses built by the Commission - 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Persons designated as Advisers to local government councils include: 
12 indigenes and 
89 expatriates. 
Persons not designated Advisers but having duties consisting mainly of assistance to local government councils include finance officers, and assistant finance officers, local government officers and local government assistants, and patrol officers. These include: 
54 indigenes and 
41 expatriates. 
In addition there are 44 Specialist Advisers, 4 indigenes and 40 expatriates, in the following fields as shown: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The matter referred to is one which falls within the authority of the Assistant Ministerial Member for Lands in the House of Assembly for Papua and New Guinea. The Administrator on the advice of the Assistant Ministerial Member for Lands has provided the following information. 
Tenders were called for a picture theatre lease in Port Moresby in the Government Gazette of 26th March 1970. 
Tenders were received from - 
Opa Gall 
Colin Aberdeen Towers 
Eddie Joseph Yun and Helen Therese Yun 
Mervyn John Bennett 
At the hearing  Mr Towers  withdrew his application in favour of  Mrs Galli 
The Land Board considered the tenders in the first instance on 4th June 1970. The permanent Chairman was then on leave and a Senior Land Settlement Officer V. E. Wasilewsky was acting as Chairman. The members were: 
E. Rowe, a company managing director 
P. Mea, an indigenous storeman in private enterprise 
R. G. Orwin, a District Officer who was Acting Deputy District Commissioner. 
The Board again considered the tenders on 25th August and on 4th September 1970 after a rehearing was directed by the Administrator's Executive Council. The  Chairman  on these occasions was the permanent  Chairman  of the Land Board, L. J. Dawe and the members were as before. 
On 2nd September 1970 the Administrator's Executive Council deferred consideration of the applications pending a rehearing by the Land Board. The Land Board was asked to require applicants to produce satisfactory evidence of the extent of indigenous participation proposed by each tenderer and to take indigenous participation into account. At the hearing of 4th September 1970  Mrs Galli's  application was reconsidered by the Land Board together with the other applications. After considering not only the degree of indigenous participation, but also the financial backing and experience of the applicants, the Board recommended that all tenders be refused. It further recommended that the land be re-advertised in 6 months time with the stipulation that the tenderers have: 
adequate experience in commercial enterprise in general and theatre management in particular 
evidence of adequate finance being readily available, and 
a reasonable degree of indigenous participation in the form of paid up capital investment. 
The Administrator's Executive Council accepted these recommendations on 28th October 1970. 
by leave - I wish to inform the House that the Government has accepted the recommendations of the Papua New Guinea House of Assembly Select Committee on Constitutional Development as agreed upon by that House on 11th March 1971. I propose to summarise the recommendations and to explain what action is required as a result of the Government's acceptance. 
Government Decisions in 1970 
During the Committee's deliberations the Government, in July 1970, announced a transfer of authority in denned fields of government to the Administrator's Executive Council and ministerial office holders in the Territory. This decision was taken after discussions with the Committee. The Government undertook, however, because this was also the wish of the Committee, to stand short of constitutional changes requiring amendment to the Papua and New Guinea Act until such time as the House of Assembly had considered the Committee's report. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1.) Yes. 
Yes. 
Yes. 
Yes. 
The questions of the ratification of Convention No. 84 and the declarations to be made in respect to Australian nonmetropolitan territories areunder consideration. 
PapuaNew Guinea: Business Licences  (Question No. 2382) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Most of the matters referred to are those which fall within the authority of the Ministerial Members for Forests; Public Health; Labour; Mines; Agriculture, Stock and Fisheries; Trade and Industry; and the Assistant Ministerial Members for Treasury; Transport; Social Development and Home Affairs, in the House of Assembly for Papua and New Guinea. The Administrator on the advice of these Ministerial Members and Assistant Ministerial Members has provided the following information. 
The Ministerial Member for Forests advises the following licences were issued: 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second lime. 
The purpose of this Bill is to give effect to certain recommendations made by the Papua New Guinea House of Assembly Select Committee on Constitutional Development and agreed to by that House. In a statement I made to this House on 27th April 1 indicated that the Government had accepted the Select Committee's recommendations as adopted by the House of Assembly and I foreshadowed the early introduction of legislation to deal with those recommendations concerning a change in the elected representation in the House of Assembly. At the present time the House of Assembly consists of 94 members of whom 84 are elected and 10 are official members. The 84 elected members are returned from 69 open electorates and 15 regional electorates. Candidates nominating for regional electorates must have an educational qualification equivalent to the Intermediate Certificate. There are no educational qualifications for candidates nominating for open electorates. 
In its final report the Committee recommended that the number of open elector ates be increased from 69 to 82 and the number of regional electorates from 15 to 18. During its 1971 tour of Papua and New Guinea the Committee met with an overwhelming request for increased representation in the 1972-1976 House of Assembly. It based its recommendations on one regional member for each of the 18 districts in Papua New Guinea and one open member to approximately 30,000 people. Although the Committee found some call on its tour for regional electorates to be abolished the majority opinion favoured their retention. The Committee felt that it was necessary that there be a guaranteed standard of education in the House. The Committee noted in its final report that regional electorates could be reviewed during the 1972-1976 House but that it might be necessary to consider some minimum qualifications for open members such as the ability to read and write if regional electorates were to be replaced or abolished. When the Committee's report was being debated in the House of Assembly an amendment was moved to abolish regional electorates. This amendment was defeated by 47 votes to 17. 
The Bill provides in clause 3 for the recommended increases in the number of open and regional members of the House, clause 4 adjusts the quorum figure for the House and clause 5 provides that the amendments are to apply from the date of completion of the next general election in Papua New Guinea. The elections for the 1972-1976 House of Assembly will commence in March-April 1972. Under the Papua New Guinea Electoral Ordinance a redistribution Committee must redistribute boundaries following a change in the composition of the House. Its report must be made public for 3 months and then be adopted by the House of Assembly. If the report is adopted the Administrator may proclaim the new boundaries. The Government is anxious that the amendments to the Papua and New Guinea Act contained in this Bill are made as soon as possible so that sufficient time will be available for the necessary redistribution action to be completed and in operation for the 1972 House of Assembly elections in Papua New Guinea. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Beazley)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
All positions in the Public Service of Papua and New Guinea carry a local salary classification. An allowance is paid by the Australian Government to overseas officers where necessary to attract and retainthem in the Territory Ser-  vice. Thus where this is necessary an expatriate graduate of the Papuan Medical College or the University of Papua and New Guinea employed by the Administration would receive an overseas allowance on the basis that his income should be related to what he might reasonably expect to receive in Australia plus an element to attract and retain him in the Territory for as long as he is needed. Whether an employee, other than an Australian, has the right, of residence in Australia has been a determining factor for the payment of overseas rale's. The question whether the existing policy regarding payment of overseas rates should continue to apply is under examination. 
 I did not intend to speak on this Bill but after listening to the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  I must refute some of his most ridiculous statements. What does the honourable member for Wills know about Papua New Guinea, when he makes the statement that we are inflicting a burden of interest upon the people of New Guinea? Does he know what might be inflicted on those people if we do not give them the Ramu scheme? There is a most expensive electricity setup there. It is overburdened now and in a year or so it will not be able to cope with the load. The whole thing could fold up completely. The honourable member for Wills criticises the magnificent offer that we have had from the World Bank. This is an extraordinary statement from a member of the Australian Labor Party which has advocated self-government, independence and goodness knows what else. The honourable member for Wills and many other members of the Labor Party have said that we should respect the opinions of members of the House of Assembly of Papua New Guinea. The members of the Administrator's Executive Council - the elected representatives of Papua New Guinea - have examined this proposal thoroughly. They welcome it. Surely to goodness they know what they want. They do not have to ask the honourable member for Wills for his opinion. Finally, I should like to refer to the charges involved. It is a loan for 25 years at 7.25 per cent - a magnificent offer. Where could such a loan be obtained elsewhere in the world? On behalf of the people of Papua New Guinea I should like to say- 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Yes. 
A declaration extending the ratification of Convention No. 99- Minimum Wage Fixing Machinery (Agriculture) 1951, to the Territory of Papua and New Guinea without modification was registered with the International Labour Office on 31st March, 1971. 
As regards Convention No. 131 and Recommendation No. 135 - Minimum Wage Fixing 1970, the usual procedures are being followed. The Department of Labour and National Service has brought the texts of the instruments to the attention of my department. My department is examining, with the Administration of Papua and New Guinea, the extent to which there is compliance with them in the Territory and the extent to which effect might be given to their provisions. 
On 17 th March 1971 the House of Assembly for Papua and New Guinea passed legislation to establish a Minimum Wages Board. The Board will have responsibility for making determinations on matters referred to it by the Administrator, including matters relating to minimum rates of pay, deductions for food, accommodation etc., deferred wages, allowances, penalty and overtime rates, hours of work and leave. In establishing the Minimum Wages Board, the legislation takes account, to the extent considered appropriate, of the provisions of ILO Convention No. 131 and Recommendation No. 135. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There is not statutory basis for the arrangement referred to. Prior to the elections for the second House of Assembly the question of whether candidates could use Administration radio for political campaign purposes was referred to the then Administrator's Council. The Council's advice, which was adopted by the Administration, was that candidates should not be permitted to broadcast. The main reason was that there were many areas without coverage by an Administration radio station so that it was not possible to provide a similar opportunity to all candidates throughout the Territory. 
The question of political broadcasts will again be referred to the Administrator's Executive Council for consideration before the next general election. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The article purports to describe the activities of Special Branches of Police Forces in general, and not the activities of the former special branch of the Royal Papua' and New Guinea Constabulary. It is assumed however, that this question refers to laws applying in the Territory of Papua and New Guinea. 
There are specific provisions in the Criminal Codes and Posts and Telegraphs Ordinances of the Territories of Papua and New Guinea dealing with interference to Postal, Telegraphic and Telephonic services. There are no other laws dealing specifically with the activities referred to, but the laws and Courts of the Territory of Papua and New Guinea - like those of many countries - provide remedies against invasion of privacy. 
With effect from the close of business on 16th April. 1971, the role and functions of the Special Branch, Royal Papua and New Guinea Constabulary were taken over by the Intelligence and Security Division of the Department of the Administrator, the Division having been created on 28th January 1971. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(1) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1, (2) and (3) An internal study group comprising officers of the Administration and Department of External Territories with functional responsibilities for broadcasting matters in the Territory has been set up to advise the Administration and the Department of External Territories on the House of Assembly motion of 4th September 1970. 
It became clear once the study group started its work that the important policy issues involved would need to be considered by the Administrator's Executive Council and the Australian Government before a reply to the House of Assembly motion could be formulated. It became apparent too that any new arrangements would need to be considered against the background of a quicker movement towards internal selfgovernment and independence. The central questions to be considered were the future responsibility for broadcasting and what would be an appropriate organisation for an independent Papua and New Guinea. It was therefore decided that a draft proposal should be prepared for consideration by the Administrator's Executive Council and the Australian Government. 
The study group has held discussions in Canberra and there have been high level discussions between the Department of External Territories and the ABC. Further discussions will be held with the ABC, the Postmaster-General's 
Department and other interested parties in Australia and the Territory before proposals are prepared for the Administrator's Executive Council and the Australian Government A reply will then be prepared to the House of Assembly's motion. Final decisions will not be taken until the House of Assembly has fully considered all the issues involved. 
Approximately $4,550. 
Papua New Guinea: Trading with Natives Ordinance (Question No.  2384) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The matter referred to is one which falls within the authority of the Assistant Ministerial Member for Local Government in the House of Assembly for Papua New Guinea. The Administrator on the advice of the Assistant Ministerial Member for Local Government has provided the following information: 
128 councils. 
(a) (i) Nil. 
Four. 
(i) Nil. 
Nil. 
(a) Two. 
One. 
One. 
The Council's stated reasons for refusing the licence were not in accord with accepted legal grounds for doing so. The stated reasons clearly indicated that the applicant's expatriate racial status was the major determining factor. 
The proposed Licences to Trade Bill 1971 is in the later stages of drafting for tabling at the June sittings of the House. This Bill is specifically designed to make Local Government Councils the licensing authority for their area and to give them wide discretion in granting licences in order to protect and foster established and prospective indigenous enterprise. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. Expenditure records do not readily disclose the cost of fares by destination. The position is similar to that explained in reply to Question 2531. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The University of Papua New Guinea Council has appointed a committee to report on the provision of married student accommodation. It has been able- to ascertain that there are 23 indigenous married students who would desire married accommodation. The committee has not yet been able to settle on the exact number of students who are married according to native custom and whose wives reside outside Port Moresby in their home villages. 
There are 2 students whose wives are full-time students of the University and are provided with single accommodation in the University's female dormitories. The Committee is expected to make a full report to the University Council during June, 1971. 
I have received a letter from the General Secretary, of the Australian Presbyterian Board of Missions informing me of a resolution . by the Methodist, Presbyterian and Congregational Boards of Missions to the effect that the University be requested to provide married accommodation. 
I have requested the Administration to take up the matter with the University. 
Papua New Guinea: Wage Fixing Machinery - ILO Convention No. 99  (Question No. 3284) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
International Labour Organisation Convention No. 99 - Minimum Wage Fixing- Machinery (Agriculture), 1951, was extended to the Territory . of Papua New Guinea without modification on 3.1st March 1971. 
The Government is very concerned to maintain high morale among expatriate officers in the Papua New Guinea Public Service. The Government from time to time has introduced schemes which the Government believes will maintain this confidence and hope for the future with the view that these employees will be able to pursue a satisfactory career in their calling. Circumstances are changing in Papua New Guinea. I believe that the sorts of policies that we have accepted need to be reviewed from time to time. The matters which have been brought up by the honourable member are under consideration at present. But I emphasise that it is most important that we retain the confidence of public service officers in Papua New Guinea in the future opportunities in that country. 
I advise the honourable member that the Ministerial Member is empowered under his own authority to issue permits, but I am not sure whether he has the power to deport. I shall inquire into the matter and advise the honourable member. 
May I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this matter. Before the debate is resumed on this Order of the Day I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this motion and the Papua New Guinea Bill. I suggest, therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the 2 Orders of the Day to be discussed in this debate. 
 Mr Deputy Chairman,  the Government accepts the clause as it stands. We have encouraged the House of Assembly in democratic procedures, and we accept the wishes of the House of Assembly. 
Question put: 
That clause  3 be  agreed  to. 
The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
The matter referred to is one which falls within the authority of the Assistant Ministerial Member for Local Government in the House of Assembly for Papua New Guinea. The Administrator on the advice of the Assistant Ministerial Member for Local Government has provided the following information: 
1969-1970-623, 45.7 per cent 1st July 1970 to 14th January 1971-910, 6.3 per cent. 
1969-1970- (a) $57,088; (b) 45.3 per cent. 1st July 1970 to 14th January 1971- (a) $7,276; (b) 6.3 per cent. 
Bank overdraft- 1969-1970- Nil. At 28th January 1971-$405. 
The Administrator on 10th November 1970 wrote to the Commonwealth Bank and requested an overdraft for the Council. The Bank agreed to an overdraft of $10,000 on the basis that the Administration would repay the Bankis necessary. 
Tax collections were seriously disrupted by Court challenges to the validity of the Council and enforced delays in prosecuting defaulters. Even staunch supporters of the Council were reluctant to pay tax when others were successfully avoiding obligations. The uncommitted majority have treated the occasion as a tax-free holiday, tax collection having become anincreasing problem in the area before the establishment of the multiracial council. Figures on taxpayers and amounts paid are noindication of support or otherwise for the Council vis-a-vis the Mataungan Association but are symptomatic of the unsettled situation. 
No feasibility or economic study has been earried out on this scheme but this is not required by the World Bank. The World Bank first of all makes a study to decide whether there is a need for a power supply. I think the World Bank is in a very good position to make a decision in this regard because, as the honourable member will recollect, the mission of the World Bank advised us on the economic development of the whole of Papua New Guinea. From our own studies of the power needs of Papua New Guinea, power needs are rising by 20 per cent per annum. I understand that in the area which the Ramu Valley operation will serve the power needs are even greater. Examinations have been undertaken by the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority and the Commonwealth Department of Works, apart from the Administration, and they have all indicated the need for this sort of operation. 
The honourable member will appreciate that the alternative source of power is thermal power and this is an area in which the World Bank did carry out a study of the technical and economic benefits of such an alternative source. The World Bank decided that the hydro-electric scheme was far more efficient than a thermal scheme. In fact, on the studies it made, a hydroelectric scheme as against a thermal power scheme over the 25-year term of the loan would lead to a saving of $30m. In reply to that part of the honourable member's question relating to the possibility of increased electricity charges, on present indications, owing to the economy and efficiency of the hydro-electric scheme, there will be no increase in charges for power. Generally I believe this will be a most acceptable operation in this area. After all, it will service the areas of Lae, Madang, Goroka and Mount Hagen which all are very rapidly advancing areas. The operation has the support of the House of Assembly and the Administrator's Executive Council. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Australia has sought and received assistance for the Territory of Papua New Guinea under the Commonwealth Co-operation in Education Scheme and other Commonwealth programmes as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes to both parts. 
No. Official members are guided by Government policy in this as in other matters. The Government looks to the House of Assembly to represent the views of the majority of the people and to take the initiative in such matters as the pace and nature of constitutional development. Reservations previously expressed about a timetable have been based on objections to ae externally imposed or arbitrary timetable. They do not apply to a timetable of Papua New Guinea's own choosing. In the final report of the Select Committee approved on 11th March, there is reference to an approximate timetable for internal self-government. Official members took no part in the debate nor did they vote, except for the member who was vice-chairman of the Select Committee who voted in favour. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth, the Administration and 1 Territory Authority, the 'Papua New Guinea Development Bank, beneficially hold shares in one or more enterprises in the Territory of Papua New Guinea. The information required about each is respectively set out below: 
The Commonwealth is the beneficial owner of shares held in 2 enterprises in the Territory of Papua New Guinea. The enterprises are - 
Commonwealth-New Guinea Timbers Ltd; and 
New Guinea Resources Prospecting Co. Ltd. 
<para pgwide="yes">The information requested about these 2 enterprises in parts (2), (3) and (4) of the question is set out below:___ 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) Detailed records of this nature have not been kept in the Territory but the following information is supplied from those records which are available: 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The matters referred to is one which falls within the authority of the Ministerial Member for Labour in the House of Assembly for Papua and New Guinea. The Administrator on the advice of the Ministerial Member for Labour has provided the following information: 
The number of deaths caused by industrial accidents in the Territory of Papua and New Guinea in each of the years since 1960-61 is set out below: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Three persons committed for trial by  Mr Walters  have been . acquitted since December, 1969. Two persons committed for trial during this period were discharged after the Crown declined to proceed further on the indictments. 
The Supreme Court has allowed appeals against convictions by  Mr Walters  since December 1969 in 6 cases involving 10 charges. Four of the 6 cases were remitted for rehearing. Three of these cases were remitted because the same procedural requirement had not been followed. 
In a further 4 appeals involving 4 charges sentences imposed by  Mr Walters  since December 1969 were reduced. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Basic Agreements in seeking aid for the Territory of Papua and New Guinea, Australia has entered into a number of Basic Agreements covering the terms and conditions under which such aid is to be provided. 
Two Basic Agreements with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) have been negotiated. The Special Fund (SF) Standard Agreement was signed on 6th February 1967 and the Technical Assistance (TA) Standard Agreement was signed on 21st May 1968. 
A Basic Agreement with the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) was signed on 21st December 1967. 
A Basic Agreement with the World Health Organisation (WHO) was signed on 17th March 1969. 
Australia on behalf of the Territory of Papua and New Guinea has sought and received the following assistance: 
From the International Labour Organisation (ILO): 
* A Co-operative Education project to assist in the development of co-operative education, including instruction at the Co-operative Educational Centre, and advice on courses and equipment. Project's duration, one year from 11th August 1969. UNDP/TA contributed SUS23.500. 
* ILO UNDP/SF project of 3i years' duration (commenced 1st August 1970) to assist the Government in the establishment and initial operation of a Co-operative College at Laloki, and in the planning and implementation of extension programmes in the field for employees and members of co-operatives and owners of small business enterprises. The UNDP/SF contribution is $US572,000. 
* A Pottery Development project for 4 years from 25th June 1967, to develop a small scale pottery industry, utilising low level technology, in the Albom and coastal areas of New Guinea and the Amphlett Islands. An indigenous counterpart was appointed in December 1968 and completed a 6 months' fellowship in Thailand in April 1970. UNDP/TA is contributing $US107,000. 
* Vocational and Industrial Training project to assist the development of vocational and industrial training. Experts are provided for from 3 to 12 months. Approved 3rd April 1970. UNDP/TA contribution is $US130,200 
* A Wood Carving Project, with UNDP/TA of $US29,000. To last 12 months. Approved but not yet in operation. 
Territory Representatives have attended regular internship study courses held by the International Institute for Labour between 1965 and 1970 and have also attended a number of seminars conducted by ILO. 
ILO Regional Project in conjunction with South Pacific Commission (S.P.C.) 
* I.L.O. UNDP/TA Project of 4 months' duration, to provide a training course in Elementary Economics and Business Methods for instructors and advisers from co-operative departments and business advisory services. UNDP/TA contribution of $US1 2,000. 
From the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO): 
* An Animal By-Products Utilisation project. An FAO expert spent 5 weeks from 9 January 1969 examining and reporting on meat production and utilisation of products from livestock, including advising the Administration on the preservation of meat. (Administration met all costs; FAO provided expert.) 
* FAO UNDP/TA Home Economics project over 2 years to develop an instructional organisation in the field of home economics at the village level. Approved but not yet in operation. UNDP/TA is contributing $US73,000. 
A Veterinary Officer's Conference was held in TPNG in 1969. 
An expert from the FAO/IBRD Co-operative Programme visited TPNG to review its current fisheries programme and evaluate the possiblities of productive investment during 1968. 
FAO Regional Projects In Conjunction with SPC: 
*FAO UNDP/SF project on Control of the Coconut Palm Rhinoceros Beetle, began 30 September 1964. Originally of 5 years duration, the project was extended by 2i years to 1972. It is now committed to the expansion of training activities and to the evaluation of control measures so far discovered. UNDP/SF is contributing SUS600.000. 
*FAO UNDP/SF project to assist with the establishment of a Fisheries Development Agency, to determine feasible areas of fishery development in the South Pacific Region, Project's duration, 3 years from 3 March 1969. UNDP/SF is providing SUS426.700. 
From United Nations Educational, Scientific ami Cultural Organization (UNESCO): 
* UNESCO and UNDP/SF Secondary Teacher's College, Goroka, project to assist in the establishment and initial operation of the College, which is to train teachers for the lower forms of secondary schools. Preliminary operations were authorised from January 1968 and the project officially commenced 28 March 1968, duration 5 years. The UNDP/SF contribution is $US1,196,000. (This project is closely related to the UNICEF UNESCO/TA Science Education Project and the UNESCO UNDP/TA Science Teaching and Curriculum Development Project.) 
UNESCO UNDP/TA Science Teaching and Curriculum Development project to revise the curriculum in science and to improve the primary teacher training programme, and professional competence of science teachers in secondary schools. Commenced 1 February 1968; duration 3 years with possible extension. UNDP/TA contribution is $US70,900. (This project is closely related to the UNICEF UNESCO/TA Science Education Project and the UNESCO UNDP/SF Goroka Teacher's College Project.) 
TPNG is participating in the UNESCO International Hydrological Decade. During the Decade international experts will visit PNG and advise on specific matters. Territory delegates will attend seminars on hydrological topics and selected staff will receive special training overseas. 
Territory representative awarded UNESCO scholarship to undertake a laboratory technicians' course in Italy. 
A request has been made for UNESCO/SF assistance for a Technician Training project at Lae. 
From the United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO): 
*UNlDO and UNDP/TA Building and Construction Materials project, for 6 months from 9 September 1968, to make an assessment of the prospects for the economic production in the Territory of cement, glass, fibro-cement, bricks, clay pipes and other building and construction materials. UNDP/TA contribution was $US15,000. 
* UNIDO and UNDP/TA. Clothing and Textile Industries project for 3 months from 28 August 1968, to study and report on the feasibility of establishing a clothing and textile industry in TPNG, and to evaluate the Highlands hand-loom wool weaving project. UNDP/TA contribution was SUS9.000. 
* UNIDO UNDP/TA Paper and Pulp project for one year from 9th February 1970, to advise on the economics and feasibility of establishing  a  wood chip or pulp and paper industry. UNDP/TA is contributing SUS24.000. 
* UNIDO UNDP/TA Indigenous Entrepreneurship project of six months' duration from 5th June 1970, to advise on the formulation of a long range policy for the promotion of indigenous entrepreneurship and to identify areas where technical assistance could be rendered. UNDP/TA contribution SUS12.000. 
* UNIDO UNDP/TA Sericulture Industry of  6  months' duration from 22 June 1970, to investigate the possibility of rearing Eri silkworms and processing silk on a cottage-industry basis, UNDP/TA contribution $US12,000. 
From the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD): 
In June 1968, a loan of SA6.3 million (SUS7.9 million) was negotiated from IBRD to expand and improve telecommunications throughout the Territory. Duration of project is 4 years. 
In June 1970, an agreement was entered into with the IBRD/IDA for a loan/credit of $A8.0 million (JUS9 million) for a highway project in the Highlands. The IBRD is contributing $A4 million ($US4.5 million) and the IDA SA4 million (SUS4.5 million). 
Negotiations were completed during April 1971 for a SUS23.2 million loan from IBRD to finance stage one of the Upper Ramu Hydro-Electric Scheme. 
*IBRD and UNDP/SF provided the Transport Survey analysis of the present transport facilities and services in the Territory and advice on how to improve efficiency and lower cost for these services. Its object was also to provide guidance for the future organisation of the Transport Department, and to prepare projections and allocations of traffic for the different modes of transport and a 5 year transport development programme. Project's duration, 18 months from 21 June 1968. UNDP/SF contribution was $US489,000. 
An IBRD Mission visited TPNG during 1967 to examine and discuss current developments and projects which could qualify for IBRD or IDA loans. Mission included economists and experts in agriculture, transport and power. 
A Mission from IBRD visited TPNG in 1969 and prepared a report on the economic development of the Territory and also examined projects for assistance from the World Bank Group. 
From the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF): 
UNICEF UNESCO/TA Science Education project of 3 years duration from February 1968, to improve the standards, quality and effectiveness of primary science education. An expert in Science teaching and curriculum development is provided by UNESCO. UNICEF contribution is $US275,000. (This project is closely related to the UNDP/UNESCO Science Education and Curriculum Development Project and the UNDP/UNESCO Goroka Teacher's College Project). 
A Territory representative attended a UNICEF Training Course in Child Health in December 1967. 
Three science specialists from TPNG attended a UNICEF Regional Workshop on Integrated Science Teaching in August 1970. 
From International Development Association (IDA): 
A credit of SUS1.S million ($A1.3 million) was approved in January 1969, for oil palm development in West New Britain. This involved the establishment of 580 smallholders to grow 4,600 acres of oil palm. 
A further credit of JUS5.0 million (SA4.5 million) was approved in January 1970. The credit will be used to finance the planting or replainting of 10,000 acres of coconuts; the development and stocking of 150,000 acres of beef cattle farms; the establishment of 980 smallholders to grow 7,840 acres of palm oil; and the construction of  a  wharf at Kimbe. 
Joint IDA/IBRD credit/loan of SA8 million for Highlands Road Project. IDA is contributing  a  credit of SA4.0 million. 
From Universal Postal Union (UPU): 
UPU and UNDP/TA Postal and Philatelic Training project. An Internation Fellowship for 5 months from 1 July 1968, to accelerate the development of training of local officers for executive duties in the Philately and General Section of the Department of Posts and Telegraphs, Port Moresby. The UNDP/TA contribution was SUS3.600. 
From World Health Organization (WHO): 
WHO UNDP/TA Malaria Eradication project of 3 months duration from November 1970, to analyse the present malaria programme in relation to the feasibility of initiating a malaria eradication programme or of continuing the present control measures. UNDP/TA contribution SUS12.000. 
Territory representative attended WHO study course in Dental Epidemiology in 1965. 
WHO Regional Malaria Adviser visited the malaria eradication services at Rabaul; and WHO Regional Adviser on Health Education visited TPNG in connection with the development of health education in TPNG during 1965. 
WHO Sanitary Engineer visited TPNG to familiarise himself with the water supply schemes in TPNG 
Two Territory representatives attend WHO Course on Environmental Sanitation; and a local malaria eradication assistant was a member of  a  WHO specialised course in epidemiology. 
Two Territory personnel attended WHO course in Malaria Control; and a Territory representative attended a WHO Malaria Course for Instructors, and WHO Course in Bacterial Disease. 
WHO Assistant Director Medical Services visited TPNG to inspect the Territory's medical services. 
Three WHO Dental Consultants appointed to provide dental health advisory services for TPNG 
Territory personnel attended WHO Malaria Eradication Courses in Manila during 1966-67. 
The 4th South-West Pacific Malaria Conference was held in Kundiawa in May 1969. 
Territory representative participated in the First Regional Course on the Health Aspects of Population Dynamics in Manila, November 1970. 
Territory representatives attended 21st, 22nd, 23rd and 24lh World Health Assembly. 
Territory representative attended Second General Course on Malaria in Manila, 1970. 
WHO consultant visited TPNG in 1968 and submitted a report on a Public Health Nursing Project. 
WHO representative appointed Advisory Consultant for a Nursing Advisory Services Project. 
Territory represented at 3rd Regional Training Course on National Health Planning. 
Forty-three WHO fellowships awarded to TPNG for special study and training in health matters not available in the Territory or Australia. 
WHO Regional Adviser on Nutrition visited TPNG to explore Administration's interest in participating in Applied Nutrition Education and Training project. 
WHO Medical Nutritionist visited TPNG in 1968 to carry out survey on medical nutrition. 
Regular WHO seminars and workshops have been attended by Territory personnel. 
From International Telecommunication Union (ITU): 
Two Territory representatives attended an I.T.U. Seminar on Organisation and Management of Telecommunication services in November 1970. 
A Territory representative attended anI.T.U. seminar on Broadcasting Technology in December 1970. 
I.T.U. Regional Telecommunications Adviser visited TPNG to report on possible I.T.U. assistance to TPNG during 1969. 
From International Monetary Fund (IMF): 
IMF Consultant spent one month in 1969 studying PNG taxation.. 
Projects marked with an asterisk (*) are UND Projects, with the appropriate specialised agency actng as executing agency for UNDP. 
General: 
The Administering Authority has continued to co-operate with the organs of the United Nations and with the Specialised Agencies in furnishing reports and other information in relation to the Territory. PNG became an associate member of ECAFE after the Economic and Social Council of the UN, at its 49th Session, passed a resolution to this effect and approved it without objection in 1970. The Territory was represented for the first time at meetings  of  ECAFE during January/ February 1971. 
Territory representatives are included in Australia's delegations or attend meetings of the Specialised Agencies when it appears that the subject matter will be of interest to the Territory.  For  example, Territory representatives have attended the 49th, 50th, 52nd, 53rd and 54th Sessions  of  the International Labour Conference; a Territory representative attended an FAO/ILO/UNESCO World Conference on Agricultural Education and Training during 1970; Territory personnel attended the WHO Inter-Regional Conference on Medical Education in developing countries and the 15th, 16th, 17th, 18th, 19th and 20th WHO Regional Committee Meetings. The specialised publications issued by the agencies are received in the Territory and are considered of particular value. Additionally, the Territory is visited from time to time by representatives of the UNDP and the Specialised Agencies to review progress with various assistance projects and consider possible future projects. 
The Territory has received considerable additional benefit from the United Nations Specialised Agencies through the South Pacific Commission. The Commission, which is not itself a United 
Nations Specialised Agency was set up by countries responsible for territories in the region, collaborates closely with and frequently seeks expert help from the Specialised Agencies in providing assistance through its regional projects to meet the particular needs of dependent territories in the South Pacific Region - including Papua and New Guinea. Assistance received by the Territory from this source includes specialised help from the following - 
joint SPC/WHO projects on health problems and conditions found in the territories including - 
refresher course on Tuberculosis, 
course on Vital and Health statistics, 
maternal and child welfare, 
youth work, 
sanitation, 
community health education, 
nutrition, 
epidemiology, 
training of health workers. 
joint SPC/FAO projects in a number of fields including: 
home economics training. 
agricultural extension, 
plant protection, collection and introduction, 
crop production. 
co-operatives, 
control of pests and diseases in plants and animals, 
nutrition, 
fisheries training, 
boat building. 
joint UNDP/FAO/SPC projects: 
fisheries development (SP1FDA) 
control of the Coconut Plam Rhinoceros Beetle. 
Full details of these two projects are given under (b) above (FAC Regional Projects). 
joint UNDP/ILO SPC Project: 
Course in Elementary Economics and Business Methods. 
Full details of this project are given under (a) above (ILO Regional Project). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As indicated in the Annual Reports for Papua and New Guinea (for the 1968-1969 Reports see Parliamentary Papers 136 and 99 of 1970) the Royal Papua and New Guinea Constabulary consists of three branches: 
the Regular Constabulary Branch - engaged wholly on police duties; 
the Field Constabulary Branch - comprising officers of the Department of District Administration who carry out police duties only in those areas where no officer of the Regular Constabulary is stationed; and 
the Reserve Constabulary Branch - a permanent body of part-time volunteers appointed by the Commissioner and trained by members of the Regular Constabulary. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the  annual report on the Territory of Papua for the period 1st July 1969 to 30th June 1970. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the report to the General Assembly of the United Nations on the administration of the Territory of New Guinea for the year ended 30th June 1970. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The matter referred to is one which falls within the authority of the Assistant Ministerial Member for Transport in the House of Assembly for Papua New Guinea. The Administrator on the advice of the Assistant Ministerial Member for Transport, has provided the following information: 
Final designs for Papua New Guinea road signs have been decided upon. The Motor Traffic (Signs) Ordinance 1968 states 'as far as practicable road signs shall be of a pictorial nature accompanied by explanations as required in English or a prescribed language'. The roadsigns approved for prescription as regulations under this Ordinance are those in the United Nations Convention on Road Signs and Signals 1968 adapted as necessary to ensure that pictorial representations are recognisable and intelligible to local people and generally in keeping with the way of life in the Territory. For example, a man will be depicted wearing shorts as distinct from long trousers as in the United Nations system. 
The Administrator has received a copy of a comprehensive submission recently made to the Minister for External Territories by  Mr C.  K. Bibs of the Semantography Institute. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows - 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. Approximately 143,000 long urns (160,000 short tons) of waste and ore will be mined per day. 
No. 
(a) Production of copper contained in oucentrate will average 150,000 long tons P:i annum in the first 10 years of the life of the project. In the initial production years, mining will take place on zones of higher grade ore. Thereafter, copper production will diminish as lower grade ore zones are worked, (b) Ore reserves are currently estimated to be sufficient for a period of at least 30 years of profitable production, (c) Ore reserves within the limit of the planned open pit are estimated to be approximately 900 million tons of ore averaging 0.48 per cent copper and 0.36 dwt gold per ton. 
Production of copper concentrates is expected to contain an average of 500.000 oz of gold per annum for the first tcn years. The amount of gold in the ore is directly related to the copper content (see (4) (a) above). 
The ore body is one of the world's largest deposits of copper sulphide and gold will be produced as a co-product of copper in the refining process. In comparison wilh the grade of ore mined in Australian gold mines, the gold content of Bougainville ore is low. 
See (4) and (5). 
No. over fifteen years with a vendor's option to sell 
(a) Contracts have been concluded for the Japan a further 82,500 tons of copper. Details of sale of 1,992,500 tons of copper in concentrates the contracts are as follows: 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (5) The numbers of West Irianese who have been returned -or have been ordered to return to West Irian are not available.- Because of the nature of the border between Indonesia and Papua New Guinea it is not possible to state the number of people who move across it in either direction. Those who cross the border fall into the following categories: 
local border inhabitants who cross the horder for social, trading or hunting 'purposes. These traditional border dwellers with no wish to reside permanently outside their own traditional area are considered to be by far the largest category of border crossers; 
those inhabitants of the border region who cross the border into Papua New Guinea and seek to remain there for economic reasons. These people are told by officers at border stations that economic reasons are insufficient to justify the crossing of the border or the right of entry into Papua New Guinea and they are asked to return to West Irian; 
since 1962 a number of people have entered Papua New Guinea from West Irian and sought permission to remain there on humanitarian grounds. Over 500 people have been granted permission to reside in Papua New Guinea as a result. Those whose, applications for permissive residence are not successful are returned to West Irian in consultation with the Indonesian authorities. Where examination of an -application indicates that it might not be successful the matter is considered by the Administrator's Executive Council before arrangements are made for the person's return. The arrangement by which the Administrator's Executive Council is consulted was instituted in early January 1970 and between then and the end of that year, 21 people (including dependants) had been returned. Arrangements for the return of such people are made public in Papua New Guinea. Once a person has been returned to West Irian it is not the practice of the Government to enquire further into his whereabouts or circumstances. However, the Government is not aware of any penalties having been imposed on such people. 
The Australian Government does nol send back to Indonesian territory persons who, in the view of the Australian Government, have reasonable grounds for fearing persecution for their political activities or beliefs. 
Shortly after Indonesia took over the administration of West Irian, Indonesian soldiers or police crossed the border on at least a dozen occasions because it is not marked and they were at that time unfamiliar with its location. 
There have since been three incidents. The first occurred on 6th April 1969 (Hansard 30th April 1969, page 1490). 
The second occurred in the Kwan area on 19th May 1969 at a village called Kau-Ulai. The ' incident involved the shooting by an Indonesian patrol of two West Irianese in Papua. 
Following these two incidents liaison procedures were established between the authorities on both sides of the border with a view to avoiding such incidents. -In general, these have proved satisfactory. 
However, an Indonesian patrol entered the Territory of New Guinea on 4th October 1970 in the vicinity of Sekotchiau in the West Sepik District and burned some bush huts. Liaison procedures were put into effect and an aerial inspection was made by both Australian and Indonesian officials. Indonesian officials ordered the patrol to return to West Irian and made it clear that they regarded the incursion of the patrol as serious. They assured the Australian authorities that Indonesian patrols have standing instructions not to cross the border.. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The attention of the Government has been drawn to the terms of the resolution of the Papua New Guinea House of Assembly to which the honourable member has referred. The Government has concluded that it would not be appropriate to seek the appointment of an all-party Committee for the purpose stated in the resolution. The Government facilitates the visits of members of Parliament to Papua New Guinea to keep themselves informed of the situation there, lt will of course continue to do so. 
The Administrator has been authorised to inform the  Speaker  of the House of Assembly of the Government's decision in this matter. This was done on 7th September. 
I should like to add that my letter informing the Prime Minister of the resolution was dated 19th August. The letter had not however been placed before the Prime Minister when he was asked the question on this matter by the Member for Lang on 25th August. 
With regard to the incident in Papua New Guinea, I support the Administrator in his remarks. 
 I propose to deal with the area of my responsibility, which is Papua New Guinea. This year's Budget makes provision for Commonwealth aid of an economic nature to Papua New Guinea amounting to nearly $131m. This aid will enable the Government to meet Australia's obligations for the economic development of Papua New Guinea. It has become fashionable to emphasise political development as Australia's main task in Papua New Guinea. In many ways this is understandable. It is an area in which every one regards himself as an expert. But in the long term Australia will be judged by the way it has performed the more complex task of economic development. 
When I became Minister eight years ago and paid my first visit to Papua New Guinea I concluded that we would have to do more towards economic development and do it quickly. An education system was well on the way. Many of the country's health problems were being met. A system of local government was drawing the people into active political participation. The course was already set which was to lead the House of Assembly to its present position as the authentic voice of the people. AH this was gratifying. But I took the view then, as I do today, that if selfgovernment and independence were to mean anything at all to the people of Papua New Guinea they must not be too dependent economically on Australia and other countries. The country had to build up its capacity to pay its own way. A World Bank mission reported in 1964. The Australian Government accepted the Mission's production programmes as a working basis for planning. It formulated plans to increase Papua New Guinea's productive capacity. These plans have since been incorporated in a development programme published in 1968 and revised this year. 
As I told the people then 1 was guided by a sincere desire to do everything I could that would best further the progress and prosperity of the country. At that time agriculture was the chief activity. The economy was to a large extent dependent on the production of copra, rubber, coffee and cocoa. The timber industry was in the early stages of development. Manufacturing industries were of minor significance. Mining was declining. Commercial fishing was insignificant. Telecommunications were unsophisticated, if not primitive. The people relied heavily on costly air transport for freight. Revenue collected by the Administration was low - less than half the amount of the Commonwealth grant. Rightly. I think, we gave a new direction to Papua New Guinea's progress to nationhood. In the last 8 years economic progress there has been nothing less than remarkable. There have been substantial increases in primary production. The basic range of agricultural crops has been extended. Rural production has been diversified. A whole range of new industries has been introduced. 
These new industries have included oil palm which is expected to generate exports valued at S7m a year by 1976-77; tea production which is expected to exceed $6m by 1974-75; cattle which has made substantial progress over the last 5 years. The national cattle herd increased by 15,000 head last year to 103,000 of which 14,000 are owned by indigenous farmers. These figures will be doubled in the next 4 to 5 years; rice which is making steady progress and will continue to develop under the stimulus of a seed improvement programme and improved storage and pest control measures. Papua and New Guinea's forestry and fishery resources have been researched and promising new large-scale industries are now in sight. Only last month an agreement was signed for the establish ment of a SI 2m forest products industry in Madang. Papua New Guinea waters have substantial resources of skipjack tuna. They hold out the promise of an integrated industry involving catcher boats, shore-based freezers and a cannery processing complex. 
Manufacturing has been one of the fastest growing sectors of the economy. In the past 7 years manufacturing output has more than trebled. New industries now make glass bottles, fibreboard containers, cigarettes, fibreglass products and metal roofing. Mining is now becoming a prime source of export income and public revenue. Exports of copper concentrates from the huge Bougainville project will more than double Papua New Guinea's exports in 1973-74, the first full year of concentrate production. Total Administration revenue from the project is expected to amount to between $200m and $300m during the first 10 years of exports. At the same time Papua New Guinea's economic infrastructure is being strengthened and expanded. The provision of transport and communications services is costly and must therefore be carefully planned. The Administration has been assisted by international consultants under contract to the World Bank and the United Nations Development Programme and by loans from the Bank. As a result many major road projects have been undertaken or are under way. When the present stage of the telecommunications programme is completed in June next year, Papua New Guinea should have a system that will cater for all traffic offering at that time and be a sound foundation for future growth. 
On top of this the Administration has established the necessary institutional framework for promoting economic development. There is a Development Bank, institutions for tertiary and technological training, and machinery for planning and co-ordinating the country's economic development programmes. Large scale foreign investment has been essential to the development of Papua New Guinea. The indigenous people simply have not had the savings to act on their own. Everywhere I have been in Papua New Guinea I have heard the same plea for economic development - for more roads, new businesses, new crops to make rising standards of living possible. Without overseas investment there would not have been any modern economy for the people of Papua New Guinea to participate in. This foreign investment has been subject to policy guidelines. It has also been associated with the increasing participation of Papuans and New Guineans in the economy at all levels. They have derived many advantages - through employment, the contribution of taxes to Administration revenue, training and the ownership of equity. The participation of Papuans and New Guineans in economic development has been a cardinal point in our policy. 
The proportion of commercial, agricultural and pastoral production controlled by Papuans and New Guineans is increasing and is expected to reach 46 per cent by 1974-75. At present the Department of Business Development is giving regular assistance to 300 indigenous businesses. New fishing projects will provide an important new base for training Papuans and New Guineans and for servicing indigenous fishing activities. The Development Bank has an active policy of seeking indigenous borrowers. The number of Development Bank loans to indigenes increased from 422 in 1967-68 to almost 2,000 in 1970-71. The amount of indigenous loans increased from $678,000 in 1967-68 to $2.4m in 1970-71. A Bill before the House of Assembly will authorise local government councils to give preference to indigenous applicants for trade stores and similar licences to conduct small businesses. Legislation to restrict the entry of certain categories of non-indigenous workers is also before the House of Assembly. The Investment Corporation will acquire equity for the people of the country in selected major overseas business enterprises operating in Papua New Guinea. Business concerns themselves are responding to the Government's wish for greater indigenous participation in the economy. The record of Bougainville Copper is but one example. On behalf of the people of Papua New Guinea the Administration has acquired a 20 per cent equity interest in the Bougainville project. In addition, 14,000 shares in the company are held by landowners in the area. The recent share issue of Bougainville Mining Ltd of one million shares offered in Papua New Guinea was 300 per cent over-subscribed. More significantly,  however, 75 per cent of these shares were allocated to indigenous people and organisations. In short, indigenous participation in economic as well as social and political aspects of the development of Papua New Guinea has increased significantly. Policies designed to further increase such participation will continue to be implemented. 
Our record in Papua New Guinea has been a proud one. The Commonwealth contribution has been generous and well directed. Total economic aid over the 8 years to 1970-71 was $7 16m. The advice of recognised international experts has been sought at every stage. The result has been an increase in Papua New Guinea's financial self-reliance. Internal revenue in 1971-72 will provide about 36 per cent of total Administration expenditure in Papua New Guinea compared with about 25 per cent in 1963-64. From a country almost entirely dependent on a limited range of agricultural crops Papua New Guinea has been transformed into a country which in the period 1965-66 to 1969-70 had a rate of growth of 10 per cent per annum for the whole of the economy - an achievement equalled by very few other countries. Gross monetary sector product increased from $142m in 1963-64 to $450m in 1970-71. 
I would be the last to deny that Papua New Guinea, like all developing countries, still faces many problems. But I have confidence in its capacity to overcome them. We can see beyond the problems of today to the broader prospects ahead. It is unfortunate that the enthusiasm and energy of the people are not being accurately depicted. Much of what we read about Papua New Guinea is clouded by pessimism. Such a view is not only harmful. It is incorrect. Papuans and New Guineas everywhere are participating in and, indeed, taking increasing responsibility for their own affairs. They are truly shaping their own destiny. The record of achievement in economic development shows how they are doing so. It is an achievement that should give every reason for confidence in the future. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The members of the Advisory Committee on Education, Messrs W. J. Weeden, C. E. Beeby and G. B. Gris presented to me on 30th October 1969 their report on Education in Papua New Guinea. The report was tabled in the House of Assembly on 11th November 1969. 
Recently  Mr W.  J. Weeden prepared for me an advising on the future role of the Australian School of Pacific Administration at Mosman, New South Wales. It includes consideration of the future location for teacher training of Australians for service in Papua New Guinea. The Government will be considering the future role and activities of the School in the near future in the light of  Mr Weeden's  advice and that of the Commonwealth departments and Papua New Guinea authorities involved, and its decision will be announced as soon as possible. This report is in the form of a private advising to me. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The matter referred to is one which falls within the authority of the Ministerial Member for Education in the House of Assembly for Papua New Guinea. The Administrator on the advice of the Ministerial Member for Education has provided the following information: 
The Ministerial Member for Education advises  Dr Everingham  that he will have an assessment made of the value to linguistic and ethnological research of the work 'Sobraniya Socineniya' appearing in Hemisphere, August 1971. The possibility of getting a translation done will be examined if the translation is considered warranted. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1.551. 
; - The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) Parity of salary is maintained, as far as possible, between indigenous officers of the Papua New Guinea Public Service, the Royal Papua New Guinea Constabulary, the Pacific Islands Regiment and the Papua New Guinea division of the Royal Australian Navy. 
Expatriate officers are paid the same basic salary and allowances that they would receive if serving on the mainland of Australia plus an allowance for living and working in Papua New Guinea. This is a higher total rate than received by indigenous officers. 
Indigenous officers pay lower rentals than expatriate officers. The level of charges in messes is the same for both. Generally, the prices charged for any given item of purchase or service would be the same for expatriate and indigenous officers. As with expatriate officers, the extent to which indigenous officers can maintain a standard of living depends not only upon their income but also upon their personal and family circumstances. 
(a) No. 
No. 
No. 
 The answer to the honourmember's question is as follows: 
The matter referred to is one which falls within the authority of the Ministerial Member for Education in the House of Assembly for Papua New Guinea. The Administrator on the advice of the Ministerial Member for Education has provided the following information: 
The adequacy of the training of primary school teachers is particularly dependent upon the qualifications of students entering colleges and the length of the course of training. Over the last few years the numbers of students undertaking one year courses have steadily decreased and as from the beginning of 1971 all students entering teachers colleges undertake a two year course. 
Significant improvements have been made in the level of recruitment of students as is shown in this table. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. The Companies Ordinance has 2 objectives. It seeks to secure a proper regulation of companies on the island for the protection of shareholders, creditors and the general public. The legislation previously applicable was for the most part the Companies Act of New South Wales of 1899 and its provisions were out of date. The second objective of the Ordinance was to secure additional revenue for Norfolk Island by imposing increased fees on the filing by companies of their Annual Returns. In this respect a distinction is drawn between local companies actively carrying on business on the island and other companies. 
Not applicable. 
A petition has been signed by some 454 persons on Norfolk Island. The total permanent population is about 1,400 persons so that the petition was signed by less than one third of the inhabitants. Not all of the signatories were permanent residents or were entitled to be enrolled as Council electors. My understanding is that the public meeting referred to in the question  was  called to consider a future form of government for Norfolk Island and that the petition was a separate issue. The meeting did not express an opinion, so far as I am aware, on the question of a petition to the Governor-General. 
Five of the eight elected members of the Norfolk Island Committee resigned recently. With the exception of 2 Councillors, the reason offered by the resigning Councillors' was that they objected to the making of the Companies Ordinance 1971 without adequate consultation with the Council. One Councillor who resigned was about to leave the Island permanently. None of the Councillors who resigned, however, gave as a reason for resigning, his objection to any of the provisions of the Companies Ordinance 1971. 
It is not the Government's present intention to include Norfolk Island in any Commonwealth electorate. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The matter referred to is one which falls within the authority of the Ministerial Member for Education in the House of Assembly, for Papua New Guinea. The Administrator on the advice of the Ministerial Member for Education has provided the following information: 
The 1971 student enrolments are: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The matter referred to is one which falls within the authority of the Ministerial Member for Education in the House of Assembly for Papua New Guinea. The Administrator on the advice of the Ministerial Member for Education has provided the following information: (a) An estimated 359,800 children in Papua New Guinea are in the 7-12 age bracket. 223,091 children - are in primary schools that are members of the Papua New Guinea education system. There is a small number of schools which are not members. 
It is difficult to estimate how many of the 7-12 age group are not in primary schools for the age of students in the different types of primary schools varies from five years to sixteen plus. 
The proportion of school-aged children in primary schools varies from district to district. Current policy recognises these existing inequalities in educational provision and looks to holding current percentages by minimal enrolment increases in districts where there are currently over 50 per cent of the school-age population, with emphasis upon increasing enrolments as rapidly as possible in the districts where this figure has not as yet been, achieved. Pursuant to such policy, those districts with the lowest percentage enrolments have been allocated the majority of additional teachers becoming available, (b) Approximately 60 per cent of students completing a primary education are unable to obtain a place in secondary schools. 
1  saw a Press report regarding this variance of opinion between  Mr To  Liman and  Mr Newman.  It is difficult to understand how this came about. I think there is a great degree of misunderstanding. The subject matter related to persons employed in the teaching service, which is a public service and is responsible to the Minister for External Territories. There was no delay in this operation. In fact the ordinances were introduced yesterday. I think  2  of my officers were up in the Territory and were able to finalise this operation. But the important thing is that the people employed in the teaching service are responsible to the Minister for External Territories. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The matters referred to fall within the authority of the Ministerial Member for Health in the House of Assembly for Papua New Guinea. The Administrator on the advice of the Ministerial Member for Health has provided the following information: 
Most of the people of Papua New Guinea grow and prepare their own food by traditional methods. Protein deficiency and faulty weaning diets are some of the recognised problems which are receiving attention. It is the policy of the Papua New Guinea Administration to improve the levels of nutrition in Papua New Guinea with special emphasis on the needs of vulnerable groups of the population. Research has been and is still being carried out in the field. 
Food standards used in Papua New Guinea are based on recommended dietary allowances for Australians, that are now acknowledged as being arbitrary. No better standards are available and evidence on the requirements of Papuans and New Guineans is incomplete. 
Imported rice is enriched withThiamin and the use of iodised salt is encouraged. 
There is in operation a nutrition improvement programme. Other measures to deal with nutrition problems include: 
The establishment of Maternal and Child Health Centres throughout Papua New Guinea to advise mothers on health matters including nutrition. At 30th June 1971 there was 188 such centres. 
Health education programmes under which trained health educators inform villagers and school children about basic health and hygiene including nutritional matters. 
Community education courses are conducted by the Department of Social Development and Home Affairs in many parts of Papua New Guinea with participation by health workers. Home economics including cooking and nutrition is included in the courses. 
A Nutrition Rehabilitation Unit has been built adjacent to the Port Moresby General Hospital with assistance from the Foundation for the Peoples of the South Pacific. 
Other nutrition rehabilitation units are operating in Goroka and Kundiawa. Mothers with children suffering from nutritional deficiencies live in these units and receive instructions in unproved feeding habits. 
The syllabuses for primary and secondary schools throughout Papua New Guinea include nutrition education. 
High protein biscuits developed by CS1RO and manufactured in Australia are now available commercially. 
It is the Health Department's policy that nutrition improvement programmes must be based on locally available foods. Educational activities are directed towards identification and better utilisation of suitable foods produced locally. 
Papua New Guinea: Air Link with Guam (Question No. 3665) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Paragraph 3 of question 2409 asked the Minister for Civil Aviation: 
When was the Minister's attention drawn to the motion passed by the House of Assembly on 3rd September 1970 deeming the establishment of an air link between the Territory and Guam to be vital for the future development of the Territory and requesting the Commonwealth Government to obtain an amendment to the agreement with the United States of  America  which will permit the establishment of an air service between the Territory and Guam at the earliest possible date.' 
The answer given by the Minister for Civil Aviation was'28th October 1970'. 
The question of a service to Guam from Papua New Guinea had been the subject of detailed consideration by the Ministers for Civil Aviation and External Territories for many months prior to 3rd September 1970 when the House of Assembly motion on the matter was passed. This detailed consideration led to an approach to the United States authorities. Their reply is still outstanding for reasons connected with the current determination of their own civil aviation policy relating to operation of United Stales airlines in the area. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Professor Salisbury was engaged to advise the Papua New Guinea Administration. Many of his recommendations relate to matters falling within the final responsibility of elected Papua New Guinea Ministerial office-holders. The Administrator's Executive Council is now considering the report. After it has completed its consideration of the matter a statement will be made in the House of Assembly. 
Territorial Seas: Declarations by Mexico and Canada  (Question  No.  3995) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It was necessary to give the resolution of the House of Assembly full and proper consideration. 
Immigration: Settlers from South Africa (Question No. 3696) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The texts of I.L.O. Conventions are referred to the Administration of Papua New Guinea as they are adopted by the I.L.O. Under the I.L.O. constitution the making of a declaration in respect of Papua New Guinea stating the extent to which the provisions of any convention should be applied does not, of course, arise unless and until Australia has ratified that convention. 
International Labour Organisation Conventions: Application on Papua New Guinea (Question No. 2356) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Convention No. 83 - Labour Standards (NonMetropolitan Territories), 1947. 
Convention No. 84 - Right of Association (NonMetropolitan Territories), 1947. 
Convention No. 82 - Social Policy (NonMetropolitan Territories), 1947. 
These Conventions are at present the subject of consultation between the Department of External Territories, the Papua New Guinea Administration and the Department of Labour and National Service. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As indicated in the reply given by my colleague, the Minister for Labour and National Service, to the honourable member's question No. 2353 (page 750 of House of Representatives Hansard for 9th March 1971) the texts of all International Labour Organisation instruments are, as a matter of practice, brought to the attention of the Administration of Papua New Guinea as they are adopted. 
The Australian Government reports annually on the position of Australian law and practice in Papua New Guinea in relation to all the conventions listed by the honourable member except Nos 57, 76 and 93 which have not come into force and No. 116 which is concerned with machinery matters. The information contained in these reports is prepared by the Administration of Papua New Guinea. 
The position with respect to each of the conventions listed by the honourable member, as determined after consultations with the Administration, is as follows: 
In a declaration registered with the International Labour Office on 31st March 1971, Convention No. 99- Minimum Wage Fixing Machinery (Agriculture) 1951 was declared to apply to Papua New Guinea without modification. 
Convention Nos 15 - Minimum Age (Trimmers and Stokers) 1921, and 21- Inspection of Emigrants 1926 are considered to be inapplicable in Papua New Guinea. 
The International Labour Office has indicated that it is not necessary for declarations to be made with respect to the application in non-metropolitan territories of Convention No.116, which covers machinery matters relating to International Labour Organisation instruments. 
As to the remaining conventions (Nos 9, 16. 22, 26, 57, 63, 76. 88 and 93) 5 of these were previously declared inapplicable to Papua New Guinea. These declarations and the position regarding the other four conventions are now under review. 
International Labour Organisation Convention No. 25: Application in Papua New Guinea (Question  No. 3273) 
The answer to the honourmember's question is as follows: 
In 1931 I.L.O. Convention No. 26 was declared inapplicable' to Papua New Guinea. This declaration is now being reviewed. 
International Labour Organisation Convention No. 50: Application in Papua New Guinea (Question No. 3274) 
The answer to the honourmember's question is as follows: 
Australia has not ratified this Convention and. therefore, the question of making declarations regarding its application in Australia's nonmetropolitan territories has not arisen. Regarding the position in Papua New Guinea in relation to this convention, I refer to honourable member to my answer to his question No. 2356. 
International Labour Organisation Convention No. 64: Application in Papua New Guinea (Question No. 3275) 
The answer to the honourmember's question is as follows: 
Australia has not ratified this Convention and, therefore, the question of making declarations regarding its application in Australia's nonmetropolitan territories has not arisen. The law and practice of Papua New Guinea conform with this Convention. 
International Labour Organisation Convention No. 65: Application in Papua New Guinea (Question No. 3276) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Australia has not ratified this Convention and. therefore, the question of making declarations regarding its application in Australia's nonmetropolitan territories has not arisen. Regarding the position in Papua New Guinea in relation to this Convention I refer the honourable member to my answer to his question No. 2356. 
International Labour Organisation Convention No. 81: Application in Papua New Guinea (Question No. 3277) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Australia has not ratified ILO Convention No. 81 and, therefore, the question of making declarations regarding its application in Australia's nonmetropolitan territories has not arisen. However, Australia has ratified ILO Convention No. 85 Labour Inspectorates (Non-Metropolitan Territories), 1947 which was applied to Papua and New Guinea without modification on 20th June 1966. 
International Labour Organisation Convention No. 82: Application in Papua New Guinea (Question No. 3278) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Australia has not ratified this Convention and, therefore, the question of making declarations regarding its application in Australia's nonmetropolitan territories has not arisen. The possibility of ratifying this Convention is under consideration at present. 
International Labour Organisation Convention No. 86: Application in Papua New Guinea  (Question No. 3280) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Australia has not ratified this convention, and therefore, the question of making declarations regarding its application in Australia's nonmetropolitan territories has not arisen. Regarding the position in Papua New Guinea in relation to this convention I refer the honourable member to my answer to his question No. 2356. 
International Labour Organisation Convention No. 104: Application in Papua New Guinea  (Question No. 3285) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Australia has not ratified this Convention and, therefore, the question of making declarations regarding its application in Australia's nonmetropolitan territories has not arisen. Regarding the position in Papua New Guinea in relation to this Convention I refer the honourable member to my answer to his question No. 2356. 
International Labour Organisation Conventions Nos 112, 113 and 114: Application in Papua New Guinea  (Question No. 3399) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) There is close conformity between the law and practice of Papua New Guinea and Convention No. 112. The question of the declaration to be made in respect of Papua New Guinea is under active consideration. 
and (c) Law and practice In Papua New Guinea are not at present in compliance with Conventions Nos 113 and 114. 
There are continuing consultations between my Department and the Department of Labour and National Service concerning the position in the Territories relating to these conventions. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The matter referred to is one which falls within the authority of the Ministerial Member for Education in the House of Assembly for Papua New Guinea. The Administrator on the advice of the Ministerial Member for Education has provided the following information: 
The teachers of Administration schools and the majority of those of Mission schools are employed in the Papua New Guinea Teaching Service. All positions on the Teaching Service's establishment, which is set by the budget, are currently filled. There is however a shortage of permanent teachers. This shortage is at present made good by a number of temporary staff. It will be necessary if teachers are to be obtained in the numbers needed for the planned expansion of education in future, to increase the recruitment of teachers from overseas and to encourage more young people to enter the teaching profession. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The matter referred to is one which falls within the authority of the Assistant Ministerial Member for Local Government in the House of Assembly for Papua New Guinea. The Administrator on the advice of the Assistant Ministerial Member has stated that, while some replies have been received in response to requests for the information, an indication cannot at present be given as to when all the information will be available. Efforts to expedite the provision of the information will continue to be made. 
It is not expected that there will be difficulty in giving the information by districts. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) (i) Number of loans to indigenes in 1970-71-1,938 
(i) Amount of loans to indigenes in 1970-71- $2,381,560 
(ii) Number of loans to expatriates in 1970-71-103 
(ii) Amount of loans to expatriates in 1970-71-1,764,380 
In addition there were seven (7) loans to joint enterprises for $97,185. 
(a) (i) Number of indigenes employed at 30th June 1971-108 
(ii) Number of indigenes housed by the Bank at 30th June 1971-49 
(i) Number of expatriates employed at Bank at 30th June 1971-58 
(ii) Number of expatriates housed by the Bank at 30th June 1971-52 
(a) (i) Highest indigenous salary at 30th June 1971- $2,015 
(i) Lowest indigenous salary at 30th June 1971- $700 
(i) Average indigenous salary at 30th June 1971- $1,137 
(ii) Highest expatriate salary and allowances at 30th June 1971- $16,334 
(ii) Lowest expatriate salary and allowances at 30th June 1971- $3,450 
(ii) Average expatriate salary and allowances at 30th June 1971- $7,616 
The lowest indigenous salary ($700 per annum) is that of a 17-year-old female typist. The highest expatriate salary and allowance ($16,334 per annum) is in respect of the statutory appointment of the Managing Director. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Australia has not ratified this Convention and, therefore, the question of making declarations regarding its application in Australia's nonmetropolitan territories has not arisen. The Conventions relating to Minimum Age of Workers are to be discussed at next year's International Labour Conference. It is intended to review the position in Australia and Papua New Guinea towards this and related conventions in the light of the Conference decisions. 
International Labour Organisation Convention No. 98: Application in Papua New Guinea  (Question No. 3283) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Australia has not ratified this Convention and, therefore, the question of making declarations regarding its application in Australia's nonmetropolitan territories has not arisen. The position in Papua New Guinea is currently under review. Further information concerning Australia's position in relation to this Convention may be found in the reply given by my colleague the Minister for Labour and National Service to question No. 3702 of 8th September 1971. 
International Labour Organisation Convention No. 108: Application in Papua New Guinea (Question No. 3286) 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Australia has not ratified this Convention and, therefore, the question of making declarations regarding its application in Australia's nonmetropolitan territories has not arisen. Australia's position on the Convention is as stated in the Review of Australian Law and Practice Relating to Conventions Adopted by the International Labour Conference' (page 96). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have nothing further to add to the answers 1 gave to Questions No. 2968 at page 2118 of Hansard for 27th April, 1971 and No. 2356 at page 1706 of Hansard for 29th September 1971. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Australia has not ratified this Convention and, therefore, the question of making declarations regarding its application in Australia's nonmetropolitan territories has not arisen. With regard to Australia's position in relation to this Convention, I refer the honourable member to the answer to Question No. 4014 provided by the Minister for Labour and National Service. (Hansard page 1831.) 
International Labour Organisation Convention No. 95: Application in 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Australia has not ratified this Convention and, therefore, the question of making declarations regarding its application in Australia's nonmetropolitan territories has not arisen. The provisions of the Convention are being taken into account where appropriate in the revision of labour legislation referred to in my answer to question No. 2356. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Timber permits for small scale operations have been granted to Papuans and New Guineans for many years and the Government is continually exploring ways of further increasing their participation in the development of the forestry resources of Papua New Guinea. At this stage however, there is some danger In actively promoting investment in the timber industry by Papuans and New Guineans as many of the small expatriate operations are marginally pro* profitable and unable to compete on the export market due to cost disabilities. 
The Government believes that large scale operations, such as that being undertaken by the Japan New Guinea Timber Co. Ltd in the Gogol timber area near Madang are the most effective means of developing the vast timber resources of Papua New Guinea. 
In negotiations between the Government and the Japan New Guinea Timber Co. Ltd the need for maximum participation by Papuans and New Guineans was given first importance. The project will provide direct employment for up to 1,400 persons, mainly Papuans and New Guineans, and the Agreement provides for many of these to be trained in special skills. The Agreement also makes specific provision for the replacement of expatriate technicians and skilled workers by Papuans and New Guineans under a programme agreed with the Administration. The Administration will have an option to take up 20 per cent shareholding in the operating company, for later disposal to Papuans and New Guineans. The operating company will make substantial royalty payments for the timber harvested, in .addition to the normal company tax committments. 
The Gogol woodchip venture is a substantial enterprise involving an investment of about $12m. Woodchips, veneers and sawn timber worth over $5m annually will be produced for export to Japan and elsewhere. The agreement represents a major breakthrough in the utilisation of Papua New Guinea tropical hardwood resources. After many years of scientific research by the CSIRO and Japanese paper mills, an opportunity is available for assessing the quality of PNG tropical hardwood chips under commercial conditions. 
Vietnam: Prisoners Captured by Australian Forces (Question No. 3987) 
Health matters in Papua New Guinea are now a local responsibility. I am aware of certain factors in the Territory. When from time to time these factors reach a serious stage and we or the Territory believe that it is unable to cope with the situation, we usually get assistance from the World Health Organisation. I personally am not aware of what is being done but 1 will endeavour to find out from the Ministerial Member for Health and advise the honourable member. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (b) This matter is one which falls within the authority of the Assistant Ministerial Member for Transport in the House of Assembly for Papua New Guinea. The Administrator on the advice of the Assistant Ministerial Member for Transport, has provided the following information. All field investigations have been completed and a draft report has been in the hands of the Administration since the 17th August 1971. The decision whether or not to table the final report will be made by the Administrator's Executive Council. Maritime transportation needs are also currently under review by the Commission of Enquiry into Coastal Shipping and the Commission's final report should be ready for the Administrator by the end of October. Once again the decision about tabling the report in the House of Assembly will be made by the Administrator's Executive Council. 
Papua New Guinea: Political Refugees from West Irian (Question No. 4248) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
When a person arrives in Papua New Guinea with a prima facie case for permissive residence (see answer to question 3318 Hansard 20 August 1971 p. 474) he is provided wilh rations and the basic necessities of life while his case is under consideration. 
If granted permissive residence the Administrator of Papua New Guinea usually arranges settlement away from the border and adequate provision is made for housing, welfare and employment. When immediate employment is not available permissive residents are transferred to Manus holding centre where houses of reasonable standard are available. Each house is fully equipped with basic necessities and permissive residents are fully maintained whilst awaiting placement in employment in Papua or New Guinea. Permissive residents and their families are also free to utilise the same welfare benefits that are available to other Papua New Guinea residents. Administration officers are also ready to assist with any problems that may arise. The Administration endeavours to place permissive residents in useful employment which takes best advantage of their background training and abilities and where they can effectively contribute to the economic growth of Papua New Guinea. 
Separate English lessons specifically for permissive residents are not at present arranged. However, at the Manus centre West Irianese permissive residents attend adult literacy classes. Some 20 adults primarily West Irianese are enrolled in these classes. Where children of permissive residents attend schools they would benefit from the same facilities available to local children to learn English. Any specific approaches will, I feel sure, receive the sympathetic and careful consideration of the Administration in the context of the facilities available. 
International Labour Organisation Conventions Nos 64 and 83: Application in Papua New Guinea (Question No. 4254) 
I am grateful for the contributions made in this debate by honourable members from both sides of the House. Of course it is the duty of members of the Opposition to endeavour to find weaknesses but they have found it very difficult. Some of their arguments were very weak indeed. I hope to mention a few of them at least. However, I am grateful for the contribution from various honourable members on the Government side of the House who endeavoured to show what the Government is doing in Papua and New Guinea which, I believe, is to the great credit also of the Australian people. 
I was surprised at the sort of things that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  tried to bring up in this debate. Of course I should not have been surprised because he does not surprise anyone in this House. 
He denigrates our economic development in Papua New Guinea. Obviously he has not studied this report entitled 'Development Programme Review' although his office asked for a copy of it. If he troubled to read it he would see the tremendous advances in all sectors of the economy. 1 will not go through all the figures contained in it as it might bore people if I read figures like this. 
That was quite a glib remark from the honourable member for Wills but let us think back to 20 years ago when practically nothing was happening that country. This year it is expected that the Territory will generate $84m of revenue. It has developed from practically nothing 20 years ago. Is that not a substantial advance? One would think we had been developing that country for years but we have not. We started in the last war. Before the last war Australia itself was an underdeveloped country. How on earth could it then have found millions to develop Papua New Guinea? Australia was emerging from a desperate depression. The remarks of members of the Opposition are idle and they do not surprise me. 
The diversity in New Guinea has been mentioned and there are differences of opinion about tribes and all the rest of it. You get differences of opinion from expatriates everywhere. There is only one thing on which they are united and that is condemnation of the Leader of the Opposition. Everywhere we find that to the expatriates he is a disaster. He has been a disaster to New Guinea. 
I will not descend to answering the honourable member for Sturt but that is well known. The Leader of the Opposition has had a particular interest in the Gazelle Peninsula where the situation has been most unfortunate. I know that he counselled the people there against violence but, as I think the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  said, he encouraged them just the same and this has had disastrous results. Unfortunately, only for that encouragement I think we would have settled this trouble in the Gazelle Peninsula. The Leader of the Opposition spoke of our failure in regard to recruitment. Goodness me, after the sort of stories he tells and the attitudes that he advises I wonder that we get any recruits at all. He has amazing attitudes towards the people of Papua New Guinea. 
The honourable member for Swan  (Mr Bennett)  mentioned the wage system in the Territory and referred to the payment of differential wages. This, of course, is the accepted view of the Opposition which refused to acknowledge that all developing countries have this type of wage structure because such countries cannot afford otherwise. If they are to be independent they must have a wage structure related to their own economy otherwise they will have a false independence and will have to depend on subsidies from outside sources. This wage structure exists in Fiji, throughout Africa and in all developing countries. We would be false in our attitude if we said that we would bring this country to independence but saddle it with a wage structure based on Australia's economy. When the Government formulated this wage structure it was based on the primary products of Papua New Guinea - copra, cocoa, coffee and similar products. These are goods produced in the equatorial belt by countries which have the lowest standards of living in the world. 
I inform the Committee that the Australian Government has increased the wages in these highly intensive labour industries. The wage in the agricultural sector of Papua New Guinea are higher than in any similar country. If honourable members examine the wage structures in the newly independent African countries they will see that those countries have not improved their wages, but Papua New Guinea has to compete against those countries on the world markets. This is a problem that confronts the Territory. I will defend to the last drop of my blood our policies on the wage structure in Papua New Guinea. The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  had some quite- 
I am glad that the honourable member appreciated it, because if the honourable member for KingsfordSmith had not said that he had visited Papua New Guinea 1 would have concluded that he had gained his information from the mass media. The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith suggested that we should let the indigenous population go along with their own way of life. If I interpreted his remarks correctly he said that we should leave them to their own devices. He seemed to criticise our introducing our form of law and order. 
That is right. This was quite extraordinary because I do not think the honourable member would get any of the local people of Papua New Guinea to agree with him. One thing that they treasure is the form of law and order that Australia has introduced to Papua New Guinea. I remind the honourable member that until a few years ago in many parts of Papua New Guinea a man would be born and would live his whole life in one place, never moving more than about 5 or 6 miles from it because if he did he would be murdered in another tribal area. Today they can move from one end of Papua New Guinea to the other. I doubt whether there is any other country whose inhabitants appreciate what law and order means more than do the Papuans and New Guineans. They are jealous of this situation, so I think that the honourable member has been misinformed. 1 think he made a veiled criticism of the kiaps. This is the type of unfair criticism we hear from members of the Opposition. This body of men has made a most admirable contribution to the Territory. These few Australians brought law and order and government to Papua New Guinea. A few Australians went into that primitive and hostile country with a few policemen and native carriers and, with a minimum loss of life, brought control to the country and a better life to its people. I do not think their efforts could be equalled anywhere else. Yet these people are denigrated. 
The honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  made a most extraordinary statement. He said that he went up there recently for the first time in 8 years and the only change he noticed was a change in the racial problem. He did not notice that since we was last up there a university had been built. He did not notice that an institute of higher technology, a forestry school and an agricultural school had been established. He did not notice that a road had been built from Mount Hagen to Lae. He did not notice the improvements which have been made to the ports. He did not notice that this area has probably the most efficient telecommunications system of any underdeveloped country in the world. 
I do not think I need elaborate any further on what he did not notice because, as the honourable member for Boothby said, myopia is his problem. 
There is no doubt about the fact that he makes up a good story. 
I think it is proper to apply it to the honourable member for Chifley. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Order! All interjections, interruptions and comments are out of order. The honourable member for Sturt will resume his seat. 
1 support the remarks of the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  about the problems of unity, which is a critical matter to the Territory. I support his remarks that every effort should be made to bring unity to the Territory. The divisions among the people are extraordinary. Human factors are involved. Logic and reason do not come into the matter. It is a matter of emotions, which is a difficult problems to combat. The honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  seemed very concerned about the Government having disregarded the House of Assembly. That is quite an extraordinary statement from a member of the Opposition. I think a great achievement of this 
Government has been to give a representative House of Assembly to Papua New Guinea. The House of Assembly has been elected by the people of Papua New Guinea to express their views. 
Mention has been made of self government and independence. The policy of this Government is to give self government and independence to the Territory whenever its people want them. But the Leader of the Opposition - this great democracy - has said that this decision will be made in Canberra and not in Port Moresby. He has said that the people of the Territory will have self government by 1972, which is next year, and independence by 1975. The honourable member for Wills said that the Government does not respect the wishes of the House of Assembly. 
I will reply to that interjection. But honourable members opposite should not forget what I have just said about the Opposition's attitude. The Government is trying to bring democracy to Papua New Guinea but the Labor Party has said that the views of the people should be disregarded. The Labor Party says: 'It does not matter what they say about self government and independence; it is what we say'. This is paternalism. It is quite ridiculous. The honourable member for Wills is very disappointed because the Government did not accept the request by the House of Assembly for an all-party committee to look at self government. That would have been a great thing if we could have accepted it. But how could we have done so? We do not have a bi-partisan policy. How could the Government appoint an all-party committee when the Opposition has shown such disregard for democratic principles in Papua New Guinea? It could not be done. One group would be going at a tangent from the other group. We have had a most successful meeting with a group of ministerial members. I believe we will be able to ameliorate the problems that exist in the underdeveloped areas. But that is past history now. They have gone back and statements have been issued. 

 Mr LIONEL BOWEN (Kingsford-Smith) - I wish to make a personal explanation. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Order! Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! Does the honourable member wish to make a personal explanation? 
Progress reported. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The matter referred to is one which falls within the authority of the Ministerial Member for Education in the House of Assembly for Papua New Guinea. The Administrator on the advice of the Ministerial Member for Education has provided the following information: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The matter referred to is one which falls within the authority of the Assistant Ministerial Member for Transport in the House of Assembly for Papua New Guinea. The Administrator on the advice of the Assistant Ministerial Member for Transport, has provided the following information. 
<para pgwide="yes">It is also advised that Port Moresby registration was issued by the Registrar of British Ships to the following vessels during the calendar year 1970. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The matter referred to is one which falls within the authority of the Assistant Ministerial Member for the Treasury in the House of Assembly for Papua New Guinea. The Administrator on the advice of the Assistant Ministerial Member for the Treasury has provided the following information: 
The latest available income statistics published by the Bureau of Statistics for the year ended 30th. June 1969 show that 73 companies derived taxable incomes in excess of $100,000 in that year. Of these 63 (86 per cent) are classified as residents of Papua New Guinea while 10 are classified as non-residents. 
and (3) The information to answer these questions is not available because the identification of the names of the Companies would involve the disclosure of confidential tax data. 
 I seek leave to make a statement on the new role for the Australian School of Pacific Administration. 
Five minutes. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read  a  second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to give effect to certain recommendations made by the Papua New Guinea House of Assembly Select Committee on Constitutional Development and agreed to by that House. The Select Committee on Constitutional Development was set up by the Papua New Guinea House of Assembly on 24th June 1969. Its task was to draft a set of constitutional proposals as a guide for future constitutional development in Papua New Guinea. The Committee presented 3 interim reports, and made its final report to the House of Assembly on 4th March 1971. Both the final report, and the Third interim report presented on 3rd September 1970, contained recommendations for constitutional change. The Committee's recommendations were adopted by the House on 11th March 1971, with the exception of the proposed name of Niugini, which was later amended, and the drafting of a Bill of Rights, which was deferred. 
In a statement to this House on 27th April 1971, I outlined the recommendations of the Select Committee. I also informed the House that the Government had accepted these recommendations. As a result, the Government is now preparing a programme for movement to full self government in the period 1972-1976. The execution of this programme will have regard to the state of opinion as it develops after the 1972 House of Assembly elections and to the policies of the political leaders who then emerge. 
The Government also placed before this House in May 1971, amendments to the Papua and New Guinea Act which gave effect to the Select Committee's recommendations on changes in the elected representation in the House of Assembly. The amendment to the Papua and New Guinea Act at that time provided for the recommended increases in the number of open and regional electorates for the House of Assembly from 69 to 82 and from 15 to 18 respectively, and was introduced in advance of the present proposals to allow thenecessary electoral redistribution to be carried out before the elections for the 19721976 House of Assembly in February-March 1972. 
In my statement on 27th April 1971, I referred to a further group of recommendations which would be the subject of later amending legislation. These I will deal with now. One recommendation in this group is for a change in the name of the Territory. The Select Committee recommended the name 'Niugini'. This was rejected by the House, and at a later sitting tie House unanimously adopted a private member's motion that the word 'and' be deleted from 'Papua and New Guinea'. The territory would be then known as Papua New Guinea'. Clause 5 of the Bill provides that the Territory of Papua and the Territory of New Guinea shall be together described in the Act, and in other laws and instruments, as 'Papua New Guinea' rather than theTerritory of Papua and New Guinea' and other amendments also effect this change of name. 
Clause 10 of the Bill gives effect to recommendations on the composition of the Administrator's Executive Council. It will be composed of the Administrator. 10 Ministers and 3 official members. The effect of this change is to add 3 Ministers to the 7 previously in the Council and to eliminate the 1 member previously nominated by the Administrator without reference to the House of Assembly. The 17 Ministers of the House of Assembly will choose one of their number to be the Deputy Chairman of the Administrator's Executive Council, this choice to be approved by the House of Assembly Although nominated members of the House of Assembly may be appointed as Ministers, not more than 2 such members may be members of the Administrator's Executive Council. 
The Select Committee report was silent on the method of choosing the Ministers to sit on the Administrator's Executive Council, with the exception of the Deputy Chairman. The Bill provides that this will be a matter for the Minister for External Territories to determine on the advice of the Administrator, who will consult the Deputy Chairman. I propose, in addition, to consult with the Deputy Chairman through the Administrators in the allocation, of the portfolios to the Ministers, and in any subsequent changes in portfolios that may be necessary. These provisions will give the Deputy Chairman an inportant part in the selection of members of the Administrator's Executive Counci and in the allocation of ministerial responsibilities. Clauses 12 to 15 deal with Ministers and ministerial offices. 
In its third interim report of September 1970, the Select Committee recommended that the offices of Ministerial Member and Assistant Ministerial Member be abolished and replaced by up to 17 offices of Mmisters of the House of Assembly of such respective designations as the Minister for External Territories from time to time determines'. The titles 'Ministerial Member' and 'Assistant Ministerial Member' were used because the office holders did not when first appointed in 1968 exercise full executive authority nor take final decisions in respect of their areas of responsibility. However, since August 1970, all ministerial office holders have exercised final responsibility in respect of a wide raa.ne of governmental matters specified in the arrangements approved under section 25 of the Papua and New Guinea Act The change of name therefore reflects a change of function already introduced. Clause 13 of the Bill provides for the replacement of the offices of Ministerial Member, and Assistant Ministerial Member,- with up to 17 offices of Minister of the House of Assembly. 
The Select Committee recommended that the House of Assembly should, after the next elections, be composed of not less than 104 members and not more than 107 members, as follows: 18 persons elected by the people to represent regional electorates; 82 persons elected by the people to represent open electorates; up to 3 nominated members, nominated by the House of Assembly for special purposes; and 4 official members, appointed by the GovernorGeneral on the Administrator's nomination; and clause 16 of the Bill so provides. The recommended increase in the elected membership from 84 to 100 was provided for in the amendments to the Papua and New Guinea Act earlier this year and these provisions are merely re- enacted now. At the time of the earlier amendment no change was made in the number of official members in the House nor was provision made for nominated members. 
Another of the Committee's recommendations is the creation of not more than 3 positions of nominated member of the House of Assembly which is provided for under clause 17 of the Bill. The inclusion of non-elected nominated members in the House is a new concept in Papua New Guinea but there is a widespread feeling in Papua New Guinea of the need to provide a means for the representations of special groups, for example, women, or persons having a special expertise, in the legislature. As recommended by the Committee the Bill provides for the House to decide itself whether these positions should be filled. A two-thirds vote of the total number of members of the House is required to agree to the setting up of a 7- man committee of the House to choose the nominated member or members. When the committee in consultation with the Administrator, has chosen a person or persons, its choice must be endorsed by a simple majority of the members of the House present and voting. The committee would cease to operate after it had chosen the person or persons concerned. The procedure of selecting nominating members is similar to the existing method of selecting ministerial office holders. 
The Bill also sets out in clauses 17 to 19 the conditions of eligibility for nominated members. To qualify for appointment as a nominated member, a person must have lived in Papua New Guinea for not less than 5 years. A defeated candidate at the general elections for the House to which members are to be nominated is not eligible for nomination. Should a nominated member chosen by the committee be a public servant or a holder of a statutory office he must resign his position to accept appointment. Once a person has accepted nomination to the House, he will hold office on the same basis as if he were an elected member of the House. These provisions accord with the recommendations of the Select Committee. 
The Committee's recommendations to create the positions of nominated member arose in conjunction with its wish to reduce the number of official members in the House from 10 to 4, who are appointed by the Governor-General on the nomination of the Administrator. The reduction in the number of official members from 10 to 4 is effected by clause 16 of the Bill and is in keeping with the responsibilities of ministerial office holders. Four official members remain to ensure that Government business regarding matters still under the control of the Commonwealth is introduced in the House, and to explain Commonwealth Government matters to the members. 
The other clauses of the Bill are of a machinery nature and arise from the creaation of the position of Deputy Chairman, the change in name and the provisions for nominated members and Ministers of the House of Assembly. 
Clause 27 of the Bill validates the National Identity Ordinance 1971 to remove beyond doubt the validity of that legislation. On 18th June 1971, the House of Assembly made the National Identity Ordinance 1971 which provides, among other things, for the name of the administrative union of the Territory of Papua and the Territory of New Guinea to be known as Papua and New Guinea. As the name for the administrative union is provided for under the Papua and New Guinea Act the National Identity Ordinance, in so far as it purports to alter the name, could be invalid. Likewise publication of notices in the Papua New Guinea Government 'Gazette' could be ineffective. This validation clause has therefore been inserted to remove all possible doubt. 
The purpose of the Bill, as I have indicated to honourable members, is to give effect to the remaining recommendations of the House of Asembly Select Committee on Constitutional Development as approved by that House. The amendments contained in this Bill give legislative effect to the request by the House of Assembly for changes in the constitutional framework for Papua New Guinea. I comend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Beazley)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The matters referred to fall within the authority of the Assistant Ministerial Member for Lands, Surveys and Mines in the House of Assembly for Papua New Guinea. The Administrator on the advice of the Assistant Ministerial Member for Lands, Surveys and Mines has provided the following information: 
The Papua New Guinea Administration has given no financial assistance to clubs. It has guaranteed  5  amounts totalling  $130,000  as follows: 
1959-  Kone Club  $63,000 
1967-  Port Moresby Tennis Club  $5,000 
1969-  -Kone Tigers Football Club  $6,000 
1969-  Port Moresby Amateur Basketball Association  $14,000 
1969- South Pacific Aero Club  $40,000.  Of the total amount guaranteed only  $55,000  remains under guarantee. 
The majority, of sporting and social dubs hold special purpose leases under the various land ordinances. A few clubs are situated on freehold land including the Badili Club (Port Moresby), the Ralum Club (Kokopo), and the Kokopo Golf Club. The Aviat, Paga, and Papuan Aero Clubs (all in Port Moresby) are situated within Defence Reserves. The Port Moresby RSL and Bowling Clubs are situated within a recreation reserve. Other clubs, either having leases or in the process of acquiring leases, are: Ad works Rabaul Club, Aitape Sports Club, Angoram Club, Angoram Native Ex-Servicemen's Club, Balimo Sports Club, Bamguina Club, Banz Pony and Track Club, Bereina Club, Boroko RSL Club, Bougainville ExServicemen's Association, m,ke Passage Golf Club, Bulolo Bowling Club, Bulolo Golf Club, Bulolo Small Bore Club, Buin Country Club, Cameron Club, Cathay Club, Chimbu Sports and Social Club, Comworks Sporting and Social Club, Country Club, Daru Tennis Club, Farmers and Settlers Banz Club, Finschhafen Golf Club, Four Mile Club, Garamut Club, Gormania Club, Goroka Bowling Club, Goroka Farmers and Settlers Club, Goroka Golf Club, Goroka Sports Club, Goroka Tennis Club, Hagen Bowling Club, Hagen Country Club, Hagen Golf Club, Hagen Tennis Club, Hiri Club, Kainantu Country Club, Kambiu Club, Kamosa Sporting Club, Kameng Golf Club, Kar Kar Club, Kavieng Club, Kavieng Native Ex-Servicemen's Club, Kerowagi Sports and Social Club, Kerema Club, Kieta Club, Kimbe Bay Sports and Social Club, King Chow Club, Koitaki Club, Kokopo Sports Club, Kone Club, Kowloon Club, Kone Tigers Football Club, Kuomintang Club, Kundiawa Social Club, Lae Aero Club, Lac Bowling Club, Lae Chinese Social and Sports Club, Lae Club, Lae Native ExServicemen's Club, Lae Golf Club, Lae Power Boat and Yacht Club, Lae Pistol Club, Lae Rugby League Club, Lae Rugby Football League Club, Lae RSL Club, Lumi Sports Club, Madang Club, Madang Golf Club, Madang Ruby, League Club, Madang Small Bore Rifle and Pistol Club, Manus Sports Club, Mendi Valley Club, Namatana Sports Club, Native Settlement Society Club, New Britain Women's Club, New Guinea Ambonese Club, New Guinea Club, North Coast Sports Club, Northern District Workers' Association Club, Numa Numa Water Ski Club; Pagini Club, Papua Club, Papua Turf Club, Papuan Yacht Club, Pioneer Club, Pomio Sportsmen's Club, Popondetta Club, Popondetta Ex-Servicemen's Association Club, Popondetta Golf Club, Port Moresby Basketball Association Club, Port Moresby Gun Club, Port Moresby Rifle Club, Port Moresby Tennis Club, Public Service Sports Club, Rabaul Golf Club, Rabaul Native ExServicemen's Club, Rabaul RSL Club, Rabaul Swimming and Life Saving Club, Rabaul Yacht Club, Rigo Country Club, Samarai Papua and New Guinea Recreation Club, Samarai RSL Club, Samarai Sports Club, Seagull Women's Club. Sepik Club, Sigobum Settlers Club, Social Club, Sohano Club, South Pacific Aero Club, South Pacific Sports Club, Steamships Sports and Social Club, TAA Lae Club, Talasea Club, Vanimo Club, Wabag Social Club. Wahgi Valley Club, Waigani Club, Watkins Social Moresby Club, Wau Club, Wau Golf Club, Western District Club, Wewak Country Club, Wewak Sports Club, Yule Island Social Club. 
(a) and (b) A detailed check of the constitutions of all of the above clubs would be necessary to accurately state which clubs, if any, exclude Papuans and New Guineans as members or guests. Since 1960 leases have not been granted to any club which contained discriminatory clauses in its constitution. There are some clubs built on freehold land and their constitutions have not been checked. As far as is known membership of all clubs is dependent on nomination and acceptance and the payment of the required membership fees. It is not possible without contacting every club in Papua New Guinea to state which clubs have not admitted Papuans and New Guineans as members, though it is known that many clubs do not have them as members. Many clubs actively seek Papuans and New Guineans as members wilh varying success because they do not show any great inclination to become members on socio-economic grounds. It is thought most clubs admit Papuans and New Guineans as guests but again it is impossible to be precise about this without examining the visitors books at every, club. As close a watch as is possible is kept on clubs to ensure that no violations of the Discriminatory Practices Ordinance 1963-69 occur. In at least one case the grant of a lease to a club was withheld until a guarantee was given that membership of the club would be open to all persons wishing to join it. It should also be mentioned that not all of the clubs listed in part (1) of the question have club buildings. Many of them  merely  have an area of land for their sporting activities and hold their social functions in hired premises or private homes. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The matter referred to is one which falls within the authority of the Assistant Ministerial Member for Lands and Surveys in the House of Assembly for Papua New Guinea. The Assistant Ministerial Member for Lands and Surveys has provided the following information: 
Yes. 
The amount paid for a lease is the tender less the upset price. If the amount of the upset price is tendered, the tenderer is not required to pay a premium. Some Papuans and New Guineans would not be able to comply with improvement covenants. However finance can be arranged through bodies such as the Papua New Guinea Development Bank and the Housing Commission. 
(a) A system already exists which allows Papua New Guineans to apply without tender for leases on which the improvement conditions are reduced, (b) No. The improvement covenant can be varied on the recommendation of the Land Board if warranted in special circumstances. 
Yes. In certain cases lands are advertised with a stipulation that only indigenous persons or wholly indigenous owned organisations will be eligible to apply. Other leases are advertised with a provision for indigenous equity participation. In all other cases, provided other things are equal, preference is given to indigenous proposals or proposals which contain a significant proportion of indigenous equity. 
No. The conditions relating to the release of land are determined after consideration of all factors and should not be fixed in the inflexible way proposed. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Papua New Guinea Administration has prepared provisional legislative proposals. The comments of the Judiciary and the legal profession upon these proposals have been sought and it is hoped that they will be obtained shortly.  A  submission will then be made to the Government and the Administrator's Executive Council with a view to the preparation  of  legislation. 
I did not get the full purport of the honourable gentleman's question because it was quite difficult to hear what he was saying. I would point out to him that the full authority for primary and secondary education in Papua New Guinea resides with the House of Assembly and the Administrator's Executive Council. I will direct the honourable member's question to the Ministerial Member for Education in the Territory and provide the honourable member with the answers. 
Pursuant to clause 8 of the Sugar Agreement 1969, I present the report on the operation of the Fruit Industry Sugar Concession Committee for the period ended 30th June 1971, together with the Committee's financial statements and the Auditor-General's report on those statements. 
in reply - I am grateful to honourable members from both sides of the House for the wideranging discussion and the interest they have shown in Papua New Guinea. The point that was made generally, and I think it has been accepted, is that we have come a long way. The Government's policy has been the step by step advancement in political development according to the wishes of the people. The report of the Papua New Guinea House of Assembly Select Committee on Constitutional Development has been accepted - not unanimously; I agree with the honourable member for KingsfordSmith  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  I think it would be remarkable to find a committee or a House of Assembly completely unanimous in its views on a subject. The important thing is that the report has been accepted by the House of Assembly. 
We have reached the stage today where I suppose one could say the country is practically self-governing. All the areas of concern, such as primary and secondary education, health, local government and the land situation, are there for the decision of the elected members of the House of Assembly. We have set them up in the Westminster system of Parliament. This has been a success with us and it has been a success in the English speaking countries in which it has prevailed. It is up to the people themselves if later on, after independence or self-government, they want a change. The Government has accepted the appointment by the House of Assembly of a select committee to consider constitutional change. I have no doubt that the new House, with which this Bill deals, will opt for the same measure, for a select committee to go further to see if any change is wished for. 
I am glad to see that there has been general agreement on the Bill, with the exception of the proposed amendment to clause 10. Generally speaking this is accounted for by the difference of philosophy between the Government and the Opposition. The Opposition's choice of an executive differs completely from that of the Government. Our Leader, the Prime Minister, chooses his executive whereas I believe - I am not an expert on the Opposition's structure - that Caucus chooses its executive. This is a difference of philosophy. 
Pretty well, I hope. We believe that the decision implemented by clause 10 is in the spirit of the report of the Select Committee. 
Within the same system as the Liberal Party does. The Party does not choose the Ministers. The method of appointment of Ministers reveals basically a difference of philosophy between the Government and the Opposition. We believe that our system has worked very well. 1 do not want to rub this in, but we have been in government for a considerable time. We do not know what the structure of the new House of Assembly will be. It may be. a Party structure. This could throw a completely different light on the structure of the Executive. I thank honourable members for their contributions to the debate. As the hour is late I do not intend to detain the House any longer. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
Clauses 1 to 9 - by leave - taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 10. 
Sections 20 and 21 of the Principal Act are repealed and the following sections inserted in their stead: - 20.- (1.) Subject to this section, the Council shall consist of - 
the Administrator; 
a Deputy Chairman of the Council, being a Minister of the House of Assembly, appointed in accordance with the next succeeding sub-section; 
nine other Ministers of the Houseof Assembly appointed by the Minister on the nomination of the Administrator, being a nomination made after consulting the Deputy Chairman; and 
three official members of the House  A  Assembly appointed by the Ministerof the nomination of the Administrator. 
As I mentioned before, I oppose this amendment. I believe that the provisions  in  this Bill are quite fair and in keeping with the spirit of the report. As I pointed out to the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant),  the 17 members are chosen by the House of Assembly. The  9  who make up the Administrator's Executive Council will be chosen by the Minister for External Territories on the advice  of  the Administrator after consultation with the Deputy Chairman who has been chosen by the Ministers. I believe this is perfectly fair. I would point out that the people of Papua New Guinea are quite reluctant to move into an area of greater responsibility without their choosing. 
When these measures were introduced last July by the then Prime Minister it was a matter of great concern. There was a motion in the House  of  Assembly that  no  further constitutional changes would take place without its authority. I must remind honourable members opposite that we are sensitive to the views  of  the elected members of the House of Assembly, and I must point out that this is not the attitude of honourable members opposite because the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  said: 'You will have self-government  in  1972. You will have independence in 1975 and the decision will be made  in  Canberra, not in Port Moresby.' That is the difference. It is quite extraordinary, this sort of sensitivity. The Government opposes the amendment. 
 This was part of the report which was adopted. 
Question put: 
That the paragraph proposed to be omitted  (Mr  Beazley's amendment) stand part of the clause. 
The answerto the honourable members question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The matter has beendiscussed over a period of time with  Mr W.  G. Chapman, the businessman concerned. In 1967 expert advice was received front  Major  i. I.  McGrath, the former Director of the Australian War Memorial who formed the opinion that the establishment in theTerritory of a War Memorial on the pattern of that in Canberra should not be attempted but that the 1942-45 operations in the Terrilory could suitably be commemorated by including in the future Territory Museum and Art Gallery a section covering this period of the war. This was placed before the Trustees of the Museum and Arl Gallery but they did nol support this proposal. During discussions with the Administrator of I'apua New Guinea earlier this year,  Mr Chapman  proposed the setting up ofa War Memorial Trust. lt is understood that  Mr Chapman  does nol intend to dispose of his collection, and that a private members hill will bc introduced intot he House of Assembly next year to establish  a  private trust. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is. as follows: 
The matters referred to fall within the authority "of the Assistant Ministerial Member for Social  Development and Home Affairs in the House of Assembly for Papua New Guinea. The Administrator on (he advice of the Assistant Ministerial Member for Social Development and Home Affairs has provided the following information: 
The Secretary of the Department of External Territories did write to the Administration in 
 January of this year suggesting that thought should be given to converting local officers occupying Administration houses to home . owners by crediting them, against the cost of the house, with the rent they had previously paid. He did not suggest that 'It was well beyond time that the Administration sold all its local officer housing to the inhabitants'. The administrative and financial implications of the suggestion are still under consideration. 
Some local officers in Port Moresby, Lae, Madang and Rabaul are. housed by the Housing Commission and are paying economic rent for the houses they occupy. There are basic problems associated with the introduction of so-called economic rentals which have yet to be resolved, including a means of calculating equitable charges,  the costs to the tenants* the extent to which the Administration should"' subsidise the housing costs of officers and the effect of any such subsidies on the economy. of Papua New Guinea. The matter is being pursued but because of the complexity of the- issues involved, no estimate can be given  of when the problem will be resolved. 
A dialogue is currently taking place between the Administration and the Housing Commission as. to the possibility of the Commission taking over the responsibility for housing as wide a range "as is feasible of local officers presently housed by the Administration in non-institutional housing in centres in which the Commission operates. The possibility of the Commission assuming a wider responsibility for housing local officers is also being considered. The matter is complex, and the Assistant Ministerial Member for Social Development and Home Affairs is unable to say whether  decision will be reached 'soon' or not. 
Any housing which might be taken over from the Administration by the Housing Commission as the result of a decision referred to in the answer to the last part of the question could be expected to come under the Commission's existing schemes, including the home ownership scheme. The opportunity to purchase would therefore be available. The Assistant Ministerial Member for Social Development and Home Affairs can give no assurance  that previous rental payments will be applied to reducing the costs of home ownership, but the matter is under consideration. 
The Housing Commission does intend to - develop commercial and industrial facilities in the housing estates in which it operates in Port Moresby and Lae. 
Preference will be given to Papuans and New Guineans when these facilities are being allocated - and where they become tenants they will be given the opportunity to purchase. The  method of financing such purchases has not been finally- determined. 
Army Firing Practice at Townsville  (Question No. 4760) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) As indicated in my answer to the honourable member's question No. 2874 (page 1707 of House of Representatives Hansard for 29th September 1971) the texts of all International Labour Organisation Instruments are, as a matter of practice, brought to the attention of the Administration of Papua New Guinea as they are adopted. lt is currently expected that the Australian Government will reserve its decision with respect to the application of Convention No.  47  to Papua New Guinea. In the view of the the Administrator's Executive Council it would be inappropriate to accept the principle of a 40-hour week for Papua at this stage of the country's development. 
As advised in my reply to the honourable member's question No. 3399, there is close conformity between the law and practice of Papua New Guinea and Convention No. 112. The question of the declarations to be made in respect to Papua New Guinea is currently under consideration. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The matter referred to is one which falls within the authority of the Ministerial Member for Agriculture, Stock and Fisheries in the House of Assembly for Papua New Guinea. The Administrator, on the advice of the Ministerial Member for Agriculture, Stock and Fisheries, has provided the following information: 
The Ministerial Member 'regrets that he is unable to supply the information requested  rn.  this question. In order to answer the question it would be necessary to give details of the business activities of the New Guinea Islands Produce Company, a wholly owned indigenous company, and the Tolai Cocoa Project, a business activity of the Gazelle Council, and he feels that it would not be ethical to make these public' 
The honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  must have his tongue in his cheek when he speaks of some of the policies that a Labor Government would introduce. We all remember - at least those who are in my age group do - when Labor was last in power what happened in regard to the development of our resources. What on earth did it do? There was no development of resources in Australia. There was control over everything. You could not build a house; you could not even buy a suit of clothes and you could not buy petrol. That was Labor's control of resources. This is perfectly true. People have forgotten about this. Labor had price control and what happened? You could not buy anything that was price controlled. You had to get it on the black market. The black market was rife. Labor wants to go back to this as a new generation. It has never given up on these socialist attitudes. 
Intelligent men learn from experience of socialism what a frightful failure it is. I read in the report of the Institute of Directors in London what Lee Kuan Yew, 
Prime Minister of Singapore, said about the tremendous development of Singapore through private enterprise. That country had practically nothing and for a while it seemed to be going under communist control, but this brilliant leader brought about a tremendous rise in prosperity for the people of Singapore and in their standard of living: it is a miraculous situation. After his address to the Institute the Prime Minister of Singapore was asked: 'How does all this private enterprise advancement in Singapore conform with your previous attitude to socialism? You advocated socialism in your day.' In his reply, he referred to this great advance that had been made with free enterprise and be said: 
But, of course, this is not in accordance with the doctrine which I was taught when I was a socialist in my younger days, but alas, we all have to revise and upgrade our thinking. 
Here is a man who can learn - Lee Kuan Yew, the Prime Minister of Singapore. 
We have to go through this sort of thing again. The honourable member for Lalor mentioned the large urban growth, t agree with him I deplore this. He said that Labor will stop this. But in Sydney and in Brisbane this great growth has occurred under Labor councils. The councils have had the means to stop this growth but they have encouraged it. When I was a boy a very long time ago in Sydney they had a limit on the height to which you could build an edifice. They bad a limit on the height to which you could build in London. This was a wise provision. I think it was about 6 or 7 storeys. But due to pressures the restriction was removed and the sky is the limit. Look at the hopeless mess we are in. This has been encouraged by Labor controlled councils. Labor controlled councils were not the end of it but I cannot see what a Labor Government would do in the matter. But that is getting away from the purpose of this motion. 
We will listen to you when you get up, so you listen to me for a change. 
1 commend the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  on his Budget strategy. He bad an obligation to control inflation. We have come a tremendous way in the 23 years that the Government Parties have been in power in Australia. Australia has never known such vast expansion and vast prosperity. Unfortunately, it has become a way of life. It has been accepted as the natural consequence of Australia's being, but there are forces coming info the picture which are damaging the situation. In fact our vast expansion has brought these great problems. I refer to our vast expansion in national resources and the development of these resources which has been remarkable and which could have happend only in a private enterprise economy. But this expansion has been so rapid that demand for goods and services has brought about an inflationary situation and we have to put a curb on the money supply and so on. The honourable member for Lalor said that we must get away from this stop-go policy. This is possible only in a socialist economy. In a place like Russia where they are in a devil of a mess the whole time, that is all right, lt is all stop over there. But we have this situation in Australia, a country recognised throughout the world as a country of substance and a great place in which to invest money. Of course this has meant a flow of vast capital in Australia but it has also meant a flow of know-how to Australia in the development of our resources. This great company. Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd, which has been abused by members of the Opposition and by our Press, has done so much for Australia. What happens if companies such as BHP, which have a responsibility to tens of thousands of shareholders- 
It has a responsibility to 180,000 shareholders, the honourable member for Paterson informs me. Has not a company some obligation to a shareholder if the company is a national company? ff it has been taken over by a socialist government obviously it will work according to the policy of that socialist government, and then its advancement ceases. But this company has a magnificent r-cord. lt has developed our steel industry, our shipbuilding and our mining, and it has done so from its own resources. It has never dragged in partners from overseas except when it brought Esso into the oil operation in Bass strait, obviously because it needed Esso's know-how. Through the efforts of these 2 companies Australia, which at one time imported 90 per cent of its crude oil requirements, now meets 60 per cent of its requirements. This is a wonderful achievement. 
When I was the Minister responsible for the Northern Territory I had experience of BHP when it undertook a magnificent operation to develop mineral resources on Groote Eylandt. BHP came to an agreement with the mission there. Finding that there were manganese deposits in the area, the mission was bright enough to take out a licence to control the mineral rights. The Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd negotiated with the mission, and now Groote Eylandt is one of the most prosperous Aboriginal communities to be found anywhere. BHP has done a magnificent job in this area. But let us look at the mess that has occurred elsewhere. 
It depends. The honourable member speaks of a monopoly with its adverse connotations. Does he not think that there is such a thing as a benign monopoly? This is one. Undoubtedly BHP has a monopoly in steel, but look at the price and quality of its steel, lt exports all round the world. 
We import small quantities of some classes of steel. It would not pay Broken Hill to produce these classes of steel because the requirements for them are so small. It has no tariff protection except in some small areas. This company is a going concern. It is a great Australian company abused by the Opposition and, unfortunately, abused by our Press. One should not, of course, take notice of the Press. I did not take any when I was Minister for External Territories. The Treasurer is to be complimented on his Budget strategy. It is working, and I admire him for the way he is sticking out. Pressures are being placed on the Treasurer also to release funds and to put the foot on the accelerator and let us go again. We cannot do this. We will face disaster if we do. I am very concerned at industrial lawlessness in Australia. (Quorum formed). As I was saying, 1 congratulate the Treasurer on his Budget strategy. He had to meet the threat of inflation, but pressure is now being brought to bear on him to relieve the situation and again to stimulate the economy, which I believe could be quite disastrous. 
Inflation is brought about by 2 factors. Unfortunately in the business world there are people who give way to wage demands for the sake of peace. After all, they do not have to pay the extra amounts; it is the community that pays. A large section of business today has adopted the peace at any price attitude. Unfortunately in the business world - 1 have had experience of this - people do not look at the long term; they look at the next profit and loss account. They do not look far enough ahead. This can be disastrous for us. This is one of the problems in price inflation. The other factor is industrial lawlessness. Our coal mining operations in Queensland have been threatened by strikes that will hold up development. This is a new industry and a new development. The history of new development everywhere is that when that development is permitted to go ahead job opportunities are created for thousands of people. This development is being held back. We have had disputes not only between employers and with employees but also inter-union disputes. 
We have experienced this situation in the motor industry, where we have had no end of strikes. Now people are squealing because a few men are being put off. If there had been hard work and fair work they could rightly squeal. We have an arbitration set-up to hear all disputes. Industrial disputes stultify development, job opportunities and so on. Because of them our great Australian shipping industry has been really wiped. Most of our goods now are carried by railways and motor transport. Look at the frightful problems that have been caused in Tasmania by shipping disputes involving men in the 'Trader' class vessels that go to Tasmania. They are usually inter-union disputes, too. These all affect employment. 
I do not. The only way to meet the shipping problem in a country which has a coastline of 12,000 miles is to open up the coastal trade to vessels flying foreign flags. 
I direct my question to the Postmaster-General. In view of the publicity given in Australia to the proposed amalgamation of 3 large metal trades unions under the leadership of Laurie Carmichael, a leading Communist, and the importance of giving information to the community on the possible repercussions from this amalgamation and leadership which, incidentally, has been supported by employers, will the Postmaster-General suggest to the Austraiian Broadcasting Commission that it again feature, preferably on 'Four Corners', that portion of its outstanding series 'Profiles of Power' in which Laurie Carmichael was the subject of an interview? 
I will not keep the House more than a few minutes. My purpose in rising is to answer some of the comments made by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson).  The honourable member seems to question the New Zealand Free Trade Agreement. He quoted figures such as the $120m worth of goods which we export to New Zealand as against S90m we buy from it. Honourable members will recollect that the previous leader of the Australian Country Party,  Sir John  McEwen, introduced this Free Trade Agreement and had it accepted. At that time New Zealand was buying $75m worth of goods from us and we were buying from it only $25m worth. 
Obviously this agreement was absolutely necessary to help a sister nation of the Pacific. This is our concern. The honourable member for Dawson did not condemn it. I will give him that. He wants an evaluation. The honourable member seems to be involved very considerably with the Chinese situation. Does he wish to oust New Zealand in favour of China? We wonder about this. He speaks also of his concern for the sugar growers in his electorate. New Zealand is a very substantial purchaser of Australian sugar. Does he want New Zealand to be a viable sister nation that can afford to import our sugar?  His  attitude is quite extraordinary. 
Generally speaking 1 agree with the statements of the Opposition, particularly the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns),  in regard to tariffs. I think it is remarkable that the honourable member for Lalor has made, a turn of 180 degrees in his attitude to tariffs. He is accepting the importance of tariffs, a view with which I agree. There have been criticisms by uninformed elements of our primary producers who say that tariffs increase our costs. Do those critics recognise that secondary industries are the greatest employers of labour in Australia? Without secondary industries in Australia we would not be able to support our present population. We have many more millions of people - wage earners - in Australia as a result of our tariff policies. On behalf of primary producers I remind honourable members of our annual per capita consumption - meat 90 lb, including mutton 46 lb, and butter 22 lb. Every extra million people in Australia will support primary industries. 
The honourable member for Dawson seems to be concerned that some of our motor manufacturers are going to New Zealand and will be selling parts back to Australia to cheapen the product to the Australian community. I cannot see the answer here. After all, New Zealand has a standard of living and objectives in line with Australia's, not similar to the objectives of our Chinese friends. Obviously we will have closer associations with China later but regard must be had to our sister nations in the Pacific area. These are the countries we have to support, and not to our great disadvantage. I ask the honourable member for Dawson again to look at our motor industry and to consider the surfeit of strikes that occurred when times were good; not only strikes against the employers but also inter-union strikes which have arisen in the big motor manufacturing operations. 
The whole economy loses by those strikes. Obviously these irresponsible industrial operations will create unemployment. I promised to be brief and I will honour that promise. Since the honourable member for Dawson wants an evaluation of our free trade agreement with New Zealand I think it is important to inform him as 1 have done. Obviously the honourable member for Lalor has learned and accepted the Government's policies on tariffs. 
I support the Minister in this matter and I wish to speak against the proposed amendment. I think it is about time that we valued our British cultural systems. If we are to grab people from all over the world we will be in trouble. I think it is important that we do not attempt to change cultures. If we do  0.  we could well get into a bit of a mess. Reference has been made to teachers coming from the United States of America. Would honourable members opposite like to see the American system of life here? I would not, and I think a lot of Australians would not. They can have their own way of life in the United States and I do not believe that we want in Australia teachers with the sorts of standards adopted in the United States. We do not want them here. I think we should stick to what the Minister has provided in the Bill. 
-- 1 quite understand the attitude of the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby).  This might apply if the Labor Party got into power and got Pakistanis and people from all over the world to come here, but while this Government is in power I do not think it is necessary to worry about it. 
Is the Prime Minister concerned about the possible erosion of the free enterprise system by the tendency in recent years of company takeovers - 1 have in mind the activities of companies such as Slater Walker Securities (Australia) Ltd and Thomas Nationwide Transport Ltd - where such activities result in monolithic enterprises? 
Obviously the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  has a very difficult task. I do not blame him. He has attempted to defend the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  and I am afraid that he has not succeeded very much. He does not seem to me to support the same views as the honourable member for Lalor does. I would like to read from the newspaper article mentioned by the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory the bit that he left out. In reference to the honourable member for Lalor, it states: 
He said people who wanted to protest against the presence of North Vietnamese troops and tanks in South Vietnam would not be welcome in the Moratorium march. 
Also - this was not read out - the end of the article states: 
The aims of the Moratorium were to oppose US and allied aggression in Indo-China, to demand the end of the US-Australia alliance, to end conscription, and to demand the immediate and unconditional withdrawal of all US and allied troops and material from Indo-China. 
Of course this is the old story. This is the communist line in the sense that this is Moscow peace that is being talked about. The honourable member for Lalor and many other honourable members opposite, including the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  have led peace groups and goodness knows what else; but they are supporting the North Vietnamese invasion of South Vietnam. This is Moscow type, peace. We do not hear members of the Opposition complain about Russian naval forces coming into the Indian Ocean. This is a Moscow operation. This is all right. It is when we arm and build up our defence forces that some honourable members opposite start complaining. lt is utterly ridiculous to talk about civil war in Vietnam. This has been a smoke screen supported by communist elements everywhere. There should be no doubt about it today. Of course we have seen Vietnam torn by strife. Four years ago during the Tet offensive the Vietcong, the local Communist force, a very strong group outside the regular North Vietnamese army, made a tremendous takeover effort and caused much devastation in South Vietnam, but their successes were  a  sort of pyrrhic victory because they lost so many of their forces that it set them back for years. The Americans are withdrawing from Vietnam. I think my figures are right. By the end of April they will have only 69,000 troops in South Vietnam. They are handing over to the South Vietnamese. The honourable member for Lalor emphasised strongly that when a boundary was created between North and South Vietnam by the Geneva Accords 800,000 North Vietnamese went to the south. He mentioned the North Vietnamese and the present situation of generals, governors and presidents. What he said is true. These people did not want to exist under a communist regime. I suppose some of them felt that they would like to see North Vietnam again become  a  democracy. There is  a  division, but the communist North Vietnamese are not content with this. They want to take over the south. Of course people of the free world are concerned. We have seen that once the system of communism devised by Lenin screws itself into office, with its concentration of power in the top levels, no-one is able to get rid of it again. It is there for good. It is in Czechoslovakia and Hungary and everywhere you look. People are frightened by this communist situation. 
Let me go into the history of the situation in Vietnam. With the surrender of the French at Dien Bien Phu the true war of liberation was over. The Geneva conferences tried to set the stage for  a  peaceful resolution of the future. They recognised that the Vietminh which was mentioned by the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  were  a  composite force. Large numbers of true nationalists wanted  a  future free from communism as well as from the French. That is what the Geneva meetings were all about. They failed because the communists had no intention in the world of having anything other than the totality of the nation. The honourable member for Lalor said he could quote authorities on this point Let me quote one whom he himself has quoted frequently with approval as being one of the greatest experts on the subject. I refer to the late Professor Bernard Fall. Fall stated: 
The Second Indo-China war began by deliberate communist design early in 1957. 
Note the point that not only was it of communist initiative but also it was a second war. So this is the situation. Since the Tet offensive the war has gone against the North Vietnamese. They made a desperate attempt to take over Cambodia. They had their bases there. This was no civil war, as I think honourable members opposite must agree. Even the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  was concerned, but after all when he came back he had to change his mind about that. 
He had to toe the line. Today the situation is one almost of deadlock, with the occupation by the North Vietnamese of part of Cambodia and with the occupation of a large part of Laos. They had practically lost control of the whole of South Vietnam and they had to break the deadlock. This offensive has been expected for some time. What will happen? This is the last desperate attempt of the North Vietnamese army, supplied with Soviet tanks, to take over the country. If they fail on this occasion it will mean that after all, the Americans, whom many people suggest have railed in their efforts to keep the country free from communism, may have succeeded in their efforts in this regard. 
Certainly the Americans made major mistakes. In my own view their worst mistake was to get rid of the Emperor Diem who was a member of a royal family in that country. The Americans do not place any relative value on royal blood as the Asians do. Royalty is part of the religion, the inheritance and the tradition of Asia. Unfortunately, in the process Diem was assassinated. I have no doubt that the Americans were not responsible for it. 
Here was a figurehead, a leader, lost to Vietnam. That is one of the Americans' mistakes. They thought that the best thing to do was make it a quick war and get out. They thought that the best way to make it a quick war was to make it a big war. This was a mistake in a place like Vietnam. The army went plunging around the countryside looking for the enemy to fight. That is why so many civilians were killed, as in the unfortunate case of My Lai. But this has happened before. The murder of  2,000  Polish officers in the Katyn forest is never mentioned by our mass media, by any honourable member opposite or by anybody else for that matter. 
The Americans' objective was to stop communist expansion in South East Asia. Their first objective in their concern for this area of South East Asia was to demonstrate to their allies in other parts of the world that America was prepared to stand by the undertakings it had made to them. The Americans wanted to keep the area alive in the condition in which a liberal idea of democracy might exist. They were excellent circumstances for America to involve itself in this war. 
 I will not keep the House very long. I am very interested in the remarks of the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross),  his enthusiasm and his surety that the policies of the Australian Labor Party will provide the answers to the problems of the Aboriginal people. I share his great concern. There is a great deal of indefiniteness about this matter. A great deal of experience has gone into raising  thi  standard of living of Aborigines. I suggest to the honourable member that there are 2 State Labor governments in Australia - one in Western Australia and the other in South Australia - which have considerable Aboriginal problems. I further suggest to the honourable member, that in view of the Labor policy which he pronounces as the answer to the problems of Aborigines, he Should try to persuade his colleagues in both Western Australia and South Australia along the lines he has advocated. I feel sure that if they accept his ideas they will show us the way in which we can best benefit the Aboriginal people. 
Yes,  Mr Speaker.  An article which appeared in the 'Australian' of Monday 24th April made a suggestion that I had: 
. accused'  Sir Howard- 
It was referring to  Mr Howard  Richter, the Country Party candidate for McPherson at the next election -  of conducting a misleading campaign on the closure of Gold Coast post offices. 
This article is based on an article which appeared in the 'Gold Coast Bulletin'. This article is mischievous and misleading. But I would add that the 'Australian' evidently recognised the high qualities of this young man by conferring a knighthood on him. 
My purpose in rising to speak to this Bill is to answer some of the points that have been made by honourable members opposite. I appreciate that the main purpose of this Bill is to insert in the Navigation Act power to make regulations for the measurement of ships' tonnage in the way provided by the tonnage mark scheme, but I do not thing that it will help our shipping industry very much because there are fundamental problems involved. I listened with great interest to the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Webb)  and to other honourable members. I recall in my lifetime our great Australian shipping industry. It was our cheapest form of transport round our 10,000 miles of Australian coastline. But what happened to it? It was wrecked by the left wing unions - the seamen's union and the waterside workers union - which by a series of disruptions and industrial strikes ended up smashing the whole of our shipping industry. 
The honourable member for Stirling mentioned the 'Manunda' and the 'Manoora'. Let him listen to this and he will hear why we sold it out. These were the last great passenger ships operating on the Australian coast. I can recall many of my friends booking return passages on these ships to Cairns and to other north Queensland ports which are so attractive in the winter time. But these people would get to north Queensland and there would be a strike between the Stewards union and probably the seamen's union and they would have to return by train. That was the end of the passenger ships on the Australian coast line. Today we do not have one passenger ship on the Australian coast and we do not have one general cargo carrier operating in this area. 
Shipping is a vital matter to Australia with its 10,000 miles of coastline. We want an efficient shipping service, but the left wing unions have seen to it that we have not been able to provide an efficient shipping service. I recall that under our Federal system a Labor government had the left wing unions controlling the railways and the Communist unions controlling the seamen and the waterside workers. This tied up transport. Thank God that because of section 92 of the Constitution they could not tie up motor transport. But for that provision we would have been held to ransom. So this is the situation. According to the Press, watersiders say that they will not unload ships of flags of convenience coming from overseas. I think the only answer to our transport problems today is to open our coastline to foreign flags. 
Members opposite have spoken about unemployment among waterside workers and members of seamen's unions. I am perfectly aware of the situation in Queensland ports. Mackay is a great sugar port. It is represented by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson),  a Labor member. At Mackay 300 waterside workers were employed. Because of industrial trouble at our sugar trading ports ships could be delayed for up to 6 weeks on occasions. Obviously the industry could not support this sort of situation; so bulk loading was introduced. What has been the result? Today there are 28 waterside workers at Mackay as compared with the previous 300. Through these senseless strikes the men have put themselves out of work. This is what has happened in Australia. 
Australian seamen enjoy excellent conditions. I agree with high wages being paid for productivity. If a man is willing to work and do a fair day's job he can earn high wages. Let us consider some of the wage rates that apply. The master of the Australian Endeavour', for instance, gets $14,570 a year. He does a wonderful job, but the master of a British ship is paid $6,800 to $8,300, about half of what the Australian master gets. An Australian able seaman receives $6,977, almost the same as does a United Kingdom master. I do not object to this situation. 1 am all for high wages, and men can earn these wages if they do not cause ridiculous industrial trouble on the waterfront for which the Australian community must pay. Those who suffer most are those involved in our export industries. The people who export are the people who earn Australia's real worth and they must suffer the burden caused by waste and industrial lawlessness by the left wing unions who have wrecked the Australian shipping industry. 
It is of no good saying that Australia must have a Labor government and that we will then have only Australian ships. God help Australia if this happens. We will cease to export at remunerative rates. 1 was the Minister responsible for the Northern Territory but the Northern Territory was strangled by these ridiculous shipping and industrial activities. The only way in which the Northern Territory can advance is by having overseas shipping coming to that area. The same applies to all Australian ports. In north Queensland shipping rates are virtually impossible. People are forced to use motor transport and railway transport which, in other countries, is the most expensive type of transport. Because of industrial lawlessness, supported by the Opposition, the Australian shipping industry has been wrecked and ruined and today no Australian ship is operating off our coast. For this reason I suggest that the Government should open our ports to ships flying foreign flags. 
The honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  seemed to make the major point of his case the railway freight situation in Queensland. He referred to contract rates. To some degree I subscribe to his criticisms but I remind him that the Queensland Government has continued the policy of the previous Labor government in that State. Why it has kept to this policy I do not know. I suppose the burden was put on it when it took office in 1957, or when ever it was. It took over a run down railway system which it had to build up and to modernise, with diesel locomotion and so forth. I remind the honourable member that the Commonwealth Government advanced $19m to the Queensland Government to reconstruct the Mount IsaTownsville line. This has been a tremendous contribution to north Queensland and has aided the establishment of copper refineries. 
I noted the honourable member's mild criticism of his young colleague from Brisbane  (Mr Cross).  I realise that the honourable member for Brisbane is a young man. I listened to his speech with great interest but obviously he was a boy at the time that I shall discuss. He quoted figures from the Budget of the last Labor government in Queensland and referred to its lack of dependence on the Commonwealth. What he said was very true. Queensland slipped behind all the other States. When the other States were getting millions of dollars for development purposes Queensland did not get a single dollar, or a single pound as it was in those days. In fact, on one occasion the Queensland government asked for 80m for a dam on the Burdekin. After making an assessment the Commonwealth determined that it was an uneconomic project and Queensland missed out. Queensland refused to participate in the wonderful scheme of soldier settlement which most State governments adopted. I do not know how many millions of dollars have been lost to Queensland because the Queensland Labour government refused Commonwealth assistance. 
Honourable members should remember that Queensland experienced 39 years of socialism. The Queensland Labor government believed sincerely in socialism. This is an old story but it should be recounted because it accounts for present day conditions. The Queensland Labor government believed that private enterprise could not run a country and it purchased cattle stations, sheep stations, hotels, butcher shops, sawmills and all manner of things. 
It had too much sense to go into that activity. Anyhow, Queensland lost millions and the State government discouraged private enterprise. The honourable member for Brisbane mentioned the outback - the rural areas of Queensland. Under the Labor government Queensland was a leasehold State; 93 or 94 per cent of the land was under leasehold. A person could not get security of tenure. He did not know what would be his entitlement in respect of his land a few years ahead. This situation has changed and has become stabilised. Unfortunately some parts of Queensland have experienced 14 years of drought and low prices for commodities. Nevertheless it has forged ahead. Queensland lost ground when it missed out on industrialisation. This accounts for pressure on the present Queensland Government. Before Australia had uniform taxation Queensland had a prohibitive tax rate on companies. No industrialist wanted to establish himself in Queensland. The wiser States benefited, in particular South Australia which is the State poorest in natural resources. It must even pump water from Victoria for use in Adelaide. South Australia's far-seeing Premier of those days,  Sir Thomas  Playford, imposed a flat rate tax of 2s in the 1 on companies. This attracted General Motors-Holden's and other organisations to that State. But Queensland did not have any large manufacturing operation. 
When there was the first big influx of migrants to Australia, Queensland missed out on its share. The honourable member for Brisbane spoke of Queensland's hospitals and its wonderful record in respect of hospitals. I agree with him that it is an extraordinary record, but hospitals do not make jobs or build an economy and that is what Queensland lacks. He did not mention that our brighter young people had to leave Queensland to get jobs in the south because there were no opportunities for them in Queensland. Queensland was purely a rural State whose economy fluctuated with the seasons. Its economy fluctuated as its main rural industries - sugar, beef and so on - fluctuated. Thank goodness, through the present Queensland Government industry has been attracted to Queensland and mineral development has taken place. Although this has stabilised the economy, Queensland has a long way to go. It has to catch up to the southern States which gained a tremendous lead on it. This is putting pressure on the Queensland Government. There is a shortage of money to enable roads, railways, develop ment works and services to be brought up to standards to meet the wishes of the people. 
The honourable member for Dawson spoke of the brigalow exercise. What a wonderful operation this has been. But Labor did not conceive it. The Fairbairn Dam has been constructed at Emerald and a dam is being constructed in the Bundaberg area. When Labor was in government for 39 years it did nothing in this regard. Queensland now has an enterprising government which is out to develop the State's resources for the benefit of the whole community and it has to do this in a few years, unlike the southern States which had wiser governments during Queensland's 39 years of Labor. This put Queensland in an extremely difficult situation but the present State Government has done a magnificent job. 
I think most honourable members would agree that when Labor was in office in Queensland a person could go to Melbourne or Sydney, drive through the suburbs and see new development taking place and factories being erected. But within a few miles of Brisbane nothing was happening. This situation has changed and today factories and industry are being established around Brisbane. Brisbane is developing as fast as possible but pressures are put on a government when this activity takes place. I think the honourable member for Brisbane mentioned education. Education was in a frightful mess in Queensland when the present State Government took office. But within the space of a few years the State Government has established high schools at Longreach, Charleville and throughout the countryside. A few years ago Queensland had only a few high schools. This is a wonderful example of the work of the present State Government to advance Queensland. 
My colleague, the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  mentioned the tremendous development of the Gold Coast. I cannot agree with his criticism of the administration of the Gold Coast when he suggested that large buildings were throwing shadows on the beach and so forth. This may be what the local Gold Coast residents want. After all, development on the Gold Coast has been amazing. It is the fastest growing area of Australia The administration on the Gold Coast has been returned again and again because it has been doing the sort of things that the people want done. 
It is not. The honourable member has not been there. He should take my advice and go to the Gold Coast this winter and see for himself. Then he will support me. The Gold Coast is a great drawcard for people from the south, especially in the severe winter periods that occur there. I hope I have highlighted the strains that are put on a government which suddenly comes to power and has to drag the State - the richest in the country, in natural resources - out of socialism, lift it from underdevelopment and bring it to the position of being one of the foremost States in Australia. In recent times the population of Brisbane has just about doubled. 
I want to pass some remarks on the comments made by the honourable member for Darling  (Mr Fitzpatrick)  about the mining situation as it affects one Broken Hill mine which is closing down. 1 know that all honourable members regret men being thrown out of work but I think we must consider the history of mining operations in Broken Hill. My information - and I have had a lot of experience in mining - is that the mining unions in Broken Hill resisted attempts to introduce modern mining industrial equipment. 
I have this information on very good authority and I would be doubtful about accepting the. honourable members comment in preference to it. Consequently when a situation becomes difficult, when it becomes uneconomic to work a mine because low prices are being received for base metals, there is no alternative but for the mine to close down. Had this mine been able to install modern up-to-date equipment these men undoubtedly would have been working. Doubtless the use of modern mining equipment would have resulted in the possible redundancy of a few men, but not of all the men who are now going to be out of work, and the men who would have been put out of work would have gone out at a time when it would have been easy for them to obtain employment. 
Coming back to the Bill, I congratulate the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  on his objective of finding the answer to our industrial problems. I think that most honourble members will agree that industrial unrest is the most serious factor in our economy today. Industrial relations are the greatest source of inflation and they are the greatest difficulty which we face in controlling inflation. I believe the Minister has made an excellent attempt to meet the problem or at least to give to rank and file members of unions - this is what T am interested in - more power than they had before when they were being pushed around by the bosses. What struck me very forcibly in the Minister's second reading speech - this has not been taken up by any member of the Opposition - is the fact that the community is the concern of this legislation. The Minister stressed the importance and interests of the community on several occasions in the first few paragraphs of his speech. He said he hopes that this Act will bring about orderly conduct in industrial relations in this country, benefit the workers and the employers and also protect the. interests of the entire community. 
The Minister again stressed that this is a Bill to serve the interests of the community. He mentioned members of the community as a whole and said that they are the people who are most affected by labour disputes and irresponsible union attitudes. The Government, as the Minister property stressed, cannot be a bystander to all these things that are happening. We have seen so much of it recently. The Minister referred to the recent State Electricity Commission strike in the La Trobe Valley in which  11,000  employees were out of work because of the strike. These, people were directly involved in electricity operations. But  200,000  people were without work in Victoria, apart from the countless thousands who were out of work in other States, because they could not be supplied with component parts which are manufactured in Victoria. This was a disastrous situation. 
The honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  suggested that the community is the worker. It is so utterly ridiculous for a community to be put out by these rolling strikes and these lightning strikes. Some of our big communities in urban areas in which tram and buses suddenly come to a halt know what this is all about. This is a form of industrial blackmail. Is it not about time that the Government tried to do something to provide the community with these services which are so necessary in a complex and vigorous community such as we have in Australia? The honourable member for Hindmarsh has said that the community is the worker. He is probably right because  90  per cent of the voters in Australia are wage and salary earners. The reason why this Government is in power is that wage and salary earners are concerned about orderly industrial relations. Let us hope that this Bill will bring some order into the industrial field. 
The honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  mentioned something with which I am very much concerned, that is, agreements between employers and unions on wage rates and working conditions. This Bill apparently has no provision relating to this matter and it does not seek to deal with it. I believe that unless the Government or the Minister can find some other way to meet this challenge the amendments proposed in this Bill will have little effect. We had the case of the metal trades employers coming to an agreement with the metal trade unions last October, I think it was, when an increase of about  $6  or  $9  a week was granted, and from this rise we had a flow-on throughout the community. I think that the aim of the employers in reaching this agreement was to attain industrial peace. This would be all very well if the employers were paying for this sort of industrial peace, but they are not - the community is paying for it. We had the recent case on the waterfront in which the employers came to an agreement with the Waterside Workers' Federation of Australia for all sorts of new conditions and arrangements which suited both parties, but this is to cost $9m. Who has to pay for this? Who has to spa up this $9m? None other than the community of Australia and, particularly, the exporters who provide the real wealth, the mining people and the manufacturers who export as well as our great rural producers. The community will have to pay for these things unless the Minister can find some means of controlling these outside agreements. 
In the United States of America there is a system of negotiation which has been disastrous. The unions and the employers come to an agreement and as a result the community has to pay. This is not good enough in a country like Australia. I have regard for the ability of the honourable member for Hindmarsh who led for the Opposition in this debate, but his speech was the most lamentable that I have ever heard him make. I have already dealt with his remarks in regard to the community. He said that the community was the worker. I pointed out that this was not quite correct. The honourable member is opposed to ballots on whether or not a strike should be held. This is the key to this legislation. Why should not the rank and file of a union have some say in regard to the policies of the executive of the union? The story put forward by the honourable member is designed to continue dictatorship in militant unions, to further industrial lawlessness and to promote industrial unemployment. But these are the sorts of things which occur because of disruptive tactics. 
We have heard much comment on the question of amalgamation of the metal trade unions - these communist dominated unions. This matter is of great concern to a considerable number of people on this side of the House. I think that some comments from a noted communist might show a tie-in to the objectives of the Communist Party of Australia. These comments were made by Lance Sharkey, the national secretary of the Communist Party of Australia some years ago. He said: 
Trade unionism in Australia has developed almost entirely on craft lines. The Communist party regards these craft divisions as a source of weakness and disunity hindering the growth of revolutionary strength. 

 Mr Sharkey said also: 
The Communists strive towards higher forms of industrial organisation of the working class, i.e. shop committees and industrial unionism. 
In this debate we have heard a lot from the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  about shop stewards and shop committees, and we find  Mr Sharkey  talking about the same matter.  Mr Sharkey  said: 
It should be specially noted that the shop committees will be the basic organisational unit of the future industrial units . . . Organising for shop committees in the factories is a foremost task of the communists ... In a revolutionary situation, the shop committees would be one of the chief instruments for drawing the whole of the working class into the fight, into the street, and the general revolutionary struggle. 
We have heard some remarks from honourable members opposite very similar to those: 
Party comrades, therefore, must set about preparations for establishing a factory committee where one does not exist, and strengthening and guiding it where it does exist. 
There is more to it than that. Many Australians saw the excellent programme on ABC television, 'Profiles of Power'. A book with the same title is available from the Parliamentary Library. It contains the report of the television interview of  Mr Laurie  Carmichael, a member of the executive of  te  Communist Party and one of the leading Communists in Australia. He is also one of the controlling men in the Amalgamated Engineering Union which is involved in the union amalgamation proposal.  Mr Clancy,  I think, also a noted communist and a prominent trade union official, is another. So there is a stack of good corns, good comrades, involved in this operation. To show the thinking of  Mr Laurie  Carmichael, I refer honourable members to the following question by Bob Moore, and the answer by  Mr Carmichael: 
Now, on the question of militancy in the unions. In another draft paper for the Communist Party Congress on 'Aims' etc., there was this: The communists aim for socialist revolution without civil war. Strikes, demonstrations, occupation  of decisive institutions and factories would be necessary. Now, is that what you're working for in your day to day work in the union? 

 Mr Carmichael said: 
That can only be worked for in accordance with the conditions. The question of participation in strikes and occupations and the like, in my view, arises as a necessity for changing society. 
This is the way the communists would change society. The next question by  Mr Moore  was: 
But are you working towards producing those conditions? 

 Mr Carmichael replied: 
Yes, I would support carrying out those sort of actions, in the conditions in which the workers themselves were convinced that that was necessary for solving their own problems within life. 
Later in the interview he was asked: 
How would you like to change that union structure? 
He replied: 
I would prefer, much prefer, to see a system of industrial unions through amalgamation. Larger unions, more efficient, better equipped, more rationalised In their actions, capable of developing strong shop organisation, shop committee organisation, in which there is no disruption between what the unions arc doing and what the workers are doing on the job. 
So  Mr Carmichael's  amalgamation proposal has been agreed to by the employers in the metal trades industry. I do not know whether those gentlemen have ever bothered to read this book 'Profiles of Power' or to look at the interview of  Mr Laurie  Carmichael on the Australian Broadcasting Commission's television programme, but my impression of many of them, and of any sections of business today, is that they do not look further than the next profit and loss account. If they are going to act in this irresponsible way, as the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  said, the Minister must find some means of dealing with the situation. If he does not, the sorts of amendments we are now considering will mean nothing, and there will be no industrial peace in Australia. 
The honourable member for Isaacs mentioned another matter that I would like to deal with. We hear a lot of talk in our community, from the Press, and from the members of the Opposition about price control. What has price control ever done anywhere? Has it succeeded in stopping inflation? There have been 2 generations since a Labor government was last in office in this Parliament. Under war-time powers the Labor Government introduced price control, and what happened? A black market developed. Margins of profit were so small that manufacturers ceased to manufacture, there was a demand for goods and the only way you could get them was by dealing under the counter, on the black market. When the Labor Party was last in office goods were in short supply, things were stultified, and so on. But that is not the only experience of price control. In Europe many conservative governments in years gone by would not have a bar of price control, but in desperation, I suppose, they have attempted to control inflation by controlling prices. The result is noted in an article in 'The Economist' of 29th April 1972, in a column headed Business Brief. Do price controls work?' In part, the article reads: 
The major European country with the longest experience of a statutory prices policy is France. The last contrat antihausse ran from midSeptember last year to the middle of March, based on a frame agreement between the Government and the employers to keep the rise in manufacturers' prices down to 1.5 per cent during those 6 month. This was more or less achieved for manufacturers' prices (which always are the easiest prices to keep down), but total French consumer prices rose by more than the projected 2 per cent in this period . . . 
France has a worse record of inflation and price rises than any other country. This article deals with the situation in Holland, Belgium, Luxembourg, Ireland, Denmark, Norway and Sweden. It is available to honourable members in the Parliamentary Library. It is utter nonsense to say that by price control you can control inflation. 
One other thing I am concerned about is the right to work. We have heard a lot about the right to strike, but we do not hear much about the right to work. I hope that there is some provision in the legislation to preserve the right to work. In this connection I refer to an incident that everyone will remember. It involved a poor, unfortunate person at the time of the tramways strike in Melbourne last year, or early this year. The union brought all its tramway drivers on strike, but one man, who was a migrant, went back to work and for doing so was persecuted by the union.  His  family was insulted, and so on. That is typical of left wing operations. In other words, he was a resister of union law, of union rules. What is the unions' attitude to Commonwealth parliamentary laws, to the laws of our national service? It seems that people are willing to live here, and to accept the privileges of this country, but are not willing to do something to serve it. They will persecute a resister who does not conform to their views of unionism. Our pusillanimous Press does not give any support to that sort of resister, although it seems to like other resisters. I hope that we shall have some measure for preserving the rights of individuals who want to work. This is a free country, and surely to goodness they should have that right. The unions are so concerned about liberty and the right to do this and to do that that they should be concerned also about the right to work. 
The purpose of the Supply Bill (No. I) 1972-73 is to appropriate moneys to cover Government expenditure during the first 5 months of the 1972-73 financial year. It covers a large area of departmental expenditure, including expenditure by the defence Services. An amount of $30m is sought for advances by way of a loan to the Australian Wool Commission. There is also a provision for SI Om for capital expenditure by Qantas Airways Ltd. 1 wish to stress the importance of the provision of an advance to the Australian Wool Commission and comment on the adverse attitude of large sections of the Australian Press to any assistance given to the wool industry. 
The attitude of a large section of the Press in the cities is quite difficult to understand. I think the usual phrase used by this section of the Press is that the Australian taxpayer is supporting the wool grower. This is plain nonsense. I admit that it looked as though some funds would have to be provided to tide the wool growers over an extremely difficult situation, but what has happened? The policy of the Commonwealth Government in giving support to the proposal for a guaranteed price of 36c a lb for wool has brought confidence back to the industry in Australia and an appreciation overseas of what a very fine fibre wool is. There is no substitute for it. The world has at last seen that wool is a valuable product. That has not cost the taxpayer lc. Average wool prices have provided good returns recently. I think the average price of the wool sold at the Goulburn sales today was 41.8c a lb. The setting up of the Australian Wool Commission was a magnificent gesture on the part of the Government to restore confidence to this great industry. Nevertheless the metropolitan Press seems determined to misrepresent the situation. For some strange reason, I think it would like to see the wool industry collapse. 
The honourable member for Griffith should use his influence in some of the city areas to change that situation. One of the consequences of a collapse of the wool industry would be the collapse of our country towns. A total of 85 per cent of the people of Australia today are living within 25 miles of the sea. If an industry such as the woo) industry were to collapse it would be the end of our country towns and we would have nearly the whole of our population living on the Australian seaboard. Australia has lived off the wool industry right from its beginning. The wool industry has supported Australia's secondary industry. Up to the end of the First World War the Australian wool grower received the top world price for his product and he was then able to buy his station requirements at the cheapest prices in the world. But Australia's population was growing. In a statesman-like attitude the government of the day decided that secondary industry had to bc fostered in Australia in order to provide a wide range of jobs for the increasing population. Australia's first big companies were Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd and H. V. Mackay, which manufactured farm machinery. Obviously those infant industries had to be given some sort of protection from overseas competition. So the Tariff Board system of protecting Australian industry was developed. 
It should not be forgotten that secondary industry has been a great advantage to primary industry also. There are some sections of primary industry that are misguided enough to say that it has cost them dearly, but that is not so. The wool growers may have a point in this respect, but most of the other primary industries have benefited from the large increase in our population that has been made possible only because of the growth of secondary industry in Australia. An increase of 5 million or 6 million in our population has been due to the development of secondary industry in Australia and for this we can bc thankful. When one takes into consideration that Australia's annual per capita consumption of beef is 90 lb, of butter 22 lb, of mutton 40 lb and of cheese 6 lb one can see that every increase of 1 million in the population of Australia makes a tremendous difference to the income of the primary producers. After all our local markets are the best. We do not have to take what the rest of the world has to offer. It does not matter at what price we endeavour to sell our primary products in such places as the European Economic Community because we have little prospect of doing so. 
I wish to deal now with the subject of Qantas Airways Ltd, which is another great Australian enterprise. It was started in far western Queensland. Qantas was originally a mail service between Longreach and Charleville. It expanded to the stage where at one time it was one of the world's greatest overseas airways. Unfortunately, as the result of some irresponsible industrial action by its pilots a few years ago- 
Opposition members - Oh! 
Opposition members may laugh at what 1 say but Qantas has never recovered from the irresponsible action of its pilots a few years ago. Those people are now screaming because, due to a recession in civil aviation. Qantas cannot take on any new pilots. The pilots brought that on themselves by their irresponsible action. Unfortunately the whole community will have to pay for their actions. 
A lot is said by honourable members on the other side of the House about unemployment. Look at what is happening in Queensland. A new coal industry is being established in that State. It involves a vast open cut mine. There have been all sorts of strikes and demarcation issues in that industry. The development of such an industry would bring with it a new town and the service industries that go wilh it. Unfortunately its development has been stagnated because of industrial action. Despite that one hears cries from the other side of the chamber abo.it unemployment. Of course, if people are not prepared to do a decent day's work there will be unemployment. One does not advance a country with industrial irresponsibility and lawlessness. One has only to look at what has happened in other countries. Germany and Japan have recovered from the war by hard work. They are the leading countries in the world today. We have to make up our minds whether we are going to do a decent day's work. 
Another matter I would like to discuss is defence. I do not think many Australians realise the importance of the security of the Indian Ocean to us. The Indian Ocean has been free of any hostile or prospective enemy action. At the present moment 46 per cent or nearly one-half of Australia's total global trade goes into or through the Indian Ocean and that trade is growing. I have the figures in this respect for the 1969-70 financial year. The statistics which are available so far for 1970-71 already show an increase of 22 million tons in 
Australia's exports to South Africa alone. This is not generally known. South Africa is a country that the Opposition likes to forget. Of Australia's total global trade, 39 per cent is carried across the Indian Ocean. This is our trade with the Middle East, South Africa, the rest of Africa and Europe, It is even more important to remember that 55 per cent of our total global trade is with either South Africa or Europe and is carried across the Indian Ocean. In other words, 35 per cent of our global trade either goes to or has to pass the Cape of Good Hope. I think Australians must realise that this is an important area to Australia. We want to keep this area free so that we can carry on our trade. We hope for peace in our time, but we have to be prepared for war. We have to prepare so that we will be able to protect this trade which goes across the Indian Ocean. 
There is only one naval base in the Indian Ocean available to the countries of the Western world and that is the base at Simonstown in South Africa. Until we build the base at Cockburn Sound, for which I have no doubt provision is being made in the Bill we are considering, Simonstown will be the only base open to the fleets of the Western world. We know that the Soviet Union has an arrangement and is using the island of Socotra at the southern end of the Red Sea to carry out naval repair work and so on. Undoubtedly, some of the countries in northern Africa will make naval bases available to the Soviet Union which is interested in the area. China is building a railway from Tanzania across to Zambia. We have to take notice of these things. As I have said, Simonstown is the only naval base in that area. 
We hear a lot of propaganda from die Opposition and from the Press denigrating South Africa which is governed by a white race. The white race did not overrun the indigenous race in South Africa. The Bantu came from the north about 200 years ago, just about the same time as the Dutch came up from the Cape of Good Hope, and they met at the Fish River 125 years ago. So there were 2 groups coming to South Africa, and both of the groups were in the same situation. It was not a case of the white robbing the black of his area or the black taking away an area from the white. The black Africans have a sense of nationalism. Why should not white South Africans have a sense of nationalism and want to keep their identity too? The present problem in South Africa is a South African problem, and I do not think that we should enter into the matter and criticise South Africa for what it is doing. We should thank our ancestors for their wisdom in preserving our identity here in Australia. We do not have the frightful problem which confronts South Africa. But I think that we have to remember that the only country of some substance of Western civilisation in the Southern Hemisphere is South Africa. We need friends in the Southern Hemisphere, and we have to take a kinder view in relation to the problems confronting South Africa than we are taking at the present time. With those few remarks I conclude my speech. 
Has the attention of the Prime Minister been drawn to the statement by the Minister for Trade and Industry when he supported requests from the wool industry on its marketing proposals? Does the Prime Minister agree with these proposals? If so, will he do everything possible to have these proposals implemented as soon as practicable? 
I ask leave of the House to present the official report of the Australian Parliamentary Delegation to the South Pacific and to move that the paper be printed. 
I direct to the Minister for the Interior a question supplementary to that asked of him yesterday by the Leader of the Opposition. Did the Minister inform himself of the circumstances in which the Ustashi flag was alleged by the Leader of the Opposition to have been flown on a local registered club? If so, what were the circumstances? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Immigration and relates to the Asians who have been ordered to leave Uganda and the suggestion that Britain may approach Australia to accept some of these people. In view of the concern of the vast majority of Australians to preserve their homogeneous population and way of life In line with European traditions, will the Minister ensure that the Ugandan Asians are not permitted entry to Australia? 
For 10 minutes I propose to deal with the subject of cost inflation which I believe is of very considerable concern to all Australians, whether they be in the country or in the city. I think that all of us, no matter from what area of Australia we come, have had very unfortunate experiences over the last couple of years, and particularly in this year. I think that one of the great problems, when we look at the situation, is the massive forces arranged On either side. First of all, we have the large commercial interests or groups on one side forming an area of great power which they are able to use in negotiations. On the other side we have a great power - the massive union organisation or worker operations. In between we have the people, including the rank and file unionists who have little say in making decisions which, after all, have a great bearing on their well being. 
I will deal first of all with the commercial side. It is quite amazing to see, from moving about in the community, the mergers that have taken place within Australia. If some overseas company comes in and endeavours to take over an Australian firm it receives all the publicity in the world. The shallow Calamity Janes of our Press give us plenty of this. But in our ordinary domestic areas the number of small firms which are swallowed up by larger firms is quite amazing. Take the transport industry: In the southern area of Queensland we used to have about a dozen large transport companies competing with one another from Brisbane to western Queensland, but today the number has been reduced. One sees these different firms operating, but I understand that today  2  firms control the lot. This is a case where competition has been eliminated. After all, competition is the basis of free enterprise. I belong to a Party that supports free enterprise. We are gradually moving towards a situation with mergers and takeovers where we will kill free enterprise. We will end up with something like a socialist state where somebody in grey controls the whole operation of our activities. 
Let us take the area of farm machinery and farm implements. Many a man on the land has in the past bought a pump or a machine and has suddenly found that he is unable to get parts for it. I had a similar experience the other day with a very well known pump. It is one of those pumps which does not give you much trouble. It is probably about 6 years since I had to buy a part. I went to this large Australian firm and I was told: 'We no longer hold the agency. The agency that controlled this pump was part of the operation, but we cannot help you. We do not make the parts. They are now made in America. We cannot even help you to get parts from America.' I made further inquiries. What happens with a lot of these large enterprises is that some areas are obviously very profitable, and the idea is to diversify. The company took over this very successful industry functioning in Melbourne, which was probably attracted by the offer, took out the most saleable areas of production and discarded the rest. Those of us who happen to own something which has been discarded are in a devil of a mess. That is only one instance. It happens everywhere. 
The important thing about free enterprise is initiative. If we are going to cut down the smaller industries and the smaller firms and put them into the great conglomeration of a larger firm we will kill initiative, management, enterprise and everything else. We will reach a situation not unlike that of socialist or government control. That is one facet. We have killed competition. Our costs have gone up. The cost of machine parts and other things has risen out of all proportion. Today most of us do not buy a part. If we are mechanically inclined we make it. Industry loses this support. This contributes to unemployment. Then we have irresponsible and wasteful industrial strikes from which everyone in the community suffers. People in Victoria well recall the electricity strike in Melbourne a few months ago. What waste that caused! What opportunities for employment and opportunities for initiative to start new industries were lost! A lack of confidence was created, and costs have risen as a result. What is so extraordinary is that the Opposition professes to deplore inflation and yet it does nothing to discourage some of the most important causes of inflation, such as union militancy, industrial unrest and unreasonable demands on employers. 
Let me mention how this tempo is increasing. I have figures here. In  1968  the number of working days lost was one million-odd; in  1969  it was  1,900,000;  in  1970  it was  2,300,000;  in  1971  it was  3  million-odd. One can see that it is going up all the time. This is something that is lost to our community. I realise that we will always have industrial disputes, and in our very complex society we have to find a measure by which these industrial disputes can be prevented. Some decision must ba arrived at. We have a conciliation and arbitration system which I believe has worked very well indeed. It is superior to anything I am aware of in the world. If there are some defects in it certainly we should amend the system, but at least it provides some means in our complex society for resolving difficulties without having the whole community suffer. Lightning strikes occur suddenly. The train drivers in a large city may go on strike; tens of thousands of people are inconvenienced. The unions could not care less about this inconvenience to people. I know that we will not receive any help from the Opposition, because it is unconcerned. During the oil strike the Opposition said nothing and made no move. It let  Mr Hawke  take over the whole thing. Now it is up to the Government to do something. The Government has a wonderful record of administration in Australia over the last 23 years. I believe that the industrial situation is the weak spot. The Government has the power and the means and it should have the enterprise to overcome this situation. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Trade and Industry. If the Australian dollar were to be revalued upward, what effect could be expected on the flow of international tourists to this country? 
 I should like to congratulate the Government on this magnificent Budget, which has been received so very well over Australia, and for good reason. I should also like to congratulate the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  on his tremendous efforts to reform the social service or welfare area dealt with by the Budget. There are many factors involved here that I think are most important. The important thing from our point of view and for a country - I think this is a concern of all Australian's - is to preserve all these benefits that we have received in the Budget. The social service grants have been increased splendidly. We have had the promise of the abolition of the means test over 3 years. Incidentally, this will mean a tremendous amount to many farmers because, although their asset situation is great, their income situation is very poor indeed. They will be in a position, when the abolition of the means test eventuates, to support themselves on their farming operations at least until seasons improve and prices increase. The important thing is to preserve these magnificent increases and our prosperity generally. There are danger signs before us, even problems for the Government now in office. But there will be serious implications if this Government is not returned and another one comes in. 
I should like to mention the announcement by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  that he favours a revaluation of the dollar. This would be a disastrous thing for the Australian people - for some more than others. It is quite extraordinary that so many members on the other side of the House, including the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  and the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson),  who represent areas of primary production and export industries, should support this proposal. This is particularly so in the case of the honourable member for Riverina, as the dried fruits industry and the canned fruits industry are in a very serious situation. Revaluation could put them completely out of business; yet we have a member of the Labor Party advocating revaluation. How can a man like this claim to represent the interests of primary producers? The honourable member for Dawson represents a great sugar growing area on the central coast of Queensland. The sugar industry faces problems arising from the entry of Britain into the European Economic Community. It is concerned about the slight devaluation of British currency last year, and many people have advocated the payment of compensation. 
What will happen if we have revaluation as the Leader of the Opposition has suggested? It will ruin industries in the wide areas of Australia which are prosperous and which produce the real wealth. I refer to our export industries, whether they are associated with mining, agriculture or manufacturing. Our manufacturing industries have built up a tremendous record of export over recent years. All these industries would be affected by revaluation, as is evident from the answer to a question I asked this morning about possible effects on the tourist industry. Revaluation would affect the flow of tourists to Australia. It would affect all these areas. Obviously revaluation would defeat, to some degree, the protection given by tariffs to Australian industries and would affect the workers and their jobs. This is one area where there is danger ahead and where we could lose, if the Labor Party gains office as it says it will. 
Another matter I wish to deal with is the inflationary situation brought about, to a great degree, by our industrial problems. I know that this is a difficult area. I believe that every wage earner in Australia is entitled to a fair share of the gross national product. But how does one arrive at what is a fair share? I believe that the only way to determine this is through our conciliation and arbitration system. If we have an attitude of blackmail, which today seems to be prevalent in Australia, with great favour shown in the negotiated agreements which are approved by honourable members opposite, 2 great power groups - the people who control our large industries and our large industrial unions - can come to an agreement to suit themselves their attitude being: 'Hang the rest of the community who have to pick up the tab'. I cite the case of the Waterside Workers Federation. That union came to an agreement with the employers on a 35- hour week, increased wages, 4 weeks annual leave and so on. This agreement will cost S9m, according to official figures. Who will pick up the tab? The community will. Our exports will be affected. The cost will be spread through the whole community. The Government has to take a stand on these matters. This Government has not done a very good job in this respect. Most people who support the Government are concerned that it has not made stronger efforts to halt this spiral of costs. 
Another factor is unemployment, a lot of which stems from industrial turmoil. Recently I mentioned the power dispute in the Latrobe Valley of Victoria where, as a result of strikes, $24m was lost in wages. That is only a fraction of the actual loss. Even in Queensland workers were stood down because they could not obtain the necessary parts for motor cars which were made in Victoria. These disputes have repercussions throughout the community and obviously affect employment. If we do not stick to conciliation and arbitration we will be in serious trouble. Australia has built up a great record in arbitration. A recent article reads in part: 
The system of conciliation and arbitration deserves to be retained for 2 fundamental reasons. 
The system is traditional to Australia and, while it is full of imperfections, nobody has succeeded in suggesting any real alternative. 
The second, and equally important, reason is that there is no other way of preserving the relative position of the minimum wage earner and the very large number of workers close to this category. 
In his recent book, 'Labour and Inflation' Lord Balogh, economic adviser to Britain's Wilson Government, points to an oft forgotten principle - that just as wage and salary earners as a whole are entitled to a fair share of the Gross National Product, it is equally important that there should be justice between different categories of workers. He wrote: 
Free bargaining increased in equality, it resulted in a relative worsening of the position of the poorest paid and least aggresively organised classes of society . . . 
Trade union action was successful in certain instances in increasing the share of certain privileged or closely organised groups, such as tally clerks, dock workers and so on. 
The lower paid, the defencless and the handicapped, despite the declamation of the unions, have not been protected. 
The same point is made by J. H. Portus, in Australian Compulsory Arbitration 1900-1970', who suggests in guarded terms that one major consequence of the Australian system has been to ensure that compared with the United States, members of weak unions (and members of no unions) have received a fairer share of the cake than they would otherwise. 
The practical liquidation of the system of Court sanctions as a weapon of last resort, since the O'Shea case in May 1969, has not only led to a rapid increase in strike dislocation. 
Even more importantly, it has caused a widening of wage disparities between workers in privileged industries and the lowest paid, whom the arbitration system no longer effectively protects. 
It is a major indictment of the present control of the ACTU that average weekly wages in Australia are now estimated to be more than $90 per week and the minimum wage is approximately $47 per week. So, there has to be a lot of straightening up in this regard. I do not think any honourable member on this side of the House wants to see the worker without his fair share of our gross national product, but when wages rise faster than productivity the whole community loses - even the wage earner himself, because his increase in wages will be swallowed up by cost increases and inflation. Surely this is a situation which most people can see. 
These great power groups - I refer not only to the unions but also to large industrial organisations - for the sake of peace make agreements. But I say again that the community has to pay. I believe that the Government should have a much stronger role to play in this regard than it has at present. The amalgamations we have seen recently pose a great threat to our community. As a matter of abstract principle, unions are as entitled to amalgamate as companies are to merge, either by takeover or by winding up procedures, but it should be on the same essential condition - that the individual proprietary rights of members are safeguarded. Where companies are concerned, no shareholder can be divested of his shares in the course of a takeover other than by his own agreement, except in certain extraordinary cases where at least a 90 per cent majority of shareholders is in favour of the takeover. Equally, if a company is to be wound up, the various Companies Acts require extraordinary meetings, special resolutions, and specified majorities. Why should the proprietary right of an individual member of the union he contracted to join be made the only right not protected by special provisions by placing that right at the mercy of union officials who conduct their own ballots with their own returning officers? 
The practical truth is that the programme of union amalgamation is not directed, as its protagonists claim, to reducing the number of small, non-viable unions. Approximately 65 per cent of Australian unionists are in fact already members of 21 unions. The amalgamation programme we have seen recently is aimed at bringing together large and medium sized unions, which are already perfectly viable, into more concentrated bodies for political reasons, even more than for industrial reasons. Leaving aside the problem posed by the communists and members of the extreme left in the unions, the building of monoliths, in unions as well as in business, encourages bureaucracy, not efficiency. 
When industrial correspondents quote Britain's vast Transport and General Workers Union as an example to be followed in Australia, they ignore the severity of troubles generated by its shop committees at the London docks and the airports. On the one hand, these arise from a breakdown of administration in the union itself owing to its very size. On the other hand, communist factions in the shop committees have used this breakdown of administration to foment major strike situations. With one or two exceptions, the principal impetus behind the amalgamation programme is centred in the communist and extreme left groups. As far back as the 1940s. Lance Sharkey, the then National Secretary of the Communist Party, in his book 'The Trade Unions', made it clear that the purpose is not primarily to bring about economies of scale and an increase of power in industrial relations, but rather to increase the political power of unions as revolutionary weapons - an objective which ought to be alien to trade unionism and which is essentially political and subversive in character. 
These are the problems that lie ahead. These are the problems with which this Government has to deal, and it has not been dealing with them too successfully. But what will happen if the people on the other side of the House come into power? No attitudes have been taken by the Leader of the Opposition on the oil strike and all the other frightful industrial situations that have watered down our well being. If we are to maintain the benefits contained in this Budget, the people of Australia must see that this Government is returned to office. 
Another matter about which I am concerned is migration. We have seen pressure brought to bear on Australia to take the unfortunate Asians from Uganda. I do not see that Australia has to pick up the pieces in this operation. It has come about because of previous policies on the British Government in Britain's former colonies, which brought in outside work forces to develop a country. Uganda is not the only country in which one can see this situation. One sees it in Fiji; one sees it in Mauritius; and one sees it in British Guiana. In these countries one sees the tragedy that has been left behind. 
Here is an indication of why we do not want more minority groups. This is the situation that we have to meet. I appreciate what has been done by the Minister for Immigration  (Dr Forbes).  The Government has been under pressure to allow into Australia people of non-European origin. I believe that we are now reaching the stage where we will have to curtail this migration. We had the changes when countries became independent. Part Europeans and people of mixed race from Burma, Ceylon, Mauritius and elsewhere have come to Australia. In a sense they have our culture or part culture. This is the key to the situation. It is not because a man is black, brown, yellow or inferior or anything else; it is because he is different. It is our cultural situation, whatever it is in Australia, that we want to preserve. Are we to let these people in? I have fears in regard to the Opposition. I wish to quote a statement issued by a man in the Opposition for whom I have great respect, the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly).  He issued this statement following the Australian Labor Party's Federal Conference at Launceston: 
My view on Labor's immigration policy and particularly on non-European migration, should be very well known as I have expressed them publicly on many occasions. 
Following the Launceston Conference of the ALP, when a slight change was made in the wording of the policy, I expressed my opinion on its interpretation and was  promply  relieved of my responsibilities as 'shadow' Minister for Immigration, or in more colloquial terms, 'sacked'. 
My views on its interpretation have not changed. 
The Minister for Immigration  (Dr Forbes)  speaking on behalf of the Liberal-Country Party Government has left no doubt as to their policy on non-European migration. 
There is, however, evidently some doubt as to the policy of the Australian Labor Party on this subject - or at least on its interpretation. The confusion appears to exist not only in the minds of the public but also some members of the ALP. 
It's time, and repeat it's time, that a statement was made on behalf of the Australian Labor Party indicating precisely just what is Labor's policy on non-European migration because the people of Australia are entitled to know the intentions of a prospective government on a matter which can have far reaching effects on their society and way of life. 
So, even the honourable member for Grayndler is concerned. I say again that this is why we must preserve this Government. 
1 ask the PostmasterGeneral: In line with his recent comments on bias by some elements of the Australian Broadcasting Commission, will he suggest to the Commission that, in view of the exceedingly generous coverage given to clashes between police and demonstrators on such past occasions as the visit of President johnson, the tour of the South African footballers and, more recently, the  removal of the so-called Aboriginal embassy from Canberra, it should also cover such incidents as the attack by communist led militants against a union official supporting a return to work by striking plumbers? 
This is a matter of great interest to me because, for a number of years, I was the Minister responsible for the Northern Territory. The disposal of sewage was a very great problem even in my day. I am delighted that the Public Works Committee has come up with a solution to this problem. I support the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  who said that much has been done for the people of Darwin. I agree with him, I suppose that because of the hot climate they are looking to fasten on to the people in happier climatic conditions in the south. A lot has been done for them. 
I pay tribute to  the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder).  In the period he has represented the Northern Territory, particularly over the last 10 years, it is quite extraordinary how the Northern Territory has gone ahead and how many amenities have been provided there. I can recall his advocacy of television. I believe that Darwin has television today and that Alice Springs is to get it. I know that the Public Works Committee has been associated with many of these enterprises such as beef roads. Beef roads go from one end of the Territory to the other and from one side of the Territory to the other. These things have been done on the advocacy of the honourable member for the Northern Territory. He has a wide area to cover and he is very conversant with it. He has been interested in the cattle industry there. He has been an airman in the Territory. He knows it well, he knows the people and he knows their requirements. I congratulate the Public Works Committee, and also the honourable member for the Northern Territory, on this great step. 
 I had no intention of entering this debate but I rise to participate because of some remarks passed by members of the Opposition. The honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh)  made allegations. It is easy to make allegations. 
I maintain what I said about allegations. Nothing has been substantiated. It is easy to make allegations without backing them with argument or facts. I wish to speak on the point raised by the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby).  He discoursed at length and made allegations of lack of freedom of speech and so on. He suggested that a Bill of Rights in Australia would remedy all this sort of thing. He mentioned the United States of America and from his remarks I gather that he believes that the situation in Australia compares adversely with the American situation. This amazes me. I am reading a most interesting book, which is available in the Parliamentary Library. It is a biography of  Senator Huey  Long of Louisiana. If the honourable member thinks that the Bill of Rights is such an effective means of preserving individual rights I suggest that he read this book. I think our situation in Australia compares very favourably with that of any country. My concern is that we follow American attitudes in these sorts of things. The honourable member spoke also about the police attitude towards the antiSouth African demonstrators. 
It concerns me that members of the Opposition are not concerned with the innocents - the ordinary people - who have a right to go to a football match or anything else without interference from organised demonstrations which are really sponsored by subversive groups in Australia. I know that South Africa is held in poor regard by honourable members opposite. I think it is quite unfair to criticise South Africans. Obviously honourable members opposite do not know the situation there. I do not think we have a right to criticise South Africans because they have a problem which, thank God, we do not have, because of the wisdom of our ancestors in preventing minority groups from coming to Australia. One honourable member opposite mentioned the Ustasha. I think it is a pretty poor business for this group to bring its political problems from another country to Australia. But it is a pretty one-sided operation. In view of the history of the Ustasha or the Croatian nation I suppose there is some argument on its side. The Croatian problem has continued for many years since the Balkan War of 1912 when these divisions took place. I think the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  remarked that the Balkans were the cockpit of Europe. The hot blooded people of that region take their way of life very seriously. 
I recollect that in the last war the Croats had a very difficult situation. They wanted independence for their nation. My understanding is that honourable members opposite have been all for independence, but this does not work from the point of view of the Croats. The leader of the Croats in the last World War surrendered to the Allies. My recollection of this part of history was that the Croats were handed over to the Communist group and they were murdered by the thousands. Obviously this creates bitterness. But this is no excuse for them to come to Australia and bring their political problems here and involve us. But that is another aspect of the question. Freedom of speech and freedom to do everything else must take cognisance of the rights of the innocent people of Australia. No-one speaks of the innocents of Australia. Crime is rising faster than we have ever known before. The police are handicapped in finding an answer to crime by the present legal measures. This is the last opportunity I will have to speak on the Estimates, but I should like to make the point clear that the police comprise a section of people in Australia which is not treated very well by the community, I believe that we have to make every effort to build a police force better able to deal with the problems of crime and disorder in Australia. Police officers should be paid more. I always say that police and politicians are not favourably regarded by the people of Australia as regards pay and privileges. If we are to build an effective force to combat crime and to combat subversion I believe we have to build a higher standard of police force in Australia. 
This Bill of Rights business is quite extraordinary. The honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory is alleged by the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  to be the foremost legal advocate in Australia. This is quite surprising. I would say that he is probably an academic advocate. He has not studied the situation. I am not a lawyer; I am a layman. A Bill of Rights sounds a wonderful prospect for law and order and so on but does it work? Does it work in America? Would the people of Australia like to see in Australia a situation the same as that in America? I would say no. Great Britain, I believe, is the land of the free where everyone has justice. Australia has adopted the British common law and I believe it gives the average person a better chance for justice than there is in any other country. Britain has not a Bill of Rights, it does not even have a Constitution. The British principle of justice has worked better than the system of any other country. We have accepted the British common law. For God's sake do not let us go over to a system such as that of America which has proved to be wrong. 
I was in America as a young man about 50 years ago and I formed the opinion there that unless one had money one did not have any rights whatsoever. But this cannot be said of Australia. Let us be proud of our legal system - our system of law and order. Do not let us depart from it. I make a plea for consideration of the innocent man in Australia. Our wretched Press builds up a great sentimental furore for somebody who has broken the law. Some frightful crimes have been committed in Australia and the sympathy of the Press is always on the side of the wrongdoer. The innocent is forgotten in all these things. Let us have the strong attitude that the innocent is an important person in Australia, and let us stick to this. 
I do not wish to appear offensive to the young honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  but I believe that he has been indoctrinated by the mediocre thinking of the Opposition. 
You listen to me. I have only started; you have finished. This is the sort of thinking that produced Wirraways in the last war. It is all right if we have the young men to fly these aircraft and to be shot to pieces when they go up. This is all very well. The honourable member is concerned about an industry; he is not concerned about the young men who have to fly these mediocre aircraft. 
They have done pretty well there. You would not have sent anything to Vietnam. You would have let the communists take over. 
That is right. That is all they could boast. They were not as good as Tails. They could not get away from the enemy. The honourable member gave us an example of the mediocre thinking we get from the Opposition in our important defence areas. The honourable member spoke about the defence aspect of the Australian aircraft industry. We are talking about a loan to Qantas Airways Ltd. The honourable member for Blaxland talks about making 25 per cent of parts for 707s and probably jumbo jets and other aircraft in Australia. What on earth will Qantas do if it has to pay the prices that would have to be charged if we made these parts in Australia, with a dozen or so strikes thrown in into the bargain? In the previous debate the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  talked about making our gas pipelines. I interjected: 'How many strikes to the mile?' 
Listen to the thinking of the Opposition. We learn from experience. 
The Opposition has not learnt from experience. It would make the same mistakes over again. Where would we be if we had to make these parts in Australia? Aircraft manufacturing is a most competitive business. There is in the industry in the world today top competition. Thousands of millions of dollars are invested in research, in producing a top fighter aircraft and in producing a top domestic airliner. No honourable member opposite has spoken about the large firms that drop out and go broke when they fail to get orders. A few succeeded. Boeing succeeded, as did the 707 aircraft, the jumbo jets and others. But how long will this last? Somebody will come up with something else costing thousands of millions of dollars. .But we have not got this sort of money in Australia. Nevertheless here we have an amendment which says:   a select committee is appointed to inquire into and report upon the effectiveness of Qantas management and (3) the terms of the loan agreement are set forth in a schedule to the Bill. 
I can tell honourable members, here and now that Qantas took a great nosedive when it had that strike a few years ago. It has been a remarkable airline, a great Australian airline of which I, as a Queenslander, am proud. It began . in western Queensland and gradually built up until it was the foremost airline in the world. It went ahead and expanded, and got new routes. It got the right to fly across the United States of America. Then it had this disastrous strike a year or so ago and has never recovered. Honourable members opposite do not talk about the. strike. They talk about unemployed pilots, about pilots being encouraged to go from the Royal Australian Air Force to Qantas. Of course, the pilots would have had a job if this airline had continued to expand the way it had been, but this strike set: the airline back and it has never, recovered from it. The Opposition does not want any inquiries into this sort of thing. Look at the history of the industry. With our bitter industrial relations we have not a hope in Australia of building these overseas communications unless new compete with overseas companies. Our shipping lines are going down the drain in exactly the same way as Qantas is. I believe that in the interests of Australia we will have to get out of the whole business of communications if this 
Irresponsible industrial situation persists. Therefore, I condemn this amendment and support the Bill. 
The honourable member for Bowman  Mr Keogh)  asked us to be reassured that the Australian Labor Party will maintain an immigration policy which will be in the best interests of Australia. I am afraid I am not reassured. I join the honourable member for Ryan  (Mr Drury)  in paying tribute to the right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell)  for his great contribution to the Australian migration programme. 
I have not heard the honourable member for Bowman do so and in my opinion his views run contrary to those of the right honourable member for Melbourne. The honourable member for Bowman seems to suggest that we attract migrants by giving them handouts. In other words, they will not earn their keep but will be a burden on the taxpayer who will provide handouts for them. This country was built by people who came here to make a way of life and, by golly, they did pretty well. They made a great contribution to Australia and built a wonderful country. We can undermine our Australian way of life quite easily. 
The honourable member for Bowman said that we do not discriminate against the colour of the skin or things of that kind. I agree with him. We do not judge a man on the colour of his skin but on his way of life, and if we import people with a completely different approach to life then we are headed for trouble. One has only to look at other countries which have brought in trouble through immigration. I maintain that the problems are caused by a cultural difference, a difference of attitude to life. Our trouble is that we cannot attract people who made a success of their own countries. How many Scandinavians or north Europeans do we attract to Australia? These are the people who have made a success of life in their own countries. We can attract only the people who have made a devil of a mess of life in their own countries - and they will make a devil of a mess of Australia. 
I take that bait the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope)  has offered. I make no reflection on the Minister for Immigration  (Dr Forbes);  he has to carry out Government policy. I pay tribute to the tight honourable member for Melbourne for the action he took on an earlier occasion when we were short of manpower to develop this country. But it is time that we took a pull on this migration operation, particularly in respect of bringing people here who are in such a desperate situation in their own countries that for them anything is better. I know there are great interests in Australia which are allegedly short of manpower to develop our resources. But at the same time we have thousands of Australians, skilled people, going to universities and high schools. Some of them are strange people, I admit, but the majority are first rate. Surely to goodness we should protect job opportunities for them rather than bring thousands of people from overseas because whatever outlook our own people may have, they are Australians. They are imbued with the traditions of Australia. 
We have seen what has happened elsewhere. It is all very well for the academic world and the World Council of Churches and such people to say that all men are equal. This does not work out in practice. We have to look at the immigration policies of some of the colonial powers. Britain brought people of a completely different culture into her colonies to build a work force. Look at Uganda today, and Fiji, British Guiana, Mauritius and Sri Lanka and see the legacies that have been left there. We have sympathy for Britain today in having to absorb about 30,000 Asians. However, this is the result of poor policies implemented years ago. Britain allowed in people who could not assimilate in the country in which they went to work. It we are not very careful we will have the same situation here. I believe this view is shared by the vast majority of Australians, not because they despise or look down on people with black skins or anything of this nature but because these people are different. No-one in the world has yet worked out a formula whereby people of different cultures can live in harmony. 
We in Australia have a particular problem. We are the outpost of Western civilisation in the western Pacific area. Australia is the top country in the southwest Pacific. There is no other country to equal it. We have millions of people of different cultures to the north of us. We can be friends with these people and can give them support but we can be taken over not by war but because of our immigration policies. If we bring these people of foreign cultures into Australia- 
I do not know about that. Our immigration programme has to be closed down to a great extent. We have to clamp down on this desperate desire to bring migrants to Australia. At present, we are looking towards Asia. People in my electorate say: 'We refuse Chinese and we refuse various other Asians but we are bringing people from the Middle East into Australia. Are they not Asians?' They are Asians. Australia cannot be in such a desperate situation that it needs these people. We need to build a high standard of living in Australia and the only way in which we will do it is by developing our own community here and resisting the migration of those people who are trying to come in and undermine our standards. 
I wish to comment on the remarks of the last  speaker  for the Opposition, the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds),  about the advantages that private schools have over other schools.  His  remarks were quite erroneous. Obviously he does not know of the situation that prevails at private schools. I have been associated with private schools. 
I have. I have had children at public schools; so I know something about them. A lot of nonsense is spoken about the private schools. That amazes me. I suppose there would be quite a number of wealthy people who send their children to independent schools. On the other hand there are hundreds of thousands of people who have to scrape and save to send their children to independent schools but who choose to do so because they are concerned about the situation that prevails at some government schools. The honourable member for Barton referred to quite a ridiculous tax formula. He went into the tax savings of people who send their children to independent schools. He said - I will take the extreme example - that a person who had a taxable income of $20,000 a year would receive a taxation deduction of $241 on education expenses of $400. That was the substance of the point he made. But he did not mention that the person paying this sum was also contributing a considerable amount by way of taxation to the support of government schools. Is that not a fair thing? The honourable member for Barton's argument is one which does not hold water. The important thing is that people should be able to choose where they want their children to be educated. 
Many responsible people are concerned about education. After all the education of their children is a very important subject to them. I wish to quote what was said by  Mrs Margaret  Slattery on the television programme 'Monday Conference' on 18th September at Armidale. She said: 
I want them- 
That is, her children -  brought up in the Catholic faith, and this is why I choose a Catholic school, because I look on the school as an extension of the home, and in my home I have certain values I try and transmit to the children. When they go to school I want them to be in an atmosphere where I feel the same type of values are transmitted to them. I feel I just don't want them taught purely secular subjects, because I feel that a religious background is vital to their whole wellbeing, their whole education, and for this reason I want them in this atmosphere. 
We are living in an era of progressive movements and revolutionary groups. Strikes are taking place in high schools and all sorts of strange doctrines are being expressed in our schools. I shall quote an American authority on this. After all, to preserve our way of life is very important. We have long had a tradition of Christianity, which many people are now seeking to destroy. The American authority to which I refer states: 
What has destroyed the capacity of society to contain its problems is that the American middle class has permitted its values to be destroyed in the minds of its own children by those it paid to teach them. 
Many of the most distinguished academics, paid to teach, were barely known to their students, who never saw them. They became business gogetters, taking government jobs and using the funds of foundations. Their own students came to despise them, as their opposite numbers justly despise many academics in Australian universities. 
The important thing is that at least we have an opportunity of choice of education for our children. This is not Labor Party policy. We heard in the debate on the estimates for the Department of Health the Opposition's suggestion that we should not have a number of medical benefit funds but one great national fund and that we should have no choice. In education we would have a similar situation under Labor. Take an area where a State school operates. What child has an opportunity to go somewhere else? He must go to the local school. 
He has to go to the local school unless the parent suffers great hardship. In today's progressive society people have strange ideas about drugs, abortion and so on. We have different points of view represented in this Parliament. I respect different points of view. The honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass),  who I believe is a sincere man - and I admire him for his sincerity - is all for the legalisation of pot. For all I know he may be a headmaster some day, or a teacher in a school may have his ideas. Would I be happy to send my children to that school? The honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  advocates legalised abortion. If a headmaster has the same views as the honourable member for Prospect and you have to send your child there, what is your attitude? The important thing is that parents should have a choice, so that they may send their children where they believe they will acquire the values they have been taught at home. We have to take these things very seriously. We have had 2,000 years of Christianity, and a challenge is being made today to our Christian principles by the new progressive movement. This is by no means the first time we have seen this in the world. I believe that Christianity will survive and Christian values will survive, but in the meantime we have to avoid these sorts of things. This is the value of independent schools. But for goodness sake let us get away from the talk we have had about wealthy schools. This is a lot of plain nonsense. I have been associated with church schools and people who strive, save and mortgage their homes to send their child to a church school because they do not want them to be corrupted. I admit that I sent my son to a government school because in a provincial city you get to know the headmaster of a school. The important thing is that parents have a responsibility for their children and they will not hand them over to the Government to be brought up in any old way and filled with strange views. A lot of people are satisfied to do this. 
I congratulate the Government and the Minister on the measures brought forward. We do not want standardisation of education. We do not want standardisation of behaviour. We do not want a standard of mediocrity with everyone coming down to a certain level. I shall quote from a speech I made at the speech night of a church school of which my father was one of the co-founders. What I said may be completely out of date but I would like to get it on the record. I said: 
The primary function of a denominational school is to produce leaders, not only in the sense of captains of industry, Ministers of State, distinguished men of the Services ... but in the sense of citizens, ready to grapple with the problems of life in the second part of the twentieth century, accepting responsibility, standing for something definite and having the desire to serve men in some capacity, however humble. This is the essence of a Christian teaching: These are the traditions of the great public school system. 
We have inherited a great tradition, one that has given the British world so much that is good in that it inculcated a spirit of service and fair play that was carried to the end of the earth wherever Englishmen served. 
I believe that this spirit is best expressed in that wonderful book of public school life 'Tom Brown's Schooldays' when Squire Brown meditates on what advice he should give Tom on the outset of the latter's departure for Rugby. I quote: I won't tell him to read his Bible and to love and serve God; if he don't do that for his mother's sake and teaching, he won't for mine. Shall I go into the sort of temptation he'll meet with? No I can't do that. Never do for an old fellow to go into such things with a boy. He won't understand me. Do him more harm than good, ten to one. Shall I tell him to mind his work, and say he's sent to school to make himself a good scholar? Well, but he isn't sent to school for that - at any rate, not for that mainly. I don't care a straw for Greek particles, or the digamma, no more does his mother. What is he sent to school for? Well, partly because he wanted so to go. If he'll only turn out a brave, helpful, truth-telling Englishman, and a gentleman, and a Christian, that's all I want.' 
This might be out of date philosophy, but in my speech I went on: 
This is a philosophy of a simple, rural individualism, before the onset of the industrial revolution of the first half of 19th century Britain. Nevertheless it is a philosophy of basic civilisation tested and proven. To nurture these values is a challenge to our church schools and parents. I believe that it was the fervent hope of  Sir Robert  Menzies that aid to independent schools would further the cause of individualism. 
I am surprised at the attitude of the Opposition which is bursting to get involved with China. For what purpose I do not know.It does not seem to have given a very good reason. We are getting along very well indeed with China. Why do we want to change this relationship, when probably recognition of China would create other difficulties with closer neighbours and so on? My purpose in speaking in this debate is to refer to the islands int he South Pacific.I had the honour of leading a delegation in that area last year. The members of the delegation were tremendously impressed by the attitude of the people on islands such as Western Samoa, Tonga, the Cook Islands and Fiji, their regard for Australia and their close ties with Australia.I think that the view of the average Australian towards these islands, if the average Australian ever thinks about them, would be somewhat hazy. All members of the delegation were impressed with the fact that we have so much in common with those people, particularly those in the newly independent countries. They look to Australia as a leader in the Pacific and as a leader they can trust. They look to Australia for assistance to overcome the difficulties which they have. 
I am very pleased to know that the Government has again increased aid to these islands. I think the increase to about $2m last year reflected a 40 per cent increase. The Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  has announced that an amount of $15m will be spent over the next3 years. This is a substantial increase. The countriesI mentioned have much in common with Australia. Most of them were former colonies of Great Britain, as was Australia. They have a similar political structure. They have an acceptance of British common law. They have many cultural ideals which are natural to their own way of life and which are in common with ours. They have strong cultural ties of their own. They have no divisions amongst themselves. They are strong natural entities. But of course they have economic problems. Their resources are not great. They depend on tropical products such as cocoa and copra. They are faced with tremendous population pressures. They do not appear to have made much headway in controlling their population and for this reason they are heading for very considerable trouble. 
As I mentioned, their resources are small. One of the things which impressed me was the injustice meted out to the people by nations which control the great land masses of the world. The resources of the ocean surrounding these islands are not available to the islanders to any great extent. The great nations such as the United States of America, Japan and China are using trawling fleets to take out the fish resources from the Pacific Ocean. I believe that in fairness the fish in this area rightly belong to the people on these islands. We have a parallel in a sense in the northern Atlantic where Iceland is trying to reserve the fish resources for its own people, and I believe she is justified in doing so. It is a small island and fish is its only resource. I appreciate the difficulties. These people have traditional fishing rights and Iceland wishes to extend its fishing limits to 50 miles from the coastline. This is quite reasonable. But I do not want to enter into a debate on that because it is none of our business. The South Pacific area is our business and I understand from the arguments put forward in discussions on the law of the sea that these islands were looking to Australia to put their case for them. Surely to goodness we canlook at the very special circumstances of this South Pacific area - this enormous ocean with its tremendous number of islands. They do not have sufficient resources to maintain their people in a reasonable standard of living. The ocean is rich in natural resources. 
However, the Opposition wants to give these people handouts. These are proud people who are anxious to build their own economies and surely the resources of their ocean can be reserved for them, l.et us consider the vast land mass of Australia and our vast plains from which we harvest wheat and o:her crops. To these island people the ocean is like these vast areas are to Australia, Canada or the United States of America which supply great grain crops. So I make a plea for greater consideration to be given to granting these people control over the resources of the .isa, the only area they have to harvest, an area which contains the only substantial natural resource that is available to them. All the nations I have mentioned have great resources other than fish and it is not essential that they fish in these areas. I believe that the members of the delegation which toured the area will be delighted at the increase in aid to these islands which look to Australia. If every Australian could appreciate the interest shown and the sense of leadership given by Australia, the average Australian would be keener to see more money spent in that area. Australia gives most generous aid to other countries when its resources and population are considered. In terms of this populationresource ratio we have a better record for giving aid to underdeveloped countries than any other nation. But we do not get credit for this from our mass media. This is a pity because ours is a wonderful record. But we will get far greater returns for every $1  we spend  in this South Pacific area than from every $1 we spend in the international areas to which our spending has been inclined. 
It is sad to listen to the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  demanding increased grants for South Australia and to remember the days of  Sir Thomas  Playford. We all recall, particularly we in Queensland, the tremendous headway made by  Sir Thomas  Playford in South Australia. I suppose that South Australia had the smallest amount of natural resources of any State of the Commonwealth. 
The speech of the honourable member for Adelaide was a mendicant speech. He asked for handouts. Considering South Australia's natural resources, that State progressed better than any other State in the Commonwealth. This present change in South Australia has occurred under the Labor administration there. However, that is a sad story which I will not relate at this stage. I want to support this Bill on behalf of Queensland. 
Indeed it is. Let me outline some of the ways by which I suggest we can get away from the present mendicant situation. Queensland has a remarkable record. It is a large State with a small population and must support a large network of roads and railways. It has done magnificently in this regard. 
It is interesting to hear the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh)  and the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  condemning the Australian Post Office for a lack of funds and a lack of progress being made on the installation of telephone. It is also interesting to hear them during debates on matters of public importance saying that all cables should be put underground, which as the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme)  pointed out would further delay all the desired results. We have to be realistic. We have to be responsible. In conceding the difficulties of the Post Office 1 do not intend to speak on this subject but rather on the estimates relating to the Australian Broadcasting Commission. During the 14 years that I have been a member of Parliament 1 have always supported the Australian Broadcasting Commission because I believe that it is the only means we have of ensuring objectivity in the reporting of news as well as parliamentary proceedings. The Press in Australia is owned by a few groups and it prints just what the policies of those groups require it to print. There are great protests at times against alleged government censorship of news reporting, but it is nothing to what the Press censors. Anybody who has been a Minister knows the misrepresentation that takes place in our daily Press. I have always looked to the ABC as the means of providing the community of Australia with objective news broadcasts and I believe that it has succeeded very considerably. But in the last year I have noticed a great change. 
The programmes are excellent, certainly: but as a person who is critical and one who has been associated with the circumstances of the times I have an impression that the young men who are the commentators, interrogators or whatever they are called probably suffer from immaturity. I think they are quite sincere in their endeavours to provide a good programme, but my view is that sometimes they do not know their subject and they let some people get away with murder. I was amazed by what was said on a 'Four Corners' programme last Saturday concerning Japan's association with Australia in the. field of trade and so on. The honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  was interviewed on that programme. Reference was made to the ownership of land in Australia falling into what the honourable member described as alien hands. He. said that 400,000 square miles of Australian territory was owned by aliens - and he was allowed to get away with saying it. 
The young fellow who interviewed the honourable member for Riverina in the Four Corners' programme on the ABC did not ask him who the aliens were who owned this land. If the honourable member for Riverina had been questioned on this he would have had to be. honest and admit that only a fraction of this land was owned by people other than people from the United Kingdom. As a member of an old pastoral family, I know that the old pastoral companies from the United Kingdom have been in Australia from the very beginning of white settlement. Are we to include the people of the British Isles as aliens? I gather that this is the new attitude which has been adopted by members of the Opposition and apparently it is accepted by the Australian Broadcasting Commission. The expression 'owned by aliens' probably sounds very frightening to the people of Australia. We see similar sorts of statements in our afternoon newspapers, and I am sorry to see the Australian Broadcasting Commission participating in this sort of thing. To say that 400,000 square miles of Australian land is owned by aliens sounds quite impressive, but if the young man conducting the interview had known something about the subject he would have asked: 'Is this freehold or leasehold land?' If the truth were to come out I believe it would show that it is all leasehold land. All this 400,000 square miles of our birthright that was accepted on the 'Four Corners' programme as having been sold to aliens is probably leasehold land which will revert to the Crown in a few years' time after millions of dollars had been spent on improving it. 
The people of Australia are being misled by plain nonsense. I am disappointed that the ABC has been a party to this sort of thing. It is quite extraordinary that it accepted the views of the honourable member for Riverina - a member of the Opposition - without question, especially with an election coming up. It looks rather ominous to me. Apparently the Commission's commentators or interviewers support the Opposition and fear the present Government which they claim to be selling our birthright. I do not know where the honourable member for Riverina got his information. I say that because it is impossible to get the facts from the State governments in Australia as to who owns the land in most of their pastoral areas. But this information is available for the Northern Territory. For the information of honourable members, I wish to quote figures 1 obtained from the Legislative Reference Service of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Library on the ownership of land in the Northern Territory. The area under pastoral lease in the Northern Territory is 286,648 square miles. A total of 74 per cent of that area is held solely by Australian interests. A total of 16.3 per cent of it is held solely by overseas interests. 
The honourable member for Hawker should listen to what I have to say. The breakdown of that figure is 5.2 per cent United States held and 11.1 per cent United Kingdom held. Would the honourable member for Hawker classify United Kingdom interests as alien interests? Is that his view? The honourable member for Riverina called them alien interests. That is a departure from the traditional Australian view of our British ancestors. Most of us have descended from British people. 
I have descended from British people. I do not regard my grandfather as having been an alien. The honourable member might regard his as having been an alien. He probably was. That is ! the difference between the honourable member and me. 

 - Mr Chairman, I seek petmission to have incorporated in Hansard the relevant information I received from the Legislative Reference Service of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Library. 
Area under pastoral lease = 286,648 sq. miles. 74% of this area is held solely by Australian interests. 16.3% of this area is held solely by overseas interests which breaks down into 5.2% U.S. held and 11.1% U.K. held leases. 
The rest of the land is held by joint Australianoverseas interests. 
This is the sort of misrepresentation about which I am concerned. Most of us take with a grain of salt what the Press publishes but we look to the ABC for integrity in its news reporting and we are not getting it. 
We are not getting it. We had the case recently of an order being given not to put a particular segment on a current affairs programme, bug down the line it was decided to put it on. In other words, some people in the ABC make their own rules. That is the philosophy of anarchy. Who makes the rules - this Parliament or the Australian Broadcasting Commission, which derives its statutory authority from this Parliament? If we are going to have a philosophy of anarchy coming into the ABC, God help us because we get no help from our Press. When I was in Japan a few months ago the retiring Prime Minister,  Mr Sato,  told the reporters sitting in front of him: 
Get out of the way and permit a TV camera to be placed there. I want to appeal directly to the people, and I want reporting to be carried out mainly by TV. I don't like newspapers which distort the news. 
May we look to the ABC to give us objective news reporting. I hope the present situation will be remedied. 
I was very interested in the comments of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  that a Labor government would accept the railway system as a challenge. Let us hope that it would do a bit better than the previous Labor administration when we had a hopeless situation in the railways in Australia. The Australian Labor Party went out of office 23 years ago and I am not very confident that it would do any better in office now than it did then. We have a socialist railway system in Australia. I am not going to say that the railway system should be handed over to private enterprise; but we have to make it work and the only way to make a socialist railways system work is to have competition. 
Hear me out. I am referring to motor transport. Immediately after the war we had the communist dominated unions - the Seamen's Union, the Waterside Workers Federation and the railways unions that tied up our transport situation. Without motor transport this nation would have been strangled. Thanks to section  92  of the Constitution they could not do anything about taxing motor transport off the roads. Unfortunately, I admit, some members of my Party are interested in holding a referendum to abolish section  92  for the purpose of making it easier to market primary products. We must weigh this against the prospects of a takeover of the transport situation in Australia. Transport is a vital issue and a matter of major cost to many people in Australia. We have a coastline of  12,000  miles. 
Twelve thousand square miles. 
It is. Water transport is the cheapest form of transport there is in the world. Honourable members opposite talk about development of the north, and we hear a lot of this sort of thing from the Opposition. Darwin, north Queensland and other places in the north are being strangled because of the onerous conditions being placed upon water transport by various union regulations. One has only to go back about  30  years to see that we had viable passenger transport service around the coast of Australia. Today no passenger ships travel around our coastline. The only sort of shipping transport that is viable is bulk transport, and obviously that does not help many people. This Government has made a valiant effort to build an Australian merchant marine. Unfortunately, it has not received co-operation from the unions in this operation. Today we have strikes. We cannot rely on any sort of transport around our coast and we do not have a great amount of general cargo. I believe that the answer is to throw our coastline open to foreign flags. We cannot support irresponsible strikes. Just recently we had the experience in Queensland of foreign tankers being anchored outside the harbour because the watersiders or the tug operators would not service these transports. They alleged that Australian tankers were out of commission. This country cannot afford that situation. As we do not receive co-operation from the unions I believe we must throw our coastline open to foreign flags. 
Not interstate. We have it from overseas but not interstate. The Tasmanians are suffering from the situation. The Tasmanian small crop growers - producers of potatoes, peas and all the things they produce over there - have to pay a hidden tariff by way of exorbitant freight rates in order to sell their products. Consequently, other countries such as New Zealand can undersell them. The Australian manufacturer has pretty well been denied the developing market of Papua New Guinea because of the exorbitant freight rates between Australian and Papua New Guinea, lt is cheaper to buy goods from Japan, Germany or Britain and to import them to New Guinea than it is to take them from Sydney. The time has come when we cannot afford the luxury of building up an Australian flag line. 
It is argued that in time of war we would have our own fleet. Those of us who are old enough will remember the time of the Korean War when there were strikes of seamen taking supplies to our troops in Korea. Is that a line we could rely on in time of war? Obviously we could not. The seamen did not agree about the type of person we were fighting. In those days we were fighting against the communists of North Korea. We have had the same difficulty when we have been fighting against the North Vietnamese. The communist controlled Seamen's Union and others have tried to impede our efforts in that direction. I believe that transport is a vital problem for the people of Australia. We are an exporting nation. Our great wealth comes from exports. We cannot afford to support this flag line when wc do not receive co-operation from the unions involved. 
I support my colleague the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown)  in his comments on the Restrictive Trade Practices Bill. I am afraid, as the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  has mentioned, that this legislation will not be a complete answer, but I say that in  a  different sense to what he indicated. I would like to answer the comments of the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  because I think they should be replied to. As a primary producer I am concerned about the tens of thousands of primary producers in Australia who face great cost rises brought about by our way of life, particularly in relation to our exports. This is an area over which up to the present we have not had very much control. Undoubtedly this legislation will in a sense tie up the central issue of our freight situation. The honourable member for Newcastle spoke about S900m being spent in Australia on freight charges. This is a bald statement and is  a  most misleading one. I am surprised that it is not larger than that. It will be larger in  a  few years because that statement indicates that we are a tremendous trading nation. Whether the honourable member was referring to exports or imports or was lumping the 2 together I do noi know. A sum of $900m is a frightening figure to any primary producer or any Australian. 
Let us have a look at the figures. I accept the honourable member's figure of S900m, but let us analyse it. I point out than 40 per cent of that amount is spent in Australia in stevedoring charges. This is where our trouble lies. I suppose that when a ship goes to the other side of the world another 40 per cent is to be spent there. If in the centre there is a shipping line with its overheads, amortisation and all the rest of it. honourable members can work out where the profits lie. In fact I have noted from their balance sheets that shipping companies are not a very attractive investment proposition. This seems to give the lie to what the honourable member for Newcastle has said. I am concerned at the cost to the primary producers. The honourable member for Newcastle said that the Australian Dried Fruits Control Board, the Australian Meat Board, the Australian Wool Board and the rest of the primary producer organisations are terribly concerned about what primary producers pay in shipping freights. Unfortunately this is going to get worse. The 40 per cent which I referred to and which constitutes stevedoring charges, harbour dues and all these sorts of things will increase, simply because the waterfront unions and the employers have come to a new agreement which will increase the cost of our shipping operations by S9m. Who is going to pay for that increase? Obviously it will not be the employers and the employees. It will be the primary producers or those who manufacture goods for export. This is where our problems lie. 
I recollect that last year charges in the United Kingdom went up by 32 per cent. Freight rates have to reflect these sorts of charges. When a strike occurred on the waterfront in Great Britain last year - and there was another one recently - ships which came from Australia had to unload at European ports, the cargo had to be transhipped to Great Britain and our promary producers and other exporters had to pay. Such things increase our costs the whole time. This piece of legislation will tie up the situation, I believe, as far as shipping companies are concerned, but unless this Government acts and does a better job than it has done over the years on our waterfront we will be in trouble. 
I am glad to hear the honourable member for Newcastle say: Hear, hear'. I would like him to bend his efforts into bringing a bit of responsibility into the waterfront unions. They have destroyed our intrastate and interstate shipping lines. The honourable member for Newcastle pleads for an Australian line to carry our goods overseas. If such a line did for our overseas shipping what such an arrangement has done for our Australian shipping, God help us. If we do not profit from history we will make the same mistakes again. I recollect reading in the Press - this is all doubtful, of course - a plea from the Seamens Union of Australia to provide married quarters on new ships which are being constructed. They will have some pretty decent strikes when that happens. The crews will have a home away from home. Goodness knows what will happen then. All these things are loaded against the primary producers. I hope to goodness the primary producer boards understand that their problems come not so much from the shipping companies but from the irresponsibility of waterfront unions here in Australia and overseas. Employers want peace, but peace at a cost to the community. This happens not only on the waterfront; it happens elsewhere. 
This Federal Government has the power, I believe, to take action in this respect. If it has not got the power it should attract the power to deal with these sorts of things. If we are blackmailed every time we are tn these sorts of difficult situations and give in we will be forced to the wall. Only recently in the great sugar producing area of Bundaberg a tanker was tied up outside the port and another tanker was tied up just off Brisbane because the tugboat operators would not bring them into the harbour to unload. Two-thirds of the sugar crop had been harvested and only a month or so remained to harvest the rest of the crop. The unions held the gun at the heads of the harbour board with demands for increased wages, improved conditions and all the rest of it. The community pays for this sort of irresponsibility. We believe in a fair go for the working man but not for this sort of blackmail that happens in some of our seasonal industries. It has happened in north Queensland where our fat cattle are brought in only in a few months of the year; we have had to close down because of strikes, holdups and so on. This has happened many times over the years. 1 support this Bill because I believe it can put us in a position of some strength in relation to decisions on freight charges. Until we tie up the irresponsible attitudes and the chaos which exist on our waterfront there will not be much chance for us in the future. 
At least the Australian Labor Party has a great advantage. It would only have to let prospective investors hear the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  with the dismal predictions which he gave tonight and Labor would not have any trouble about foreign investment. In fact capital will go the other way. 
I am going back but before I do I want to address a few words to the House. The honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage),  I think, started to talk about history. He obviously has a very short memory about history and the part which the Labor Party played in overseas investment. My colleague the honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Robinson)  referred to the establishment by a New South Wales Labor Government of an agency in New York to attract overseas investment to Australia. There are probably not many people as old as I am - the Right Honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell)  is not present - who would remember that the Chifley Government attracted General 
Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd to South Australia to build motor cars and lent that company half a million pounds into the bargain with no Australian equity. Has the Opposition forgotten this? 
It was Chifley. The honourable member should look up the record. Conveniently, he would like to forget it. Let me delve a little more since the honourable member for Chifley dug up history and said that we want to have a look at it. Here is some more history for him. A few years ago a Labor Premier of Tasmania did his level best to encourage the then Federal government to attract overseas interest and development of iron ore deposits at Savage River in Tasmania. Not a single pound cf the equity in that project was Australian capital. 
What was the situation in regard to a Labor government in Western Australia? I admit that I am talking about a pre-war government, but the honourable member for Cunningham talked about history. That Labor government in Western Australia gave concessions to 4 Japanese companies to develop Yampi iron ore deposits. There was no Australian equity of any sort in that project and there were no provisions of any sort for processing. The royalty was not 70c a ton as it is today; it was 3c a ton. The ore was to be extracted at a rate of 10 million tons per annum. This would have meant that the entire Yampi deposits would have been exhausted and would have disappeared in 15 years. I am just giving a bit of history to the Labor Party. Thank God the Labor Party did not succeed in that situation. If it had, where would we be today? A lot of emotion has been built up about overseas investment. I would say as an old Australian: 'Thank God for overseas investment'. 
Yes. Let me give the reasons. Every developed country in the world has tried to attract overseas investment because if they cannot they will falter. The United States of America depended on hundreds of millions of pounds from Great Britain to develop her railways and roads. The whole of Texas was pretty well owned by British capital late in the last century. The Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd - our great company that has built up the resources of Australia and is able to compete with international companies^ - was practically formed by overseas investment. Until 1921 the executive of Broken Hill Pty was made up entirely of overseas people. What do we have today at Broken Hill Pty? We have the situation that 84 per cent of the shareholders are Australians. Mount Isa Mines Ltd, the great company that has developed the far north of Australia, has contributed more than any other company to the development of the north. I had been to the area before Mt Isa Mines Ltd was established when only kangaroos and a few cattle were there. Now there is a city of nearly 20,000 people. They are Country Party voters; they know what horse to back. The Mt Isa company was formed by American knowhow. It nearly faltered early in its history and for 20 years it never paid a dividend. In the 1940s I suppose the Australian equity in that company was only about 3 per cent. Today it is over 40 per cent. This is the situation into which we have had to rely on overseas funds, overseas know-how and overseas markets. We should not forget that we have to sell the resources which we develop. But the time has come when we have to clamp down on overseas investment which are taking over viable Australian industries. This is what we do not want to happen. This was the policy enunciated by a former leader of the Australian Country Party who said: 'Yes, we will have these overseas investments to add to our know-how and to build new industries in Australia, but not to take over existing industries here'. 
I am glad that this Bill has been introduced into the Parliament. It is not before time. It has been only in recent years that Australia, through the political stability of this Government, has been a magnet for overseas investment. The political stability of this Government has encouraged overseas investment because overseas investors like to know that their investment will be safe and that they will get a fair return on it. But if we do not take measures to prevent these investors from taking over our own viable industries, this, of course, will happen. We do not want this. When I was the Minister responsible for the Northern Territory I, as a member of the Gov ernment, insisted on substantial Australian equity in the Gove bauxite operation which is now so successfully in operation. A lot of nonsense has been written in our mass media about Papua New Guinea. We have read how that country is being taken over by the Japanese. This is plain nonsense. We have left the people of Papua New Guinea with a formula for investment there. If they stick to that formula they will have nothing to worry about. If they alter the formula - and they have the right to alter it because they are practically self-governing today - then that is another matter. But here in Australia, as I have said, it is time- 
It is time to clamp down on the overseas people who, attracted by the political stability and the opportunities in this field, are attempting to take over viable Australian companies. No other country can offer such opportunities as Australia and this is due simply to the 23 years of responsible Government of this country. No-one is going to change the Government. The honourable member said: 'It is time'. I would say: 'Not yet". We have a long way to go. This country is developing fast. 
I direct a question to the Prime Minister. I refer to the industrial dispute in connection with the construction of the alumina refinery at Gladstone. When will the men who went on strike on 18th October last and were dismissed on 19th October become eligible for the unemployment benefit? 
