
 - Mr Speaker, the recent elections produced a situation in which we heard about this brilliant new party, the alternative government for Australia. Some of us were curious to know about the defence policy of this brilliant new party. Those who ignore the lessons of history become its victims. One remembers that during the 1939-1945 War the Labor Party opposed the defence of Australia- 
Ah! 
Thank you, young man. One remembers the Labor Party opposing the defence of Australia until the Germans suddenly attacked Russia. Immediately, Labor came in hot foot to the last man and to the last shilling. [Quorum formed.] 
 Mr Speaker,  the Opposition did not like my reference to the fact that the Labor Party was opposed to our defence effort in 1939-1945 until Hitler attacked Russia on 22nd June 1941. Honourable members opposite who are seeking to interject would not remember what happened. But the Hansards of that time- 
I move: 
That the Government take note of the plight of rural industries in respect of the cost price squeeze, the dwindling markets in Europe, and the general effect  on  exports and balance of payments with a particular reference to the dairy industry. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, this is a sad day for the Australian rural industries. In 1952 the Government officially announced that the rural industries must be expanded and production targets were arrived at. This followed a big loss in rural production during the war when enlistments from rural industries were very heavy. The rural industries made substantial contributions to the war effort of 1939-45. lt was apparent when this Government came to power at the end of 1949 that something had to be done because the economy depended so tremendously on export income, 90% of which was provided by the rural industries. I do not mean the primary industries only, because I suppose the extractive mining industries could call themselves primary. For the best part of 200 years the rural industries have given Australia its export income and have played a part in the balance of trade. What is the importance of the balance of trade and balance of payments? No country can exist without an export income. No country can develop without it. If there is a deficit in the balance of payments then there will be unemployment in that country. This happened in Great Britain. 
In 1952 Australia needed an expansion in rural industry. Everything possible was done, including the giving of taxation concessions and help with fertilisers, to aid the man on the land to produce the export income which Australia so badly needed. As I said before, 90% of the total export income came from rural industry. Rural industries are important because of their contribution to the consumption sector. Some years ago in America it was proved that the farm sector, or the farm bloc, was the principal consuming bloc and gave employment to a tremendous number of American businesses and industries. In this country when we look at the rural sector we tend to forget that the agricultural servicing industries are providing a tremendous amount of employment and wealth in the provision of tractors, cars, petrol, fertiliser and all kinds of services affecting rural industry. Although they may comprise only 10% of the total population, there are people who live in country towns or who work in the big factories in the cities, as well as seamen and waterside workers who are concerned with handling rural products, who depend upon the rural industries. 
Today rural exports have fallen from 90% to 51% of the total. The value of rural exports rose from $927m in 1949 to just on $2,000m in 1966-67. I repeat that that was a most important contribution to Australia's welfare. I repeat again and again that if we fall behind in our balance of trade and balance of payments, which we have done to the extent of 16,000m in the last 10 years, then we will be due for a terrible depression and gross unemployment. 1 am glad that the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen)  and the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  are in the chamber to hear that. What has saved us in the last 10 years in regard to our balance of payments has been capital inflow of more than $6,000m because of opportunities in spheres other than the rural sphere. The character of the people in the rural industries is important. They are men of tremendous courage, men of great strength, who live with their first class wives in very tough conditions. General de Gaulle said that the farmers of France had in their keeping the character of France, the honour of France the defence of France and the glory of France. Unfortunately, due to technological changes, the farmers in the Common Market countries are now going to be depleted just as it seems that farmers in Australia are going to be depleted. 
Let us look at the cost price squeeze. People in the wool industry tell me that the cost of shearing has risen in the last 10 years from 4% of the clip to 15%. The cost of shearing is $100m a year. This cost is doubling every 10 years. With the present trend in 20 years from today shearing will cost $400m, which will be 60% of the present value of the clip. That cost is added to by freights. Some people say that the wool industry subsidises the railways. They pay $4 a bale in freight. I am informed that the cost of freight on wool exported to Europe is about $100 a ton. This position ought to be looked at. The cost of handling wool is being looked at, but how can the industry or half of it survive if it is presented with higher costs and, in many cases today, lower returns? That is an example of the cost price squeeze. 
In the dairy industry many factories are looking at the day when they will close. The recent wages flow-on cost I little factory $12,000. A previous decision on wages cost them $30,000. Rail freights have increased to $15 a ton for about 200 miles. Costs have become impossible. The only way the factory can keep going is to pay less to the farmer. That cannot happen, because the farmer has already borne too great a blow with the lower prices. The worst blow that the rural industries have suffered has been the effect of the Common Market policy. The House knows that it took the Common Market many years to decide on a common agricultural price policy. When it did, as far as I can find out, the brilliant agricultural economists put up proposals but the council of ministers could not afford to lower the price in any country. So eventually prices in the Common Market countries all rose to the level of the highest priced country, which was probably Germany. In order to hold these prices up the Common Market people, while lauding the idea of breaking down customs barriers inside the six, have put on import levies. 
We are told that the Australian beef exports to Italy attract an import levy of 110%. In other words, beef is twice the price in Italy as it would be under free trade. The cost of butter exported to Germany and those countries that used to buy Australian butter and cheese, carries an import levy of 58.17c a pound. Because of the excessively high prices in the Common Market countries and because of the technological advances there has been tremendous production. We now know that there are literally mountains of butter and other products inside the Common Market countries. Whether Britain joins the Common Market or not - I hope that the wool people will remember this - the effect of surpluses is to deaden demand. When there is a huge surplus the buyer says: 'lt is there. I am not in a hurry to get it, because I can pick it up when I want it'. This slows down demand. In ' addition, surpluses have affected world markets. We understand that the people in the Common Market are now dumping rural products such as flour in the Pacific countries. That is traditionally Australia's market. The French, I understand, have closed Tahiti and Noumea. They are selling flour at $18 a ton over our price. Where they are competing with us, for instance in Fiji and other places, they sell flour at $18 a ton under our price. I understand that very high quality European butter is coming into Singapore, Hong Kong and those markets at about 10c to 13c a pound. 
What has been our traditional marketing for over 100 years has been dealt a very serious blow. This is not the fault of the Australian farmer. This is a result of the technological revolution which has hit agricultural production in the highly developed countries. Of course, the Common Market countries will not escape this. Twenty million farmers a few years ago have been reduced to 15 million and soon there will be 5 million farmers left in the Common Market countries. This is what has happened to De Gaulle's concept of the character of France and the glory of France. The farmers must be assisted to have larger holdings and to increase production. But surpluses are enormous, the markets there are shrinking and room is available for only 5 million farmers whereas there are in fact 20 million farmers. 
So, what is the position of the producer in the world? In the highly developed parts of the world his numbers will go down. This change will alter the sociological situation in any nation. 1 think the House will agree that the people who till the soil and who belong to the rural sector of the community are much more patriotic than are intellectuals who can sell their brains and take their brains with them to some other country. The man who lives close to the soil is much more patriotic and more devoted to his country than other people are. I hope that I am not doing anybody an injury by saying that. But I strongly believe that the people who come from and work with the soil are the ones who have the character of the nation in their keeping. I think that this is true in Australia. 
One of the matters to which I wish to draw the attention of the Government is the tremendous expansion in the rural indebtedness. In 1939 rural indebtedness was about $570m. It rose to $ 1,000m in 1962. The latest figures available to me show that in 1969 the indebtedness was just short of $2,000m. This is a problem to be faced by farmers in addition to the other costs including the increases in shearing costs and wages that I have mentioned. I am not criticising that element. What I am saying is that these are the problems which the rural producer meets. He cannot pass these costs onto his customers because his customers are getting less and less and are paying less and less. 
So, the rural producer must shoulder the whole of the increased costs and he must service this $2,000m of rural debt. He must pay interest on it. He must repay what is owing in respect of drought relief. 1 think that the Commonwealth provided the best part of SI 00m in the last few years by way of drought relief and the State Governments are demanding repayment quickly at 3%. This means that the rural producer carries an enormous debt load. All his costs are rising. If the trend in wool costs continues, more than half of the value of the wool clip will go in paying shearing costs. Added to those costs must be the cost of handling and freight. I speak not only of freight to Europe but also of freight from country centres to the city. Increases in the cost of moving wool and the cost of the sale of the product continue. When costs of one sort and another have been met. the rural producer is left with very little return. 
The next point that I wish to make concerns the dairy industry. It was my wish to move this motion some months ago. In the period between giving notice of the motion and making my speech on it, the Minister for Primary Industry has pointed out that the dairy industry is anticipating a production of 220,000 tons of butter and about 70.000 tons of cheese. Australia consumes about one half of this production. I recall a scheme which was known as the Paterson scheme. 
No.  Mr Paterson  was a former member for Gippsland. Before the war. he worked out a very neat little sum. At that time we exported I lb of butter for every 4 lb produced. In other words, we consumed 3 lb and exported I lb. The price of butter in Australia was ls 4d per lb. Butter cost ls per lb in London. So, this clever  Mr Paterson  took Id from the price of each 1 !t&gt; consumed in Australia - in other words, he took 3d from each 3 lb consumed in Australia - and added that 3d to the London price of ls per lb. which made the London price per I lb. Is 3d. It was a nice arrangement. At this moment, wc are not exporting 1 lb for every 3 lb of butter consumed here. We are exporting 4 lb for every 3 lb consumed here. This has thrown the whole financial arrangement with regard to butter out of balance. Aggravating this complicated situation in the butter market, the price in London is gradually fall'ing. It now stands at 295s per cwt. For quite a while it was 300s per cwt. It has dropped by 5s a cwt. This decline is attributable to the effect of the European Common Market surpluses as well as the effects of not being able to sell a good deal of butter and the cost price squeeze on the dairy industry. 
As the honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Robinson),  the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  and I well know, the anticipated closure of some dairy factories will lead to a very difficult situation in country districts. Of course, a parochial problem arises. If a dairy factory closes in a decent sized country town. 20 men lose their employment. If 20 men lose their employment, some of the shops, motor traders and other employers each might put a chap off. So, a town starts to go down hill when it loses its dairy factory. This is the kind of situation that must be faced. 
I turn now to another matter related to the cost price squeeze. I have been trying to find out what is the cost to primary industries in Australia of tariff protection. This is a very difficult thing to establish. I understand that a Professor Gruen, of Monash University, is to carry out research involving a systematic analysis of alternative protective policies. This research will be done by Professor Gruen with the full time assistance of one research fellow and 3 research assistants. The study is to be financed by a grant of ยง27,384 from the Australian Research Grants Committee. When so much power and expense must be devoted to research into the subject of tariff protection, it is pretty difficult for 1 or 2 members of Parliament or for a committee concerned with primary industry to find out the facts in that connection. For many years, a number of committees including CEDA - the Committee for the Economic Development of Australia - has been trying to ascertain the effect of tariff protection or price supports. For instance, if I buy a weedicide called 245D, the position is this: As the result of the tariff on chemicals a few years ago I would pay $4,000 a ton in price support. Difficulties arise in getting this weedicide from other countries or in producing it here. A couple of drums would be purchased for a medium sized property. In buying that weedicide, I would pay per ton a total of $4,000 in price support. If all the tariffs applying to the rural sector were added up they would come to a very large sum indeed. I cite this fact because of the many attacks being made on price supports for farmers. I think that the total value of price supports for farmers would be less than $200m. I say the cost to the farmer of the various charges which are imposed on him would be in the realm of thousands of millions of dollars. 
The honourable member for McMillan says that that is not really true. My point is that we do not know, and $27,384 is to be paid to find the answer. Of course, the rural producer does receive a lot of assistance in various ways. At the same time, he is called upon to finance a lot of things that are happening in the community. The Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  sometimes has been a bit cruel about dairy farmers and 
Since he has been Minister for Social Services, he has become a much more kindly man. He is listening to me now and I appreciate that very much. We are sensitive chaps, and there have been times when we have been terribly hurt by the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  and by what the Minister for Social Services used to be like. Since he has been a Minister his approach has been so much more kindly and helpful. He is a responsible member of the Government and we appreciate this coming from him. 
I do not know how the honourable member for McMillan finds out that we are not paying very large tariff imports on the things we use in primary production. In some export industries there is a complete by-law protection of an import if it is immediately re-exported. This does not apply to the rural industries. If we import something and use it in production we do not get any by-law protection for that. If you make a Holden car and export it and you buy a part for it from overseas that part is imported completely free because it is to be re-exported. The Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen)  might look at this one. Our committees are trying to examine the effect of Government policies, what the State governments do, and what local government authorities do with rates on the survival of the rural industries. 
The Minister for Trade and Industry has made a desperate effort - I use the word 'desperate' because I think it is the right word - to see that our balance of payments is in surplus. It has been in surplus but not because of exports and imports. It has only been in surplus because we have had an enormous increase in capital inflow during the past 10 years. Our balance of payments, excluding capital inflow, was in deficit by $6,170m in the last year for which figures are available, 1969. Total exports were $14m above imports, but all the invisibles got us into trouble. Transportation came to a debit of $679m. A part of this, of course, was for transportation of wool. Income from transportation was about $390m. 
There are a lot of items in Australia's balance of payments which probably in the long run affect the primary producer and which the Government ought to be looking at. There are some things which should be in the Government's purview which are much more important than whether we mess about with the 3-mile territorial limit or that kind of thing. The Commonwealth Government has duties to carry out, and some minor things are being done that ought not take up the time of the Government and the time of the House. 
They relate to the last decade. We were $6,000m down in our balance of payments. Trade is different. The balance of payments includes everything. In trade - that is exports over imports - we were $14m to the good. We were saved by over $6,000m coming in for investment in Australia. This is because we came good with our minerals. Who started the development of our minerals? The farmers started this because they have always wanted to increase production and income for Australia. The graziers in the north west were promoting the iron province. 
The Food and Agriculture Committee went to the Ord River and almost fell over the iron ore, but it took 3 years for our mining committee to get the export embargo on that mineral lifted. It is the rural people, the people in the outback, who have helped the mineral production, which will bring fantastic amounts because mineral markets and prices are increasing. 
Because we have a good income from minerals, that does not mean that we should turn dog on the people who for 200 years have been supporting Australia and giving it its export income. This is what has happened in this country. The Press are as much to blame as anybody. We see headlines such as 'Can We Afford the Farmer?' This is a very nice situation to happen after the farmers have nourished Australia for all these years. They had a drop in production during the Second World War. Now the brilliant and clever chaps of the Press, who I can see looking at me, have turned around and have started to attack everything we try to do to increase production or to get more income for Australia. 
Obviously a tremendous amount of attention has to be paid to the handling of the product, but the most important job is the presentation and marketing. It is not good enough to stick butter or cheese in a container and send it away. It has to be something that the buyer wants. Too long we have had this attitude of making 100 tons of butter, sticking it on a ship and saying: 'We will get the money back'. Those days have passed. We must pay attention to marketing. 1 am very grateful to the Minister for Trade and Industry and the Minister for Primary Industry for being here. The marketing of this stuff is the important thing. We should give attention to the preparation of the wool clip and to finding the correct way to handle dairy produce and where to sell wheat. Meat, of course, has been the bonanza. I defy those people who say that there will be over-production of beef. I do not believe it. I moved that the Government take note of the plight of the rural industries, and I thank the House for bearing with me for 29 minutes. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Corbett)Is the motion seconded? 
I refer to the Commonwealth benefits as shown in the Schedule. I take item No. 6360 which is 'Metacarpophalangeal joint of thumb'. This deals with the dislocation of a thumb. The Commonwealth benefit for this is $6 for a general practitioner service and $8.10 for a specialist service. For the information of honourable members who are interjecting, I repeat that I am dealing with Item No. 6360 which appears in the First Schedule, the Second Schedule and in the other schedules. I am taking the case of the position in New South Wales according to the Second Schedule which relates to treatment and the First Schedule which gives the first Commonwealth benefit. 
Under Item No. 6360 the general practitioner would receive $6 by way of Commonwealth benefit, from the fund $4 and from the patient $2.50, making a total of $12.50. For this same item, the specialist would get $8.10 by way of Commonwealth benefit, $5.40 from the fund and $3 from the patient, making a total of $16.50. The specialist would benefit therefore to the extent of $4 and the patient would pay 50c more for the treatment if he went to a specialist. In this case, it means that the status of the general practitioner is damaged. His value is written down and denigrated. He is brought into a secondary position because naturally a patient with a dislocated thumb would seek the service worth $4 more for which he pays only an extra 50c. If honourable members check this through the schedules they will find that what I am saying is right. 
I believe that the care of the health of the people of Australia is in the hands of the general practitioner who must be available 7 days a week, 24 hours a day - that is, at all hours, including very early in the morning - and who sometimes receives no pay whatsoever for his services. If a GP is called to a public ward at 3 o'clock or 4 o'clock in the morning he receives no payment for his services. This worries me. I am backed up in what I am saying by reports from Canada that the differential rebates arc not working and will need to be got rid of. 
Therefore, I have taken this case of the dislocated thumb which is one of the group of 25 services quoted by the Australian Medical Association. The special rebate for specialists ought to be withdrawn. The AMA itself has said that this group of 25 can be paid for at the same rate for the general practitioner and for the specialist. I am asking the Minister for Health to look at this matter quickly. 1 am asking for this on the basis of the claims for review of this situation which will come to the Minister from the doctors in my electorate. 
The danger in the situation which the differential rebate brings about is that the status of the general practitioner is written down. His capacity to give service also is reduced. Obviously the patient will seek the specialist service if he has to pay the same amount of money or only 50c more for that service. I make this plea on behalf of the general practitioner. He is an important person. He is dedicated in the first place to the health of the community. He is dedicated to every member of a family from shortly after conception to the grave. He is on call. The specialist is not on call. He is there for special cases, the patient must go to his surgery. The general practitioner is there all the time and this is the man whom I want to see looked after in this Bill. I ask the Minister, firstly, to give effect to the AMA request that the 25 services are brought out of the differential rebate stage; secondly, that to review the whole question of differential rebates so that the general practitioner will not be written down in any way. 1 am absolutely firm on this and I shall continue to ask the Minister and the Government to do this as quickly as is possible. 
In answer to the last comment made by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  I ask him whether he has considered that the line built by the Hamersley organisation will be committed fully when the company finishes its development of its new mine and that it could not spare any of its rolling stock or any of its facilities for anybody else because of the enormous size of its operations. May I say that such operations by companies are possible only under a free enterprise government. I will develop this idea in a moment. 
If the Party for which the honourable member speaks were in power no development would take place in Australia at all because of the fear of nationalisation of the means of production, distribution and exchange. It is no good for the Opposition to try to laugh these remarks off. These are the facts of life. The Australian Labor Party went out of office in 1949 because it began to nationalise the banks. Now, when this tremendous expansion and boom is occurring in Australia, the Labor Party wants to monkey around with those developments. The fact is that these things have taken place only because we have a free enterprise system. 
In 1953, the then Prime Minister,  Mr Menzies  as he then was, said, as reported at page 121 of Hansard of 19th February 1953: 
We are deeply committed, as a government, to the principle of fair competition in the banking system. 
He also said: 
We stand for fair competition. . . .  1 wish to address the whole of my remarks to 'fair competition'.  Mr Menzies  continued:   . . between it . . . 
He was referring to the Commonwealth Bank:   . . and the other trading banks in the country. The light way to achieve that competition is, first, to give it a separate legal existence- 
That is, the central banking part of the Commonwealth Bank:   . . and, secondly, to make it subject to precisely the same rules as are those institutions which are competing with it for business. 
He said further that his Government believed in: 
. the continued operation of the Australian banking system in fair and open competition within the framework of the central bank policy. We believe that that policy and central bank authority are of great importance. 

 Mr Menzies said that he believed in the administration of central banking policy with true, genuine competition between the banks.  His  words were: 'true, genuine competition between the banks'. This is the philosophy and the kind of system that brought the Liberal Party into power in 1949. 
Again, when introducing the Banking Bill in 1953, which followed the Commonwealth Bank Bill 1953,  Mr Menzies  said: 
As I have said in relation to the earlier Bill, the Government is pledged to preserve competition on a fair and equitable basis as an essential ingredient of the banking system in Australia. 
In that same speech he said: 
We believe that a strong competitive banking system is one of the pillars of the economic freedom of the individual, and we are resolved to remove any potential threat to that system which is at present inherent in the banking law. At the same time, we recognise the tremendously important part played by the central bank and the need of that bank of adequate powers to perform its task. 
Now, the same thing was followed right through to 1957. The then Leader of the Country Party,  Sir Arthur  Fadden, when he was Treasurer, when speaking on the Reserve Bank Bill 1957 said: 
The chief purpose of this Bill is to establish the central bank for the Australian monetary and banking system as an institution which will not be directly associated with the conduct of banking business in competition with the private banks. 
He said further: 
But we also believe that the private trading banks have a vital part to play in the Australian banking system and the Australian economy; and there can be no doubt either that the great majority of Australian people believe this too. 
That system, which this Government introduced in 1953 and then confirmed with the Reserve Bank Bill and the establishment of the Reserve Bank in 1957, has been a kind of economic freedom which has meant that Australia would prosper. We have seen tremendous prosperity in the last decade based on this system of free enterprise banking under the control of the Reserve Bank which is responsible for the flow of money in Australia. I believe that the Australian Industry Development Corporation is not meant to work with the Reserve Bank. It is meant to work outside the Reserve Bank. Although I find it difficult to believe that it is not a bank, if it is not a bank what will it do with these funds which it receives through this legislation? lt will have to bank those funds in some private bank. Immediately that happens it should become subject to the control of the Reserve Bank. 1 feel moved to speak in this way in opposition to this Bill. I cannot support this Bill. Some honourable members here may remember that in 1956 I was moved to rise in this place and ask for leave to bring in a Bill for an Act to amend the Commonwealth Banking Act 1945-1953 so as to provide for separate administration of the separate banking functions of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia. At that time, the Government parties held a Party meeting. The then Prime Minister,  Mr Menzies,  agreed following that move, which was made on 10th May 1956, to have a 3- day meeting on the question of the Reserve Bank in February 1957. Following this Party meeting, the Government introduced the Reserve Bank Bill. We now have the Reserve Bank of Australia operating in every State of Australia. 
The Reserve Bank has been able to avoid severe inflation and severe recessions because it had a system of skimming off what were held to be funds which were too available at certain times, it skimmed those funds off and put them into statutory reserve deposits. The Bank of New South Wales, during the Second World War, when it believed that there was too much money and too much danger of inflation, voluntarily deposited its surplus funds with the Commonwealth Bank. This led to the system of statutory reserve deposits which 14 years later became enshrined in the conduct of the business of the Reserve Bank of Australia. This was done to prevent too much money being in circulation, to prevent over-employment and to prevent prices rising and affecting people not able to cope with high prices. 
The Reserve Bank has been able to do this, lt has been able to achieve it by getting trust between the private trading banks and the Reserve Bank and by having the principle of fair competition enshrined in its charter. This principle was stated over and over again in the speeches I have quoted and is in our philosophy on banking. So, under this economic freedom and our free enterprise banking system, we have seen develop the Hamersley and Comalco undertakings and all of these other big mineral concerns. They have added to Australia's prosperity and to our export income. We have seen in operation this system of which I have given some of the philosophy and some of the kinds of principles which were stated by  Mr Menzies,  as he then was, and by the former Leader of the Country Party,  Sir Arthur  Fadden, when he was Treasurer. These have been successful. Certainly we are in a time of change. Certain attitudes of people are changing. We heard the Canadian Prime Minister yesterday giving effect to this kind of thinking. But there are certain principles which cannot be changed. One principle which cannot be changed is that you cannot allow too large an amount of money to come in which will raise prices against our export returns, raise prices against pensioners, and raise prices against people who are on fixed incomes. This cannot be allowed because it means economic torture, and hardship for people who ought not to have to put up with it. 
So I believe that these principles which 1 have announced, and which 1 have repeated here tonight, cannot be changed. I believe that the moment we set up a corporation like this, which is held to be not subject to the ukase, to the orders, to the counsel of the Reserve Bank and which can go  on  its own, we interfere with the free enterprise banking system which has been so successful. I believe we cannot interfere with it without great danger. In what way is this Corporation different from the banks which have been operating and which have been successful? Incidentally, it is quite interesting to note that 20 years ago some of the Labor speakers - and I know of one who is not far away from here - said we should run a steam roller over the private banks and we should make them disgorge their money for the good of the people. That was the kind of demagogic talk we heard from certain people. The honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Allan Fraser)  may remember some of those to whom I refer. That kind of criticism, which of course is nonsense, has ceased. There is not the same criticism of the free enterprise banks because they have done a job for Australian development. The Labor Party spokesmen have not been attacking the free enterprise banks because I believe that the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  and other honourable members have been able to understand the operations of this system. They have come to applaud the operations of the system. It is a good one and cannot be lightly changed without severe damage to the whole of the economy. 
First of all, let us look at the capital of the Australian Resources Development Bank. Let us take it as a kind of comparison with this new Corporation which is said to bc not a bank. 1 do not quite understand why it is not a bank. I think there has been some confusion about this. When it gets funds from overseas where does it put them? Does it get a load of bullion and put it into its own coffers, or does it get a cheque from overseas and put it into a private bank? In that case it would immediately become subject to the operations of the Reserve Bank which has to control the flow of credit. The authorised capital of the Australia Resources Development Bank is $ 1 Om, . comprising 10,000 shares of $1,000 each. Paid up capital is 
S3m. comprising 3,000 shares fully paid. The Bank has power to borrow or raise money. The Corporation has a capital of Si 00m which is taken from the taxpayers. The taxpayers will pay this whether they like it or not. They will pay $25m a year for 5 years. This money does not come from investors. It does not come from people who are interested in mining or commerce in Australia. It comes from the taxpayers. So immediately that happens there is unfair competition for capital because the taxpayers of Australia, if this becomes law - and I will not support it - will put in $25m. 
One of the important reasons why I would not support it is that the honourable member is Supporting it. He signed the pledge for the socialisation of the means of production, distribution and exchange. Honourable members opposite can see that by getting this part of the legislation into operation it is a start in carrying out their pledge. Some honourable members opposite feel a little guilty about not being able to carry out their pledge of socialisation of the means of production, distribution and exchange. But through this Bill - I heard honourable members on the other side say this today - and with a few little changes to it they can socialise banking. They can socialise banking with the taxpayers money and by plundering all of the people who tried to develop Australia and have risked their capital. There have been some very big risks taken and there are still some very big risks being taken. Does the Labor Party think by voting for this Bill it is carrying out part of its pledge to socialise the means of production, distribution and exchange? Socialisation of the means of exchange is one of three ways of socialising a country. Of course, this will please all kinds of friends. There is no need to nominate who they are. The honourable member who has interjected tells me he is a left winger, so he will be able to please the left wingers. No left wing country has been able to produce as Australia has under a free enterprise system. 
I am very glad to get a laugh from one of our new young members. No other country, Russia and China included, has been able to reach our standards of living. If honourable members have read the last Soviet statement which was made on 18th May they will have seen the terror that is occurring in the Kremlin because of the economic failure in Russia. There is no spur or competition to try because everybody has a job. The honourable member has the kind of laugh which we usually get from the chaps with the red ties in the Domain. When we say something about free enterprise we get this kind of approach. But could this man produce anything? Could he run a business? Could he work in a bank? Could he do anything that shows initiative or the strength of the new methods adopted in running concerns such as Hamersley and Comalco? We get the chap who says: 'Let us have the dictatorship of the proletariat'. We are reminded of the people who went to the big Russian show where there were 3 or 4 cars. They sa:d: 'Who do these belong to?' The reply was: 'They belong to the directors'. When they came to the Australian show there were 1.000 cars. They asked again: 'Who do they belong to?' The answer came: 'They belong to the workers'. So the workers run the cars here; the directors run the cars in Russia. That is the kind of thinking and the approach of the honourable gentleman opposite who has the tolerant laugh. It is typical of a certain class of people in relation to the running of the Labor Party. 
 So we gel the situation where this Australian Industry Development Corporalion is to make big industrial concerns in Australia go ahead. I do not know why anybody should think that we are not doing well in Australia. I think that the operations of the Hamersley company, of Mount Newman and of Mount Goldsworthy and the people who got on to the rich iron ore - Robe River is nol so rich - and the people who got the best deal they could with the Western Australian Government and the Commonwealth Government, have made a great contribution to Australia's prosperity and have saved us from what would have been a failure of our balance of payments. There is no doubt that these concerns have saved us from this situation. They have done so under a Liberal free enterprise government. They have done it under the free enterprise banking system with the spur of strong competition. But in the future where will the competition come from with this $100m in 5 years of taxpayers money? As far as I know interest will not be paid on this amount. The rules were that Qantas Airways Limited, Trans-Australia Airlines and other organisations had to make allowance for taxation. As far as I know this Corporation does not have to do so. it is able to lend 5 times the amount of its capital. That means it can lend S500m. 1 do not know from whom it gets the other $400m. Perhaps it puts $25m into a private trading bank and says: 'Give us $125m now'. If that is correct, what about the other people who want funds from the private trading bank? They will be closed off because the Reserve Bank will say: 'You can lend only so much'. The private trading banks have agreed to abide by what the Reserve Bank says. 
So in that case this extra money will shut off borrowing by, say, the Hamersley company which may want to extend its operations, lt will not be able, to do so unless it can get the funds from overseas. Somebody has said: 'We will get money from the oil rich sheiks.' But these oil rich sheiks will not put money into Australia unless they have a guarantee of immediate expropriation. This Corporation would be a great thing to have their money in. If it started to lend it out to start some great business it would have to pay it back tomorrow. I do not see what it would get from them. We are told in some of these statements that the 12% interest overseas is lessened. I do not know what it comes down to. But if 12% were paid for overseas money which until recently prevented the Australian Development Resources Bank from borrowing, how would the Corporation start a show in Australia making a profit out of borrowing at 12%? lt would have to charge 15% because it would have to pay the bank clerks and the people in the Corporation. 1 do not see how that one would work. Perhaps honourable members who have been here a few weeks will turn out to be much more expert than I am on these matters. 
There was on 20th May, or the day before, a meeting of the Victorian Employers Federation, the' Australian Bankers Association, the Victorian Chamber of Manufactures, the Council of Fire and Accident Underwriters of Australia, the 
Metal Trades Industry Association, Victorian Branch, and the Melbourne Chamber of Commerce. I must say that after the last couple of years I am much more friendly to Victorians than I used to be and I respect Victorians. That meeting was held to discuss the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill.  Mr Allen,  the  President  of the Melbourne Chamber of Commerce, said:   . . it was the unanimous opinion of these groups that in its present form the Bill be immediately deferred to allow time for further detailed study of certain sections which required amendment. 
We have just heard that the off-shore mineral rights legislation has been deferred for a while. Sweet reasonableness has prevailed. The people who are involved in this ought to have the chance to have another look at it. I think that the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Maisey)  is aware of this. I can see by the way he is nodding his head that he is fully in favour of deferring that legislation. I think that the proposal now before the House should be deferred until we know a little more about it. This is an incredibly confused and technical piece of interference with Australian free enterprise banks.  Mr Allen  said, according to a Press release: 
. that the meeting was of the belief that unless this action was taken- 
That is, the deferral -  the role of private enterprise in Australia would be seriously weakened and he called upon the Government to recognise the responsible and earnest request of these private enterprise bodies. 
Do they know nothing about these affairs? Are these earnest men who have suddenly awakened to the dangers in this proposal? The answer would be over on the other side of this chamber, because they are the men who have sworn to socialise the means of exchange and their enthusiastic reception of this legislation is almost the kiss of death, not only to this matter but to the future, to competitive strength and to the kind of energy that is generated by competition, business and the enormous thrust of the great mining companies. All that will begin to wither on the vine. I have not the slightest doubt that that is what is in the wind. None of this great boom that has taken place in Australia would have occurred if that alternative government were sitting on this side of the House because anybody who had any prospects of iron ore and the rest of it would know that that government would steal it from them by nationalisation of the means of distribution, production and exchange. Then we have the Associated Chambers of Commerce. Do these men know nothing about it?  Mr Lambert, Deputy President  of that organisation, in a Press release said: 
Nothing that has been said by the proponents of the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill has changed ACCA's view that the Corporation will duplicate existing facilities. 
Let me say that the Minister who presented this Bill to the House has always earned my greatest respect and admiration. He is a very great Australian with a very great image but the minute that he or anybody else cuts across what 1 think is an immutable principle of the operation of free enterprise in any of its forms, I must claim the right to oppose it. 
Well, of course, by some kind of a trick the Opposition might vote for something that it does not believe in just to get some kind of an upheaval on the Government side but it immediately dishonours the vote. I have seen this happen here plenty of times. The Opposition has voted for something in which it did not believe in order to get some low-down political advantage and- 
You can laugh it off. 
But you do not get away with that stuff when there are questions of principle involved, and your principles are to socialise the means of production, distribution and exchange, unless you are a liar, and I do not think you are. I think you mean to keep that pledge and you have said that you will vote for this and that means it is helping you to carry out your pledge, and therefore you are honest about it. Although the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen),  in his second reading speech, indicated that the Corporation must not seek a controlling interest in enterprise with which it becomes involved, the Bill states in clause 8 (3.) (c): 
The Corporation shall endeavour, so far as practicable, to avoid becoming or remaining in a position where it is able to control or nv.mage the affairs of a company to which it provides assistance. 
I can imagine the Labor Parly loving that bit, because this is the provision that Russia has. It sends out to country areas thousands of miles away directors to run some concern and they make a mess of it. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Maisey)Order! There is no point of order. 
 Similarly, it is stated in the second reading speech that the Corporation must dispose of its equity holdings which are no longer necessary to its policy objectives. The Bill, on the other hand, in clause 8 (4) only says:  the corporation shall endeavour to dispose of those shares. 
I wonder how it will' feel if it has some beauties which are earning a lot of money and it can relieve the taxpayer of his $ 10Om lt might keep those shares but it 'shall endeavour to dispose of those shares'. It could offer them at $100, receive an offer of only $89 and then say: 'Well, we will not sell.' But it shall endeavour to dispose of them. The Associated Chambers of Commerce has stated: 
ACCA considers that it should be mandatory that the Corporation dispose of shares at the earliest possible opportunity. 
Clause 8 (6.) of the Bill is a magnificent provision. I am glad that the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Hughes)  is present tonight because he ought to have a go at this one. I am quite sure that the Minister for Trade and Industry and the Attorney-General would not be a party to this. I wonder who wrote this one. Clause 8 sub-clause 6 states: 
The exercise of any powers by the Corporation is not invalid, and shall not be called in question, by reason of any failure of the Corporation to comply with any of its obligations under this section. 
That is a beauty. In other words, what it says to the layman - and I am sure it does not say this to the Attorney-General, as we must get him out ot this - is that- 
 I do not think you do and for that reason I wish you knew. That sub-clause means that the Corporation can do anything it likes and it cannot be called into question by reason of any failure to comply with any of its obligations under this section. This Bill introduces so many new principles and cuts across so many immutable and unchangeable ones that this is the kind of thing which, after being brought in, should be examined in the same way as we dealt with the proposal on the 3-mi)e limit. There is too much haste about this matter. We have had some kind of leak from a Cabinet meeting which was held some months ago and suddenly the Bill appeared. Anything which I have said about the Bill does not apply to the Minister for Trade and Industry. I still have the greatest admiration and respect for him. as most other people have. He is a very great Australian. He has been driven to do this by some lack of the Australian component. Perhaps it was the Robe River one which took so many years to get going because the Australian component was not available and because this area was not quite as rich as the Hamersley and Hamersley Range areas which are almost incredibly rich. 
There is no need for Australia to sell all its metal or ore to one country. Other countries want Australian ore. There is a tremendous demand for it and we can sell it, but the people who started are now in the box seat and it will be much more difficult for others, and it will be difficult for this Corporation to work. I do not support the Bill. 

 - Mr Speaker, the Opposition is supporting these 6 Bills. It seems unnecessary to speak to the Bills because under certain rules of debate in certain places if nobody objects to a motion it is passed without any argument. As 6 Bills dealing with the dairying industry are before the House, it is proper that one should explain why they are necessary. The honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  has said: 'Well, this is equalisation'. What it really means is that if 1 lb of butter is sold in Australia at 47c, the price given by the Minister for Primary Industry, and overseas 1 lb of Australian butter is sold for 20c the Australian farmer receives the average or equalised price for each 1 lb of butter he produces. He receives the average of 47c and 20c. If we add those prices together we get 67c, and the price that a farmer would receive would be 33.5c. The honourable member for Calare  (Mr England)  has okayed my arithmetic. I am trying to make it easy for the new young players. Instead of getting the home price of 47c for each 1 lb of butter sold in Australia or receiving the overseas price of 20c for each 1 lb of butter sold, the Australian farmer receives 33.5c per I lb of butter sold. That is the equalised price for butter. The price for cheese is much more depressing. 
Now, we have this situation: We mustsell slightly more than I lb of butter overseas for every I lb of butter sold . here - that is, provided we sell it. We have heard these most unhappy tales about Britain entering the Common Market. Of a total butter production for export of 110,000 tons. Britain takes 60,000 tons. This is just over half of our production. The remaining 50.000 tons goes lo Japan or meets competition in Singapore, etc. 
A general election is to take place in Britain shortly. Everybody is hedging a bit on their bets on the outcome of that election. Every Britisher knows that it is madn:ss for Britain lo enter the Common Market. I will explain why in a minute. If Britain does enter the Common Market it will phase out our 60,000 tons of butter. We are in the same position as the European Economic Community. Because of its agricultural policy, I have been told that it might be cheaper to throw 450,000 tons of its butter into the North Sea. There is nothing else to do with it. We have heard this dreaded word 'pollution'. If that butter was given lo the herrings, it might make a mess of the fisheries in that wonderful shallow sea between the British Isles and Europe. 
The situation is most depressing. If Britain does not enter the Common Market, if it s:ill lakes 60.000 tons of our butter and if we can sell another 50.000 tons elsewhere, we can continue with a home price of 47c per lb and an export price of 20c per I lb which, when equalised, gives lo the farmer a price of 33.5c per lb. As has been stated, this equalisation scheme has operated under a voluntary agreement, and the factories have already signed their agreements for the forthcoming year. In other words, the voluntary equalisation agreement by the factory is now operating without legislative backing. This has been done by the factories quite sensibly and rationally to prevent some big factories in, say, New South Wales, from sending butter into Victoria or some other State and swamping the market with butter. In other words, New South Wales factories are paying Victorian factories to send their butter away and the price is equalised in the capital city. Factories on the North Coast of New South Wales, in the Minister's electorate, still pay freight on butter sent to Brisbane or Sydney, and in Sydney the price is equalised between the home price and the overseas price. This might be a bil unfair. This matter has to be considered because various factories pay different freights. They incur different costs and there is a lower return to the farmers. If these unfair conditions apply it means that one factory cannot compete with the next factory. 
At the present time, as Britain has not yet entered the Common Market, these Bills are designed to give legislative backing to the voluntary equalisation agreement which has worked ever since the Paterson scheme was introduced in about 1933 or 1934. I forget the exact dale; the Minister may remember it, but it does not matter. When Paterson introduced his scheme we consumed 3 lb of butler in Australia to every I lb of buller we sold in London. It meant a very neat little result. The price for the butter consumed in Australia was ls 4d per lb while the price for I lb of butter sold on the London market was ls. lt was a simple matter of adding the 4s received for the 3 lb of butter sold in Australia to the ls received for the I lb of hut er sold in London, and divided bv 4: this gave a neat average of ls 3d a lb overall. It worked beautifully. 
The arithmetic is all right. This 's what happened when the Paterson scheme commenced. So long as that kind of situation continued everything was .sweet. We consumed 3 lb of buller in Australia to every I lb of butter consumed in London. But now we are sending overseas - or we look like doing so - more than I lb of butter for every I lb consumed in Australia, and there s a very grave doubt about the sale of butter overseas. There is another factor that might be very interesting. The Government has decreed in these Bills that this compulsory equalisation scheme will not be introduced unless the producers agree to it in a referendum. This is a departure from what happened when we were dealing with the legislation concerning the Council of Egg Marketing Authorities, when no referendum was held on the question of imposing a hen tax. Those honourable members who were here at the time will remember that the then Min ster for Primary Industry said: 'We want 70c a bird, bat we want authority to charge Si a bird. We hope we will not have to charge $1.' But very quickly the levy was increased to Si a bird. 
In this instance the Government has brought down 6 Bills and it has said: 'We are going to give legislative authority to the Equalisation Committee. We are going to impose a duty on the home consumption of butter and cheese to pay for losses incurred in the sale of butter and cheese overseas.' This is actually an excise or a duty. It is a tax. Once these Bills become law, I submit that the charge will be a tax. I have not had advice from the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Hughes)  or from the Chief Justice or anybody else, but as 1 see it, if you impose a levy, as it is called in these Bills, on a commodity, it then becomes an excise or duty. This duty is being imposed on butter and cheese consumed in Australia in order to meet the loss incurred in the export of butter and cheese. Normally duty is imposed on imports, but the reverse situation applies here. We are charging a duty on butter and cheese consumed in Australia to pay for the losses incurred on exports of butter and cheese. But before we do this - for some reason there has been a departure - there will have to be a referendum. I can imagine the honourable member for Dawson travelling through the huge area of Queensland, including the drought areas, explaining to the fanners why he voted for these 6 Bills because the farmers will have to vote in the referendum. The honourable member for Dawson will be asked questions about this in the beautiful Hunter Valley. I imagine that this will be terribly interesting at a time when the industry is in agony, and there is no other word for it. I have listened to speeches made by members on the other side of the House and I heard the honourable member for Dawson and others talking about bankruptcies, droughts and horror upon horror. In the middle of this horror, terror and agony there will be a referendum to give authority under those 6 Bills to collect this levy, duty or excise. If it is carried this will be done in a very tidy way and it will stay there. Before it is carried a lot of things will happen. This is my feeling about it. When a referendum is held in a voluntary way very few people escape. This referendum has been requested by the dairy industry and, as 1 understand it, sought by the States and agreed to by the Australian Agricultural Council will now be given legislative authority. 
If 1 heard correctly the words of the honourable member for Dawson he said that the Opposition agrees with this and that it should be done. There are 2 steps. First of all, the matter is taken out of the voluntary category which I as an antiSocialist agree with; it will be made a Socialistic measure. Before this takes place there will be a referendum. One of these Bills which we are discussing is called the Dairying Industry Equalisation Legislation Referendum Bill. When members of the dairy industry are asked to vote on this measure arguments will be put forward in favour of the proposal. We do not know of anybody who is going to put up an argument against it. 
J am interested in some of the things which the honourable member said and I am debating and replying to some of them. I think that this House should know from the people who work in the dairying industry what happens within the industry itself. We should find out what happens from those people who milk the cows and have to get up at 5 o'clock in the morning when it is still pitch dark, without a dog to assist them in herding the cows because the dog has been frightened off by driving rain, wind and thunder. Those people have to get the milk to the factory and try to sell it under those conditions. If you talk about the chain stores you must bear in mind that the corner store - the small grocer - has more than half disappeared. Surveys which have been conducted indicate that the corner stores are going out of existence and the chain stores arc now selling butter and cheese. The chain stores have large packaging machines for packing pieces of 8 oz cheese. I understand that there is a problem with mould in the use of these packaging machines and they are in some sort of trouble. 
The retailing revolution has mechanised this type of packaging. This type of packaging results in the goods being placed in small refrigerated bars and the people go along to pick out what they want. The impulse buying goes on. This is the revolution in retailing which has made a great difference to farmers. The honourable member for Dawson has said. "Look out for the chain stores'. I. do not know what his supporters think. They probably go into the chain stores themselves because they think that the price is more reasonable. When William Lever started at Port Sunlight he used to get a handful of soap from a tin, put in on a scale to get about 1 lb in weight and then wrap it. Then he thought that it would be better if it were prepackaged. That was the start of the prepackaging revolution and this is what has happened with dairy products. There is a revolution in this. But there are a lot of pitfalls and a lot of people have got into trouble with it. I am not so sure that these packing machines are being properly supported. 
But here we are now intervening in the industry. We are going to have a referendum. We will make legislative backing for the old voluntary equalisation scheme which was run by the industry itself under the Commonwealth Dairy Produce Equalisation Committee Ltd. This is embarking on, I think, a perilous course and I think the Minister has no doubt that any day now we face a situation where the markets overseas will fold up. There is a glut of produce.  There  are most unfair commercial practices going on and it is very hard to sell this material. The number of dairy farms is going down but the production is holding or even going up because of high producing cows, more cows and better efficiency in the industry. So the Government has decided to do this at the request of the industry. The industry is represented by the Australian Dairy Industry Council, the Australian Dairy Farmers Federation and the Australian Dairy Produce Board which does the exporting. Here is a set-up whereby, if the shadow Minister for Pri mary Industry takes over, he has the marketing of dairy products in his hand, ft is all set up for him and he can say to me: 'Look, you stop dairying', because he will be in charge. Perhaps it will be a good thing if he does tell me to stop dairying, because things are extremely difficult in this industry. But there remains the fight to hold the industry together, to get the best deal for it and to look for markets. Japan is becoming a good outlet for our dairy products, thank goodness, but we have to keep the social fabric, we have to keep this farming fabric going, because these farmers are the men who have for 200 years supported our export income and have produced the character that is Australian. 
We seem to be embarked on a scheme to make the big cities bigger and the people in the country fewer. We are even putting urban arterial roads into the cities so that we can suck more people in, so that we can get more pollution, so that we can get more sewage running off from Sydney and so that the area is fouled with car and aeroplane smog and all the rest of it. We seem determined to build up the cities, to make them more uneconomic than they are and to make it impossible for young people to buy a block of land under $7,500 or $8,000. We seem intent on building up the cities and cutting down the size of the smaller towns in the country and on cutting down the number of farmers. This is going on throughout the world; it is going on in Australia. Surely the Australian Country Party should be concerned about this situation. But here are the Bills from a Country Party Minister to bring into law the Dairying Industry Equalisation Legislation Referendum Bill, the Dairying Industry Bill, the Processed Milk Products Bounty Bill and the rest of the 6 Bills; so the marketing of dairy products goes further and further into the hands of Government, into the hands of the Department of Primary Industry which will be having some of the headaches, and into the hands of the Dairy Industry Authority of New South Wales. More authorities like this will probably be coming in to other States. We understand that our cheques will be paid by the Government. We understand we will have our factories closed. All this kind of thing is happening. 
There is some complementary legislation in New South Wales which refers to this dairy industry authority. I think it is called the single dairy authority and it is setting up a bureau where they will pay farmers cheques if there is anything to pay. There will be a lot less to pay to dairy farmers if the trend that is taking place continues and if these huge surpluses are to be dumped on world markets and got rid of. One has only to go to the European Common Market countries to see this. Unfortunately for me, 1 saw it. A couple of Labor men were there. The shadow Minister for Primary Industry, the former honourable member for Bendigo, was there;  Senator Bishop  was there: the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  was there. I am not sure that they understood what they saw but to me it was terrifying. It must have been much worse for the people of Europe. The distinguished honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Robinson)  saw all of this and I do nol think he has any illusions about what will happen with our markets. It is most depressing that the Government has had to bring in these Bills now and for us to have to support them. 
In the very few minutes remaining to me I hope that I can make the House understand that here is another of the rural industries in Australia which is facing a terrible time. I regret that the present time was chosen to introduce this legislation. I will vote for the Bills because the industry wants what is called orderly or organised marketing. Without the equalisation system there would be utter chaos in Australia, but even with it I am afraid that in view of the fall in sales overseas and the dreadful surpluses which face us there will be chaos in a year or two. I do not know what the position will be in 5 years. I think the Minister should ask the Bureau of Agricultural Economics to do a feasibility study on it. The economists would have to be almost prophets to do it but I think we are entitled to have the study done. Any firm commencing operations in iron ore, alumina or nickel production has to make projections about what will happen on the world's markets. The dairy industry is talking about 1970 and 1971 but after that there is silence - nothing. I think we are entitled to know what will happen in 5 years. 
Dairying is not like wheat farming or cropping in which a farmer crops for 1 year. This is a 5 year projection. After a dairy cow is conceived it is years before she starts to produce and a farmer has to make his plans years ahead. No-one is telling us what will happen so I ask the Minister to request the Bureau of Agricultural Economics to do for us a feasibility study, a cost benefit analysis or whatever it is called, on what will happen to the dairy industry in the next 5 years. I support these Bills reluctantly. 
I ask the Minister for the Interior why police photographed pensioner and unionist demonstrators outside Parliament House on Tuesday, as has been reported in the Press? Is (his a normal procedure, and what is the reason for it? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled: The Humble Petition of electors of Macarthur respectfully showeth - 
That they are gravely concerned at v/hat they consider lo be the adverse effect on moral standards in the Australian' community of the increasing portrayal and description of obscenity, sexual licence, promiscuity and violence in films, books magazines, plays and, to a lesser extent, television and radio programmes; 
That their concern arises partly from the fact that historians, such as J. D. Unwin and Arnold Toynbee, have shown that nearly all nations which have perished have done so because of internal moral decay; and partly because obscenity and indecency are contrary to the teachings of Christianity which is the acknowledged religion of more than 80 per cent of Australians, besides being part and parcel of the law of the land' (Quick and Garran in 'Commentaries on the Australian Constitution', page 951); and 
That, in accordance with the findings of the Australian Gallup Poll, published in the Melbourne Herald on 14th November 1969, the majority of Australian citizens want censorship either maintained or increased - 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that Honourable Members of the House of Representatives will seek to ensure that Commonwealth legislation bearing on censorship of films, literature and radio and television programmes is so framed and so administered as to preserve sound moral standards in the community. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
I am proud to say .   
The honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  has been putting forward his anxieties about the rural industries, but if he would take the time to look at his Party's policy he would see where the troubles of the rural industries come from. In the wool industry the cost of labour intensive shearing would wipe out the whole of the wool industry's results in not many years. This year out of a return of $6m or$7m it cost $lm for shearing. On the present trend in 10 years it will cost $2m for shearing, in 20 years it will cost$4m and in 30 years it will double again to $8m. So there will not be anything left for the wool industry. This is the effect of militant trade unionism. Increases in wages for storemen and packers and workers in the shipping industry apply further crippling imposts on the wool industry. Every rural industry is in trouble because of the policies pursued by the party to which the honourable member for Riverina belongs and because of militant trade union policy. Unions claim that workers in Australia have a right to strike, but strikes create an enormous cost to rural industry. In turn, rural industries have to sell overseas at lower and lower prices. The Australian Labor Party is entirely responsible for the complete recession in the rural industry. The honourable member for Riverina, who rushed out of the chamber when I began to speak, ought to know that this is true. Each day a new strike occurs and each day the costs of moving goods produced by the rural industry increase by 12-J per cent. 
Wages in Australia are rising by 10 per cent per annum. Under this Government Australia has become extremely affluent.  Mr Hawke  and the trade unions are represented in this House by the very few honourable members opposite who are present in the chamber. The Australian Labor Party and the militant trade unions have combined with natural phenomena, such as drought, to cripple the rural industry. The honourable member- for Riverina is very fluent in describing the problems of rural industry. He referred to the tax on wine, which is produced in his electorate. In the past wine was the only alcoholic beverage that had completely escaped an impost. Now the honourable member for Riverina is upset because there is an impost on wine. 
The honourable member for Riverina belongs to the same party as the honourable member opposite who is interjecting - a party which encourages militancy in the trade union movement. So we have a situation which very gravely concerns the people of Australia. We have a situation of uninhibited dissent and protest in the streets and uninhibited taking over of public arteries and thoroughfares' by a few people activated by a certain group. 

 Mr Clyde Holding, the Leader of the Opposition in the Victorian Parliament, has said that any government in Australia, Federal or State, which takes orders from the Australian Labor Party Executive is not a government at all. He said: 'If you compel us to take orders from you - day to day orders in our government - it would not be a government at ali'. Of course, poor  Mr Clyde  Holding and his followers were ignominiously defeated in the Victorian elections. The same thing is happening in this Parliament. The honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  - a pretty savage debater; he will probably enter the chamber soon to attack  mt  verbally - has suddenly become aware of the situation after his long career of interference with the trade unions; a long career of causing trouble in the Australian Workers Union. He and the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  went to Mount Isa and supported Eugene Martin, the man who cost the miners of Mount Isa their homes. The strike was so bad that the miners had no income. They were forced to sell their homes for half their value. If honourable members care to go to Mount lsa they will see for themselves what happened as a result of the efforts of the honourable member for Hindmarsh and the honourable member for Lalor. One of those gentlemen supports the Victorian Executive and the other is trying to purge that organisation. 
Of course, one Ls concerned with the Vietnam Moratorium, which I will deal with later. Let us look at the Victorian Executive for a moment. A deal has been arranged between the Victorian Executive and the Federal Executive of the Australian Labor Party, which has suddenly realised that the concept of the light on the hil) has to be put aside for the moment. The Australian Labor Party has had to put aside the dedicated Chifley concept of the light of socialism on the hill proposed in 1946. Incidentally, part of that concept was to keep costs down so that we might be able to sell on overseas markets. But the honourable member for Hindmarsh has suddenly given away all those principles. He now wants power. He wants the Australian Labor Party to become the government of Australia. He believes that the greatest impediment to power is the Victorian Executive. 
There are 5 groups of different foreign ideology which are powerful in Australia. Two of those groups are strong in the Victorian Executive. The Muscovites have promised the Federal Executive that if it gets rid of the Maoists who are in charge of the Victorian Executive they will back the Federal Executive in dissolving the Victorian Executive. There is to be a meeting of the Federal Executive of the Australian Labor Party on Saturday next to decide whether the Victorian Executive will be dissolved. If this happens there will be a tremendous change because the Muscovites will take over from the Maoists. In other words, there will be a different type of foreign ideology. The honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross)  is very amused by my remarks. Of course, in his view it pays to be amused because if you accuse someone in Australia of being a red baiter you get some sort of support in the trade unions. 
The great philosophers of the Australian Labor Party have suddenly decided that the Party cannot win an election while the Victorian Executive exists in its present form. They now realise that they cannot win an election while a certain Victorian gentleman represents their Party in the other place. The situation with the Victorian Executive is very interesting. It is not elected by the Australian Labor Party branches. It is appointed by the Trade Unions Defence Council. If we look at the Trade Unions Defence Council we see that it is composed of activists - I think this is what they are called - who run the trade unions from the platform at trade union meetings. Laurie Short, who is a pretty good authority, has said that you can run a meeting of a trade union from the platform. The Trade Union Defence Council in Victoria, which is made up of Paisleyites - that is a new term - Muscovites and Maoists, can get a special executive elected. This is the Executive of the Australian Labor Party in Victoria which has told the Victorian Labor Party that if it gets into government it will have to accept day to day direction from the Executive. The Australian Labor Party must cleanse itself of the Maoists, the Muscovites, the Trotskyists and all the other characters who are involved in this great schism in the Federal ideology that runs the Australian Labor Party at the top level. 
When the honourable member for Riverina speaks he speaks as a champion of the wine grower, the wheat grower and the wool grower. But most wine growers, wheat growers, wool growers and dairy farmers know about the snarling tiger in the background of the Australian Labor Party - the Victorian Executive. The Victorian Executive for years and years was backed by the Australian Labor Party. However, suddenly the Australian Labor Party was fed up with the Victorian Executive - fed up with the undemocratic appointment of the Victorian Executive. So now we are to have a purge. In other words, we are to have a face-lift for the Australian Labor Party, which has said: Look chaps, we have to take power somehow - by hook or by crook. It cannot do it if the Victorian Executive is still functioning or if the gentlemen who represent it are on this body. The honourable member for Hindmarsh has turned on his palls in the left wing. He wants to destroy the left wing. But what is going to happen? There will just be a little change from the Maoist philosophy to the Muscovite philosophy and we will still have the Victorian Executive. Yet this will be extolled in the Press. The gentlemen in the Press gallery will be saying that the great Australian Labor Party has now changed and that it will no longer represent a foreign ideology. What is meant by foreign ideology? 
Very well. One of your colleagues, the honourable member for Riverina, has been talking about the inequities of the Common Market and other things but he did not say anything about the Socialist objective which he signed. He signed an undertaking to socialise the means of production, distribution and exchange. He referred to the troubles in the rural industries and the high costs which, of course, have resulted from the activities of militant unions which have been striking day after day. There is no deterrent to a man refusing his labour. In Australia there is the right to strike. If a union strikes and gets a wage increase of 10 per cent or  I2i  per cent then its members are that much better off except for the fact that another union will strike. This results in costs going up. This sort of activity is like the dog chasing his tail. 
Australia is described as affluent and as being a boom country and a lucky country. However there is no such thing as luck; you make your own luck. We found minerals and we are extracting them. But Australia's export income is in danger. Already the rural industries have been flattened because of the effects of strikes, rising costs and droughts. I hope that the droughts are over because it is raining at the moment in many parts of Australia. If we have an unstable country and a succession of strikes we will very quickly lose this boom condition that we have at the moment. We will lose foreign investment in Australia because overseas investors would not trust an Australia which was activated by the Hawkes. 
Let us consider  Mr Bob  Hawke,  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. Somebody said that  Mr Hawke  cannot lose. Well, to win would be a new experience with him because he lost in the Corio electorate. He stood for the seat of Corio against  Mr Opperman  and his supporters organised a big victory party. They arranged the usual trappings for a victory party - plenty of gallons of the cup that cheers from the Riverina, some beer and so on - but 1 understand that it was not held and that there are still some problems about paying for it. It would be a new experience for  Mr Hawke  if he did have a win because he lost when he stood for the seat of Corio. Tt is now held by another member of the Labor Party. The honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  is another member of the Labor Party who professes moderate tendencies. He won the seat but  Mr Hawke  lost out. If  Mr Hawke  succeeds in achieving the things he is trying, then it will be a new experience for him. 
Why is  Mr Hawke  conducting this kind of activity? He is an industrial advocate of some competence and he has suddenly found himself under pressure from the unions to take on the mantle of radical militancy. The foreign ideology which has been operating in Australia has split into 5 and has begun to lose its mantle of militancy. Therefore the Australian Labor 
Party and the trade unions themselves are now adopting this mantle.  Mr Hawke  gets tremendous publicity for his trade union meetings which, as I mentioned earlier, are run from the top table. Normally the boys in charge make the decisions and they get a yes vote from the chaps in the hall. The men in the trade union hall and those members who are not present would not vote for this kind of radical militancy because they know that the minute a Labor Government gains power Australia will be in an impossible situation. 
I want to refer honourable members to something that  Mr Chifley  often said, lt was referred to in Professor Crisp's book.  Mr Chifley  said that the moment Australia has a deficit in the balance of payments there will be unemployment. There will be a deficit in Australia's balance of payments if this militancy continues, if these strikes continue and costs continue to rise. Already the people involved in this kind of activity have flattened the rural industries which sell produce overseas. Soon they will generate a loss of confidence in the great mineral undertakings which are at present nourishing Australia's balance of payments. Those of us who care for the interests of Australia believe that Australia is in danger. This militancy is being backed by the Australian Labor Party in its desperate bid for power. Of course the Australian Labor Party has generated a situation which will result in the people voting against it. Its  members  are not yet convinced of this but they will be at a later stage. The Australian Labor Party is generating support for the moratorium. Lel us consider the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign. We understand that an honourable member on the Opposition side of the chamber has invited representatives of the National Liberation Front to come to Australia to take part in the Vietnam Moratorium. A member of the Australian Labor Party has asked a member of the National Liberation Front, or its representatives, to come here. 
The honourable member for Lalor. I understand that after 10 days consideration he has been denounced by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  The honourable member for Lalor asked a member of the National 
Liberation Front to come to Australia. This group - the National Liberation Front, the Vietcong, North Vietnam, Hanoi or whatever you like to call it - has stated, through its spokesman, that it will conquer the world by using the peasant guerrillas in the jungles of South East Asia. Eventually this involves Indonesia and Australia. That statement means that these people aim to conquer the world. They aim to take over Australia and the South West Pacific. A representative of this group is being invited to Australia by representatives of the Australian Labor Party to attend a meeting of or a demonstration for the Vietnam Moratorium. A few years ago this situation would have been described as treachery to the well-being of Australia. 
There is a demand for us to defend this country, to keep it for Australians and to ensure that peace is ours. There is a demand that we control this country and run it in our own way. Yet there are people on the Victorian Executive of the Australian Labor Party who read the great sayings of Marx, Lenin, Mao, Trotsky and all the others and who, through their magnificent organisation in the trade unions, are starting a movement aimed at defeating Australia's resolution to defend itself. This is the real picture revealed in the Budget. The Australian Council of Trade Unions suggests that there be a protest. If one reads the reports of the last meeting of the ACTU in 1969 one finds that there was an almost emotional request for taxation deductions but nothing about pensions. When taxation deductions were announced there was an immediate protest about pensions. If the Budget had included increased pensions there would have been a tremendous protest about taxation deductions. There was to be a protest anyway and the subject of it did not matter. It did not matter that they asked for tax reductions and got them. They swung to something else, If there had been a big rise in pensions they would have swung to something else. This was not a protest to improve conditions and pay of workers, for which the trade unions were formed. It was a protest to get political power for the Australian Labor Party, for the Leader of the Opposition and for  Mr Hawke,  if he can win a seat some time after having failed in Corio. An honourable member has interjected about a foreign ideology. It is clear that in Australia there is a foreign ideology - an absolute enemy of Australia - that wants to control the whole world. It is an ideology which, it has been stated publicly in writing and has been signed, can win the world through the peasants and guerillas in the jungles of South Vietnam and now in Cambodia. This is the ideology which is seeking to control Australia through its minions in the Australian Labor Party. 
We have all seen the new members coming into the Parliament. They have been chosen not for their brilliance but for their loyalty; chosen because they have signed the pledge; chosen so that they will carry out the dictates of the Federal Executive, which has now changed, of course, and of the various State executives which control their pre-selection. When the Federal Executive speaks the Parliamentary Labor Party has to jump to its dictates. There are now 3 or 4 members of the Parliamentary Labor Party on the Federal Executive and there has been a change. The old Federal Executive wanted to carry out the written policy of the Australian Labor Party which provided for the socialisation of the means of production, distribution and exchange, and, of course, obedience to the dictates of the foreign ideology which rules the Victorian Executive and is moving into the New South Wales Executive and other executives. Now we have a different kind of Federal Executive. Members of it are the Leader of the Opposition, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard),  the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Murphy),  his  Deputy  Leader  (Senator Willesee),  the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  and the honourable member for Hindmarsh. 
These gentlemen have persuaded the Federal Executive to dress up the Labor Party, to give it a face lift and to make it appear possible that it could govern in the interests of the people of Australia. This is what is going on. 
Big Bad Wolf is smiling in the background, clad in grandma's cloak. There is no doubt about this. This is what we are witnessing. Honourable members opposite go to flower shows and to meetings. They shake hands with  Mrs Bloggs  and do all these things but in the background is the Big Bad Wolf who comes from Peking, Moscow, the poor old Trotskyites or the building labourers who have a slogan 'Occupy and Destroy'. Their policy is to have a strike, to go into an 8- storey building, pull it down and then say: Well, this is part of our freedom. We built it for pay: now we are pulling it down for no pay.' This, of course, is what is going on with people of this kind. The people of Australia have shown at elections that they are pretty wise and that they are not going to be caught by this kind of face lift, this kind of activitity, in the Victorian Executive. The attack on this Budget is the product of the militants in the alternative government which would destroy, betray and be treacherous to us. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  President  and the Members of the Senate and the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the undersigned citizens of New South Wales respectfully showeth. 
That due to higher living cost, persons on Social Service Pensions, are finding it extremely difficult to live in even the most frugal way. 
Y/c therefore  cull ua/u  the Commonwealth Government to increase the base pension rate  to 30  per cent of average weekly male earnings, plus supplementary assistance in accordance with Australian Council of Trades Unions policy and by  to  doing give a reasonably moderate pension. 
The  Average Weekly earnings for adult male  unit  wage and salary earner means the figures  issued  from time  to  time by  the  Commonwealth 
Statistician and published quarterly. 
Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate and House of Representatives in Parlia  ment  assembled will take immediate steps  to  bring about the wishes expressed in our Petition; so that our Citizens receiving the Social Service Pensions may live their lives in dignity. And your Petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I ask the Prime Minister a question concerning the ban on visits to Australia of sporting and cultural bodies. I do this without in any way expressing support of the philosophy and practice of apartheid. Is the Prime Minister aware that there has been no criticism of Russian and other Communist visitors to this country? Is he aware that in Russia there is no freedom of the Press and that departure from the country and internal movement within it are severely restricted? Is he aware that there is suppression of all religions, persecution of 2 million to 3 million Jews, and the exile of whole races including Volga Germans and Crimean Tartars? Is he aware that there is a ruthless secret police organisation? Is he aware that liberal writers are suppressed and that there is no freedom of expression? Is he aware that slave labour camps exist and that 4 million kulaks and millions of others have been murdered? I ask the Prime Minister further: Is he aware that in South Africa there is practically 100 per  cent freedom of the Press and religion, that passports for departure from the country are freely available, that there is a fair judiciary and that there are other signs of democratic freedom? Once again I say that I ask this in the hope of a reasonable balance in Australia's official approach to these kinds of matters. 
lt is a pity that we are not going on in a progressive way with this proposed nuclear power station. AH the reasons which the Government and the Australian Atomic Energy Commission gave for the establishment of this power station still apply. This is more so than ever because the demand for power is doubling every 8 years, as we see from this statement. The States of Victoria and New South Wales were very anxious to see this power station go ahead in an area in which it has an assured market from the heavy industries on the South Coast and in the Illawarra district. As it takes 5 years to build a nuclear power station and another 3 years to get all the bugs out of it, it would be 8 years before we got any results, even if we started to build the station now. 
The States of Victoria and New South Wales will need a big nuclear power station because their requirements for electric power will quadruple in. say, 16 years. There is a tremendous amount of coal in the area where it is proposed to build the nuclear power station. There is a thermal station in the area, and one would have thought that that thermal station could have met the extra demand for power. But because the proposed nuclear power station will be a very large station, the question arises as to whether power from this station would be cheaper than power from the thermal station. But 1 am not just thinking of the urbanised area in the 6 capital cities of Australia; I am thinking of the wide open areas, particularly the aluminium producing areas at Gove. Approximately S300m have been invested at Gove. The figures that I have been able to obtain show that bauxite is worth $5 a ton and that alumina, which is processed from bauxite, is worth S55 a ton. Some people have said that the finished product is worth $550 a ton, but I think that the latest figures 1 saw showed that it was worth $275 a ton. In other words, power, heat and energy account for the difference between $5 a ton and S275 a ton. 
There is no coal in the areas where bauxite deposits have been discovered at Gove. So we need a nuclear power station with an acknowledged power market. If we had such a station we would be able to process the ore that is obtained from areas, such as those at Gove, and we would bc able to save for Australia the difference between $5 a ton for bauxite and $275 a ton for the finished product. What is happening at Gove now is that the 5 big partners process the ore into alumina, which is worth $55 a ton, and then it is taken to their enormous smelters in other parts of the world. The difference between $55 a ton for alumina and $275 a ton for the finished product - that is $220 - goes to the smelters in Switzerland and in other countries which are interested in the Gove project. We are losing this money because we are slow and tardy at going ahead and building a nuclear power station. 
The Australian Labor Party is practically gloating over the fact that we are not going ahead with the construction of this nuclear power station at Jervis Bay. 
That is a sign that we ought to be going ahead with it because the Labor Party is always so terribly wrong in these matters. All the anti-pollutionists and all these other characters are getting on the band wagon. Of course, Tom Burns said to these chaps: 'Do not start appearing in these kinds of demonstrations', but we are getting the fallout from those demonstrations in here. It is an attack on progress and on Australia's need for power. Here is a chance to do something. The Labor Party began to spend S 1,000m on the Snowy Mountains scheme in order to produce power and to conserve a very small amount of water. The proposed nuclear power station at Jervis Bay will cost a little over $200m. 
The development of nuclear power stations has reached a high peak of efficiency. When they are constructed care is taken to preserve the environment and the beauty of the surrounding landscape. Plenty of evidence is available to indicate that nuclear power stations are constructed on beautiful sites, such as that at Murrays Beach on the southern pincer of the Jervis Bay area. Already we have spent $500,000 on work by consultants. What the tenderers have spent would probably baffle the imagination. Probably they have spent millions of dollars in getting the tenders ready. Through the Sholhaven Shire Council we have spent $1.25m on roads, electricity and that sort of thing. I urge the Government to go on with this power station; there is no escape from going on with it.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I ask for leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from 5.58 to 8 p.m. 
I direct a question to  the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts. Has he made arrangements to meet the States to discuss the protection of the environment? Has it taken some States 6 months to obtain appropriate people as commissioners? Is the Minister aware that some large and powerful firms are anxious to co-operate with the appropriate authorities in the protection of our environment? 
In this Budget debate few people will notice what we say or care what we say in this House. However, 1 am moved to reply to ray friend, the honourable member for Purl Adelaide  (Mr Birrell)  who put up an argument that we often hear in this place that the workers do not get a fair go and that other people in the community get a much greater share. I point out to him that the 3 per cent of the community who get over $8,000 a year- 
i hope it includes the honourable member for Port Adelaide. That 3 per cent pay about 25 per cent of all income tax. This in total is almost as much as would be paid by millions of the people about whom he has been talking. He calls them the workers: I call them Australians. 
That small percentage of people pays 471 per cent or 47ยฃc in the dollar in income tax which goes primarily to the welfare funds and which is spent by the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth),  lt goes to the States and to defence. 
He does not worry me a bit,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  Almost half of company profits go to the people of Australia and their services. I was informed just a minute ago by a speech I heard in the other place by that master tactician from Sydney.  Senator Carrick,  that the great companies of Australia are owned by what the honourable member for Port Adelaide calls the workers of Australia. Through the superannuation funds, the insurance funds and the mutual funds they have an enormous interest and whenever your friends like  Mr Hawke- 
I agree,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  Whenever the friends of the honourable member for Stuart go on strike, they hit the people - the Australians whom the honourable member for Port Adelaide calls the workers - because they are now increasingly owning the big companies through superannuation funds, insurance funds and other kinds of funds which are invested in by small investors. This brings about what we call equality in Australia. Yet an honourable member who has been here many years and who has an honourable record in the Labor movement refers to the workers. There are no real classifications nowadays because we all enjoy the same rewards and fruits of our labour in Australia. When he refers to workers he is completely out of date. 
He is helping me,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I do not want to talk about who gets the shares which I have pointed out are gradually evening up. The top bracket income earners are paying more and more taxation - equivalent to that paid by more than one million of those income earners in the bottom bracket. However, let us consider the whole position and what Australia is earning today as a result of its stable political atmosphere in the basin of the Pacific. Similar stability now has been reached in Indonesia, Malaysia, South Vietnam, South Korea and the Philippines. 
The honourable member may delude himself. I do not know whether he has been to South Vietnam. I have been there 3 times. 
It is much safer in the streets of Saigon than it is in the honourable member's electorate where a person can be mown down by a motor car. One poor chap was killed in a motor smash the other day and a request was made that his brother be brought home from Vietnam. He was to be brought to Australia where he would be unsafe. 
I have been to Vietnam 3 times and it is safe in Vietnam. What is Australia's position? By dint of hard struggling, we have assisted the people. Members of the Opposition and their Leader support  Mr Robert  Hawke. During this Budget debate they have endorsed  Mr Hawke's  actions in taking on the people of Australia and trying to take away from them their freedoms. People in the electorate of the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  were not very keen on his actions in respect of whether Australia should play football against the South Africans.  Mr Hawke's  friends told the South Africans to get out of Australia and to stay away. These are the people who would destroy the stable political atmosphere of Australia. 
Some honourable members on this side have given tremendous labour to organising the people and telling them about the true situation. They have worked to keep out the desperadoes who would take over in Australia if they could. I refer to the people who would sit down in the streets. When he came back from his visit to China after those 2 by-elections in Queensland which went so badly for the Labor Party,  Mr Tom  Burns said: There is nothing wrong with the ALP. There is something wrong with the people of Queensland'. He said that there was nothing wrong with the Australian Labor Party which had just been thrown out ignominously in 2 by-elections. He said that the people of Queensland are at fault because they cannot see the excellence of true Socialism. Socialism has never given a standard of living of the kind we have in Australia. 

 Mr Tom Burns , I hope I am quoting him correctly , a week later, after having had some advice, went out to a Young Labor organisation meeting and said: 'We do not want you people involving the ALP in these kinds of demonstrations.' A week later, after having abused the people of Queensland for their sins, misjudgment and deviationisms and after having been told certain things, he made another statement. He was told some of the things which have obviously been told to  Mr Hawke  lately, because  Mr Hawke  has become a strike breaker, a scab. He has suddenly become one of those outlandish people who would do away with strikes. But  Mr Tom  Burns exhorted the Young Labor organisation people not to be seen in the streets. While he was saying this a Labor senator was joining the Queen Street squat, with a great picture in a pro-Labor newspaper in Queensland. We see on the other side of the chamber a Party which is so dedicated to this great thing called Socialism. Honourable members opposite would hand Australia over to the bureaucracy, and they will if ever they get a chance. 
Let us talk for a moment about what has been achieved. First of all, we have a stable situation in the Pacific, which is now becoming the centre of the world's activities. In the Pacific we have the presence of America, the mightiest country in the world, and Russia, the second greatest country. In the north-west Pacific we have Japan, the third greatest country, which is overtaking Russia, and we have China, which has come into the news so much lately. We are a dazzling example to the world of what can be achieved in a young country with tremendous vigour. We have had our ups and downs. We had a depression in 1931. Our rural industries at the moment are in an extremely bad situation. Although export income from rural industries is stilt about $4m, it is not as great as it was. So we have to look to our minerals. We have experienced a slump in investments although statistically investments in Australian industry are still growing. I took out some figures recently which show that 2 years ago S40Om a quarter was being invested in Australian industry. Today the figure is $800m a quarter. This figure must go down, but each new figure as it comes in shows a rise. 
There is a tremendous confidence in Australia because of our stable political atmosphere. When we go through Australia to the Queensland alumina works, to Gove, to Port Hedland, to Mount Newman, to Mount lsa mines or to Mount Tom Price and ask why all this money has been poured into Australia, there is always one answer: It is that there is a stable political atmosphere in Australia. May I pay some tribute to the people who work day and night, who give up their family life and go out arranging meetings to form Party branches. 1 can see that I will bring tears to the eyes of the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  in a minute because of the way he works. We get a stable political atmosphere in Australia by hard political work. 
Now we have run into a period when the environment has become of immense importance. The construction of a steel works in my electorate by a company called Armco has been mooted. The complaints made to me are that we are going to put a steel works within 50 miles of the Port Kembla steel works. Why do we have to have them so close? The Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  will know that when the steel works at Port Kembla were erected we did not bother about the environment. Pollution of the atmosphere did not matter. So the great smoke stacks are belching forth red dust and scale and polluted water is being discharged into the harbour. The noise is terrific. But Armco, who will be building the new steel works, has won 3 awards in America at its plant at Middleton in Ohio for the protection of the environment. There is no dust or smoke from these works. Every bit of waste material is caught and returned to the sinter furnaces. No effluent water is discharged from the steel works. There is no red iron ore dust and no scale, just clean air coming out of the steelworks. The  noise  level is kept down to 85 decibels. I am told that that is lower than the sound of a motor car. This is the kind of situation we have coming to us. We are going to protect the environment. 
Of course we can expect certain types to erupt and probably start a demonstration or something like that. We are protecting the environment with tremendous skill and with the best advice in the world. Now we are told that we will run out of coal. We cannot run out of natural gas for a while because we have just too much natural gas. We have about only half the oil we need. But there is no doubt that the world faces a shortage of energy. In America the nuclear power stations are facing a doubling in demand for power every 10 years. If we are to conserve our coal resources and not take the best coal and blend it with coal that is not so good we will have to use nuclear energy. Australia need not rush into this field because before we get nuclear energy we have to get enrichment of the natural material used in a nuclear power station. I am informed that U238 is put through 1,000 machines, each of which gives a little more enrichment to the fuel. There are several types of fuel. We have to put in a plant for fuel enrichment before we can operate Our first nuclear power station. The only discharge from such a station will be hot or warm water, which studies have shown will not interfere with marine life. 
I thank the honourable member for Wentworth. I hope it improves the marine life. I live very close to the sea and the marine life is pretty good at the moment. Australia has to have a nuclear power station quickly. It will take 5 years to build it and 3 years to get the bugs out of it. Then we could move this kind of operation perhaps to Gove. 
Bauxite when it is taken out of the ground by power machine is worth from $5 to $8 a ton. The alumina is worth $55 a ton. The difference is accounted for by the provision of power, energy and heat. The finished aluminium is worth 4 times the alumina; it is worth over $200 a ton. At the moment, we lose this. With the use of nuclear power at Gove Peninsula, Australia would receive an enormous income from the beneficiation of bauxite into aluminium. Therefore, the first nuclear power station must be installed. 
The demand for aluminium is not considerable in the short term, but in a few years the demand will rise 5 to 10 times. There will be an enormous demand for aluminium. This will give Australia time to look at fuel enrichment plants and to install the first nuclear power station. As I say, this must be done. But we can wait 6 months or 12 months to find out what type of fuel we need and to obtain the latest type of nuclear power station. 
Probably coal will not enjoy a sellers market any longer. The quantity for export will rise to about 80 million tons. We have that amount of coal. That export alone involves approximately $l,000m. The value of our iron ore exports will increase enormously. Of course, every time a strike occurs on our coal fields the Japanese immediately buy more coal from America. I believe that the coal miners have never been better off. They are probably the most contented group of people in Australia and receive enormous incomes. My electorate of Macarthur has probably more coal output than any other electorate. 
Australia does not now enjoy a sellers market for many of its minerals including coal and iron ore. We are beginning to catch up with demand. But there will be a consistent demand for these minerals which will give Australia a tremendous income. But this all depends on one thing: A stable political atmosphere. Our friends on the other side of the House are anxious to disturb this atmosphere. We have the position today where one man is taking on not the employers, not the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, but the people of Australia. Of course, those who are dedicated to Socialism do not care about the loss of freedom. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
1 ask the Minister for the Navy whether the calming down of the bombardment and shelling of Beecroft Head which has caused anxiety to the people of Currarong is a temporary relief or whether it will start again. I refer to the fact that the shells have been falling on this area,  ricochetting  at an angle of 45 degrees and travelling approximately 14 miles. I hope that the Minister can tell the House whether this bombardment will be reduced as soon as possible. 
We are debating the estimates for the Postmaster-General's Department. I have had an opportunity to look at the report of the committee of investigation into the commercial accounts of the Post Office which was presented in 1959. Tomorrow I propose to move that a further investigation into the accounts of the Post Office be carried out on the lines of the previous investigation, but with terms of reference which can be understood. There were 5 members on the committee which carried out the previous investigation, and 2 of them violently disagreed with the majority report. They stated that the words 'net financial advantage' used in connection with the Post Office could not be given effect technically - in other words, this reference meant nothing. As I said, there was a violent disagreement between the 3 men who submitted the majority report and the 2 men who submitted the minority report. The men who submitted the minority report believed that the fairness of the interest charges imposed upon the Post Office was in grave doubt. When 1 look at the present accounts of the Post Office and the papers wilh which I have been furnished by the Legislative Research Section of the Parliamentary Library, I find that 90 per cent of the money required to run the Post Office was financed by the Australian people from taxation. The capital invested in the Post Office, together with some payments which were made to the States when we took over in 1901, amounts to $2,484,331,130. As far as I can ascertain, this money was taken from revenue - from the taxpayer. 
The Treasury, following previous practice, is charging the Post Office interest on taxpayers' funds. This may be fair, but it has the effect of making the user of the Post Office pay interest on the taxes he has paid. Who pays the taxes? The Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd and other big firms 1 think paid $66m in taxation in the last financial year. A lot of big firms and wealthy people pay heavy taxes, and they in the main have financed the Post Office. But at the present time the people who are most unfairly hit by Post Office charges are those on low incomes - people in indigent circumstances. If they write a letter or make a telephone call, 16 per cent of what they pay to post that letter or to make the telephone call is returned to the Treasury as interest on the money provided to finance the Post Office. 
We hear it stated that the Post Office should be run as a business undertaking, and 1 think that the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme)  and his senior officers in the central office have tried very hard to make the Post Office pay. But the post office gives a lot of service to the community. The Australian community is completely different from the American or British community. Great Britain has 50 million people in a very small area while Australia has 12 million people scattered over hundreds of thousands of square miles. I think that the electorate of the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard)  in Western Australia covers 900,000 square miles. 
At this stage we are not ready for the high pressure accounting and computer system. In my electorate, small post offices are being closed. This affects the quality of life, because the minute a post office in a small place is closed - it may be losing 51,000 a year - then a store begins to close and pensioners have to get a car or some other form of transport and go to the centralised post office to be looked after there. This is a matter of argument. I know all about Liberal Party policy which says that we ought to have statutory commissions. But do not forget that most statutory commissions are hemmed in by Government control and have to report to Ministers. The statutory commission was supposed to lessen the load of the Minister and take the matter away from Parliamentary control. 1 have never yet seen a computer with a heart. By handing things over to this system we are acting against the interests of the people as a whole. Let us look at some of the services provided in these small post offices. Tax forms are supplied. The people in charge of these non-official post offices often help people with their tax returns. Social service pension forms are provided on behalf of the Department of Social Services. Also provided are electoral application forms, which are a responsibility of the Department of the Interior, housing scheme booklets, television and radio licences, drought bonds, money orders, alien registration forms and registration for national service forms. Also they handle the payment of pensions and child endowment and the collection of customs duty. One could go on for days talking about the services that the post office provides in these little places. I am intensely upset by the closing down of small post offices. This is going to save a few miserable dollars. 
If we are concerned about the quality of life why do we do things which build up the present urbanisation of Australia? I think that SO per cent of our people live in the big cities, or 90 per cent, if we add the big towns. People are leaving the country areas and we are contributing to (his by closing the small post offices. That is a backward step. If the Post Office had not paid interest on the taxpayers funds it would have benefitted to the extent of $112m profit this last year. The Post Office belongs to the people of Australia. No matter how bad it is, it represents the heart and soul of the people of Australia. If interest were not charged to the Post Office, representing 16 per cent of earnings, there would have been a profit for the Post Office of $11 2m. 
This is the reason,  Mr Lucock,  why there ought to be a further investigation of the method of financing the Post Office. I repeat that the Government has soulless accountants, men who put the machine before their hearts and minds. The system that the Post Office is trying to carry out now is against the interests of the country and of the places in which post offices are closed. If one reads the result of the inquiry that was held - there is no need to go through it in detail - one finds that three of the five members of the committee made a majority decision and two were dead against it. Actually, from the technical accounting point of view, the terms of reference were unintelligible. There ought to be new terms of reference. I am sorry to do this to the Postmaster-General because he may not be running the Department in the next 10 years but I propose to fight to have this system stopped. 
We speak loosely about business undertakings. How can we have a business - a railway system or a post office system in a new country like this - with communications spreading for thousands and thousands of miles and operate it on a centralised basis? It is 3.000 miles from Sydney to Perth and 3,500 miles to Port Hedland. I saw a statement the other day that said decentralisation was occurring. Decentralisation means that one-third of the people who work for the Post Office will be out of jobs where they live and two-thirds will be concentrated in the big cities and big country towns where there are area regional controls. Surely this Parliament should not make a contribution to cutting down the post offices in small towns and villages. The little post offices with telephone boxes outside which are being closed in some small suburbs are being run by some of the best men we have in the country - the non-official postmasters. Do not forget that they have never yet had a strike. They make a tremendous contribution to the welfare of the country and to the interests of the people. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That this House is of opinion that: 
it is against the best interests of the people of Australia to close small country post offices. 
although a comparatively small amount of money is lost on these offices they carry out a surprising number of public services. 
the result of the closing of small country post offices is decentralisation in reverse, results in contraction of villages and reduces the quality of life in Australia by contributing to greater size of our cities, and 
a further investigation of post office general finance be made since the 1959 investigation was inconclusive. 
I will repeat the subject of the definite matter of public importance I have submitted to 'the House for discussion. It is: 
The urgent need for the Postmaster-General's Department to discontinue the closure of small post offices, except where no replacements can be found for resignations, until a parliamentary committee examines the whole question. 
I shall commence my remarks by referring to that part of the matter of public importance which relates to resignations. I think it has become a practice in industry when staff is to be reduced to allow positions from which people have resigned to remain unfilled instead of sacking employees. I have been informed by the clever people of the Central Office of the PostmasterGeneral's Department that there are 600 resignations a year of non-official postmasters in Australia and that it proposes to close 200 or 250 non-official post offices each year. It seems to me that it would be better to close the post offices from which there have been resignations. 
The matter which the House is discussing is of such importance to the country and suburban areas in which small post offices are being closed that the Parliament should express its view on it. I am quite certain, and I am sure the Government and the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme)  are aware, that if there were a vote in both Houses of the Parliament on this matter and the Parliament expressed its view it would be angry at the closing of these small post offices. In this instance we have another example of a great department of state defying the wishes of the Parliament. That has been the case up to the last few days when the PostmasterGeneral's Department has begun to leave post offices open. 
I think that the Department supplied wrong figures in relation to the proposed closure of the Beaumont Post Office, which is a matter in which I have become intensely interested. Beaumont is 14 miles from Nowra on the road between Nowra and Kangaroo Valley. It occupies a glorious position on the top of a razorback mountain about 2,000 feet high. About 28 people use it. I have received a letter from senior people in the Department stating that the cost of keeping the Beaumont Post Office open would be in excess of $2,000 per annum. In fact, it would be about S600 per annum. There are some very good accountants in the Postmaster-General's Department. The Postmaster-General himself is a leading accountant. Therefore one would expect to get correct figures. 1 have in front of me a letter from the General Secretary of the Non Official Postmasters' Association of Australia which states that, although the Australian Post Office has claimed that it costs 9c for a letter on which there is a 7c stamp to go through the smaller post offices, the nonofficial postmasters have worked out that it would cost 1/ 300th of 7c or about 0.005c to handle a letter originating through a non-official post office and 0.025c to handle a letter received at such a post office. Incidentally, the non-official postmasters have never yet gone on strike. The nonofficial postmasters are paid for telephone duly between 10 p.m. and 8 a.m. daily at the rate of 15c an hour and between 5.20 p.m. and 10 p.m. and 8 a.m. and 8.50 a.m. 77c an hour. That is the basis on which the non-official postmasters work out the costing. Yet we are told that it is uneconomic to keep open these post offices. It should be borne in mind that there has never been a strike and that the nonofficial postmasters are always available for duty. 
I claim that it is the will of the people in this Parliament that these post offices should be kept open and that it is untrue to say thai they are uneconomic. What  i3  the reason for the Central Office giving me the figure of in excess of $2,000 as the amount it would cost each year to keep the Beaumont Post Office open? It must be that the Central Office made a mistake and forgot that the telephone facilities had been switched over to automatic. That would be an easy mistake to make but such a mistake should not be made. That should not be given as the reason for closing this Post Office. That is a serious mistake to make. I wish to protest about this kind of thing. The Beaumont Post Office is to be kept open for the moment. I have received a letter dated 18th February 1972 from the Postmaster-General's Department to this effect. However, in my opinion that letter was written in unsatisfactory terms. It said that for the moment the Beaumont 
Post Office will be kept op-n but that the decision to keep it open will come up for review in the future. If we stop protesting, that Post Office will be closed. What would its closure mean? I have in front of me a letter from the Cudmirrah-Berrara Progress Association, which is in the Beaumont district, in relation to this matter. The Secretary of the Association wrote: 
Work being scarce in the immediate area, men must travel some distance for work, the larger Post Office at Sussex Inlet- 
Which is, I think, 4 miles away -  being closed on their departure for, and arrival from work, leaving only Saturday for collection of mail etc. 
Many pensioners have no vehicle of their own and with no public transport, have no means whatever to collect their  much-looked-for  mail. 
There is no need to express the defeated feeling no public telephone brings to mind, having to travel 4 miles to the nearest phone for doctor or any urgent help needed. 
There seems to be an argument that the Post Office - -this is anti-socialism run mad - is purely a business undertaking. In my view, this is utterly false. This is still a great department of state. It is doing a fantastic job in the wide areas of Australia. Some people ought to have a good look at the wide areas of Australia to see what the Post Office has to cover. Of course, the Post Office is doing a great public service. It is the agent for the Commonwealth. About 10 or 15 Commonwealth services are being carried out through post offices. The postmaster at Beaumont is a retired bank manager. He helps the people with their income tax returns. That service will go when the Beaumont Post Office is closed. The pensioners will have to travel 8 miles one way or 6 miles the other way. That means that they will have to have a car. 
The mailman is supposed to be going to deliver the mail to each of these places. I believe that the cost of providing the mailman will be greater than the cost of keeping the post office open. I am quite certain that this will happen - not immediately, but as time goes on. This is a mistake. I believe that the Postmaster-General himself would not want this to happen. In this case the Parliament must express its will. There will be no vote taken on this question; iยฐ is just a discussion on a matter of public importance. This matter is of immense importance at a time when the big cities are polluting themselves out of existence. Only a few years ago the London smog killed 10,000 people. Pollution of the rivers and such things mean that we must fry to succour the  country areas  which are the seedbeds for the population of Austrafia. If one checks the population figures one sees that the people coming into industry and to the places where things are happening are coming from these small, beautiful, delightful country areas. We must not do something which will kill these little villages and places where people can lead a quiet existence, where they can live in contentment and happiness. By agreeing to close post offices at the rate of 250 a year we are killing these small places. Wholesale anger is being expressed at this kind of thing. 
I have received letters from people in areas where we have been successful in keeping the offices open. Other honourable members will find this happening to them now. I hope that the whole policy will change. Let us have automatic telephones and all the things that electronics can provide, such as colour television and other things that the Postmaster-General's Department looks after, but the Government should not pick on the small offices in the city and the country, close them and stop their service. These little post offices also nourish small stores. When the postmaster loses his income that injures the chance of having a store. These stores buy in small quantities. I am told that they can buy more cheaply from a chain store than from a distributor but they have the material available. The post office helps the store and the store helps the post office. It is a meeting place for the community. The right honourable member for Fisher  (Sir Charles Adermann),  who is a great man, a fine statesman and a former Minister for Primary Industry, made these points at Tarampa the other day: 
The Postal Department is a service department. It was never meant to pay and if it ceases to provide services, then I'm fighting. 
Those were strong words. Of course the Post Office is paying. Its last report showed $117m for interest, $128m for depreciation and $48m for the superannuation fund for the workers. Nearly three-sevenths of the income was put away into funds. Of course it is paying. There is no need to pick on these little offices. I will continue with what the right honourable member for Fisher said because he is more eloquent than I am. He said: 
I cannot accept a position whereby people have to get into their cars and drive several miles to get service at nearby offices. 1 don't blame the people for standing up and saying this is not what they expect. Is the Department to go on and on and wipe one office after another because it is no longer a paying proposition? 
I do not agree with him. I think that the Post Office does pay. The right honourable member went on: 
I believe Tarampa has an outstanding case for not closing, even if it does not pay. 
He went on in the same vein. The right honourable gentleman, a former Chairman of Committees, a former Minister for Primary Industry and a great Country Party leader had those words to say a few days ago. I am grateful to the Parliament for its indulgence in letting me say these few quiet words about the closure of small post offices. 
The honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  made it clear that the overriding policy of the Australian Labor Party is public ownership of the means of production, distribution and exchange. In other words, if you make a mess of it, let the Government do it. Of course, the Government makes a worse mess than you make. 
If you let Canberra run Mumimbidgee he would be very sorry. 
I ask the Treasurer: Assuming that the Commonwealth Government through the Treasury is responsible for the economy, is the honourable gentleman aware that the total of local government loan indebtedness in Australia up to 1970 was $ 1,509m and on present indications might reach $2,000m - an amount which is probably larger than the indebtedness of the States which are now being subsidised by the Treasury, while the loan indebtedness of the Federal Treasury is reported to be nil - and that as a result of this - 
I ask the Minister for National Development whether he is aware that the South Clifton and North Bulli collieries owned by Clutha Development Pty Ltd are closing down, with notice being given to 280 men, thus, in conjunction with the Excelsior mine closing off, probably forever, the production of millions of tons of coal? Would he please give me a full answer on whether this is because cheaper coal is being mined from open cut mines? 
The public believe that the shipping situation in Australia is pretty expensive - the internal or interstate shipping - compared with overseas shipping. I recall getting prices for the transport of fertiliser from Perth to Wyndham. It was about $20 or $40 a ton, at a time when fertiliser could be brought from Japan, probably as back loading, for $4 or $5 a ton. One of the big worries in this country, with its enormous coastline, is to get our goods around the country. We are told it is cheaper to send salt from Adelaide to Tokyo than from Adelaide to Sydney. This kind of situation inhibits interstate trade in Australia. It hinders industry. Transport becomes an enormous cost on our manufacturing and primary industries. I support the Bill. I oppose the amendment for obvious reasons. 
I will try to give them. The Bill seeks to bring tonnage measurements in Australia up to date. If this can assist in easing transport costs it will be of some use. The matters in the amendment, praiseworthy though they might be, are not yet ready to be brought into legislation. The research has not been completed. The work is being done, but God forbid that we should bring it in before it is ready. 
The honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  was probably a member of the Labor government in New South Wales which agreed to the formation of the Joint Coal Board. That Board was brought in by the Chifley Government in its agony. Some honourable members will remember the troops being put into the coal fields and the industrial trouble caused by communist leadership. The Joint Coal Board came into operation and has been successful. Up to the present moment the coal mining industry has been one of the most contented industries in Australia. I am referring to deep mining and what has been happening there. Let us look at what has been said in this debate. The honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Buchanan)  said quite rightly that Victoria was forced to open the brown coal deposits because it could not obtain black coal from New South Wales. Industrial disturbances in New South Wales stopped the supply of coal not only to Victoria but also to South Australia, and Leigh Creek had to be developed. So part of the blame for losing markets falls on industrial disturbances. 
This latter crisis was brought on by a falling off in the demand for steel and by a slight falling off in New South Wales and 
Japan in the demand for coking coal, but it was caused principally by one of the unions that controls the honourable member for Cunningham calling a strike. The Japanese steel industry panicked and bought a great deal of coal from America. Eighteen million tons of coal is imported into Japan from America compared with about 16 million tons from New South Wales. The price of this Pocahontas coal, which is said to be a perfect blend for low grade Japanese coal, is about $23.75 for a short ton delivered in Japan, compared with an average price of $13 a short ton for Australian coal imported into Japan. That is the cost of the coal and delivery. I may have that last figure slightly awry, but it costs twice as much for American coal to go into Japan as it costs for Australian coal. 
Let us have a look at the fuel situation in the United States of America. American feasibility projections have shown that America will shortly run out of fuel for energy, such as steaming coal, petroleum and natural gas. Australia has an inexhaustible supply of natural gas. It has available very large quantities of coal. But there will be an end to our coal deposits, and this is most important to remember. Labor was desperately anxious to have industry for Queensland, and the Queensland Labor Government began this policy in that State. The Federal Labor Government and the New South Wales Labor Government formed the Joint Coal Board and created a situation which has been succcessful up till now. Whilst the Opposition acknowledges the situation, it talks about the Federal Government being incompetent. Up to now, apart from the industrial unrest, what Labor started has been extremely successful. The most recent case of industrial unrest occurred when the Federated Engine Drivers and Firemen's Association conducted a 5-week or 6-week strike. The Japanese steel mills could not get delivery of the coal and the Japanese steel industry panicked. The leftwingers are the ones who decide what happens to Australian industry - not the people who work in the industry, such as the coal miner who is an extremely decent bloke and a damn good Australian; not the people who invest in the industry, the wicked capitalists we hear about from honourable members opposite. It is the union which exploits a boom situation, probably encouraged by the honourable member for Cunningham and the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson). 
I heard the honourable member for Hughes say that their small ships come to New South Wales and big ships to Queensland. Who is trying to bring big ships into New South Wales but Clutha Development Pty Ltd? Very soon the only cartage of bulk coal will be in million ton ships. Clutha tried to establish an off-shore wharf at Coalcliff. I think that the honourable member for Hughes was the most constant critic of it and put Clutha into a situation where it went backwards. If Clutha had gone on and put in its railway and wharf, enormous savings in freight would have been effected. Very soon world bulk tonnage will be up to 500,000 tons and 1,000,000 tons, and we will not see 50,000- ton and 60,000-ton ships coming into the small ports. At a point just south of the Hunter River near Newcastle a feasibility study for offshore loading of coal is being carried out. For only about 3 days a year we cannot load big ships out in the ocean. 
Industry has had incredible trouble because of its attempts to obtain cheap movement of bulk tonnages like coal and iron ore. I believe that this is a temporary crisis. It is a good thing that we have this crisis now, because something must result from it. I believe that the cut and thrust of debate in this House produces results more quickly than they are produced by the Bureau of Mineral Resources and such places. I am glad that we have had this debate this morning. This crisis has been brought on by industrial trouble and a recession in the steel industry. We could scavenge and tear out our easy to obtain open cut resources, and at the end of that time we would have to go back to the deep mining. Surely reasonable, rational people would prefer to blend the two types of coal. The Americans have now reached this situation. We have had lectures and talks from people who have traced the Americans' attempts to blend their second grade coal with their first grade coal. They should have done this before. We should do this now. 
Therefore, there must be a Commonwealth fuel policy. There need not necessarily be a fuel board, which is the Labor Party's policy. I repeat that the situation we have reached now has been contributed to by the actions of the Labor Party. At the time it was thought that this was the right thing. I do not know whether it was thought the right thing to put the troops into the coal fields but that was done, as you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  will recollect. The Americans now have plans for trying to conserve their fuel resources such as coal, petroleum and natural gas. Australia has an inexhaustible supply of natural gas, so we do not have to worry about that. We have only to pay for the pipes and to supply the fuel for heating and so on. We have an increased consumption of coal for electricity generation. We have a slightly decreased consumption by the steel companies but this looks like reviving and we hope that it does revive. 
A policy ought to be worked out - I think it is being worked out now - as quickly as possible to grade the coals to make sure that in the export of coal first of all we receive the right price. Our coal is being delivered to Japan in ships which are smaller than we should have - smaller than the 500,000-ton and 1 million-ton ships that should go into operation. It is ridiculous - this situation has been caused partly by industrial unrest - that Japan should be getting our coal delivered for $13 or $14 a ton while it pays $26.75 for American coal. This is ridiculous. I do not accept the explanation that the Japanese are blending Pocahontas coal with their own. There is no reason why they cannot blend our coal. We have been told that some parts of the Japanese steel industry are geared to Burragorang coal and that they must get it. The steel mills and blast furnaces are expecting to get deliveries of. Burragorang coal. I ask this Government  to  bring in as soon as possible a national fuel policy to rationalise this situation. 
Surely clause 8 is the most important clause in this amending Bill because the Parliament is setting up rules to try to make this system work. The first part of clause 8 states: 
A person shall not be appointed as the  President  unless he is or has been a barrister or solicitor of the High Court or of the Supreme Court of a State or Territory of the Commonwealth of not less than 5 years' standing. 
That means that the appointee is to be a lawyer who has had 5 years' experience and, if we read the figures of the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  as being correct, he is to receive a salary of $16,000. This may refer to a member of the Commission who may be  President.  It may be higher than $16,000 a year. 
I am reading that part of the clause which refers to the  President,  lt states: 'A person shall not be appointed as the  President  . . .'. However, the salary of $16,000 applies to the  Deputy President.  Is this the case? 
So the  Deputy President  and the  President  are paid a higher salary than the commissioners. We would get people of a higher standing in the field of law if we were to pay them more than that because the normal income for a barrister or solicitor is much higher than that. I think that honourable members should spend a few minutes examining this point because it is the crux of the matter. 
I turn now to the clause which deals with the Deputy President. It is stated that: 
A person shall not be appointed as a Deputy President unless he is a person who - 
is or has been a barrister or solicitor of the High Court or of the Supreme Court ... of not less than 5 years' standing. 
This is paragraph (a) of proposed new subsection (1a.). Now we start to get into the forest a little. Paragraph &lt;b) of this new sub-section states:   . . has had experience at a high level in industry, commerce, industrial relations or the service of a government or an authority of a government. 
What does that involve? It could bring in a captain of industry because the appointee would be experienced at a high level of industry and commerce. 
Someone who has been concerned with industrial relations. It could be an industrial advocate or it could be a trade union leader of high standing. The words 'the service of a government* means that it could be a public servant. 
I am just trying to work this out. A person in the service of a government or an authority of a government would be somebody who has been appointed to a position of trust under a government but not part of a department. The words 'or the service of a government' means a public servant in a department. The words 'or an authority of a government' would involve someone in the judicial sphere or some sphere where he has been head of some committee that is apart from government but an authority of the government. 
Paragraph (c) states:  has, not less than five years previously, obtained a degree of a university or an educational qualification of a similar standard, after studies in the field of law, economics or industrial relations or some other field of study considered by the Governor-General to have substantial relevance to the duties of a Deputy President, 
The Governor-General's name is there but everybody knows that the GovernorGeneral will appoint somebody who has been recommended to him by the Executive Council. So, we cannot put the responsibility for an appointment on the GovernorGeneral because he signs the papers that the Executive Council puts to him recommending the appointment of a person. In other words, it could be a political appointment. This paragraph means that we could have a political appointment by this Government or by a government from some other side of politics. This proposed section clearly states that we could have a barrister or solicitor, people from a high level of industry or commerce, someone in the service of a government or an authority of government or somebody who has: 
. obtained a degree of a university or an educational qualification of a similar standard, after studies in the field of law, economics or industrial relations or some other field of study. . . . 
From my backgroud, I do not know what other field of study there is. Perhaps the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  could be appointed a  Deputy President  because he has studied politics from one side of the chamber for a long time. The proposed new sub-section states that a person shall not be appointed as a  Deputy President  unless he is a person who:   . . is, in the opinion of the GovernorGeneral, by reason of his qualifications, experience and standing in the Australian community, a fit and proper person to discbarge the duties . . . 
Who could be appointed under this clause? 
He is experienced in a field of study, but he would not be as experienced as a lawyer of 5 years' standing. Let us look at the lawyer, who has been defended rather timidly by the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen).  A lawyer gets his reputation from the feelings and the respect which the legal profession holds for him. The legal profession tries to look at things fairly. If a man from the trade union movement is appointed a  Deputy President,  with his background in the trade union movement he will want to stand high in the eyes of the trade union movement. If a man with a degree in commerce or law is appointed a  Deputy President,  he will bring to the position the experience which he has gained in those fields. Proposed new sub-section (1a.) (a) refers to a barrister or solicitor of 5 years' standing who must behave in a way which brings respect to the tribunal. I do not agree with the idea that we should rush about trying to get people who are not lawyers because lawyers ought to be the fairest men to appoint to the tribunal. A lawyer is an intellectual. 
He would be an impartial person, of high esteem, and he would have to have the respect of the members of the legal profession because they have to appear before him. It has been said that no lawyer worth his salt would sit on a tribunal with a majority of non-legal men because he would have a different background and he would take a different view of the whole situation. I agree with the honourable member for Moreton that there ought not to be this great feeling of the need to get someone from every field. What other field is there? If that were to happen it would open the way for political appointments. Certainly we have had lawyers- 
All right. The honourable member for Burke can laugh at this, but wait and see what happens. The honourable member for Hindmarsh said that this appears to be tailor made for someone. Of course it is tailor made for someone because if one looks at 'Who's Who' one will see that these qualifications are exactly the same as those of a certain person in 'Who's Who'. 
When I referred to this matter in my speech in the second reading debate I mentioned the man who would be appointed. I do not know whether the honourable member for Hindmarsh was prophesying when he said that it might be tailor made for someone. Of course it is. 
What I do not like about this section of the Bill is that it leaves the way open for political appointments, and the minute a political appointment is made respect for this tribunal is lost. The trade unions which, as 1 have said, are having a subtle change in their leadership - they are getting better educated men and men who look to the public interest more than was done in the old days - would lose their respect for this tribunal. This leaves the way open for political appointments to be made and that would go some distance towards destroying the respect for the people on the tribunal. It would destroy the respect of the people who have to appear before the tribunal - the people representing the trade unions and all other sections of the community. The Committee has to consider this question before it passes this section of the Bill. I think that the section should be changed. 
One thing we all wish for in Australia is industrial peace. The misery caused by strikes is something we just cannot contemplate: The problems of the housewife, of the family, problems with debts piling up, with unemployment, loss of overseas markets attributable to unemployment - and that is what is happening in the Illawarra area at the moment with the closure of South Clifton and North Bulli coalmines - and other human misery that goes with industrial warfare and turbulence. 1 am thinking of what happened at Mount Isa and I am glad that the Labor Party shadow Minister for Labour and National Service, the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  is here, for he knows what happened there as well as anybody else. 
The industrial arbitration machinery in Australia has been aiming at trying to get a fair go for people working in industry and for employment generally.  Mr Callaghan,  Managing Director of the Commonwealth Banking Corporation, gives some figures in an article about labour's share of the gross national product. I think we can accept  Mr Callaghan  as a person not involved in the political slanting of information in any way whatever. He is in a great banking institution and is entrusted with Commonwealth banking operations in Australia. He said: 
In the 5 years since 1965-66, award wages for adult males grew at an average annual rate of 6.2 per cent. 
A new high in the growth rate of award wages was recorded in 1970-71 with adult male award wages rising by 8.3 per cent. 
Average weekly earnings per employed male unit were estimated to have increased by 11.3 per cent in 1970-71 - the fastest growth rate since the Korean War boom. 
The comparative figure for 1967-68 was 5.8 per cent; for 1968-69, 7.5 per cent; for 1969-70, 8.4 per cent. 
In 1970-71 the Consumer Price Index grew by 4.8 per cent - at that time the largest annual increase since 1956-57. 
Over the year to September. 1971 the estimated increase in the Consumer Price Index was 6.5 per cent. It rose by 2.3 per cent in the quarter ended 31st December 1971 - The highest for any quarter for 15 years. 
The long term trend increase in productivity has been, as I said, about 2.5 per cent per year. 
I think that what  Mr Callaghan  is endeavouring to point out is that in Australia the growth of production has been greater than the growth of costs. This is a surprise to me after hearing some of the debates here. I ask leave to have incorporated in Hansard part of  Mr Callaghans  statement. 
The honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  said that a S-member committee will be sufficient; yet a Melbourne member of the Australian Labor Party said that the number should be 7. 
I understand that he lives in Canberra. The spokesman for the Labor Party on these matters comes from Fremantle. So, Melbourne and Fremantle want a 7-member committee. 
I am coming to that. The honourable member for Herbert- 
Look, members of the Labor Party are running dead, anyway. One-eighth of them have gone home. Forty-nine of them voted on this Bill and 56 of them voted about an hour ago. So, it is no good interrupting, because the Labor Party is a sham. There is no doubt about it; members of the Labor Party are running dead. They are going home every minute. They cannot take it. The honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  talked about getting into government. That will mean that we will go home about 5 o'clock in the afternoon because they cannot stay here and vote. As I said, 49 honourable members opposite took part in the last vote. What will the number in the next vote be? Will it be down to about 33? 
Of course, the honourable member for Wills is rude.  His  first statement was in a tone that is not often used in this chamber. 
The honourable member for Wills is making a loud noise while members of his Party go home to bed. I was asked where I live. Often I spend about a month on the Great Barrier Reef. Queenslanders are fiercely proud of the heritage they have in the Barrier Reef and they welcome the establishment of this Institute. 
Queensland will note with interest that spokesmen for the Labor Party said- 
Is the Minister for Social Services aware that members are receiving many cards from people on the important matter of the abolition of the means test? Is  Mr I.  G. Lancaster, who authorised these, also an officer of the Teachers Federation? Can the Minister assist me in deciphering the signatures on these cards so that I might reply to them? 
I think honourable members ought not just sit down and listen to this debate without stating what they feel very strongly. You,  Mr Speaker,  received a bundle of letters that you felt should not be distributed by the staff. Most of us agree with your decision. This material then reached us by means of the postal system. What lies behind this is that the national Parliament is now really discussing what are the standards of morals in this House and in Australia. There are people in Australia who can be affected by what we decide, by what we say and by what we think. I want to say very definitely that at some point there must be standards of morals and standards of material that go into this community. 
The young people of Australia are now involved - not just members of Parliament, but the sons and daughters of many mothers and fathers. No matter what they are subjected to in the schools, when they go along the street or wherever they go, at some point there must be some discipline. At home they expect discipline. However, there is no hope of families having discipline in the homes if we, by administrative action, by parliamentary action or as a result of an action by you,  Mr Speaker,  do not indicate at some point that this sort of thing ought to stop because these children have to grow up in a community where morality is not destroyed. This kind of thing -'The Little Red School Book' and other material - that honourable members on the other side of the House have appeared to be wanting to see, is not good for Australian society, or for the new society when the young people likely to be affected by it grow up. I protest emphatically against any of this kind of discussion of obscenity that appears to mean that we agree with it. We do not agree with it in any shape or form. I would like to see established an expert committee of people able to decide what are the standards, the morals and the conventions of this society so that it might survive with its morals, its conventions and its disciplines. 
One day I was in a situation where I asked the Department of Customs and Excise: 'What is obscene and what is art?' I was told by a member of the Department that if material came  in  printed on cheap paper it was obscene and if it was printed on art paper it was art. If we are that primitive in this society then the time has been reached - this type of discussion also means that the time has been reached - when somebody ought to lay down a set of standards for the people of Australia  in  order to protect Australian society against some of the people who feel inadequate and who want to bring down our society because of their feeling of inadequacy. That is the position that we must reach in a discussion of this kind. 
Let us have standards. Let society  in  Australia survive. Let the young people be protected from people of this type who, I understand, are having 'The Little Red Schoolbook' printed and are giving it to children. This should not go on. A discussion of this kind highlights the fact that something ought to be done about the standard of morals in Australia. 
Motion (by  Mr Swartz)  agreed to: 
That the question  be  now put. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
House adjourned at 12.26 a.m. (Wednesday) 
I ask the Prime Minister what progress has been made in the negotiations to purchase the Everard Park property in South Australia for Aborigines under the $13m land purchase policy announced by him earlier this year. 

 Mi MCMAHON- I did inform the House some time ago that there had been contact between the Government and the gentleman who had entered into an agreement to purchase Everard Park and that he had shown a willingness to hand over this property at cost to the Commonwealth. I have recently been informed that there is no disagreement whatsoever between the Government and the intended purchaser. This matter is being dealt with by members of the Attorney-General's Department and officials in the Department of the Interior. We hope that we will have a settlement soon and that this property will soon be handed over to the Aborigines themselves. 
I thank the House for its indulgence. I want to bring to the notice of the Parliament a procedure, that has been unchanged in the City of Campbelltown for over 20 years. I refer to underground telephone wiring. With the way the environment is being protected at the present time this matter is understandably most important now if we do not want a forest cf overhead telephone and electricity wires to deface the landscape and skyscape. Suddenly this year the supervising engineers of the Postmaster-General's Department - which, I think, will be admitted is run by a centra] office in Melbourne - agreed to lower costs or to take an economic view of the situation, saving about $70 per allotment or building block by putting the wires overhead. This is definitely a backward step. Telephone posts along the road create a danger to motor cars and to life and limb. Overhead wires are subject to storm and wind damage. Underground wires in the long run should be more economical because they are not subject to the damage I have described. 
The Nepean River County Council is putting its wires underground and, in letters to the Campbelltown City Council, it has agreed to charge $9 an allotment for putting telephone wire conduits in trenches. The Postmaster-General's Department says that it costs $15 a block and that the high cost is in providing the service from the main in the street into the building. So there is some conflict there. The Postmaster-General's Department has suddenly departed from its time honoured procedure by allowing the wires to go overhead. Campbelltown is the centre of an area which will contain half a million people, and a number of Federal members, by the end of the century. It will probably contain one million people later on because Sydney cannot expand north through the Ku-ring-gai Chase and cannot expand south through Royal National Park, so it is forced to expand west and south-west. Already great plans have been made by the State Planning Authority of New South Wales to enlarge this city. It would be a very bad procedure indeed for the Postmaster-General's Department to approve the developers' requests for overhead wiring. Somebody will get the money. If it costs roughly $140 a block for underground wires and $70 a block for overground wires, then I suggest that the developer would save $70 a block. I think that it is short-sightedness on the part of the developer to overground wires in an area in which he is trying to sell land because the poles will go up, the wires will go up and there will be a considerable defacement of the environment. 
At this stage in the development of this enlightened country, which is delcared by people like Frost to  be  very sophisticated in respect of public thought, it is wrong for the Postmaster-General's Department to agree to provide overground wires. I hope that the PostmasterGeneral  (Sir Alan Hulme)  in one of his last public appearances - and perhaps in one of mine - will look at the situation and ask his very powerful central office to insist that from now on all telephone wires in Australia go underground. This matter has been the subject of a great deal of correspondence between the Campbelltown City Council and the PostmasterGeneral's Department. I ask for leave of the House to table this correspondence so that there will be a clear view of the question. Is that agreeable to the Opposition? 
Thank you. The central office of the Postmaster-General's Department does not really keep in touch with the people of Australia as do the postmasters and other people in the Post Office. Here is a very simple case where the central office of the Postmaster-General's Department is running counter to the public interest. Here is a case where Parliament should intervene. It should ask the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts  (Mr Howson)  and the State 
Ministers responsible for the environment to intervene. The Campbelltown City Council would be prepared to take legal action, but I think that as our law stands the Crown would have paramount influence in that kind of situation. I am prepared to go to any lengths to stop telephone wires being installed overground. I think that honourable members and the people of Australia have seen pictures of Tokyo, Osaka and I suppose, to some extent Los Angeles, where pollution and defacement of the environment are almost incredible. I think that the House should express its view that it is wrong for the Postmaster-General's department to install telephone wires overground. 
I understand that the PostmasterGeneral met representatives of the Campbelltown City Council last Tuesday. I do not know the result of that meeting - I did not see anything about it in the local Press - but perhaps the Postmaster-General might indicate shortly whether he undertook to have a look at this matter. I want to be certain that this policy of the PostmasterGeneral's Department is changed; that we do not have any more overground telephone wires to spoil the Australian landscape and that the wires be put underground for the reasons that I have enumerated. Let us have a clean and beautiful city of Campbelltown. 
