I ask the Minister for Education and Science whether he is aware of an application for a living allowance by a  Mr Rodney  Moran who is attending the University of Western Australia on Commonwealth scholarship No. UW000467. I give that information so that the particular scholarship may be easily identified by the Minister. Will he investigate urgently the question of making assistance available to  Mr Moran  so that he can pay living expenses until the board meets on 3rd April to consider his application, which was lodged on 12th February? If the application is approved, will the living allowance be made retrospective? 
 I wish to take this opportunity to express my appreciation to the electors of Swan for the confidence in the Australian Labor Party policies expressed by their electing me as their representative. This is particularly so in view of the long period the seat of Swan has been held by my predecessor. I pledge that 1 will do all that is possible to see that their confidence is well founded. I would like to express my deep thanks to my helpers in the campaign and particularly to my family who so ably assisted me, especially my wife who has tolerated my absence from home in public life for many years and really worked on this occasion to sec that I obtained a position that would take me away from home even more. There may be a message in this that I have not yet seen. 
I was deeply concerned at the long absence of a parliamentary sitting following the election. During the recess, or government long service leave, 1 took the opportunity to acquaint myself with the problems of the people of this great electorate. I will attempt to raise a number of them in the time available. The name of the Swan electorate is somewhat misleading to people with a knowledge of Western Australia. The closest association it has with the name Swan is its proximity to the Swan River which acts as a boundary on one border and is something about which the residents of that electorate are indeed proud. There are many features of the electorate of which the residents are proud. In particular they are proud of the many volunteer organisations of charitable intent, which labour for the aged and sick, to ease some of the social and physical burdens borne by the community. 
The unpaid councillors of the local councils of Perth City, South Perth City, Belmont Shire, Canning Shire, all of the electorate of Swan, give their time and services for the good of the community in the face of an ever increasing burden of services that they are being required to provide which often, even though some are subsidised, are still a cost to the community. Increased costs through rates as a portion must still be met by councils from rate revenue making even less available to them to provide such urgent facilities as better local roads and footpaths. 
The councils are now receiving subsidies for services which have never before been their responsibility - for example, senior citizens' services. They do not begrudge providing these services but do need a full and proper approach to them in the provision of federal money to carry out the obligation they undertake on behalf of the Commonwealth to the community in their services to youth, senior citizens and the infirm. The councils require not small subsidies, but substantial contributions for capital expenditure and yearly maintenance. Let the community have organised service available to all sections of it and not a disjointed service as exists now. Let our community services be something of right to all citizens and not something of accident of area residence. 
There are areas within 7 miles of the City of Perth that lack sewerage and proper drainage. Residential development is curtailed because of this as the local authority institutes a water table criteria which prevents development in the interest of public health, only allowing development when sewerage and drainage becomes available. Developers and shire councils have recently become so dispirited about the situation that they have entered into schemes for costly sewerage package treatment plants to gain development and these plants will be taken over by government instrumentalities when completed. This is an appaling situation of lack of government initiative and finance to assist this very important arm of public health and development. The problem of sewerage which exists in the Canning Shire and adjacent areas could and should be resolved by government action. Federal Government grants for the purpose of development are needed not only in the interests of public health and development of near city land, which is so urgently needed to be released, but to assist in cheaper land development for the intending home owner. I note with disappointment that no such proposals are envisaged this session in the proposed legislation. 
We are in the position in Swan where because of the economics and inflation the purchasing of the traditional home on a quarter-acre block is becoming a dream only for many. Because of the lower scale of their incomes they are unable to afford the high initial purchase prices brought about by speculation in land and the practice of development costs being passed on to the purchaser who must pay not only the high initial price but the subsequent usurious interest rates demanded by the companies who specialise in building homes for these people with a first and second mortgage. The companies further insist as part of the contract that the insurance of the property be made with their nominated associated insurance company, with no hope of cancellation of the insurance policy by the purchaser while the property is mortgaged so as to allow people to insure at competitive prices elsewhere. Lower deposits and the shortage of housing attract people into this situation, and thus they undertake a burden which is a constant restriction on them because of their limited income. This is responsible for the working wife becoming a must so as to live and educate the family, rather than something of choice. 
It could be said that if they are poor let them obtain a State housing commission home, but with approximately 5,000 people on the waiting list the Commission is only dealing with applications lodged in 1966. They are now abandoning to a large degree the building of single unit homes on separate blocks of land and going into flat units, terrace housing and other high density housing projects. So, if one has a small income and must rely on the Housing Commission one faces the distinct possibility of living in a type of housing allocated which is not of the type and standard envisaged when the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement was drawn up. In fact, one of Australia's early claims to attract migrants was that we were proud of our tradition of every man having the opportunity of having his own home on his separate block of land. Now it is becoming so that people can do this only if they are wealthier than the ordinary wage warner. We have migrants who have come to Western Australia for a new start in life who have waited for more than 4 years for accommodation by the State. In fact, to quote one family from Scotland, they are still waiting with their seven children and paying $27 a week in rent from a normal wage. With all this, no wonder the people of my electorate are disappointed at the lack of proposed legislation in this field. 
The argument may well be raised that the Western Australian State Government recently took from its housing allocation some $2m for the purposes of education; but this only emphasises the inadequacies which exist in Commonwealth-State relationships, for a crisis situation has been created in the provision of education facilities. In my electorate it is only recently that high schools have had allocated to them major structures such as libraries and science blocks. To cite Bentley Senior High School, there is no gymnasium or assembly hall; the so-called amenities room for teachers still consists of the original room provided for the staff when it was restricted to approximately thirty and it now has a much extended staff of up to eighty. In any other industry it would be subject to health regulation enforcement and be made to provide rest rooms for the female staff, which of course do not exist there at the moment, and proper sick room amenities for the pupils. I am speaking of a senior high school whose teachers and Parents and Citizens Association have put these matters before State and Federal ministers from time to time as have of course other schools in my electorate, such as Cannington Senior High School which has a similar problem with a lack of hall facilities. These situations only highlight a compounding situation of a lack of adequate provisions for education facilities by both Federal and State governments. 
We have enthusiastic parents in the parents and citizens associations serving these schools who do work in canteens and carry out other activities to raise funds for amenities which should be supplied for pupils when they first attend a school. The early students should not be denied facilities that are gained only after some efforts from the self-same students' parents for the benefit of later students. It is a Government responsibility to see that all children are equally treated. With a lack of classrooms, classes larger than the experts recommend, a shortage of teachers, a drift away from Australia of some of our best teachers - attracted overseas by more equitable wages and conditions - we are again disappointed to see that despite the anxiety of the electorate no proper provision for relief in the education field in basic matters affecting all families is mentioned. Greater Federal responsibility in education is essential if a solution is to be found. 
No mention is made of offering any solution lo the frustrations being felt on wage issues by white collar organisations and trade unions whose confidence in the arbitration system has been shattered, and 1 cite the recent upsurge of protest by .professional engineers at their recent wages decision. These engineers hold this Government responsible for the unsatisfactory nature of this decision. This august body of responsible, well-educated upstanding citizens is beginning to react in a most indignant manner, and rightly so. Is it any wonder then that the trade unions are having an unprecedented spate of militant activity to obtain wage increases. 
In a large number of cases over award payments outside the arbitration system are the aim of unions and white collar organisations. In fact, a form of collective bargaining is evolving, but again outside the arbitration system. It must be apparent even to people on whom understanding dawns slowest, that something is seriously wrong when, from the largest to the smallest, labour organisations are dissatisfied, and a pattern of representation of the Commonwealth or its agencies is involved in these cases where the dissatisfaction is occurring. In most cases the Government agencies take a negative attitude to the claims of the organisation putting its case. If it is fitting for the Commonwealth to be represented in this manner in a situation that has brought broad public reaction against it, it is even more fitting for the Commonwealth to take urgent action to give relief to the situation and to ensure that its representatives do not use the arbitration system as a wag: pegging device while prices, taxes and costs to the community go unchecked. I suggest that the Commonwealth endeavour to support arguments that give justice, and even enter into consent documents to make the arbitration system one of economic equity. I note with disappointment that there are no such proposals envisaged by the proposed legislation. 
A further disappointment is the lack of any guarantees to provide for immediate interstate pensioner concession travel on Commonwealth railways. We can only hope this will be an early decision of the Government and not become a CommonwealthState relationship argument as this concession is so necessary to our pensioners who have families which left Western Australia years ago. However, this is becoming an even more urgent problem for residents of Western Australia who themselves have been attracted to Western Australia from the eastern States by the reports of boom conditions and are anxious to have their pensioner parents visit them. Distance and cost make this impossible for many, and the lack of early rectification is an even greater disappointment as they were led to believe that immediate relief would be offered by the Government, having regard to its statements during the last election campaign. Some may say that nearly all have cars and can go by road. Has anyone ever taken his prize possession, the motor car, over that unsealed horror stretch on the east-west highway? To do so is most disconcerting for the young, let alone the old. 
Here again we in Western Australia note with dismay that no provision is made in the proposed legislation to seal this very important trade, tourist and defence link. Yes, it is a defence link. We would be one of the few countries in this modern age which have to wait until it stops raining and the road dries out before ground support units can be moved by road interstate for the defence of the country. When one considers that the Government now proposes to spend $165m on defence, and has not made provision for the ยง9m esti mated to seal this road, it shows the shortsighted thinking that has existed for 20 years and continues to exist. 
Of course we appreciate that these units may be transported by air or rail, and that in due course sufficient bases may be available to supply sufficient defences in the west. But it is to be appreciated that we in Western Australia have been for so long forgotten and neglected on defence matters while the Government adventures overseas. We demand an adequate and urgent rectification of our defence problems, particularly now that we have proven that value does exist in Western Australia with our vast development projects and overseas investments. We do not want to wait until such time as the American or Japanese Governments decide to protect their interests. We want to be protected by Australia first. We do not want long delayed surveys and promises, but immediate remedial action. We do not want more overseas adventures which detract attention from our own parlous defence position. 
The legislation proposed offers many disappointments, for no immediate relief is offered for the people who pioneered our country, fought in world wars and are now pensioners. They are offered no relief in this inflationary period but most exist on totally inadequate pensions which do not reach even the Government's recognised minimum wage standards as set out in its health legislation. So the pensioners' restricted living standards continue, when they should be living in comfort and dignity. What of the person who has struggled and invested in the country's future, shown loyalty in wartime by purchasing government bonds and now, on retirement, finds that he must face the means test before he is able even partially to qualify for a pension as a return for his frugality and loyalty? There are no proposals to ease the burdens of people such as this or the burdens of the people who, over the years, have provided loan moneys to government and other instrumentalities by virtue of their contribution to superannuation funds. Now when they come to draw on these funds they find that they are still taxpayers and must pay tax on their income the value of which has been diminished by inflation. 
No relief is offered to these people and their disappointment is profound and well based. We can only hope that the Government will recognise these many problems and will take urgent steps to rectify this situation by legislating for the final abolition of the means test and pension justice for all. If this Government will not do it, the next Labor government certainly will. It should not be said that it will upset the Australian economy, since an official estimate of the cost of the abolition of the means test in October 1967 showed that it would represent approximately 5c in the $1 on the Australian Budget at that time. In fact, a pre-Senate election broadcast by a former Prime Minister stated that the escalation of national defence expenditure by over $700m since 1963 had not upset the Australian economy. 
Provision for the aged by national schemes without any means test has been before the Commonwealth Parliament on three occasions - in 1913, 1928 and 1938 - without a final solution. Let us find a final solution to this ever-present source of social injustice. In fact, the Labor Party would no doubt offer no objection if its policy of abolition of the means test within the life of two parliaments were adopted by the Government. No doubt the Government would secure support from the Opposition benches. Again action, not surveys or words, is called for. 
To emphasise the dissatisfaction with the Government's policy by all sections of the community I shall quote from a summary of the retail chemists' case for an increase in remuneration for dispensing national health prescriptions. It states: 
Chemists have not had an increase in the fee for dispensing National Health Service prescriptions since March 1961. Only a 10% increase was granted on that occasion although the weighted average of salaries of registered assistants, the basis on which the Government had agreed to pay increases in the fee, showed an increase of 20.78%. The reason given by the then Federal Treasurer,  Mr Holt,  for the Government's abrogation of its agreement was that the award handed down by Judge Gamble in Victoria which gave a 50% increase in the salary of a pharmacist was considered freakish, although subsequent salary awards in other States were to confirm the stability of the Gamble decision. 
Surely this demonstrates the Government's own attitude to arbitration decisions. When a decision is against the Government, it rejects it. Then the four pages of the document go on te give a resume of the attempts by the Pharmaceutical Services Guild of Australia, under the guidance of its Federal  President, Sir Eric  Scott, to obtain a review survey of rates, finishing with the words: 
There are more than 5,000 Guild members throughout Australia and everyone of them considers that the chemists have had a raw deal from the Government. 
Let us hope that these business people will not be branded reactionaries by the Government but that a review of the Government's industrial relations with all sections of the community will take place. These people are seeking only what every trade union and professional group is seeking - an unbiased investigation into today's remuneration structure so that all sections of the community will receive wage and salary justice. It is imperative that the Government act. ft stands condemned for its policies which have resulted in the troubled times in which we live. I have listened with amazement to Government members attacking the ordinary citizens of this great land and in fact, of my electorate, who happen to belong to a trade or labour organisation in the course of earning their living, and their elected representatives, the shop stewards and union officials, who despite whatever political ideology they follow, step forward to present a citizen's case in a similar manner to a member of Parliament, and are an essential component of the working of an arbitration system, some rising to the ranks of the Arbitration Commission itself. In fact, management very often looks to the field of shop stewards for management appointees. I would be pleased to name, if required, any number of people prominent in our community who set out on their career in this field. A large number of ex-servicemen and women belong to these organisations. 
One of the more militant shop stewards I know who resides in my electorate stood as a Liberal Party candidate for the State Parliament - unsuccessfully, fortunately. I do not attempt to detract from him because of this, or to detract from unionists who stand for other parties. AH I ask is that the Government ceases its protected attacks against citizens who are members of organisations provided for them by the laws of this great country, for many of them are residents of that great electorate I am so proud to represent, the electorate of Swan. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Giles)  adjourned. 
-1 have sat here as a new member very concerned at the atmosphere being created in debates, at the constant attacks oozing hate at trade unionists and their representatives and in particular at the vehemence of attacks on the Australian Labor Party and the people it represents. As a new member I wonder whether my term of office is going to be burdened by a situation I find distasteful and a bitter disappointment after what I had thought Parliament represented. As a consequence I turn to what an independent news commentator had to say on the situation. According to surveys, Frank Chamberlain's nightly commentary, which is broadcast throughout Australia from Cairns to Geraldton and across to Tasmania, is heard by over a million people. It is rebroadcast next morning in many parts of Australia.  Mr Chamberlain  has a reputation for being fair overall. He often attacks the Labor Party as well as others in the interests of better Parliamentary discussion. He has praised the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  for his human sympathy in Aboriginal affairs and as the member who initiated the standard gauge railway.  Mr Chamberlain.  I believe, has been a correspondent for the Australian Press and the overseas Press in Canberra for over 20 years. 
On Wednesday, 1 6th April 1970,  Mr Chamberlain  said: 
How do you do. So now we have a Red rudder running Australia. My comment in a few moments. 
Parliament has been wasting time again this week, but at last a halt has been called by private members who support the Government. They have realised that many of the criticisms made by their own side and by Opposition members, especially the new members, are correct. 
Parliament must be made to work smoothly, more often and democratically. In future the Liberals and the Country Party coalition revert to the time table pre-1950. So we have to go backwards to the Chifley era to go forwards. 
There have been arguments about how to improve the working of Parliament ever since the national Parliament was assembled. This time an intensified situation has been reached, because one side has been in power so long, that as  Mr Henry  Turnbull (Liberal, N.S.W.) points out, the spirit of Parlaiment is being lost in trying to apply the letter of its rules. 
Extra sitting time, however, is not the entire answer. There must be some rationale in oranising business and setting priorities. There must be less personal character-smearing and more debate on the measures. We, the public, must so insist that our representatives so behave. I gather this from the correspondence and comments 1 Have received. 
Last week we had the Government accusing the Opposition of wasting time by introducing trifling matters as allegedly urgent. This week we have had the sorry spectacle of the Government wasting hours on a political manoeuvre attempting to smear Opposition members with the red can. There was no discussion of any vital issue at all. 

 Mr William Wentworth, the Minister for Social Services, calls it the red rudder. But he is well off course, as usual, with his fanaticism on this subject. The tiny minority of professed Communists in this country, when we do not even have one in Parliament and never have looked like having one, must be very clever people if they can produce what  Mr Wentworth  so stupidly calls a reign of terror. And the Government must be negligent in its trust if it can let them have so much authority. 
The reign of terror,  Mr Wentworth,  as you know is in Vietnam, where not only Communists but United States and Australian forces are locked in a vile and violent struggle over the bodies of innocent people, including nationalists who are not Communists, who merely want to earn and enjoy an honest living. The faults are not all on one side. This Vietnam affair, as I have often said and as I insist without hesitation, adds not one jot to Australia's security or prestige, and history is showing this to be true every day that passes. 
As  Dr Everingham  (Labor, Queensland) pointed out in an unanswerable speech - unanswerable to anyone who knows the facts - if it is good manners, fair democratic action for farmers to march through the streets of Melbourne and protest, surely it is legitimate for people to abominate the undeclared war in Vietnam: the conscription of our young in one age group only by lottery: to see the lack of any equality of sacrifice by all Australians, surely it is legitimate for them to want a Moratorium or any attempt at peace by peaceful demonstration, without being branded Communist'. 
You know - it's an old trick. Menzies used it with the Petrov lie, and you must remember,  Mr Wentworth  and all the Government, you cannot fool all the people all the time. Congratulations to the private Liberals who induced the Government to try a better timetable. Now let's have a better priority timetable in the subjects we discussed. It is now the Leader of the House,  Mr Bill  Snedden's opportunity to retrieve his earlier, unimpressive performance, and please kick that red can and the red rudder right out of the Parliament. 
That was a 'Canberra on the Line' radio commentary by Frank Chamberlain broadcast on the Macquarie network throughout Australia on Wednesday, 15th April 1970. I heartily concur in those remarks, as I am sure members of my Party do. 
I direct a question to the Minister for the Army. Is it correct that Western Australian servicemen returning from Vietnam for demobilisation are landed in Australia at Sydney, New South Wales, and then are given only a rail fare from Sydney to Perth and other centres? If so, will the Minister negotiate with the Treasury to have this position corrected to provide an air fare in view of the distance and time involved in travelling to Western Australia. 
I rise on a matter in which a citizen of the Commonwealth has been denied natural justice, by a purported legal means. It is a matter on which the law is silent and, if this state of affairs is allowed to continue without intervention by proper authorities it could leave an unjust situation facing many of my constituents. I speak of the case of John Francis Crouch an employee of Modern Transport, a firm now defunct, which was a subsidiary company of Bell Brothers Pty Ltd of Western Australia, a company of a million dollars or more which is still prospering. Modern Transport was one of many of the subsidiary companies of Bell Brothers.  Mr Crouch  was injured by the alleged negligence of an employee of the parent company, Bell Brothers, on 6th July 1963. A writ was issued against Bell Brothers and Modern Transport on  Mr Crouch's  behalf and it was subsequently found that Modern Transport had gone into liquidation and an application had to be made to the courts to revive the company from its liquidated state, as only the parent company, Bell Brothers, was still in existence. 
After all the legal problems which had to be processed it was found that an appalling situation existed in that the firm of Bell Brothers held an insurance policy containing an exclusion clause providing that when an employee was injured by a fellow employee of Bell Brothers or associated companies or subsidiary companies, there would be no insurance cover for the employee. It excludes liability to those companies for the acts of its employees and as such  Mr Crouch  is denied the right to sue for negligence, which is in no way in doubt, because of an apparent lack of protection under the law of this land. Of course he can now have recourse to a totally inadequate Workers Compensation Act and accept far below what he would receive if he had not been a victim of this vicious clause and a defunct company added to his problems. 
We have the situation where any large or small company may start a subsidiary company for a short period, say for the term of a contract, only to cover themselves with this type of insurance policy for that period. Then they may operate substandard equipment without being liable for civil action by their employees or the employees of an associated company in case of injury. At the end of the contract they can liquidate the subsidiary company and not be liable for other actions or at the very least make it very difficult to lake any action. It is indeed a sorry state of affairs that this is allowed to happen in the business world and, in fact, that any insurance company would provide such an unjust policy even at a client's request. It may be good for profits and called 'good business' but it is scandalous that people who assume that they are protected by the laws of this country find out in their time of distress that they have been denied justice. For the law is absent in these circumstances. 
The principal company is a substantial one but the subsidiary is one of straw and 1 feel that to protect the citizens of this land the proper authorities should take steps to legislate against the possibility of any recurrence. For no one would wish to see any other person placed in  Mr Crouch's  position of being permanently injured by alleged negligence and being not able to take action because of legalised subterfuge. 1 am alarmed that this problem may arise elsewhere in Australia, lt may well be that this has already occurred. I would like to hear of it if it has. The Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes)  may be able to advise the House as to what legislation is required, and where it may bc instituted within the States, or on a national basis, for no doubt this Parliament is entrusted with the duty to protect our citizens. This practice needs the urgent attention of those people so charged with responsibility. 1 repeat that the problem has arisen because the insurance policy thai was in existence had an exclusion clause to the effect that when one employee is injured by a fellow employee of Bell Bros, or of a subsidiary or associated company, there is no insurance cover. There is an exclusion clause protecting the company and associated companies. The law is silent and I ask the Attorney-General to exercise his powers to make it possible for it to speak. I believe he will be as anxious as I am about this matter. The situation existed in 1963 and continues lo exist today. 

 Mr Speaker, a number of petitions have been presented to this Parliament by Western Australian members of all Parties, including myself and the honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson),  in support of the Housing Loans Reform Movement of Western Australia. They request this Parliament to reduce the interest rates on Government bonds to 6% so as to correct the situation created by the Government's recent increase in the bond rate, which has produced an increase in interest rates on housing loans which, in turn, has affected almost all home purchasers in Western Australia, particularly those obtaining homes through building societies. It has resulted in an increase of 5 or 6 years in the period for the repayment of home loans. A home loan repayment period of 30 years will now become a repayment period of 35 to 36 years. The only way in which the buyers can keep the repayment period down to its former length is to increase substantially their monthly repayments. However, as most of the people concerned are not in a position to do this it is obvious that they will be burdened by another 5 or 6 years of repayments. That is to say, they will pay rent for that extra period at the whim of this Government because of its failure to maintain economic stability. 
Most home purchasers did not realise that a clause in their agreements permitted increase of the rate of interest they had to pay. I suspect that many members of this House did not know of the existence of such a clause in home purchase agreements. But what about the person who is intending to purchase a home. He also is affected. A letter I received from a prospective home buyer states: 
We wish to express our dissatisfaction at the increase in interest rates for housing loans and the general unavailability of housing loan finance. This recent setback in housing finance will prevent us from acquiring a house for approximately 2 years more. It will take this length of time to save the additional finance towards a house as we can now only afford to borrow a smaller loan. 
So people in that position must continue to pay rent for two or more years because of this Government's action, and the rents are being increased because of the flow-on of interest rates. Even the State Housing Commission has to increase rents because of these factors. Every sector of the community is being affected, which is causing hardship and distress. The scandalous situation is that many young people who looked to this Governments recent homes savings grant scheme to help them now find any benefit absorbed by this increase in the rate of interest and because of high land prices and high building costs. The homes savings grant scheme has been of little benefit in Western Australia to date. The situation is made even worse by increased interest rates. 
To their credit home owners are not letting the matter rest there. They realise that the notices issued to them by the building societies in the main give only 21 days in which to accept the increased interest rate and increased repayment on their housing loan or face losing their homes. They have acted by forming themselves into a self protection organisation and they hope, as I do, that people throughout Australia will take up the call for self defence in this matter and form other organisations in other States to help themselves, firstly by collecting signatures for a petition to Parliament and secondly by taking what other necessary action may be required. Th.s is one petition people queue to sign. In fact, in what we call the better suburbs with bigger homes and bigger mortgages to repay people are even more enthusiastic to sign and more indignant about the increase of half of 1% in interest rates which approximates 8c per week increase per $1,000 borrowed. As it is extremely likely that there will be a general 1 % increase ail round most people will have to pay 16c per week per SI, 000. 
This is not the end of the cost to the home owner, however, for the Australian Loan Council has notified that as from 1st May 1970 the rate of interest charged to shire councils for loan money will be increased by I % where the borrowing is from private sources, the situation being that they will now borrow in the private sector at a minimum of 7.1% for a 4-6 year term or a maximum of 7.4% for a 15 year or longer repayment period, lt is in this higher field that shire councils do most of their borrowing. No doubt the costs will be passed on to the home owner in increased land rates. The overall result of this indiscriminate increase of interest rates to the home owner is higher home costs, higher repayments, longer periods of repayment and higher rates and service costs. But this is not the end of it for it is reported by the 'Independent' newspaper of Sunday last that the home building slump that has resulted in Western Australia because of the increase in the rate of interest will continue and the industry will remain in the doldrums until 1971 because of the prospective shortage of skilled tradesmen and other factors. 
The State's rapid recovery to pre-slump levels - even if Government financial restrictions are eased - will be sabotaged by a loss of tradesmen to other industries and other States and a cut-back in the migrant worker flow. Building companies are collapsing and sub-contractors are going bankrupt. Supply companies are carrying large irrecoverable debts. Only last week the Western Australian Clay Brick Manufacturers' Association instructed the Department of Immigration to defer the movement of new bricklayer applicants. A major sponsor of migrant bricklayers, the Association has told the Department that there was lit* lc work for recent arrivals and some were unemployed. A building industry spokesman is reported to have said: "After this finance trouble here, it could take years to instil confidence in prospective migrants.' This is disastrous, for the restricted money available and the higher interest rates will not create a buyer's market for the young people. The National  President  of the Housing Industry Association stated: 
Skilled staff and tradesmen are being dismissed and many of these will not return to the industry. 
He complained that excessive if not usurous interest rates had caused great hardship to families seeking homes. The authoritative economic bulletin 'Building Outlook' last week added strength to the black outlook for home building in Western Australia, lt stated:  lt is now expected  that  the remaining 8 months of 1970 will see continued falls in the number of dwellings commenced, taking the level to around 2,500 units for the December quarter. 1 1 forecasts an even greater downswing in the building of va flats because of the more speculative nature of this activity. This will mean an even greater shortage of homes and home units to our young people.  lt is still not too late to take some definite action to give relief, lt is still not too late to remove the increase in interest rates before new agreements to purchase are entered into, before building society loans are revised, before further building companies collapse to add to the number which already have gone into bankruptcy and before the building industry slows up lo such a degree that it will take a major collapse to bring action by the Government for relief. The National  President  of the Housing Industry Association, one of the top men representing the industry, had this to say: 
Mousing commencements in all Slates are now at least 25% below normal levels. The fall in some States is much greater and in WA will exceed 45%. Confidence has been shaken, and with secondary effects appearing the level of activity in the housing industry will fall even further unless corrective action is quickly taken 
The Association presented the following proposals to correct the situation: Firstly, remove or modify the regulations requiring savings banks to invest 65% of any increase in deposits in Government securities. This would leave more funds available for housing loans. Secondly, make an immediate grant of from $50m to $100m under the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement at special rates of interest. This would help to provide much needed  housing  loans for the lower income earner. Thirdly, release cash to the trading banks from the special reserve deposits for housing loans and advances to building societies. Fourthly, the Reserve Bank should take action to restore the liquidity of the financial system, and fifthly, the Government bond rate should be reduced immediately. 
Even as late as today it was reported in the 'West Australian' that the Federal Government had received a recommendation from the Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research which was contained in its latest quarterly review. The newspaper report went on in this way:  lt suggested some relaxation of interest rates, matched if necessary in :he Federal Budget by a slight taxation increase or lower Government spending, rather than an increase in overall restraint. 
Having regard to all of those recommendations I believe that the situation should be looked at  wilh  a v ew to affording relief urgently to the people concerned. 
I address a question to the Treasurer. Because of the evident hardship being suffered by home purchasers and prospective home owners as a result of increased interest rates created by the increase in Government bond interest rates and the subsequent drop in building programmes in Australia, particularly in Western Australia, and in view of the number of petitions that have been presented to the Parliament requesting a reduction in bond interest rates to give relief on home interest rates, will the Treasurer investigate methods whereby immediate relief can be given in respect of interest rates on housing and so assist the building industry, particularly in Western Australia? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation. It he aware of protests being lodged by licensed aircraft maintenance engineers at proposals of the Department of Civil Aviation and employers to alter the system of licensing aircraft mechanical engineers? Is he also aware that engineers claim that the proposal to have engineers dependent on employers for renewal of licences for certain types of aircraft could lead to a loss of their independence and a clearing of aircraft when they doubt the safety of the aircraft if the aircraft engineers feel that their jobs could be at stake? Will he, in the interests of public safety,  ensure that  all aircraft maintenance engineering qualifications remain under the total control of the Department of Civil Aviation? 
I rise to put the record straight as far as the Western 
Australians are concerned. They are not unanimously in support of the proposal. There are those, such as myself, who oppose this motion. I represent, as does the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Webb),  a Western Australian metropolitan electorate. I oppose this motion because I feel that what is before us is quite futile. It does not offer a solution to the problem. In fact, it represents a reduction in the hours of sitting which we experienced in the last session when we sat for 4 days a week. If it proposed that we sat for 3 weeks of 4 days or that we sat from the beginning of the session to the end of the session, I would support it. I am not naive enough to believe that there will be committee meetings on week ends. For example, in the football season honourable members will return to their electorates, saying that they have to attend to electorate matters, but we will find they will go to the football. 
Even with the commitments set out here it will be possible for a Western Australian to return to his electorate for the week end. Of course, the honourable member for Forrest  (Mr Kirwan)  or the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard),  because of their country commitments, will not be able to do so. But it will be possible for honourable members with metropolitan electorates to return to Western Australia for the week end. No doubt if this motion is carried I will be returning because I feel that I should be there to attend to my electorate commitments. A lot has been said about the time spent travelling. In Western Australia the amount of time some school children would spend travelling each day would be equivalent to the amount which some honourable members are protesting about spending weekly. Even some of our school buses I believe take 2 hours to get to and fro each day. No doubt, with this modern transport by which some of our members are travelling to the various States, they would return to their homes in the same time and with the same liability as the school child would experience in Western Australia. It is no great burden to have to travel long distances because of the modern transportation that we have, and I appreciate the facility. 
I want to see the record straight because some honourable members were saying that they would support the resolution because they understood ail Western Australians were unanimously in support of it. I want to make it quite clear that they are not. Probably I would be the one exception. In a particular instance this proposal would give you 10 days away if you stayed away from your electorate for the weekend and 12 days if you travelled the day before and the day after. I do not intend to commit myself to this, because I feel I should be in my electorate. Not everybody agrees with me. The hour is late. I just wanted to make that point. I leave it at that. 
With some reluctance I rise to further delay this debate but I must protest at the inadequate step that has been taken in relation to sit' ing times. This is the second occasion, I think in this session on which we have had a debate on sitting times. All that this proposal will do is prevent a private member from speaking at a reasonable hour on a matter which is important to him and to his electorate. It will leave the way open, as I see it. to all-night sittings at the will of the Leader of the House. I cannot agree that that is a good situation. 
If the Government cannot bring before us finally the recommendations of the Standing Orders Committee so that they can be discussed and resolved once and for all. at least we should attempt to end the sittings of this Ho&gt; se at a reasonable hour of the night, irrespective of what the 
Leader of the House may say about the pressure of business, because so long as we are prepared to tolerate that situation it will continue to arise. No doubt a decision on the recommendations of the Standing Orders Committee will be delayed indefinitely. 1 only hope that the Leader of the House will give us some indication tonight of when this matter will be resolved finally. If private enterprise was running this administration on a cost plus basis for output for effort expended, particularly in relation to sitting hours, wc would all have been sacked long ago for not making up our minds and coming up with a decent decision. I would not even disagree with that. lt is ludicrous to sit beyond midnight with Government business taking precedence over everything else because in many instances the older and infirm members have gone home and those who are left are tired and, let us face it, do not pay much attention to what is going on. If honourable members take part in the adjournment debate the House begins to clear. That happens with all debates late at night. 1 take it that the Government is supposed to be running the country. What about the people whom we keep working here at night? What about showing some common sense towards them? We have people sitting in the passageway, why I do not know, on some occasions until 1 o'clock and 2 o'clock in the morning. I think the area is called Siberia. What about the car drivers whom we keep waiting outside in cold and miserable circumstances? Are they not entitled to some home life? It is unfortunate that we cannot finally resolve that the sittings will end at, say, 10.30 p.m. I believe we will have an opportunity later to debate that matter. 
The decision that is made on this question will operate for the remainder of this year. I am concerned whether we will be faced with this situation again at the beginning of next year without having had the opportunity to debate it. I understood from the recent discussion in ' which we agreed in principle to altered sitting hours that this matter was soon to be resolved. Unfortunately, the Leader of the House has come forward not only with the motion which appears on the notice paper but also with a further amendment to that motion. 
 I have been interested to note how much time members of the Government Parties have devoted to attacking the criticism by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  of the Budget. The last  speaker,  the honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon),  spent some time seeking the Leader of the Opposition's guidance on how to bring down a better budget. 1 suggest that he peruse the Labor Party's policy and perhaps have a private audience with the Leader of the Opposition and our shadow Treasurer who may assist him. At least 1 am glad that some notice has been taken by Government members of the electorate as represented by the Leader of the Opposition. I support the motion of the Leader of the Opposition in condemning the Budget. The constant attack in this House on Australian workers who, as I have said previously, are mostly ex-servicemen who fought for this country in world wars under Labor Governments for the freedom of election which we now enjoy, is repugnant to me as it must be to the workers and citizens of Australia generally. No wonder they are in revolt against this type of constant, unprecedented and unwarranted attack. 
This Budget as it applies to pensioners and the aged generally leaves the people of the electorate of Swan appalled. I have had numerous letters, telegrams and personal calls to my office protesting at the inadequacy of the 5()c a week increase in pensions. T was at a loss to explain the contempt with which the pensioner had been treated by a Government which must be well aware that the pensions it had provided after 3 decades of prosperous conditions are totally inadequate. They are not even as much as the minimum wage or the benefits the Government provides under the health insurance scheme for other citizens of this country. Why the Government thinks that aged persons can exist - exist only - on a lower income than other people in the community I will never comprehend. 
This Parliament had petition after petition presented to it prior to the Budget asking that the Commonwealth Government increase the base pension to 30% of the average weekly male earnings plus supplementary assistance in accordance with the Australian Council of Trade Unions' policy formulated by those people of whom I spoke before, with whom I am so proud to be associated, and by so doing give a reasonably modest pension. These petitions signed by thousands of pensioners throughout Australia have been completely ignored. The only possible explanation for the Government's disregard of these petitions is that it is aware that it has lost and will never regain the vote of the pensioners and the community by its duplicity. I do not doubt that if this is the case the pensioner is in for still further rough treatment. 
Let us face it: The cost of living must spiral as a result of the new taxes imposed in this Budget and the increases in telephone charges, postal charges and even the excise on cigarettes, their last joy and something they could afford. A comparatively cheap drink, wine, is on the way out for them. Perhaps the Government thinks it will do away with plonkos  -  I do not know. The tax on these items has been increased and is being reflected in increased prices already. Out of existing pensions pensioners must pay these increased costs and they must wait until Parliament gets around to passing legislation to increase their pensions before they can expect any relief. 
After the Parliament has spent so much time discussing matters such as what hours it is to sit surely legislation to increase pensions, by no matter how small an amount, could be brought on as a matter of urgency. Why put the burden of increased costs on these people without offering them some immediate relief? Even  if  they do not vote for the Government let it not be vindictive towards them. I ask the Government to treat this as a matter of urgency and to give these people immediate relief and to be just as keen in this matter as it was to apply immediate increases in sales tax and excise duty. 
In addition to looking at the effect on the aged of this Budget let us look at the total lack of relief it offers to people who are retired on superannuation and other forms of fixed retirement incomes. The tampered means test, or the tapered means test as some people like to call it, has been completely ignored. The people to whom the means test applies will be as hard hit by the Budget increases as anyone. The inflationary spiral has already robbed many of them of the advantage of a life of careful provision for old age at no cost to the Government, in fact often to the advantage of the Government. I quote the case of the Commonwealth Superannuation Fund, a fund which can find money to lend to multi-million dollar developments but will not or cannot find money to lend to contributors for the purchase or development of their own homes. So these people have been used to the maximum by the Government even though they are good and faithful servants without whom it could not function as a government. lt is ironical that the Government is assisting the middle income darner with tax relief. Although it may not be all we hoped, it is some relief and it means more to me or any other politician and no doubt more to Ministers per week than a pensioner could ever hope to obtain in rises. But the selfsame middle income earner still finds himself hit by the tapered means test when he retires, for there has been no attempt by this Government, in all the years that he has been campaigning, to ease it, nor has the Government prepared a programme to abolish it such as was outlined by the Australian Labor Party at the last general election. 
So it would appear that once again the policy that once you are aged you are forgotten has reared its head, and once again I call on the Government to endeavour to do something urgent and definite to ease the situation of these people on fixed incomes who have been hit by the Government's inflationary policy. One would expect that the Government has a vested interest in inflation because there is no doubt it is in the Government's interest to have spiralling production costs because taxes, including the payroll tax, are all based on a gross amount. So the higher costs go, so does the return in revenue to the Government increase. This is a disastrous manner in which to balance the Budget. Let Government supporters deny it if they will, but those people who bought Government bonds in good faith many years ago and who compare their purchasing power today would not believe it for a large number of them who are on fixed incomes today are caught up in the iniquitous foils of the tapered or tampered means test. 
The young home owner must indeed be giving a hollow laugh for there is no hint of relief from the vicious increased interest rates that he had so recently suffered at the hands of this Government which has ignored petitioners from all walks of life and political beliefs who have recently petitioned this Parliament for relief. The proposed tax cuts will not offset the increased interest rates which have been passed on to home purchasers and tenants. Surely it would have been more honest to have told these people that they were being so heavily hit in the home purchase field to help balance the Budget in order to give reductions in income tax and perhaps miserable increase in pensions. If this is nol so let the Government do something urgently to ease the interest burden on the home owner now so that he will in fact obtain some benefit from the tax reduction. All the reduction will do now is to help him meet his increased interest charges on the home he is purchasing or help tenants to meet the increased cost of rent. 
Let us not be hoodwinked. Let us start to tell the people the truth. These young people who because of high home costs and shortage of housing must have a working wife and put off having our most valuable migrants, a family born here, are going to pay more for their family planning. The tax has even been increased on the pill. Some poverty stricken countries can afford to provide it free, but not Australia. The only pill we can give is the Budget, bitter as it may be. Speaking of interest rates, these have been reflected in the charges to shire councils by a decision of the Treasury and the Australian Loan 
Council which caused interest rates to shire councils to be increased to in excess of 7% from 1st May 1970. The Budget offers no relief in this field, so while we talk of tax cuts lel us be honest about this. 
Every householder will be faced with increased rates. In some cases increases of from 20% to 50% have occurred in Western Australia because of the Government policy of indirect taxation which is hidden in such a way that people are not supposed to suspect that our Federal Government is at fault. But the local authorities must pass on these loan repayment increases to someone and the only place to go for them is the ratepayer who is the same person as the taxpayer, who this Government seems to consider has an inexhaustible supply of funds. 
This Government continues to disappoint us time and time again by avoiding its obligations to local Government authorities, lt has a way of granting subsidies for aged persons homes and for other community activities. But the fact of the matter is that it is passing on its obligations to the community through the hard pressed local authorities who must first find the initial costs before they can obtain the subsidy. In fact, some people look at it not as a $1 to S2 subsidy by the Federal Government but as a S2 to SI subsidy by local government to the Federal Government to meet the obligations of the Federal Government towards aged persons in the community, for it is to this Government that these people have paid a lifetime of taxes. This is the Government which should be ensuring that all loans to the third arm of government - that is, local government - are at a low rate of interest and in fact should be making major grants of Commonwealth money towards major development projects by shire councils and service boards undertaking projects such as sewerage, drainage and other major works of benefit to the community. lt is no good denying an obligation to the community in this respect, for as I understand it the Government, has not met these obligations in the various States but has met them in Canberra itself and, at the expense of all the taxpayers of Australia, has gone ahead with major projects. I might add that 1 suspect that if a major project was needed in the Northern Territory the money would be found at national expense. Whilst not denying these people the right to have these benefits I ask that similar privileges be extended to the rest of the community and to the electorate which I represent in Western Australia. City development in Western Australia is being delayed because of a lack of sewerage and drainage works. Only the Commonwealth has the funds available to pay the large amounts involved. 
This Budget totally ignores this question as it ignores another matter which affects people in my electorate and, in fact, in all Western Australia, and in other States. 
For some time now the impression had been given by the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Sinclair)  that he was sympathetic towards the question of the sealing of the east-west highway, the Eyre Highway; yet this does not rate a mention in the Budget. No provision was made to meet the estimated cost of sealing the highway, which is $9m, but, of course, with spiralling costs, by the time the Commonwealth recognises its obligations, no-one can imagine what it will cost. I can only hope that some Government supporters will take up the cry to ensure that a special Commonwealth grant is made so that the section of the highway in South Australia connecting Western Australia with the eastern States will be completed in this financial year. As I mentioned in my maiden speech earlier this year this is a vital defence link. Australia would be one of the few modern countries in the world where one would have to wait for the rain to stop and the road to become trafficable before ground units could be moved interstate in defence of the country. I can appreciate that the Government has cut its defence spending  in  this Budget but if it does not want to consider this as a defence item then we should consider it as an item for trade and tourist development. 
This is 1970 when man has been to the moon twice: yet this Government cannot find even half the money needed to complete even half the project this year. Even though I do not disagree with our efforts regarding overseas aid 1 feel it is about time that the Government gave full and proper consideration to the needs of its own people whom it purports to represent. It is all right for the politicians who jet far above the road - and I am one of them - and look down and say: 'Something should be done.' I suggest that the quickest way to have proper provision made is to have them driven across this road or, better still, to have them drive across it themselves. It is a ludicrous situation that this project should be postponed from year to year and budget to budget. But who is the main user of this road? It is the middle and lower income earner who cannot afford other modes of transport. A lot of these people come from my electorate and I am constantly asked: 'When is the Government going to do something about it?' For this Budget to impose an increased tax on petrol and cars but not to provide properly for this overtaxed section of the community is a glaring avoidance of responsibility. 
Once again I challenge honourable members on the benches opposite to have a really good look at this situation. [ appeal to them to act, for it is not too late to do something about it this year. Although they may think that they have taxed people away from the idea of travel, with the increase in the price of petrol, let those who wish to travel have a road to travel on. At least that is reasonable even if the Government is not concerned with this road as a defence item. 
However, the major concern of the people of Swan has been the toss of value of their income as a result of increases of indirect taxation and the lack- of relief for those people on pensions and fixed incomes. They are not deceived by the machinations of the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  who has given no guarantee that he will not attempt another interest rate rise at a later date under the pretext of controlling inflation. That is the method which the Government is using to balance this Budget and it is doing so at the expense of the person on a fixed income or a pension. The honourable member for Denison, who was the last  speaker  on the Government side of the House, implied that pensioners were reasonably well off because of fringe benefits. But how hard is it to get these fringe or other benefits because of the means test? I suggest that people in his electorate should inform him. 
This much vaunted increase of spending on education and so on in the Budget will barely cope with increases from inflation. What people have failed to realise is just how far behind we are nationally in tha field of education. By 'people' J mean honourable members on the Government side of the House. So in fact a static situation still exists; what has been granted will only meet additional inflationary costs. 1 have schools in my electorate screaming out for amenities - schools such as the Bentley Senior High School and the Cannington Senior High School, which have since they were built years ago lacked assembly halls, gymnasiums and the like. 1 hope that this much vaunted increase in expenditure on education will enable these schools, which have been waiting for so many years, to be completed. All the pupils who have left will no doubt remember this when they cast their votes in future. So if the matter is not rectified this year perhaps at some future date with a change of government we will have the problem solved. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Western Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the recent increase in the interest rate on Government bonds has caused hardship to the thousands ofhome buyers throughout this State due to the subsequent increase in interest rates on mortgage contracts by home lending institutions. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will give earnest consideration to this most vital matter and your petitioners as in duty bound will every pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation. In view of recent petitions to the Parliament, will the Minister consider placing an embargo on the movement of aircraft at Perth Airport from 12 midnight to 6 a.m.? Has the Minister considered or, if he has not. will he consider, shifting the Perth Airport from the existing area because of the increasing nuisance to residents? Will he take into consideration in the flight patterns at Perth Airport the density zoning proposals of the adjacent shires? Will he consider paying compensation or purchasing properties affected by aircraft noise and subsequent zoning restrictions in these flight paths? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the undersigned citizens of Western Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the recent increase in the interest rate on Government Bonds has caused hardship to the thousands of home buyers throughout this state due to the subsequent increase in interest rates on mortgage contracts by home lending institutions. 
Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will give earnest consideration to this most vital matter and your Petitioners as in duly bound will every pray. 
Petition received and read. 
1 present the following  petition: 
The Honourable  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Western Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the recent increase in the interest rate on Government Bonds has caused hardship to the thousands of home buyers throughout this state due to the subsequent increase in interest rates on mortgage contracts by home lending institutions. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will give earnest consideration to this most vital matter and your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition: 
The Honourable  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Western Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the recent increase in the interest rate on Government Bonds has caused hardship to the thousands of home buyers throughout this state due to the subsequent increase in interest rates on mortgage contracts by home lending institutions. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will give earnest consideration to this most vital matter and your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
1  was a little upset by a few of the later remarks of the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  in which he referred to people living alongside airports as idiots. I do not think any of the people living alongside the Perth airport in the electorate of Swan are idiots. In fact, if anyone is to be called an idiot it is the Government which built the airport alongside the people living in Swan. I will leave it at that. I do not happen to live alongside the airport but I unfortunately live under the flight paths of a few of the honourable member's wonderful aeroplanes. 
I wish to express my alarm and regret at the fact that these estimates make no provision for compensation to people in my electorate of Swan who reside in Newburn and adjacent areas. They have been served notice that their properties will be resumed for airport extensions. A zoning blanket has been placed on this area by the planning authorities, preventing further development but giving no indication when the land will be finally taken and compensation paid. Periods as long as 15 years have been suggested but certainly it will not be this year according to these estimates. However, the Government is no doubt aware of public agitation for an alternative site for the airport. It is now situated in the centre of the city. The noise exposure forecast has cast a blight on all surrounding shires. The proposed zoning restrictions that have been adopted by the State Planning Authority on the recommendations of the Department of Civil Aviation, supported by the State Liberal Government, are in direct defiance of public opinion and the overall plan for the city of Perth suggested by Professor Stephenson who recommended in the Stephenson-Hepburn report that the airport be shifted to Lake Gnangara, which is a site approximately 3 miles further from the city than the present site. The Lake Gnangara site would permit flight patterns over the sea and over the adjacent pine plantation. 
This area is not developed as yet and it leaves sufficient room to allow a site to be chosen adjacent to the general area recommended by Professor Stephenson. There is relatively little developed land between that site and the coast and with the sea to the west and the pine plantation to the east it is an ideal site. But for reasons best known to the State and Federal Governments they wish to utilise this land for other purposes. So, with indecent haste, they are pressing to have it developed as a residential area knowing full well that once this subdivision has taken place the alternative site which they have known of for so long will be lost to posterity. They know that the policy of the Labor Party in Western Australia includes the acceptance of the recommendations of the people's organisations and the shire councils affected. The Labor Party has a policy for the shifting of the airport but in the intervening period while this caretaker Government is in the State and until it can be changed at the next election, proper regard must be given by the existing Government. It should give proper consideration to the matter and not treat it as it has done by putting profits before people. On 15 September 1970 the State Minister for Town Planning replied to a letter sent to him in protest against the proposed development of the Gnangara area for housing. The letter was in fact sent to him within the statutory time provided by State law for public objection. In a letter addressed to  Mr P.  Ravine, of 120 Old York Road, Greenmount, the Minister said: 
I refer to your letter of the 3rd September concerning the location of an airport adjacent to the coast at Wanneroo. 
The area suggested is already committed to urban development and is the subject of the Sorrento-Mullaloo development project which has already commenced and will provide housing and associated uses and facilities for some 50,000 people. 
At the moment there is only about one house in the area. The Minister continued: 
Further consideration could not, therefore, be given to your suggestion for this area. 
The question of the future of the airport is still being studied by the State and Commonwealth instrumentalities. 
I note he says it is still being studied by the State instrumentalities and Federal authorities. So the State Government is worried about a proposed population of 50,000 for this area. They do not give a darn about the 56,000 people in the growing electorate of Swan or for that matter those other thousands in the adjacent areas of the Darling Ranges and associated suburbs in Bassendean, Bayswater, Guildford and Midland. Some large development company has a solitary spur road into the proposed Grangara site so it becomes impossible to hold the matter over for proper investigation. No mention is made of the retarded development in the other areas already affected by the airport and the problems presented to redevelopment proposals. No mention is made of the public protest meetings on the airport within the Kalamunda or the Belmont Shires and the petitions of protest seeking the shifting of the airport or the implementation of a night curfew. All these are being disregarded by the State instrumentalities and, for that matter, by the Federal authority itself, and I do not say this lightly. Let me quote the Minister for Civil Aviation on this matter. In a written reply to a question I asked the Minister said: 
The Minister for Civil Aviation believes that there is strong support for Perth Airport to continue on a 24-hours basis, for both international and domestic operations, and as a major contributor to the rapid transport of mails and freight additional to air passengers, for the general good of the metropolitan area and the State of Western Australia. 
From discussions with State Planning Authorities it is clear that by concentrating operations on the north/south runway advantage can be taken of predominantly non-urban areas to the north and south to keep aircraft noise nuisance within reasonable limits. After taking into account the shore line to the west, the hills to the east, the RAAF bases at Pearce and Gin Gin to the north and the general aviation centre at Jandakot to the south, it is believed that there is not an alternative site within SO to 60 miles of Perth. 
Apparently Professor Stephenson's recommendation is not even to be considered. How about buying the land from the residents of Newburn, who cannot do a thing with it, before the Government starts to say that property values are too high for it to buy the land? How about purchasing the homes of other protestors in the flight paths so that they may shift before the Government says: 'The properties adj'acent to airports increase in value in time'. Let us consider purchasing them now. 1 do not accept the Government's explanation on the matter. It says there is a demand for a 24-hour airport. I ask: Whose demand is it? Is it a demand by the airline companies or the air travellers who are few when compared with the number of people who are inconvenienced, woken up and disturbed in their private lives by companies which, if they made a fraction of that noise with a motor vehicle on the roads, would be stopped by the police, made to rectify the problem and charged with an offence as well. It is just not good enough for people to have to tolerate this type of nonsense. Why should airlines be sacrosanct? 
Every planning authority in Australia controls or sets down guidelines as to where heavy, noisy industries will be located and sets restrictions on developments and associated industrial wastes and pollutants. Yet we are led to believe that for some special reason airlines and airports are exempt in these matters. This nonsense must stop. Proper regard for our people must be accepted by this Government and all authorities. 
In this case the ones who are falling down are the State and Federal Governments which are not even taking into consideration the planes of today. The Anglo-French Concorde 002 is now flying and causing complaints at London (Heathrow) Airport where it landed recently. People living in its approach path said that the thunder of its engines loosened roof tiles and rattled windows. Numerous telephone complaints were received at the airport. Yet the powers that be want Perth to be a 24-hour airport receiving during the night such international aircraft as these that are being developed. The reason is that these planes are not permitted to land at the near east Asian airports and the airports in eastern States. The ideal situation is to land them in Perth where the authorities do not appear to care about the people. 
The Belmont Shire has made an official request to the authorities to have the airport relocated and to have the rezoning of the Lake Gnangara area refused until such time as the matter is finally resolved. Let us bear in mind that the people have had enough of the nonsense associated with the official explanations that have been given. Let us bear in mind also that this airport was shifted from Maylands to its present site and many residents were there prior to that. As some other honourable members have suggested, they would have been idiots to have taken up residence there knowing that the airport would be located there. Let us face it: These people were there long before, and we hope they will be there long after, the airport was shifted. 
The Government places restrictions on density development up to 1980 by the noise exposure forecast. It has no thought about seeking an alternative site for the airport to remove the nuisance. This appears to be illogical. The airport is placed in such a position that it will continue to be surrounded by residential development for ever, except in the case of Newburn which is an area of about 1,700 acres which the Department of Civil Aviation has indicated that it wishes to take over for airport development and buffer zones. The Government has failed to say when it will take over that area and the people must retain their blocks of land which they cannot develop or sell. Who would want to buy a proposed airport at $6,000 an acre? Local residents must retain land worth $10,200,000 odd, waiting on the whim of the Government so that they can move and start life afresh and plan for the future. The amount I quoted was the minimum value. 
In the meantime these residents must tolerate the purgatory of constant night flights as airlines find it economical to have Perth an all day and all night airport. The turn-around times of the night flights, both interstate and overseas, are not governed by responsibility to the people of Perth. The convenience of transport requirements is governed by the eastern States. This cannot be denied in relation to the hours of curfew applying to the eastern States. If a tail wind condition exists the plane is delayed in Perth so that its early arrival will not disturb the residents of the eastern States. No consideration is given to the nuisance imposed on and the distress caused to Western Australian residents. That does not appear to matter. No wonder they have come out in their thousands to sign petitions and protest at this absurd situation. Now they are fearful that, as has been announced, there will be no night restrictions on Tullamarine. I wonder whether these night flights are heading to Western Australia so that the airlines can obtain maximum utilisation of their aircraft, perhaps by using them as night freighters. 
It is no good saying that people knew what was happening when they shifted near the airport. The truth is that the airport was shifted near to them. In many instances the people of whom I speak were residents before the airport was located there. Others are residents of State Housing Commission homes who, because of the desperate shortage of homes in Western Australia, were unable to refuse the offered residence or who, for that matter, cannot find alternative accommodation. So they have until recently suffered in silence. But now they hear that Perth is to become a full international airport with a proposed 70 flights by night a week and at least 22 by day, making an annual 24,000 flights with at least 1.3 million people passing through the terminal each year by 1980. No wonder they consider this adds insult to the injury they have already suffered. Nobody has been honest enough to say to them as yet that aircraft noise will become increasingly worse. All that has been attempted is a public relations effort to try to convince the people that it will not hurt them a bit. I do not agree. 
Only recently 1 read about America's proposed supersonic transport aeroplane costing about $290m which has the trade name 'SST', being developed by Boeing. It is designed to fly faster than sound and will rocket across oceans at 1,800 miles an hour. It has been banned from flying over land. At take-off it will create an earsplitting noise, as loud as 50 jumbo jets taking off. Whether one likes it or not, these are part of the pattern for the future. We are planning an international airport in the middle of a city. We will spend millions of dollars of public money on an impractical site, in complete defiance of Professor Stephenson's overall plan for the City of Perth which shows an airport at Lake Gnangara. I appeal to the Minister to carry out an urgent logical survey to find an alternative site for the proposed international airport. Sites have been suggested other than that suggested by our worthy planner which are adjacent to the coast and which would allow flight patterns to be developed maximising the sea route, as is done in Sydney. We do not even have the opportunity to do this at the moment. The matter should be treated seriously before millions of dollars of Government money are committed to a site which is already causing strong unrest among the public. A public committee of inquiry with a view to establishing the international airport at the new site is needed to take into consideration noise levels and accessibility. Above all, the local shires need to be consulted as do local public organisations. 
I will try to make as many points as possible in the short time that is available to me. I support the amendment. However in doing so I protest on behalf of the sporting bodies, trade unions and associations, such as the Royal Automobile Club, which have been so severely affected by the proposed alteration in the system of postage relating to magazines. Increased charges will range from 100 per cent to 300 per cent. This is an unequal increase when one considers the fact that other postal charges have increased by 20 per cent to 30 per cent. We must bear in mind that the associations affected have also to meet the 20 per cent to 30 per cent increases on their normal mail to members - in sending out notices, accounts, and the like. However, let us consider the magazine field. Australian companies employ many people who rely almost entirely on the publishing of magazines specialising in certain fields. They have created a healthy local industry but with the increased charges the volume of pub lications must decrease. Some publications will no doubt become unprofitable because of the increased postal charges. In many cases it will be cheaper to print overeas and distribute the magazines through the postal services of the country if which the printer is located. This is done already with some overseas journals which require distribution in Australia. Whereas previously only books were sent out of Australia for printing, a flow of magazines out of Australia for printing and postage has now commenced. 
I instance the situation of Australian publications which are published in New Zealand. They can be mailed from New Zealand for 3c whereas it costs 17c if they are printed and distributed in Australia. This is driving business away from Australia and is killing the Australian printing industry. The Postmaster-General's Department will suffer a loss in the volume of its business because unions and other organisations will find it impossible to mail their journals. They will rely on central office distribution and on workshop shop stewards to hand them out. The Australian Bank Officers Association, with a distribution of 34,000 journals, will be faced with a postage charge of $7,210, or an increase of 200 per cent. The Association of Australian Engineers, Surveyors and Draftsmen, with a distribution of 6,000 journals, will have to pay $3,113 in postal charges - an increase of 175 per cent. So it can be seen that this is not a matter that can be taken lightly by these organisations. 
With a quote of 24c for postage of some magazines one wonders whether it will not be a profitable exercise for private courier services in metropolitan areas to effect deliveries of such magazines, for those magazines will cost almost as much to mail as do parcels. Every automobile club, every trade union or association, every religious organisation and every sporting body will be hit with increased postal charges on their information books. We should bear in mind that these bodies are big users of other postal facilities. The growth of these organisations brings further business to the Postmaster-General's Department. Surely it would be logical, and good business practice, to set a reasonable standard charge for their magazines as a business promotional effort. These bodies are constant customers and such a standard charge would help defray their costs. 
No-one has yet convinced the Parliament that the Post Office is handling these publications in the most efficient and cheapest way possible or that it has attempted to effect economies to avoid passing on costs. This is perhaps the pity of the system as it exists and which would no doubt improve if our amendment is carried. This would lead to a reorganisation of the Department. Is the PostmasterGeneral  (Mr Hulme)  not aware that it is often more efficient to employ private parcel deliveries and courier services? Is he not aware that this is cheaper in many instances? Reorganisation of the Post Office is needed urgently. 
Another alarming aspect is that charges for telephone installations will be increased without detailed attention having been given to rebates in such charges to age and invalid pensioners who, because of age and infirmity, find it absolutely necessary to have the telephone facility. Some arrangement should be made between the Postmaster-General's Department and the Department of Social Services whereby this facility can be made more readily available to these people.I received representations from an aged married couple both of whom suffer heart complaints. They sought a waiver of the telephone installation fee. This was not possible and it was only through the generosity of other people that they were able to have the telephone installed. This was a case for urgent attention since the telephone was a vital need from the medical viewpoint. Although one does not expect the Postmaster-General's Department to be a charitable institution, one does expect Government provision to cater for this type of problem. If this is to be a Government department which is, on occasion, subsidised by the taxpayer, one should be entitled to expect service to taxpayers of lifelong standing. 
ThePostmaster-Generalhasmade  wide questioning reference to what the Labor Party wants - to what type of statutory authority would be most desirable - yet he did not offer a solution. Therefore it is obvious that the amendment must be carried to enable a joint select committee to be appointed to conduct the widest possible inquiry and to answer not only the questions posed by the Minister for his guidance but the detailed questions raised by Labor speakers who have been influenced by the public unrest at the increased postal charges. Not only could the committee do that but it could vindicate the employees of the Postmaster-General's Department and satisfy the public that the Department is being properly managed. It could satisfy the employees of the Department that they are receiving the best possible administration in their interests. These people have devoted their lives to this service. They have studied to improve themselves in the interests of the Department and the public. They are entitled to the best possible administration with promotional opportunities in a viable business organisation with a future. I appeal on their behalf to the Government to accede to the request for a joint select committee. Its appointment would enable everybody's questions to be answered and would ensure proper guidelines coming forward for the future of the Department. The operative words in the amendment are: to inquire into the desirability and practicability'. Nothing will be changed until a full and proper inquiry has been conducted. I commend the amendment. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr Crean's amendment)  stand part of the question. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and the Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That due to higher living costs, including increasing charges for health services, most aged persons living on fixed incomes are suffering acute distress. 
Thai Australia is the only English-speaking country in the world to retain a means test for aged pensioners and that a number of European countries also have no means test. 
That today's aged persons have paid at least 71 per cent of their taxable incomes towards social services since the absorption of Special Social Services Taxation in Income Tax and continue to make such payments.  (1$  per cent of all taxable incomes for 1966-67 amounted to $783,082,150 and this year will produce more than $800,000,000, more than sufficient to abolish the means test immediately.) 
That the middle income group, the most heavilytaxed sector of the community, subsidises the tax commitment of the upper income bracket through the amount of social services contributions collected by the government and not spent on the purposes for which they were imposed. 
That the abolition of the means test will give a boost to the economy by - 
additional tax revenue from pensions 
swelling of the work force, and 
increased spending by pensioners. 
That it is considered just and right to allow people who have been frugal, have lived their lives with dignity and have been anything but an encumbrance on the nation, to maintain that dignity to the end of their lives free from fear of penury. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to abolish the means test for all people who have reached retiring age or who otherwise qualify for social service benefits or pensions. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I support the amendment. It is with deep regret that I view these estimates. They do nothing to ease the situation that exists in Western Australia. The Budget has done nothing to ease the parlous situation facing the building industry in my State. It has done nothing to assist the State Housing Commission, the pensioners and others awaiting reasonable rental accommodation or young married couples living in flats who are trying to obtain a home on reasonable deposit and finance at a reasonable interest rate. No emergency relief is offered in the compounding housing crisis which exists in Western Australia. This is a bitter disap pointment. The building industry in Western Australia was hit severely earlier this year when the Government increased interest rates on government bonds, thus bringing about a general increase in interest rates. 
This measure was not introduced at Budget time. It was introduced as a socalled emergency measure and caused immediate hardship to thousands of home buyers throughout Australia. Many home buyers did not realise that they had a rise and fall clause in their mortgage agreements and that they were obliged to pay higher interest rates. One might say that the home purchaser should read and understand the fine print in his agreement. But let us face it, young people who go to a reputable firm, building society or bank do not look at the fine print. Rather, they look for guidance. As a result, very many people - thousands in fact - who could ill afford it were trapped when the increased interest rates on Government bonds put the building societies and others in the position where they had to put the rise and fall clause into operation. This meant that as much as a further 5 years was added to the repayment period of their mortgages. Nothing has been done to relieve this situation. Assurances have not been given that people will not be caught by further increases. This Government should legislate to protect these people. 
The home buyer, who is a most valuable asset to this country, is invariably rearing a young family. This is the person upon whom the future of this country will depend. These people looked to the Budget for relief and assurance but none has been forthcoming. Home costs in Western Australia are unbearable. High land prices, increasing building costs and government inspired increased interest rates on housing and in fact on all institutions serving the community, including local government, have caused prohibitive home repayments. Home buyers also have to bear the added burden of higher home service costs such as municipal rates caused by further interest charges which we charged by bond issues to the various authorities. This is not good enough, and our young people deserve a better start in life. They deserve encouragement from this Government. Some young couples have delayed marriage to save and qualify for the homes savings grant. Some of them, who have been saving for some time, have come to me and complained bitterly that they will now pay far more in interest in their life time because of the increased interest rates than they can ever hope to get from the grant. In fact, they feel as though they have been tricked for they point out that it is hard to obtain a home within the qualifications set down by the requirements to obtain the grant. Because they must wait and save, inflated prices often absorb whatever little grant they may receive. 
There is a housing crisis and this Government should institute a national inquiry into housing needs and associated matters. The Australian Labor Party will carry out such an inquiry when it becomes the government. But why should our young people in these days of plenty suffer because of an acute housing shortage? There is no shortage of materials. This Government has had 20 years to plan for the present population. lt has failed miserably. Let us look at what is being done in Western Australia in the name of the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement. Western Australia, which has a Liberal Government, is the largest State and has the most land available in Australia. People dependent on State Housing Commission homes in Western Australia are being put into flats, or so-called town houses, or as so many aptly call them, 'Coronation Streets'. I do not blame the officers of the State Housing Commission who do a marvellous job with the money made available to them and the instructions given by the Government. These officers, together with every developer in Western Australia, face a lack of services such as sewerage, water, electricity and other public services which are dependent on government allocation, planning and policy. 
The State Housing Commission must build high density developments and people must accept them as their home because no other home is provided for them. The waiting lists date back to 1966. Therefore, in desperation people have to accept accommodation where there are no proper play areas for their children and in some cases laundry facilities must be shared. They have to accept accommodation with the discomfort of only semiprivacy. Gone is the Australian tradition by which every man has a home or his own block of land in which he has a garden and there is the opportunity for his family to play and to grow in dignity. The pity of it is that so many of the people who are forced to accept this accommodation are migrants who have come to this country to escape this type of crowded community development so that their children might have a better future. It is no wonder that some recoil in horror at the idea and refuse this accommodation. They are put again at the bottom of the waiting list. They prefer to suffer the continued hardship rather than accept what they consider is a way of life detrimental to their families. These people had hoped for some plan for reasonable detached self-contained homes to be made available under the Budget. They had hoped that special grants to the States would have been made available for this purpose to keep pace with increasing migration and local population growth. They had hoped for a plan such as that proposed by the Australian Labor Party which would cater for the lower income earner. 
We call on the Government to make grants to the States to enable the construction of houses at the lowest possible interest rates, for sale or rental, with priority to those most in need, in conditions which conform to specified standards of services, amenities and accessibility. We call on the Government to make conditional grants to the States for the reclamation and rehabilitation of depressed areas in accordance with modern town planning, and to make additional special grants to enable States to engage in the forward acquisition of land for State housing projects for development and/ or sale. We call on the Government to make grants to the States for the provision of such community amenities in housing estates, constructed with Commonwealth grants, as the Commonwealth itself provides in housing estates in the Territories. If the Government will not do these things sn urgently needed to give relief in the housing field, a Labor government will do so. 
The Government has made a great show of its 82 for $1 subsidy for the construction of aged persons homes, yet it has avoided its responsibility to the aged by excluding the one authority which has the most experience in the field of housing and which is geared to plan, to construct and to administer - the State Housing Commissions. Because of this, old people in Western Australia have to wait in excess of 5 years for reasonable rental accommodation, and even then it is not supplied to them just because it is available. The aged persons who seek rental accommodation are selected on the urgency of their need. This is disgraceful, lt is no fault of the State housing authority but of governments in the supply of funds and planning. The Government may well say that it has provided for this situation with grants to the States for dwellings for aged pensioners. However this has proved lo be totally inadequate because pensioners are now waiting 5 years or more for accommodation. Fancy a person reaching 6*5 years of age, retiring and then waiting until he is 70 years old to get reasonable accommodation. No wonder so many aged people become depressed and finish up in C class hospitals or rest homes as the only alternative to bleak rooms of a substandard nature. Of course, some will ask: What about the retirement homes scheme? This is all right if a person has the key money, donation, entrance purchase price, whatever we like to call it, but a majority do not have it. As there is not sufficient accommodation available, under this scheme to meet the demand there is again a waiting list and, of course, a selection system to overcome. So the aged person is defeated in respect of this scheme. No matter what accommodation is available it is not sufficient and is too costly for the majority. Urgent relief is required. 
Overall, in any section of the community in Western Australia, there is a housing crisis. A 50 per cent drop has occurred in the number of houses commenced in Western Australia between April and September of this year. I do not deny that the drop in the other Slates has been severe, but it has not been as serious as in Western Australia. The Government of Western Australia claims that it is a boom State, but builders are being forced to dismiss skilled staff. Manufacturers of building materials have put off staff and further retrenchments are expected because large stocks of many materials are on hand. Claims that lower levels of activity are necessary to contain costs are ridiculous. The housing industry faces the same inflationary costs as other sections of the economy. It has not been suggested that other sectors restrict their production. The honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  said that his Government sees a need for a reduction in the provision for housing at times because of economic factors. He claims that the Government must have a stop-go policy to preserve balance. He compared this with the stop-go of a car in heavy traffic. Well, this is caused by bad traffic control just as the stop-go policy on housing is caused by bad Government administration, poor foresight and lack of planning control. The Government has denied previously that it had a stop-go policy and we must bc grateful to receive this admission by the honourable member for Curtin at long last so that the people may make their own decision whether this is the type of government they want. Likewise Government speakers have denied the desirability of adopting the Labor Party's amendment which demands a national inquiry into the nation's housing needs of the future. This is not good enough. Why perpetuate the crisis of the present in the future? The truth is that the Government cannot allow an inquiry for it is obvious it would discredit the Government's lack of proper planning. Its stop-go policy would be exposed in detail. It is incredible to think of anyone voting against low cost housing, lower interest rates, reasonable deposits, a proper provision of homes for all and a stable building industry. To vote against the amendment is to do this. 1 commend the amendment. 
I present the following petition: 
Petition to: The Honourable  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the undersigned citizens of Western Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the recent increase in the interest rate on Government Bonds has cause hardship to the thousands of home buyers throughout this state due to the subsequent increase in interest rates on mortgage contracts by home lending institutions. 
Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will give earnest consideration to this most vital matter and your Petitioners as  in  duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I rise to raise strong objection to the imposition on the road transport industry of the diesel fuel tax. The Diesel Fuel Tax Bill (No. 2) varies the rate of tax to be collected on diesel fuel used in propelling a road vehicle on a public road. This will mean a savage increase in the cost of fuel to people who are the lifeline of our outback. They have been encouraged to purchase diesel units in preference to petrol units on a running cost basis. They now are caught again by the Government's increases after they have been involved in fleet standardisation on diesel, or after the single unit operator has made one major investment in what is in fact his total business based on a unit which is economical to operate compared with petrol driven units. In the situation that is developing, he is to be a tax gathering machine for governments. 
The operators would not complain so strongly but for the fact that they firmly believe - and I agree - that insufficient of these lax revenues are finding their way back to the State governments, whether they be Liberal or Labor. The proof of this lies in Western Australia with its Liberal Government, which has had to resort to the imposition of the road maintenance tax which everyone abhors. Its imposition and the non-payment of it have led to several gaolings of truck owners, not only Western Australians but also of people from other States, simply because these States are not getting back sufficient tax moneys. Because they are not getting sufficient money they find other devious means to raise money for road maintenance. How this road maintenance tax spent on Western Australian roads can help the interstate driver after he has incurred the costs of repairs and unit depreciation, after his unit has broken down on that national disgrace, the unsealed section of the Eyre Highway, the one and only road link between east and west which he must traverse, and for which the Government has refused to give a special grant for sealing, is beyond comprehension. 
So with tongue in cheek this Government foists yet another imposition on an industry which must be one of the most heavily taxed in Australia, and that is really saying something. The owners pay the Government's heavy sales tax when they purchase their unit. This is followed up with sales tax on subsequent spare parts, tyres, etc. Now they must pay heavier tax on fuel, plus road maintenance tax; then they must pay for permits to move a load. If they are not bankrupt because of higher interest rates on their unit repayments, again Government inspired, they will go on to pay income tax or provisional tax on their expected earnings. 
How about coming down to earth with these taxes and prevent the high costs to our community that must be passed on, causing inflation to spiral, because this is a service industry and no doubt it passes on each and every cost if it can. This Government is one of the greatest creators of inflation, with its never ending increases to the tax spiral costs which must be paid by someone. Perhaps the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  will assure the House that this increased revenue will go back in full to the States for road maintenance and will not add to the S800m Treasury surplus alleged earlier in the debate so that State Ministers, in particular the responsible Western Australian Minister, will stop gaoling businessmen in the form of truck owners who happen to have a bad run and cannot pay the fines imposed by the special courts appointed to deal out this so-called justice. Some 2,600 charges have been issued in Western Australia alone this year. It is no wonder that out of the 200 bankrupt people listed in Western Australia this year, 41 are truck owners. Other men are waiting to go to gaol because they just cannot pay the $1 for % fines and costs accruing from the imposition of a Government tax which should not exist and which exists only because enough money is not granted to the States to maintain their road systems. 
I ask that in granting this money to the States the Minister discuss with the appropriate State Minister a reformation of the overall tax systems which are killing the transport industry. If the Commonwealth Government will not grant sufficient money to the States to do away with the road maintenance tax, I ask the Minister to consider seriously making sufficient moneys available to allow a total reformation of the road maintenance tax system. The State Opposition has pledged to abolish the tax in Western Australia so no doubt the Federal Government will have to face up to this matter after the next election. Interstate operators should be able to go to Western Australia without the fear of being gaoled, losing their trucks, their incomes, their good name for the future. This danger does exist primarily because the State imposes the other tax I have mentioned and because it does not receive back sufficient from the Federal Government. 
If the Government is to put yet another charge on transport operators in the form of increased taxes, it must endeavour to allow them to survive in business, to continue to purchase fuel and serve the country. The honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  has asked the Government to waive the tax increase where there is no alternative transport. I would support him and ask the Minister to review the charges in developing areas such as the north west. I hope that the honourable member for the Northern Territory will obtain some support from his fellow party members to assist us of the Labor Party to defeat the Bill and thus enforce a review. I will be most interested in the Minister's reply. 
1 present the following petition: 
The Honourable  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Western Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the recent increase in the interest rate on Government Bonds has caused hardship to the thousands of home buyers throughout this state due to the subsequent increase in interest rates on mortgage contracts by home tending institutions. 
Your, petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will give earnest consideration to this most vital matter and your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Immigration been drawn to an article in the 'Australian' on Tuesday, 13 th October, written by  Mr Peter  Ryan, in which he claims that  Mr J.  R. Wilson, who has been appointed by the Minister to head the inquiry into the costs and benefits of immigration, has prejudged the inquiry already by stating that he is in favour of immigration? Is the Minister aware of the growing feeling in many quarters, based on this report, that a person who has expressed such a view is not the best person to head such an inquiry? 
I rise to support the Bill, particularly where it applies to Chamberlain Industries Pty Ltd at Welshpool in Western Australia. This company which, in the main, is an efficient one with modern thinking in personnel and administration training in management methods and production techniques is indeed severely affected by the current market prices in the agricultural tractor field caused mainly by the recession in the agricultural industry, and, of course, the lower priced imports now available to the farmer from overseas, including tractors manufactured in mainland China or, as it is better known, Communist China, Czechoslovakia and other European and Asiatic countries such as Japan. The overall result has been to make the tractor industry a disaster area. For example, let us look at the effect on the work force of Chamberlains, which had on its staff at the commencement of last year some 1,650 persons. Reluctantly it has had to reduce this number to 800 employees or below half and it is still in trouble, having incurred a loss of some $ 10m in sales to the farming community in the last year. In effect $10m worth of farming equipment did not enter the agricultural industry last year in Western Australia and Australia generally. 
Chamberlain has not been idle in trying to avoid the disaster. It has attempted to diversify into the industrial equipment field for both the local and export market but these industrial sales were only able to reach some $2m for last year. In reality, even though this sales field is slowly growing it is only minute and cannot keep up with the falling sales in the farming sector as the farming community falls under economic pressure. Unless improvement can be effected in the buoyancy of the market in the agricultural field the manufacture of agricultural implements and machinery in Western Australia will collapse, for what company can continue in the face of a loss in the vicinity of $700,000 in one year? This is the loss which was suffered last year by Chamberlains, a company which has done all that is possible to be modern in production and management techniques and to diversify its products to meet demands and to participate in overseas exports. The loss of this company to Western Australia would be a disaster, not to mention the skilled workers who have been thrown out of employment and the trained personnel in the tractor industry who have been forced to find employment elsewhere. This is a personal disaster to the persons affected and to the company itself. This industry is fighting for its very survival 
Whilst commending the Bill one wonders if this is a sufficient answer to the problems, taking into consideration the situation facing its primary market, the farming community. The industry itself appreciates the problems and believes that this bounty is as much as it can expect in the circumstances. 
However, the real answer to its problems is an improvement in its market prospects which will only be- brought about by a recovery in the farming community. Whilst admitting that there is a serious price disparity between the imported tractor and the Australian product, they are both fighting for a diminishing market to the serious disadvantage of the Australian industry.' It is only logical that with the diminution of their volume of production they lose the economies associated with volume production. Thus with all this facing it it is not hard to understand why Chamberlains has had to surrender its wholly Australian identity and allow a 49 per cent takeover of shares of this pioneer Australian company by yet another American firm which to do this has surrendered its own individual assembly in Australia. One wonders whether we will continue to see the production of a purely Australian product or -some form df hybrid imported product which will have all the associated problems of profits going overseas - with the overseas exchange bill being yet further burdened with this situation of paying for what was in the main a purely Australian product. So in effect a major section of this industry has been lost to Australia. 
One cannot blame the management of the firm for it has done a tremendous job in an effort to bring about the survival of the industry. Whilst the Bill brings help it brings help too late to avoid the laying off of half the staff of Chamberlains, too late to avoid a $10m sales loss, too late to avoid a $700,000 loss to Chamberlains, too late to avoid the loss of Australian identity with a proud pioneer Australian tractor firm. We note the Government will review the situation before the 1971-72 Budget to determine the effect of this assistance and, if necessary, adjust the rate of payment. We must ask that this matter does not take the course of some Budget promises and be forgotten or procrastinated so that a complete overseas takeover of this firm takes place. 
It can be seen that by operating at premises registered for the purposes of this Bill to attract the bouncy from 1st July 1970, which is based on sales only and not now on .production, it could be an attraction to the American company to take steps to utilise this venue as a sales outlet of an assembled-only unit. No doubt the Minister will take steps to ensure that in future reviews of bounty and tariff every encouragement will be given to ensure Australian content of the units so that the subsidiary contracting supply companies in the secondary industry field will have their markets protected,, because in the main these are wholly Australian firms which have grown with this industry and their survival is as important as the survival of the total agricultural implement industry. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition pf the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That they are gravely concerned at the apparent appalling increase in crime in Australia, particularly in densely populated areas; 
That they fear the police forces of the various Slates and Territories are undermanned and underequipped t to handle the increase in crime; 
That their concern is aggravated by the apparent number of unsolved crimes particularly those involving violence to the individual including murder, 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the honourable members of the House of Representatives will seek to ensure that the Commonwealth Government will seek the co-operation of the States and supply extra finance to the Slates to enable; 
proper town planning and development to halt the increase in densely populated areas which leads to increased crime, 
the proper staffing and equipping of police forces to enable adequate crime prevention and detection measures to reduce the frightening increase of both solved and unsolved crime, 
the proper detention of and rehabilitation of criminals, and 
compensation to victims of crimes of violence, and your petitionere as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
4 ask the .Prime Minister whether the Government will commission a detailed ecological study of Cockburn Sound prior to the construction of the causeway between the mainland and Garden Island. Surely the Prime Minister will agree that it is a fact that such a course will prevent any likely pollution of the Sound with its resulting deleterious effect on marine life? Further will he investigate proposals to have all Garden Island declared a prohibited area to the public and investigate its adverse effect on the availability on public open space as well as the proposed eviction of some 60 holiday home owners on the Island without compensation due to the establishment of the naval base? 
I wish to take this opportunity to draw attention to the situation that has arisen with respect to pensioners in Western Australia who have received, as have all other Australian pensioners, an increase of a paltry 50c per week only, in their pensions. The situation that they face is that the State basic wage in Western Australia has been increased by $2 per week for males and $1.52 for females. The maximum basic wage now payable to males totals $38.45 per week against the minimum pension payable to married couples of a paltry $27.50 per week. A female earning the basic wage in Western Australia receives $26.40 per week. There is a difference of only 90c between that amount and what is received by a married pensioner couple. As some magical solution to the problem, the Government must believe that 2 can live as cheaply as 1 woman - that is, not a man and a woman. 
It is incredible that pensioners do not receive a pension equivalent to the male basic wage. Even that wage has been recognised by the Industrial Commission of Western Australia as being totally inadequate as a living wage for it has arrived at the amount of $49 per week as being the minimum wage payable. This represents an increase of $6.60 per week which has been granted since pensioners received their paltry increase of 50c per week. In addition to this, the Industrial Commission of Western Australia has agreed that it will grant an additional 10 per cent increase to the wages of those who are not receiving an over award payment. The poor pensioner has not received even a 10 per cent increase on his paltry pension. Without doubt the trade union movement would and will say that their increases do not give a complete answer to their membership. It is no wonder that the members of the movement are in deep sympathy with the struggling parents, aunts, uncles who are in fact the pensioners of today for without doubt they wonder how they themselves will manage when their turn comes to be pensioners. I can only request the Government to give urgent attention to this matter with a view to amending its thoughts and take action to increase the pensions to a reasonable level. It is far past the time when pensions ceased to be a political football, being increased only when an election is pending. 
These pensions are a right, not a charity or a political handout. Let members of Parliament try even to feed themselves with the amounts paid to pensioners let alone try to maintain themselves, for we do not even delude ourselves that these pensions are sufficient amounts on which to live. We pay for and make arrangements for a parliamentary pension with substantial payments from our salary but not all Australians are so fortunate. I ask the Parliament to forget the political advantage of the present system and to find a quick and genuine solution to the plight of the pensioners because they are the ones who have to bear every sales tax increase put on by this Government Every community cost increase caused by wage and other rises and by inflation generally is reflected in pensioners' living costs. Very often when they receive concessions they are treated as second class citizens by the parties granting them and are not treated as equals for the purpose of the concessions. The concessions are made available only during off hours or seasons. A prime example of this is to be found in the Commonwealth Railways, which does not make available during school holidays concessions for interstate travel - I quote this only as an example- or so it is alleged by pensioners who attempt to travel at these times. It is indeed unfortunate if they have a young family of school age and they wish to travel interstate with them. This is not impossible for such instances do arise in the case of mature marriages or in cases of grandparents looking after young families. Why should people be placed at any disadvantage just because of age? They should receive these things as a due and proper right for which they have paid taxes all of their lives. In many cases, or even in the majority of cases, they have served their country in the armed forces and been prepared to make the supreme sacrifice on behalf of it. Let us give them the proper recognition which is due to them. 
Take the case of the pensioner with a younger wife who has' not reached pensionable age. Their problem may be solved if she is able to work - having regard to the problems of the means test. But if she is not well enough to work - and 1 do not feel that she should have to work - she will not get the invalid pension unless she is 85 per cent incapacitated. One hopes that room will be found for such persons in the sickness benefit pensions in the future, or that some provision will be made to allow a pensioner to obtain a minimum payment as a married man to enable him to maintain a wife, just as the arbitration courts provide for a married man with a wife when considering his minimum wage. Why should an elderly man of pensionable age be forced to continue to work just because he wishes to support a younger wife? This situation arises more often than we would imagine. 
The inequalities of the means test system affect not only the civilian pensioner but also the Service pensioner. It is far past the time that this aspect was genuinely looked at by this Parliament. All honourable members must be made aware of the individual irregularities which arise under the present system. In fact, if a person pays his way in a superannuation scheme and also pays social service taxes he will be adversely affected by the application of the means test whether he be a civilian pensioner or a Service pensioner. A recent example of this was a Service pensioner on $28.18 a fortnight.  His  pension was reduced to $27.78 per fortnight because he had an increase of 70c - a paltry 70c - in his superannuation payment. This came about because he made provision for himself over the years by paying money out of his own pocket. He has now been deprived of a portion of his Service pension. If he has a war disability pension, which, as I understand it, is given to him to compensate for some disability which he incurred in the service of his country, he is affected by the means test when he retires because his war disability pension is taken to be part of his total income. This is a shabby situation indeed. It is about time that this pension was continued as a separate item altogether, not affected by the means test. 
This Act which was formulated, I believe, in 1917 should be completely reviewed in its total concept. The funeral allowance was last increased in 1950 to $50. This is totally inadequate to allow for the burial of a person with the dignity befitting one who has served his country. The constant problems confronting some ex-servicemen in respect of repatriation and pharmaceutical benefits cry out for a review. We should find an early solution to these problems so that the majority of persons who are affected will be assisted in their old age. It is imperative that these matters should be resolved before they become political, footballs too, to be kicked around only at election times. That is, of course, if this has not already happened. 
We in Western Australia have become concerned at the present plight of the pensioner who needs the care of a nursing home but who does not attract the $5 a day intensive care provision. These people are being asked to leave some of the private homes if they do not have assistance from their families because they cannot afford to meet the costs when the only income is the pension. Other persons are more fortunate in that they are being supported in denominational homes which are endeavouring to carry them, but this is not practicable for any length of time because the denominational centres are rapidly feeling the increased costs within the community which are being passed on to them. They are having serious difficulties in continuing to exist and maintain these people who have only the pension as income and who they wish, because of their compassion, to maintain in these homes. I sincerely ask the Minister to look into this aspect of maintaining these aged people. 
I rise to bring to the attention of the House a situation which exists due to the ease with which overseas nationals may enter into matrimony in Australia. The incident I will refer to concerns an American national who allegedly bigamously married a young lady in my electorate. The ceremony was performed at the Perth Registry Office in September 1969. The American stated by oral declaration, supported by the production of a telegram purported to be sent from his mother, that he was divorced. Subsequent information came to hand that he was still married at the time of the purported marriage. He subsequently left Australia with his legal famly, returning to the United States of America. Whilst he was in Australia his 4 children were under the care of the Child Welfare Department. So government departments had some knowledge of him and of his circumstances. On discovering the true situation the young lady immediately- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! It being 12 o'clock midnight, the House stands adjourned until 10.30 a.m. today. 
House adjourned at 12 midnight. 
I rise to draw attention to some aspects that have been raised by people connected with the aircraft industry. The Second Schedule allows for the reclassification of aircraft to the lower classification where the aircraft engages in operations appropriate to the lower classification. An opportunity is seen here foi the part-time operator, the person who wishes to utilise what is fundamentally a private aircraft at only the peak seasons of charter operation. 
The people in the industry fear that this Bill is the commencement of acceptance of this glut, of casual operators to the detriment of operators in the light charter industry, particularly those who have established themselves in smaller country centres where they are dependent for their overall stability upon the seasonal peaks of operation. They fear that it is being made more attractive for other operators to compete for a few weeks only and that this could lead to a situation with which they cannot compete. However, they appreciate that this could act in their favour on many occasions. It is their wish that a close watch be kept on this aspect to ensure that it does not lead to disruption of the industry. 
However, let us look at the overall effects on Western Australia of the charges to be applied by this Bill. We who feel that we are more dependent than any other State on air transport by reason of remoteness, have to bear an increase of $9 on the first class fare from Perth to Melbourne, increasing that fare from $108 to $117. Not only do we depend on air travel, but in reaching our eastern neighbours and they us, fares computed on the same standards as apply in other States are a major barrier. One would think that some system of fare concession would be arrived at and that remissions of government charges, such a*s those which will be increased by this Bill, would be made to airlines operating into Perth to encourage them to develop air transport at a more reasonable cost and at a more reasonable hour. 
This has not happened. We have suffered constant air freight increases, the last being from 30c per lb to 34c per lb from Perth to Melbourne. These navigation and other charges are passed on to the public by way of fares and costs of commodities. We would not object so strongly if the collected fees were directed to our advantage, that is, to pay for the removal of public nuisance No. 1 in Perth, the Perth Airport which is making a fortune for airline operators by being open at night to allow them to operate their fleets at night. If Perth Airport were not open they would not have anywhere else to go. 
One suspects that the figures on projected movements for the next 5 years given to the honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson)  by the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  may not be absolutely correct. The growth of air freight and the discovery by airlines that, by the removal of seats from passenger aircraft, the aircraft, can be utilised as night freighters to Perth, no doubt has been one of the major contributing factors to the remarkable increase in night flights to 50 per cent of all nights into Perth. Without doubt all future charter flights for passengers will operate at night when the aircraft would otherwise be redundant. An example of this is the number of national service flights at night which are, of course, Government sponsored. The same is obviously the answer for freighters. The Government must legislate against this and introduce a curfew, for what a golden opportunity night flights are for the airline companies. As freight operations increase with increased air freights, the companies, which cannot operate at night elsewhere, can send their aircraft overnight to Perth providing only the minimum possible daylight flights. If they are to suffer constant increases in charges, such as those imposed by the Government in this Bill, this will encourage them to seek a higher return from their equipment with a higher turnaround and use of aircraft. 
The Government could help, if it is not prepared to introduce a night curfew as it has been asked to do by public petition and in this Parliament, by offering to operators concessions in charges based on minimising the number of night nights. It could help by directly introducing a night curfew. In the changing and evolving pattern of aircraft one wonders where it will finish. No matter what charges are imposed, and no matter what is spent on the present airport site in Perth, it is only a matter of time before the senseless siting of the airport where it is in the middle of a growing capital city becomes a major catastrophe. It is already planned to extend the present landing strip. The 7,100 foot north east to south west runway is pointed at the heart of Bayswater and Bassendean and its use will completely destroy the peaceful life of those unfortunate people in its path. No doubt the new navigational aids that are required will result in further charges to the companies and will develop a situation in Perth similar to that described in the 'Doomsday Book' by Gordon Rattray Taylor where continuous aircraft noise will be a permanent part of the urban and suburban environment throughout most of Britain by 1983. That situation will exist in Perth if governments are allowed to continue blithely on the path they are taking. It is imperative that they realise that cities are for people and for living, not for aircraft. 
Surely the warnings that the smoke trails of the 3,000 supersonic jet liners planned for the 1990s will result in the Atlantic and much of North America and Europe being permanently under pollution cloud cover is sufficient to stir our planners in the Department of Civil Aviation to bring forward proper planning for the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton).  Why should anyone imagine that the situation in Australia will be different? Now is the time to act before noise pollution, which is now barely tolerable, becomes a nightmare and before Perth becomes like the districts adjacent to London's Heathrow Airport where houses and property are virtually economically unsaleable and where residents remain indoors behind soundproofed walls and windows even on the finest summer days because of the mind-destroying battery of the jets. .In London people living not only near the airport but also 20 miles and more away suffer from noise pollution. Jets waiting to land stack up over the resi dential areas of London and circle until it is their turn to land. This is happening in many cities of the world. Let the lessons of history prevent it happening in Perth. It is past time when fast transport for a comparatively few members of the population should override the intererests of the majority. Compensation must be paid urgently to landowners who are affected. The Commonwealth Government must accept its responsibility for the soundproofing of institutions and homes presently affected. It must realise that the only real solution is the removal of the airport. 
It is logical to hope that the revenue derived from the proposed increased charges will be devoted to examining these matters. If the airlines had to pay for the proposed 10-year expansion plan at Perth and if they had to pay compensation for the nuisance they create, we would not be faced with this nuisance. Not only do we have to put up with the pollution they cause but the taxpayers have to subsidise the airlines through the annual Budget allocation from taxation to the Department of Civil Aviation for the support of airports to the extent of a loss of $54m. Yet we in Western Australia get no concessions to alleviate the situation. 
-I regret the lateness of the hour and I will be as brief as I possibly can. I rise to speak only because  I  did not finish last night.  I  wish to bring to the attention of the House the situation which exists due to the ease with which overseas nationals may enter into matrimony in Australia. The incident to which I will refer concerns an American national who allegedly bigamously married a young lady in my electorate. The ceremony was performed in the Perth Registry in September  1969.  The American stated by oral declaration - a telegram, presumably from his mother, having been produced - that he was divorced. Subsequently information came to hand that in fact he was still married at the time of the purported marriage. He subsequently left Australia with bis legal family and returned to the United States of America. While he was in Australia his  4  children were under the care of the Child Welfare Department; so government departments had some knowledge of him. 
Of course, on discovery of the true situation the young lady immediately took steps to endeavour to establish her legal situation - married or unmarried. She reported the matter to the Commonwealth police. This young lady, who allegedly had been married without the responsible authorities checking to see whether her husband was reasonably free to marry, had to tolerate 6 weeks of his company. She finally left because of cruelty, medical evidence of which is held by her solicitors. However, the point is that since that data an extreme situation, in dissolving a marriage which exists in law but does not exist in fact, has arisen. It would be a comedy if it were not so tragic. Even though it was alleged that the United States Consulate had some evidence that bigamy had been committed, because it was bound to protect a United States national negotiations had been going on since early this year. A solution was found only this week. However, if the information had not been available in Australia, as was the case until this week, the young lady would have had to wait until the statutory time for divorce elapsed and to face then the prospect of going through the form of dissolving something that in fact did not exist, at considerable expense, mental distress and loss of time in which she might remarry, as this young lady wishes to do. 
It is all right to say that she could get her information from the United States but this is extremely difficult and again expensive, with no guarantee of results. Therefore it is imperative that steps be taken to ensure a better standard of checking a person's marriage credentials from overseas and that a better investigation system is evolved by our authorities when matters such as this are reported. It is not good enough to depend on the goodwill of the officials of the country of the national who has been reported.  I  am thankful in this case for the co-operation of the United States officials but they should not have to cover up and solve the problems raised by the looseness of our system. Even though the matter was reported to all appropriate authorities, including the Registrar, the Commonwealth Police and the Commonwealth Attorney-General's Department, the final solution came from the representatives of another country after  10  months of mental anguish to this young lady and her family. I ask the responsible authorities to take steps to ensure the revision of the system which allows this situation. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
House adjourned at 1.47 a.m. (Friday) 
I rise to express the concern- 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That there is a crisis in Aboriginal Welfare in the South West Land Division of Western Australia resulting from a population explosion, poor bousing and hygiene and unemployment and unemployability. 
That there is a need to phase out Native Reserves in the South West Land Division of Western Australia over die next three years. 
That town housing must be provided for all Aboriginal families where the bread winner has permanent employment or an age or invalid pension entitlement. 
That such housing must be supported by the appointment of permanent 'Home-maker' assistance in the ratio of one home-maker to every eight houses or part thereof. 
That incentives of housing, 'home-maker' services and training facilities must be created in centres of potential employment for those who are currently unemployed or unemployable. 
That insufficient State or Federal assistance has been made available to meet these requirements. 
That adequate finance to meet these requirements can only be provided by the Commonwealth Government. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will give earnest consideration to this most vital matter. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That they are gravely concerned at the apparent appalling increase in crime in Australia, particularly in densely populated areas; 
That they fear the police forces of the various States and Territories are undermanned and underequipped to handle the increase in crime; 
That their concern is aggravated by the apparent number of unsolved crimes particularly those involving violence to the individual including murder, 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Honourable Members of the House of Representatives will seek to ensure that the. Commonwealth Government will seek the co-operation of the States and supply extra finance to the States to enable; 
proper town planning and development to halt the increase in densely populated areas which leads to increased crime, 
the proper staffing and equipping of police forces to enable adequate crime prevention and detection measures to reduce the frightening increase of both solved and unsolved crime, 
the proper detention of and rehabilitation of criminals, and 
compensation to victims of crimes of violence, and your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I rise on this occasion to draw attention to the public interest, regarding the effects of the proposed causeway to Garden Island, which is gathering momentum. I feel that the House should be made aware of these matters. Many people believe that a bridge would be more in the interests of the community and conservation generally. Many calls for a referendum have been made by responsible authorities as to the advisability of establishing the base. Alternate sites being suggested are the north west Cape or that general area because it is thought that having a naval base within the bounds qf the metropolitan area is an unnecessary invitation to treat the city area as a nuclear target in time of war. 
No-one has suggested that Western Australia should not have a naval base, but thoughts are centred on an investigation to arrive at the best possible site in relation to the effect that such a site would have on the welfare of the community in time of war rather than to select a site to meet the convenience of the Navy. The protection of public recreation areas and matters of conservation in respect of the environs of Perth are other points being considered. With these factors in mind, proposals have been made to hold a symposium of experts in this field in Perth to ensure that all aspects of the matter are investigated and that the public is informed fully. This meeting preferable would be followed by a referendum of the people, for this is a matter in which the various experts are divided in their opinions. People in Western Australia who are conscious of their need for defence also are aware of the need to ensure the preservation of public amenities such as holiday resorts like Garden Island wherever possible. This has led to the thought that the Commonwealth should establish a Cockburn Sound commission to assume overall responsibility for environmental management of Cockburn Sound. 
I feel that, at this juncture, the Government needs to look at the questions raised by public demand with a view to reaching a solution acceptable to experts, conservationists, shire councils and the general public, and which fits into the defence needs so urgently in need of revision in Western Australia, and so long awaited. It would be regrettable, after deferring the naval base for so many years, to go forward with a system of construction or with a site which could be bettered or adjusted in some way. I raise this request for the Government to consider and act upon, because of the pub lic pressure I have received, for most people are aware that I and other Labor Party members from Western Australia have supported the cry for a naval base in Western Australia. In fact I mentioned it in my maiden speech in this House yet I can see the logic of the proposals put forward by the public and I agree that they should be acted upon. However, to support my concern for matters raised by the public, I read in the report that the Committee members themselves took cognizance of conflicting evidence presented to the Committee by experts. A motion was moved to the effect that unless the Government is able to convince the Parliament that the work is urgent, further investigations should be carried out to ensure that impairment of the Cockburn Sound environment will occur. No doubt the Committee had in mind that the work will not be completed until 1975. Although the motion was defeated, it is regrettable that it was not adopted or rephrased to set a time limit on the investigations and still permit a programme of development to continue. We would all agree that compromise and agreement are far better than absolute rejection. However, the result will be that experts will continue to argue, the public will remain unsure of the decision and, if there is any substance in the basis of the experts' disagreement, we could &amp;e responsible for the loss to Australia of some of our national heritage of flora and fauna and could set off a disadvantageous reaction in the marine life of Cockburn Sound and its surrounds - all for the wain of a patient expert investigation of the proposals or of a symposium of experts to decide whether the matter can be sufficiently investigated and explained to satisfy a majority of those who have expressed doubt about the suitability of the present concept of the overall development. No doubt even with the legislation being implemeted these investigations could still take place in the interests of the community. 
Another aspect which has concerned many people, even to the level of State parliamentary members, is that the report deals with the completion of the causeway in 1973 but gives no assurance of a programme to complete the naval facility. It has been commented that this is only establishing the basis for a base. Say what we will, it does not give any semblance of providing for the commencement of the base until June 1973. This project could fall victim to similar defence delays as have been experienced in our air defence system. Some alarm has been expressed that the project may be abandoned after ecological damage has been done. I believe that the suggestion for the establishment of a Cockburn Sound commission to take over the responsibility of environmental management of Cockburn Sound is worth while and should be adopted. The State Government has responded to public pressure and has established a Ministry for Conservation, but no doubt it will be some time before it commences to function successfully. The Ministry will be enabled to look at matters, such as those proposed by the public and the Press. ( refer honourable members to an editorial in the 'West Australian' of 19th October 1970. Strangely enough, for once I agree with the local Press. The editorial headed *A New Beach?', reads: 
The Commonwealth should be anxious to cooperate with the State Government in making possible conversion of the foreshore between Coogee and Woodman Point for recreation and use by tourists. 
If the 2 governments could reach agreement there would be unrestricted access to an attractive part of the foreshore now largely denied to the public, thus providing some compensation for the demands of industry, commerce and defence on Cockburn Sound. 
The first move is for the Stale to find another site for the Mines Department's explosives depot, which occupies 280 acres and cordons off a long section of the beach. If that were done, the Commonwealth would have no excuse for retaining its 280 acres at the southern end of the strip. With the growth of international air traffic it can scarcely bc necessary to hold a waterfront site for a quarantine station that has an average turnover of fewer than 25 people a year. 
Canberra's obligation to fall in with the State's idea is increased by the possibility that construction of a naval base would result in exclusion of the public from Garden Island. The question of removing obstacles to mainland development is nol confined to the sound. North of Fremantle the rifle range will remain a barrier to the foreshore realignment of West Coast-highway as long as the Army refuses to do its shooting elsewhere. 
So it can be seen that there are problems, that there is a need to look at the development in depth and to take into consideration the doubts of the public and experts. To this end the energies and thoughts of experts should be further directed in investigations which would include an ecological survey. 
Regarding the question ot holiday homes or 'squatters', as they were referred to by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  in a reply to a question on this matter, many of the 60 people involved hold responsible positions, one, I understand, being a Minister in the State Government. They are entitled to some consideration. Perhaps in the overall plan of development, these holiday homes could be integrated and allowed to remain in an area reserved for this purpose, or perhaps they could be gradually phased out over future years. We must bear in mind that the actual establishment of the base installations is vague at this point of time, and what I have suggested would be a more reasonable approach. Many people have planned to retire to the island and have established substantial residences and invested large sums there. T ask that every possible consideration be given to these people. 
In conclusion I shall quote an expert who gave evidence before the Committee and who supports the establishment of the base. The expert is  Mr Peter  Waterman, for whom I have the highest personal regard. I quote from an article written by him on environmental surveys in relation to the natural environment. In the article he states: 
Once the natural environment has been modified it is impossible to reverse the process. Things cannot be put back where they were and mistakes corrected. 
With this in mind, it can be seen that before any environmental modification can take place there must be a survey or stock-take nf the environment to see: 
What is there. 
What natural processes are actively changing that environment. 
What will be the effect of interrupting the natural process.  1 think that is an extension of the evidence that he gave to the Committee. It is evident from all that has been presented that attention must be given to those matters that have been brought forward by the local Western Australian public and to Press opinions. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation whether, in view of the announced intention of the Department of Civil Aviation to resume large areas at Newburn in Western Australia to extend Perth Airport, he will indicate at what date property owners will be compensated for their properties and at what values? Will the Belmont Shire Council be paid compensation annually for loss of rates from these properties, and on what basis will the compensation be made - on the existing value ot the properties or the potential value based on the value of properties in adjacent areas? 
I wish to use this opportunity to raise a matter of some urgency to individuals, lt concerns a young lad, Private Trevor Simpson of Western Australia, who is undergoing national service. As I understand it, he is soon to be advised of a date for departure to Vietnam. This is not unusual in itself as many parents throughout Australia are having to stiller the anguish of a departing son and are wondering whether he will ever return. These fit young men, the pride of all who know them, go where this Government sends them hoping, of course, to return. However. Trevor Simpson is not fit in the full sense of being able to say that he has had a normal life. Since childhood he has been forced to wear around his neck a tag indicating that he is allergic to penicillin, sulpha drugs and other antibiotic drugs. While he was a child his mother, along with the rest of his family, suffered the anguish of worrying whether he would be able to leave hospital to lead a normal life after suffering the adverse effects of one of these drugs. Fortunately, with medical care and the close attachment of his family he has been reared to young manhood only to be conscripted in this time of peace to lie sent overseas.  His  allergy is a constant danger to him. He is constantly afraid that some error in medical advice or treatment will be made in an emergency and he will receive a drug which is dangerous to him. 
On his behalf I appealed to the Army, to the Minister for the Army  (Mr Peacock),  but what has happened? The Army investigations revealed that adequate medical facilities, including other antibiotic drugs, were available. What a ludicrous situation. This young soldier is going to a foreign land to fight in a foreign war, and some bureaucrat assures us that in all circumstances he will be safe. Did the authorities consider the question of emergency conditions, such as this young soldier losing his tag which tells the world of his allergy? If he were injured it is not improbable that his tag would become lost. Did the authorities check to see whether the Vietcong had sufficient supplies of other drugs, if this young soldier were to fall into their hands? ls he to be supplied with a tag covering all possible language problems that might arise? Of course not. With callous disregard the authorities replied to the effect that he will go away, anyway. He will be a worry to his comrades and to his commanding officer who has to accept the added responsibility if anything happens to this young man. 
May the people responsible for this decision realise the gravity of their action. 1 am led to believe that if this young man had suffered from tinia, severe acne, dermatitis, asthma or any other allergic condition he would not be sent away. Is it any wonder that his mother, who has not enjoyed a healthy life, became further depressed and distraught, finally causing her doctor to recommend the return of her son to Western Australia. But what did the Army say? lt said there was 'not sufficient hardship'. This is an appalling state of affairs, lt makes me wonder how many cases involving people in similar circumstances have not been reported. How many casualties have suffered further because of Army disregard? This is case of which the Army is aware before anything happens, but all the indications to date have been ignored, as has the commonsense approach of posting this lad to his home State or, for that matter, of discharging him. It is bad enough for the Army to interfere with the best years of this young man's life and to cause anxiety to his mother and family, but to deliberately rua the risk of placing his life in further medical danger is callous and inexcusable. 
Will the Minister give an- assurance that this soldier will not be placed in any position where he will have difficulty in receiving medical aid? We all still have in our memories the tragic circumstances concerning the South Australian lad who had difficulties with his eyesight and who was killed in action. Let this not be another case. However, ( fail to understand the need for the Services' desire to induct people with these difficulties. I wonder whether they would accept these people in a volunteer army or whether in fact they would choose them in preference to people who had no allergy. 1 doubt it. This leaves one with the opinion that these young people who are being called upon to undergo national service are inducted no matter what. 
I regret having to raise this matter in this way, but I am concerned that this young soldier, or others like him who have similar allergies, could have their lives unnecessarily jeopardised. If the Government must conscript our young nien, at least make sure that their medical conditions will not react if in an emergency they receive treatment in the form of a drug to which they are allergic. I am sure that not all the opposing armies would be able to provide the proper treatment for our young men, should their medics be the only ones available. I ask the Minister to have another look at Private Simpson's case and to take a long considered look at Army practice in these matters. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Humble Petition of the undersigned residents of the Stale of Western Australia respectfully showeth: 
THAT the present site of the Penh Airport is unsuitable because of - 
the morning fogs 
its proximity to the Darling Ranges 
ils lack of planning, prior to construction 
the loss to the local authority in rates and loss to the community in acreage of development area and assets (el the restriction placed on the development of surrounding shires due to existing flight paths and proposed flight paths; and 
Ihe adjacent areas lo the airport are suffering loss of value due lo their unsuitability for high density development. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that action be taken to remove Penh airport from ils present site 10 the site planned by Professor Stephenson's overall plan for the city of Perth, that is at Lake Gnanggarra 
And your Petitioners, as in duly bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned residents of the State of Western Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the present site of the Perth airport is unsuitable because of - 
the morning fogs; 
its proximity to the Darling Ranges; 
its lack of planning, prior to construction; 
the loss to the local authority in rates and loss to the community in acreage of development area and assets; 
the restriction placed on the development of surrounding shires due to existing flight paths and proposed flight paths; and 
the adjacent areas to the airport are suffering loss of value due to their unsuitability for high density development. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that action be taken to remove Perth airport from its present site to the site planned by Professor Stephenson's overall plan for the City of Perth, that is at Lake Gnangarra. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  arid Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That there is a crisis in Aboriginal welfare in the South West Land Division of Western Australia resulting from a population explosion, poor housing and hygiene and unemployment and unemployability. 
That there is a need to phase out native reserves in the South West Land Division of Western Australia over the next 3 years. 
That town housing must be provided for all Aboriginal families where the bread winner has permanent employment or an age or invalid pension entitlement. 
That such housing must be supported by the appointment of permanent 'home-maker' assistance in the ratio of one home-maker to every 8 houses or part thereof. 
That incentives of housing, 'home-maker' services and training facilities must be created in centres of potential employment for those who are currently unemployed or unemployable. 
That insufficient State or Federal assistance has been made available to meet these requirements. 
That adequate finance to meet these requirements can only be provided by the Commonwealth Government. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will give earnest consideration to this most important and vital matter. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I rise to bring to the attention of the House the plight of the Aboriginal population in the Western Australian city area. Today I had the privilege of presenting to the Parliament a petition on behalf of those people, as did another Western Australian, the honourable member for Forrest  (Mr Kirwan),  requesting that earnest consideration be given to the crisis in Aboriginal welfare which exists in Western Australia, that urgent attention be given to providing town housing to all Aboriginal families with a breadwinner, and that further welfare assistance in the form of homemaker assistance, that is, a welfare officer to guide them in home settlement, be given. What happens to these petitions? They are sent off to the archives with no discussion whatever. In fact I doubt whether all honourable members understood or even heard the full content and meaning of the petition that was presented. One honourable member even suggested to me that perhaps this was the reason a rather large hole was being dug alongside Parliament House. But the people who designed the petition and the people who signed it want something better than that. They require the Parliament, Ministers and honourable members to note and to take urgent action in the matter. 
There are some 364 applications for Aboriginal housing held by the Native Welfare Department in Perth alone. Even worse, there exists a complete lack of immediate emergency housing in the city area for those people who are being driven to the city by the collapse of the rural industry and the completelack of work opportunities that come with rural depression. This leads to a situation in the city area where they are unable to find accommodation. They must find somewhere to go and that somewhere is a camp under a railway bridge, on a vacant block of land or out in the near city rural areas in shanties made of rubbish tip scraps of tin, bag, lino and so on. without water, without sanitation and without any of the bare necessities which give a basic dignity to life. Some more fortunate than others may find emergency temporary camping with a relative or friend who has a home, but it can only be called camping because Aboriginals usually have large families and those already living in a house arc living often in sub-standard conditions, leaving only verandahs and outhouses for the visitors. 
I know of a family comprising8 children and a widowed mother living at the rear of a city house under an iron lean-to 8 feet by 5 feet with a dirty chaff floor and one bed for the lot of them. This kind of overcrowding and sub-standard camping must lead to trouble for the original tenants. How great is the problem facing these people was brought home very strongly to me recently. At the request of one of my constituents I sought to help them find accommodation. I spent a day looking for private accommodation for them. Having found a vacant cottage some few miles from the city I approached the owner's wife and family who I understood had some share in the premises. We agreed on the bond and a weekly rent of some $14 for this isolated and normally hard to rent property. 
Much was the rejoicing of all concerned when I reported that I had found a cottage. My disgust can be imagined when I received a telephone call that evening from the gentleman of the family which owned the property. He said that he was very amazed, that he did not want the people to move in and that it was a problem for the authorities to look after these people. After much discussion it became obvious that he did not want an Aboriginal family to occupy the premises. The result is that this unfortunate family still live in their lean-to and the country cottage still stands vacant. We can only hope that the State Housing Commission or the Native Welfare Department can help them for they and others have walked the streets of Perth and met with refusal after refusal. They are not alone in this for 1 am given to understand that there are some 200 families in camps or sub-standard accommodation in the city area. This is a legacy of the previous State Liberal Government's inadequate policies and a legacy of the lack of attention given by this Parliament to their problems. The Ministry has failed to appreciate the content of petitions presented to this House by honourable members from Western Australia in recent months. 
Something must be done by the Commonwealth and State authorities to get these people out of the camps, off the streets and out of the parks. I have suggested that a caravan park be used as an emergency measure until something is done to house them permanently in the near future. Must we tolerate such a situation that when a doctor prescribed to an invalid pensioner, a native, that he leave Narrogin in the country to go to Perth to receive weekly treatment at the city hospital the patient was told by some bureaucrat in the Native Welfare Department to return to the country reserve as there was no hope of city accommodation? That person returned to the country with no hope of receiving treatment. It is a hopeless and disgraceful position when a doctor's recommendation is virtually ignored. But this type of attitude is not an unusual one, for in the case of a widowed mother who left a country reserve because her family was growing up and faced no prospect of employment, the departmental attitude was: She had accommodation on the reserve so why did she leave? No thought was given to the family's future or to the disgraceful conditions on many reserves - just a departmental worry that someone had dared to disturb the status quo. What alarms me is that no one appears really to care about the urgency of the problem facing this section of the aboriginal community. 
I ask the Commonwealth Government to co-operate with the State to make funds available to alleviate this situation. Only by the use of Commonwealth funds specifically designated for this purpose will it be feasible for the 364 applications to be cleared up or will it be possible to provide some immediate transient accommodation until the permanent residences are available. Let us not wait until the missions are able to so expand their programme as to cope with the situation. No doubt the mis.sions do a tremendous job. In fact one denomination obtains funds from overseas on the basis that it is conducting a mission in a developing country. Yes, we receive foreign Christian aid. Though appreciated, it underlines our laxity in this field and without question leaves this country open to international criticism in the field of Aboriginal welfare. There is room for criticism - justified criticism - of a country that tolerates conditions experienced by adults and growing children on some reserves which are a disgrace. 
Recently I had the pleasure of meeting with a large number of north west Aboriginals in their own areas.. It was depressing to me, a person accustomed to the elementary comforts of civilised life. There appeared to be little hope of these people obtaining in the near future a house of a standard acceptable in the white community, even though their families were being sent to schools and were receiving the same education as the white population. This must breed resentment amongst these people and amongst the future generations of these people who will not be so patient as their city cousins have been over the years. There must be some effect on people who, when putting a hand into a cupboard or refrigerator have to be careful lest cockroaches run up the arm and they have to shake articles to remove the cockroaches. If 1 had not seen it I would not have believed it. But what amazes me is that the people responsible for the welfare of these Aboriginals accept this as a matter of course. This'.. was. not an isolated case. I saw it on government premises and, unfortunately, on mission premises and they were accepted as a natural hazard of the area. The point, is that these conditions were not evident in any of the homes belonging to white people in which I stayed. 
In many cases officers- who have become conditioned by the lack of funds and the lack of suitable amenities in these places are transferred and placed in charge of providing homes for Aboriginals in the metropolitan areas. This could well explain the lack of urgency with which the problem is tackled. But for persons to be able to go home at night -to' a comfortable suburban home knowing" that women and children are living in such parlous conditions, without raising the matter with the responsible Ministers 'for action to be taken, is beyond comprehension. Of course, if they had drawn it to the attention of the Ministers the Ministers concerned would stand condemned. 1 do not believe any Minister would ignore the situation if he were aware of it. Perhaps we will see a change in the immediate future, whoever the Minister may be. The matter is urgent and must be dealt with before this national disgrace attracts pressures from outside organisations such as the United Nations or the emerging African and Asian nations which judge us according to our treatment of the original owners of this great nation of Austrafia. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
House adjourned at- 4.5 , p.m. until Tuesday, 30 March at 2.30 p.m. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Shipping and Transport. In view of the recent ministerial and Government rearrangement, will he give urgent consideration to presenting again to Cabinet the proposal for special Government funds to be made available for the purpose of effecting the early completion of the sealing of the Eyre Highway? Further, will he, if he has not already done so, inspect the unsealed portion of the highway - preferably by driving over it - so that he will be fully aware of the problem? 
I wish to raise a matter relating to the Army. Firstly, I should like to express thanks to members of the staff of the Minister for the Army  (Mr Peacock)  who have co-operated and have acted promptly and with compassion in this matter, no doubt at the direction of the Minister. This is even more marked in view of the fact that we did not become aware of the problem until after 11.15 p.m. last night. The problem concerns a Sergeant Smith who is stationed in Papua and New Guinea and whose brother is now dying in Royal Perth Hospital after being involved in a traffic accident on 18th March in which he and his wife were injured, his wife fatally, leaving 2 small children to be cared for by Sergeant Smith's parents. 
Sergeant Smith's mother telephoned a representative of Western Command on an after hours number in an endeavour to have Sergeant Smith brought home to see his brother before his brother passed into a coma and was unable to recognise him. The request was made particularly in view of the fact that the brothers had not seen one another for 3 years. Sergeant Smith has had 9 year's service in the Army. He volunteered for service in Vietnam where he won his sergeant's stripes, and he has not had leave for 3 years.  His  father, an ex-serviceman, is deeply distressed by the terrible tragedy that has befallen the family. Sergeant Smith's mother was told on the telephone by an Army spokesman that the circumstances did not warrant Sergeant Smith's return home and that if the Army did this kind of thing all the time the country would be in a worse state than it is. Is there no compassion in Western Command when a distressed mother can be given such a callous, tactless reply? Is there such little regard for our volunteer servicemen who have proved their worth by serving their country? Is there so little regard for the son of an ex-serviceman who is following a family history of service to this country? 
Sergeant Smith's brother has sunk into a coma and the family waits for the final blow. They hope that he will rally for one last recognition of them, for his brother to see him before the final parting and for their one remaining son to be there to comfort them in their hour of grief. For those reasons I have again requested compassionate leave for Sergeant Smith. There may still be time for him to reach home, even after the unnecessary delay which has been the result of a callous lack of thought. We are not even sure whether Sergeant Smith has been fully informed of his brother's condition because we have had to rely completely on Army signals to him and there has been a lack of confirmation by the family that the signals have been received. Sergeant Smith is due for leave in June when he planned to return to Western Australia as he is due for another posting. He planned to see his family then. To expect him to spend the return air fare which is in express of $500 could well preclude him from returning to see his parents with his wife and children in June. Surely there is some way by which he can be given full compassionate leave immediately. We should ensure that in the future distressed parents or relatives of servicemen in similar circumstances will not be treated with such a callous disregard for their feelings and the feelings of the servicemen concerned. I am sure that the Minister will ensure that the personnel dealing with these problems will exercise the same tact and compassion as his own staff who are a credit to him. 
Many allegations have been made, by direct statement and by implication, on the inability of the public and the workers to understand the many views that have been expressed on productivity, and in fact the lack of understanding of the meaning of the word 'productivity'. After reading the diverse opinions expressed by varying economists, both professionals and political amateurs, I looked at the definitions provided by dictionaries, the only reference work readily available to the average person. I shall set out some of the definitions given. Webster's New International Dictionary, Third Edition, in its definition of productivity' says: 
The ability or capacity to produce, the physical output per unit of productive effort, the ability of land to produce a given yield of a particular crop, the degree of effectiveness of industrial management in utilising the facilities for production: the effectiveness in utilising labour and equipment. 
This definition places a responsibility or. management to give effect to the word productivity'. There is no hint that the responsibility of placing into effect efficiency and management skills requires anything but direction from the top. No wonder the population of Australia is suspicious of the tub thumping pronouncements of the establishment represented by their parliamentary spokesmen. There are workers who have memories of efficiency experts and time and motion study experts, call them what you may, who were all trying to make them work more consistently and to produce more for industry which is already making substantial profits without any comparative reward to the workers concerned. They have seen the situation of machinery replacing functions of work which they have done themselves, thus reducing the value of their skills. Yet the output of the product of their firm has increased beyond what they had thought possible, and the profits of their employers have increased beyond belief without reward to the workers. No wonder they resist this double talk of productivity, this smokescreen of words which attempts to hide from the public the real reason behind it, an attempt to suppress wages and to suppress living standards whilst preserving the profits of the industries in which they work. 
The responsibility to maintain competition, to preserve rational prices, lies with the employers in increasing their efficiency, maintaining a better standard of management, looking at advertising budgets and functions, maintaining a more economic presentation and packaging of their products in restricting excessive profits. Even in their relationship with the so-called small businessman do major companies need to look at their administration. We all know of the problem facing the corner service stations. How many of the proprietors remain there for any length of time? As soon as their so called productivity increases, due to their hard work and long hours, so the cost of the leasehold of the property belonging to their employer, the oil company, increases, in many instances up to 80 per cent. Therefore, the long hours of service to the public are wasted and the increasing confidence of the public in them for supplying a reasonable service is destroyed, and the rewards go to the major profit takers, the oil companies, who are already receiving huge profits from the sale of petrol and oil. No wonder people are suspicious of the intentions of these companies when they issue their call to produce more in order to reduce prices or to maintain prices. It is an area that cries out for controls by government in the interests of the public. But what happens? No inquiry into the cost to the public is ever made, no protection is offered to the lessees, no extension of industrial legislation is offered to the lessees for their protection, bers of the public, cynics on the matter of productivity. 
I mention these aspects because I have taken the trouble to question the public as to their views on the subject and on this sudden apparent propaganda barrage on a matter which tries to hide the real causes of inflation, the mismanagement of finance by government, the iniquitous drain-off of workers' wages in high rents brought on largely by government-initiated high interest rates, and land and home prices inflated by uncontrolled speculation. Repayments on vehicles are made heavier by unrealistic interest rates. Repayments on home furnishings are made impossible by unrealistic prices and profits and, again, unrealistically high interest rates. So the average person is caught up in the vicious circle of unrealistically high prices, which have no relation to actual production costs or the value of the article provided, which put the products beyond the reach of the average man unless hire purchase with its usurious interest rates is utilised. There is no help from the Government, which can think only of increasing taxes on the articles not needed to make the population's life equal to that of other highly developed countries. 
Let this Parliament stop allowing this difficult to prove or to understand argument, about what is productivity, to develop. It further lessens the understanding and conciliatory spirit which is being desperately sought by trade unions, reasonable employers and those conciliation bodies working so hard to find a solution to the adjustment of wages to meet soaring living costs. The political amateurs who propounded these arguments are far removed from what is actually happening by their very way of life and the protection from the general public atmosphere which is created for them by living and working apart "from the public. I say this as a person who has spent some time as a trade union official. My advice to them is to speak to the people without letting them know who you are. The people have had enough of political interference with their earning power without any attempt to control costs, not only in the retail field but in the basic item so dear to every Australian heart - a home. They have had enough of trying to purchase a home only to find that an escalation clause in the mortgage coupled with Government interference has increased the interest charges, resulting in an increase in the cost of their home. The term of the mortgage may be from 25 years up to 39 years without any guarantee that there will not be further increases in interest rates in future years. They fear that they may never be able to pay off their home because of high interest rates. 
After having done this to them honourable members stand in this Parliament and say that they will see that productivity is enforced. How does this sound to a worker who has suddenly had his effective wages reduced by several dollars a month because of a sudden increase in repayments on his home but with no increase in the value of his home? His only answer is to get more wages from his employer for he is already fully committed in respect of hire purchase, school fees and all the other things which go to make the Australian way of life. Perhaps he is lucky if he does not already have a working wife - she would cease to be a proud housewife and would be off to work to maintain the home. We should not say to these people that they must work harder to produce more so as to maintain the profits of a company. What hypocrisy. 
On what are we to base our productivity figures? Where in fact is the index to use as a base? As yet it does not exist but when it is produced what year will become the base year? Will it go back to 1900? Will it take into account individual industries which have become heavily mechanised so as to give the workers in those industries the true benefits of increased productivity? 
For example, will airline pilots receive the full benefits of increased tonnage and passenger loads carried by the jumbo jets? Will seamen be granted their share of productivity arising from increased tonnage, reduction of crews and quicker turnaround? Will bus drivers receive an immediate doubling of wages for a doubling of passenger loads and the reduction of a bus crew by half? Will the worker in an automated brickworks receive the full benefits of savings in costs arising from labour redundancy and increased productivity? Will postal workers receive an immediate increase equal to the productivity increase due to the introduction of letter sorting machines and the approximate saving of 20 workers in some instances with a reduction to 2 people to do the work which was previously done by 22? Will the wages saved be shared amongst those remaining and the increased productivity be taken into account for an immediate increase in wages? 
Will the truck driver on iron ore sites driving vehicles in excess of 100 tons be paid on productivity in relation to the 10-ton truck driver so computed and multiplied that he will receive at least 10 times as much for his productivity which must be 10 times greater? Of course this is not the intention of the Government which speaks for the employers of labour. It has no intention of allowing this to happen. It has carefully designed a smokescreen to hide the effects of technological changes on our work force. Insecurity is faced by many workers in the work force who fear that they may be replaced by machines in the near future. Profits are being taken by avaricious companies which wish to preserve these profits in a country with a low growth rate in hourly earnings. 
Between 1961 and 1969 Australia's growth rate of earnings was lower than that of Japan with 12 per cent, Italy with  8i  per cent, France with 8 per cent, Germany with 7i per cent and the United Kingdom with  6i  per cent. Australia was a low 5i per cent. Since then other countries have had a higher growth rate in earnings ranging up to 11 per cent in France and 17 per cent in Japan, whilst labour productivity in Australia between 1961 and 1969 in the manufacturing industries rose by 4 per cent per annum, which was much better than that country we so slavishly follow in most things, the United States of America, which had an increases of 2.9 per cent and equal to the United Kingdom with 4 per cent and Canada with 3.9 per cent. However, as these are employers' figures I will not unconditionally vouch for them. 
Further to this, it is interesting to note that generally productivity rose most in countries where wages rose in keeping with rises in productivity. In the European area of France, Italy, Germany productivity rose by an approximate average from 1961 to 1969 of 5.8 per cent, and Japan which had a percentage increase in wages of 17 per cent achieved an 11.2 per cent increase in productivity over the same period. Again these are employers' figures on manufacturing but perhaps this shows that there is a happier and more productive work force where they can see that they are getting their fair share of what they produce and they can see some tangible gain for their efforts. But these are employers' figures and no doubt they would be subject to strong suspicion by other people on both the employer and employee sides. I challenge this Government to give some real encouragement to the Australian work force to convince them that this productivity debate is not some gigantic smokescreen to hide governmental and employer desire to destroy the existing arbitration system; to convince the workers that this is not a counter offensive to the Australian Council of Trade Unions campaign for a shorter working week; to convince them that it is not a campaign to hide the effects of changing technology, computerisation and automation generally. I challenge the Government to investigate the French legislation of 1967 which allows worker participation in profit sharing and to legislate on these lines with particular regard to overseas companies. The French legislation was first mooted in 1959 but enforced in August 1967 and the then  President  of France said: 
It is essentia! that employees and wage and salary earners, who together further the development of firms, should share the reward of their joint efforts. 
Progress, which is achieved by all, must be a source of greater wealth for all which means that all should take a share -,n the increase of capital produced. 
With those sentiments 1 heartily agree as must all fair minded people. Worker participation in the fruits of expansion are recognised as a right and certain tax concessions and social concessions are available to the companies for their participation which does not interfere in the rights of management in the decisions of development of the company involved. For that matter it does not interfere with the usual base wage structure of the worker. If this Government is sincere in wanting workermanagement co-operation in increasing productivity, which in the final analysis will lead to increased methods of automation, computerisation and mechanisation, let us ensure that both worker and management gain from this concept of automated industry, which is not of tomorrow but is with us today. In fact this debate should encompass the future and it should cover the problems of future automation and it should not look as it does with the word 'productivity' to the past. The debate has continued on past standards, past concepts and attempts to preserve today's relationships of worker, capital and profits. One cannot say that the concept of profit sharing can be readily accepted by employers or by trade unions, but the time for imaginative rethinking is here for governments, and instead of debates in Parliament on these matters, round table conferences between those responsible are overdue. 
When one views Australian and world opinions one finds highly critical comments of government and business effort in the promotion of productivity. Let us look at comment by Professor Fritz Machlup of Princeton University who said that many Australians have recently come to suspect that their living standards, relative to those in other advanced countries, have been declining'. In broad terms Professor Machlup laid the blame for this state of affairs on a poor  Tate  of increase in Australian productivity and while he cited the alleged Australian preference for taking life easy as one of the reasons for this productivity lag the real burden of his criticism quite clearly fell on a misallocation of resources by the Government. He further cited a lethargic banking system as a contributory factor. This comment is by a man who is currently Walker Professor of Economics and International Finance at Princeton University, United States of America. He has lectured at the University of Melbourne, the Australian National University and according to Australian Broadcasting Commission reports he has acted as a consultant to the Reserve Bank of Australia. He had this to say about banks: 
There is also the field of money and banking and here again I may say something which you may not like to hear - that there is very little competition among your banks. 
There is no competition concerning the interest rates that they pay, concerning commissions, concerning the difference in the price of foreign exchange bought and sold and so on. and all this, of course, lowers the increase in productivity. 
Professor Machlup said that one thing which was probably holding back an increase in Australian productivity was:   . . the fact that the degree of competition in this country seems to be very much lower than in many other countries. Here you like to protect the most inefficient people and it may be that is a sign of a good heart, but of course, it costs you something. If you have several firms in an industry and you want to protect the least efficient one so that the others can survive it means that they will produce at a relatively high cost and it mean; that your standard of living will fall behind that of other countries. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Cope)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question is directed to the Postmaster-General. Is it a fact that  Mr Antony  Reeves, the Australian Broadcasting Commission reporter who wrote the story stating that some life assurance companies loaded premiums to Aboriginals, quoting  Mr Frank  Ross. senior executive of the Australian Mutual Provident Society, has been dismissed because of (his story? If this is a fact will he make moves to have  Mr Reeves  reinstated? If it is not so will he investigate allegations made in the 'Sunday Australian' claiming thatthis is so? 
I was rather surprised to hear the Minister for the Navy  (Dr Mackay)  refer to the Calga expressway and say that a number of accidents still happen on that road. It would appear from the information I have received that a minimal number of accidents occur on the divided section of the expressway. The accidents occur on the 20-mile stretch of road after the 20-mile expressway. Unfortunately, this is an example of someone speaking with a lack of knowledge and without having done research into the question. The fact is that the construction of the expressway has minimised the number of accidents. The accidents occur when people speed off the expressway. 
The Minister for the Navy also referred to the point made by the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  in relation to design rules. All I can say about that is that usually the United States of America is 5 years ahead of Australia in introducing design rules. At the very least, the United States is 3 years ahead of Australia in introducing design rules. I will give a couple of examples from a list of 20 items. Design rules relating to instrument panels were instituted in the United States in 1968, but they will not be introduced in Australia until 1973. Design rules relating to direction turn signal lamps were instituted in the United States in 1968, but they will not be instituted in Australia until 1973. Design rules relating to reversing signal lamps were instituted in the United States in 1968, but they will not be introduced in Australia until 1973. One could go on and refer to the dates when design rules were introduced in the United States and when they will be introduced in Australia. I think that if we are to refer to these matters we have to discuss them in more detail, otherwise I think that we are only misleading ourselves, the Parliament and the nation. 
Every year we hear of the appalling road toll. Every holiday period, every weekend, adaded deaths increase this terrible toll. The only matter which seems to concern us each year is whether the toll will exceed the previous year's record. If it does not reach the previous year's record everyone heaves a sigh of relief and says that it is an improvement. Before holiday periods public figures issue solemn warnings about the approaching dangers and church congregations solemnly - and sincerely, 1 must say - pray for the protection of drivers. In all, we as a community come to accept this as a way of life and this Parliament fails to acknowledge the enormousness of the problem and the enormous cost to the community, as well as the grief and suffering of the bereaved and the suffering of those permanently injured in these accidents, the paraplegics or mental vegetables. 
The cost to the community through lost man-hours in industry, the insurance payments which must be met by the spreading of the costs over all policies - these and other associated matters seldom rate a mention. We have become so sated by the consistency of the horror that we as a community do nothing to demand action by the Government to take immediate measures to stop the carnage. So the Government takes the easy road. It allows its public committees to meet, make recommendations on vehicle standards, road standards and road traffic rule standards and then leaves these committees of experts without the teeth to implement their recommendations. They must rely on the goodwill of State Ministers or State governments to ensure that design rules are implemented and uniform traffic codes enforced. The result is that a South Australian driver of  16  years of age can legally drive from South Australia through all the other States, although different rules of driving apply in those States, when he would not even have a licence if he happened to live across the border in another State. We did not even attempt to set basic matters in order. Something that is so easy to regularise is carefully avoided. 
But what would the situation be if only one-tenth of the road deaths or injuries were attributable to any other form of violence or accident? A bridge collapses, an inquiry is instituted, and headlines are made in all news media. A building being demolished collapses and there is another inquiry, and more headlines. A plane crashes and there is a most stringent inquiry and minute inspection of the remains to determine whether the cause is human error or mechanical failure, and in some instances all aircraft of the particular type are grounded until it is clear that no blame is attached to that type. In all such cases there are public concern and official concern, official inquiry, official action and the subsequent legislation to remedy whatever faults are found. But what happens about car accidents? They are so common and kill so many that no-one is prepared to take the time to find a solution. 
There is no requirement for research into every accident to find out whether mechanical or structural failure was due to previous repairs effected in States where an insurance assessor is someone who has no mechanical or engineering qualification, where there are no registration requirements of these people, where the insurance firms employ them because they can cut corners on the cost of repairs, where there is no examination by  a  qualified person before or after the repair of the vehicle. The manufacturer of a vehicle may have undertaken painstaking research to ensure that the vehicle is of a high standard but this is an area which he cannot control. So the racket of using repaired or second hand parts wherever possible continues without concern for the safety of the vehicle or the road user generally. The ludicrous situation exists where someone could refuse, if he was aware of it, to accept a repaired part because of doubts of safety and then some unsuspecting person could have this part subsequently installed in his vehicle by a repairer, with the knowledge of the assessor, with or without the knowledge of the insurance firm which is concerned only with costs. Without question this area of road safety cries out for control but what will this Government do?  1  ask honourable members to look at the size of the insurance company lobby and the repair section lobby for therein lies the answer. It would take a strong Minister to stand up and demand the necessary controls in the States and to outline to the States the controls required. 
It is no good denying that calculated risks in the repair field are taken every day by fringe firms in the industry. I recently had personal experience of this when a firm wished to install a repaired front cross member in my car without consideration of the molecular change in the structure of the metal due to the repair and without X- ray examination for further cracks. Explanations given were: 'You would never notice it when you sell the car'; 'It has been done for  22i  years to my knowledge'; We use second hand parts where possible'. When a written guarantee of the safety of the repair was demanded, it was not forthcoming. One would be naive to expect that it could be given. I might add that a new part was readily available. This type of direct contempt for public life is allowed to go unchallenged. Mow many people have lost their lives as a result of this attitude? How many have been maimed as a result and lie in hospital beds? This Government is to blame for not legislating to protect the public from malpractice. This Government, of such long standing, stands condemned by its inactivity. It is prepared to take steps to suppress public action in other fields but is not prepared to move against the profit-motivated institutions. Must we wait for the Australian Council of Trade Unions to take action in this field also before the Government will do something? If this is what must happen to get action on road safety then let it happen. In fact, let anyone take action, for the Government is unable or unwilling to cope with the situation. It has watched the mounting toll year after year and has taken no action. 
What action has it taken against the manufacturers who are selling the potential death traps revealed by the recent survey of new cars by the Western Australian Royal Automobile Club? In a survey of 600 vehicles the RAC found 216 with braking faults, 53 or nearly 9 per cent being brake fluid leaks. The alarming point is that of the 53 instances of fluid leaks, 48 were in Australian made vehicles. Has anything been done by the Government about this matter? I doubt it. Even worse, potentially dangerous faults were found in the steering mechanisms of 1.66 of the vehicles and this is quite apart from wheel alignment problems. In ali, over a 12 month survey, the RAC found a total of 2,759 defects in the 600 brand new vehicles, an average of 4.6 defects per vehicle. A further 597 items were listed for adjustment or repair. The RAC put this down to lack of quality control by manufacturers and confirmed the problems consumers were having in obtaining proper after sales service, so that new vehicles sold in an unsafe condition remained dangerous due to a lack of follow-up service. In effect, this was only a spot check of new vehicles voluntarily taken to the RAC by members. 
We have heard the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  make wide and diverse accusations against the members of the public and members of Parliament who represent the Opposition in this chamber without any attempt to examine the reason for that discontent. People are demonstrating so that others such as the honourable member will examine the matter involved and their own consciences in regard to it. People's frustration is caused by their being ignored by people such as the honourable member, and if as much attention could be given to the wishes of the people of an electorate as is spent on criticising the Labor Party for bringing the problems of people before this Parliament, perhaps we would see the honourable member contesting the seat of Lalor in order to test public opinion on his attitude to the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns).  If he feels so strongly, let him show leadership and stop just talking here in the Parliament. 
The honourable member for Lalor has no criticism of the honourable member because he feels that he has better things to do in this Parliament than to criticise the honourable member. It seems significant, however, that this debate on law and order was introduced during Easter week, which commemorated the life, work and teaching of a leading dissenter, a Man who stood out against racism, violence and discrimination against individuals. He was a man who challenged the Establishment, who called upon large and small assemblies to dissent, and who was finally dealt with by the Establishment in a way which was similar in many respects to that envisaged by this legislation against similar demonstrators and dissenters. One wonders how He would fare today under this legislation when attempting to follow the basic concepts which He preached to assemblies and demonstrators so many years ago. We commemorated  His  passing during the week of Easter in a year of dawning dissent by students, workers, pensioners, religious groups and people of conscience. 
This Bill is designed to repress, to intimidate and to subdue these people at the whim of the administration or whoever happens to be in the power at the time. Let us remember that once this legislation stands on the statute book it is there to be used or misused by future governments. It has been said that these provisions will not be used except on rare occasions. But when liberties are restricted by legislation, who can tell what future governments will do in a moment of panic, as this Government has, or, for that matter, for what planning for political suppression will this Bill be utilised? It needs only a professional provocateur to be planted at governmental or extremist instigation in a demonstration or meeting for everyone in the assembly to become liable under this legislation. Whether it be a meeting of a political, religious, racial, unionist or pensioner group, the same distinct dangers exist. It needs only one threatening motion, one stone thrown, one shout to bring into effect the restrictive measures contained in this proposed Act - 'at the instigation of some person of authority, on the site, or adjacent to the assembly to so act', to use the words of the Bill itself. Heckling at a political meeting, which is a long established Australian expression of freedom, could well cause the repressive measures of this Bill to be enforced. It is not even impossible to imagine a deputation, large in size, of Australian citizens incensed by some such thing as aircraft noise being charged with offences under this Act. After calling on departmental chiefs or ministerial representatives they could be charged with trespass or offences under other repressive sections of the Act. Some people will say that this is impossible, that we are too reasonable to enforce the law in that way. Perhaps the Government is too reasonable at this point of time to do such things but it is legislating for the future. It is putting weapons into the hands of people who may not be reasonable in the future. 
Let us examine the need for this legislation in Western Australia. The daubing of paint on ships from Socialist countries by extreme elements has led to an adequate police guard being provided whenever necessary. The demonstration on Commonwealth property by students has been dealt with sufficiently under existing Commonwealth legislation. The offence of defacing buildings and memorials with swastikas by Fascist organisations has been dealt with sufficiently under the existing laws. Protest marches through city streets have been orderly and under the guidance of the local law. Why then is the Government attempting to usurp the rights of State authorities in these matters? Why is it bringing down stronger legislation than the existing Commonwealth Crimes Act? Is it because of the panic created by one or two incidents which have been provoked by people who lost their temper at a given time on both sides of the argument? For this we must surrender certain basic Australian liberties and create situations in which people will meet further to demonstrate against the effects of this Bill. 
What will be the reaction to the first gaoling under this legislation? There will be confrontation which will result in further unrest. One might think that the Government would have learnt from the public protests over the gaolings of Vietnam objectors and would have become aware of public reaction to these actions. One might think that notice would have been taken of trade union reaction to the gaoling of a trade union leader; that a lesson would have been learnt from the current difficulties and confrontation taking place as a result of the existing arbitration penal provisions and the confrontation over the collection of fines which has occurred and which will continue to occur under that repressive legislation. Must we tolerate this constant, intolerant Government attitude to protests about what people believe are unjust laws? When will the Government cease to provoke people of conscience who wish only to express themselves in what they believe to be a democratic manner in a democratic country? But because we are accustomed to the subdued attitude of the population we become alarmed when people express their displeasure at our ineptitude in foreign policy or social welfare programmes or salary provisions. The Government decides that instead of settling the cause of the public displeasure and ensuring that everyone is fully informed of the reason for the Government's action in order to prove that the policy is just - and if it is just the people will agree with it - it will legislate to repress that expression of opinion. 
Some people have said that we do not have a 'black' problem here, that the black people are docile. But recently these people have come to realise that they can achieve advancement by expressing themselves at assemblies, as denned by this Bill. Is this legislation designed to ensure that these people do not get the opportunity to express themselves? They will have the added fear of prejudice - be it real or imagined - by those administering the new Act because they will be under a 'public authority', as defined in this Bill, in the places where they live. What does the Government intend to do when strikes take place on Commonwealth premises or in Commonwealth Territories and a picket line is formed, or when meetings take place on the job or in an adjacent area? What a golden opportunity this will present to the Government to vent its spleen on an assembly. If more than 12 people remain only 15 minutes - which is not time even for the matter to be discussed - after they have been told to disperse by a police sergeant or a police officer of higher rank, each and every one of them can be fined up to $500 or imprisoned for up to 6 months, or both. There is not one penalty but two penalties. How vicious can one become? 
If that is not vicious enough, the Bill provides for the dispersing or suppressing of an assembly. It becomes lawful for a person - only a person, not a policeman; he could be a company employed thug for that matter - to use such force as he believes is necessary. He becomes the judge, jury, policeman and thug. Is this meant to bring peace to demonstrations, strikes and meetings? Will not people need to arm themselves in order to protect themselves from the extremists who are given an open ticket to violence by this legislation? After a person has been knocked about, as permitted under this legislation, he can be apprehended and then goaled and fined. It is a wonder that the Government did not provide for execution, because it has thought of everything else. It has the hide to say that this Bill will establish law and order. It is more likely to start insurrection and civil disorder. Perhaps this is what the Government wants. Perhaps it wants an opportunity to subdue the trade union movement and to create situations in which dissident groups are provoked and then savagely subdued in the name of law and order in order to prevent the constant exposure of bad governmental policies. What other need is there for this Bill? Noone in this country goes unpunished for misdeeds which relate to anything which might be so judged under this Bill. It will be only governmental provocation or provocation by the more extreme members of the Government which will bring the provisions of this Bill into effect. 
We have heard of individual members of Parliament who have provoked people in order to bring about attacks on them. But this position is adequately covered by the existing laws. However, I must admit that some people, because of their general attitude to other people, issues and life, attract and will continue to attract public condemnation no matter what penalties we provide against those who so condemn them. People who are sincere in their convictions are not deterred by laws or even bad laws. This has been the tradition of people since the martyrs of early Christendom. People will continue to fight for what they believe to be right, despite the repression of those who wish to suppress the truth - no matter whether they wish to suppress the truth because they fear it, because of personal gain or because of lack of recognition of the true issues. 
Again I say that this legislataion can lead only to confrontation between the public and the law, to a misuse of authority and to the creation of a lack of respect for law and government by those who recognise the lack of justice when an Act is administered in an unjust way. Let us not be deceived by the platitudes of Government speakers who use the excuse that this Bill will not be enforced because it -would not be before us if the Government did not intend to enforce it. So foolishly this Parliament will place this legislation on its statutes book without giving thought to what could happen in the future when an even more intolerant government administers the law. For Government speakers to stand up and say that after more than 20 years of LiberalCountry Party administrataion the laws are inadequate, even after considering the furore which was created when the Crimes Act was amended, is to admit, if this were true, that the Government at the time it amended the law was inadequate and illinformed. I wonder what the reaction of Government members would be if a Labor government were putting forward the proposals which are contained in this Bill. The reaction would be one of suspicion* of the intent. 
But looking at the Bill objectively, what we oppose is the over-reaction of the content of the Bill. Authority is given to an officer or a person in authority authorised by the Minister in writing to enact, in his judgment, physical violence. We should all understand that violence begets violence. We can envisage violence arising and physical harm being done to demonstrators, to pedestrians and, not least, to police. Australia has been free of this type of conduct of recent years. Must we create another little America? The common sense approach has been and should be to adopt the same attitude that made the British policeman famous, that is, the ability to deal with situations without violence. Further, we must read into the provisions of the Bill what is meant by the term 'a person'. It is not unlikely that an individual person who has a particular grievance against a department and who is seeking to obtain individual justice will be liable to be charged under the legislation. He will not have to do any physical act which is offensive to anyone. He will just have to be at a certain place. It will create the unsavoury situation in which someone could say: 'We can get you on this charge because we cannot pin some other charge on you'. A charge of trespass is all-encompassing. That is the wide interpretation that can be placed on the Bill. 
We are all naively supposing that the Bill will be administered by reasonable people. Government speakers have taken a blind view. They have spoken in order to convince themselves more than anyone else as to the  Tightness  of their cause. They should be prepared to take such matters to the public by way of a referendum. Let the public decide through the ballot box whether it wishes to associate the right of assembly with the dangers which will arise as a result of  the  introduction of the provisions of this Bill. I oppose the Bill. 
I rise to question the action of the Australian Broadcasting Commission in Western Australia in refusing to broadcast Saturday afternoon football matches. It has been the practice for it to do so since the inception of television in Western Australia. This refusal is to the disadvantage of the aged, the sick, the shift worker, the weekend worker, the country resident, and it is the result of a blind unethical following of the dispute between the two commercial television stations and the football organisations over arena advertising. One can understand to some degree the decision of the commercial stations which are interested only in the profit motive, and their profit comes from advertising. The arena advertising is a direct challenge to those stations and their advertisers - although one would think that people would be watching the play on the field and not the side fences. 
However, they are free to protect their collusion in this matter as they are private enterprise. But to be supported by a body which is by public money, taxpayers' money, and to deny to people who pay their way a service that they have been receiving, simply, to promote the profit motives of other commercial television stations, is appalling. What do people pay television licence fees for? Must this government body support moves that are designed to stand over and dictate to the mootball organisations who are only trying to attract as much revenue as possible in what is supposed to be a free enterprise system. They are trying to attract enough monetary support to improve the quality of the game and the facilities of the clubs for their members, players and the public attending the football games. 
The Australian Broadcasting Commission is a public institution which must hold itself above the harangues which occur in the commercial world. Its programmes should revolve around professional standards, ethics and public demand. There is a public demand for these football programmes. The Commission and the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme)  must look at this problem urgently in order to ascertain whether the Commission's obligation to meet public demand is satisfied. The arguments proposed that perimeter, advertising would give free advertising to these advertisers in no way deserves merit, because when a football match is featured in a news coverage or is depicted in still photographs the self-same advertisements are shown. Panel discussions on football matches which are shown on television at a later date also show these advertisements in the background. So in reality the point at issue is the support given by the ABC to the refusal of the two commercial television stations to participate in the direct telecasting of Saturday afternoon football matches. 
Some excuse could be found for the ABC if it had made the decision first, but it came in as the belated hanger on, perhaps after it had been told what to do after conferring on an administrative level with the private television stations. It is about time that the ABC became truly independent of influences that act to the deteriment of its service to the public. 
One can only admire the Commission's programme selection and the standard it usually sets in Western Australia. It is a disappointment to all who support the ABC that in this matter it has ceased to be the leader and has become the follower, and a very poor follower, of the other stations. We must remember that it is a public institution and acts accordingly. I call on the Commission and the Minister to act to rectify the situation and to provide live television coverage of the principal Saturday afternoon league game, as has been done in the past. I call on them to make a satisfactory statement to the public on their reasons for what must be a temporary withdrawal of the service. I ask them to give regard to public demand and the ABC's. obligation to the public. 
I have had many complaints from the electorate on this matter, and I know other honourable members in Western Australia have also. Some newspapers have been critical of all sides concerned in the argument, but the people who are really affected, and who suffer the consequences of a commercial argument, as always, are the unfortunate people who pay all and receive the least consideration - the viewers, the consumers. It is the obligation of the ABC to re-open the question as an urgent matter. If it needs to be convinced, let it conduct an opinion poll on this matter to see what the public whom it serves wants and give service accordingly. There is no doubt in my mind that public opinion would be overwhelmingly in favour or direct telecasts. The attitude of the ABC is almost that of a little boy saying: "If you won't play it my way I will take my ball home'. I think that the ABC should be well above this attitude. 
I rise to support the motion and in particular to refer to the lack of foresight and planning which have been given to the Perth and Jandakot airports in Western Australia. But firstly I should like to comment on what has been said by speakers on the Government side and to point out that it is envisaged that the proposed select committee should co-operate with the States in a way similar to the way in which the Australian Universities Commission co-operates with the States in the field of higher education and in other fields of education. The honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Buchanan)  referred to the expertise of port and harbour authorities which, as we all know from experience, consist in the main of laymen and political appointees. These authorities do not possess the same expertise or investigational ability which a select committee would possess. So the argument advanced by the honourable member for McMillan is really a fatuous argument 
For some time now it has been known to all authorities, in particular to the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  and the Department of Civil Aviation, that residents in my electorate of Swan and in adjacent electorates have been protesting about the noise nuisance associated with the Perth airport, which is situated in the heart of a growing residential area. They have been made aware of the hardship suffered by the residents of Newburn, who are awaiting the takeover of their properties by the Department of Civil Aviation so that the Perth airport can be extended. These people are unable to sell their properties to anyone. Who wants to buy land which is under notice of forcible resumption? These people have heard, with despair, this Government's decision that the takeovers will be delayed due to the Government's economic policies, and that only in special cases of proven hardship will the properties be taken over. What confidence can these people have that they will receive a fair price for their properties? The current market price plus a percentage for resumption is all that they will receive. The market price is already deflated as a result of the Government's action in preventing the advancement of the area to industrial zoning and in placing a ban on development in the area because of its intended use. 
It is no wonder that these people say that this Government is inconsiderate in its actions, particularly when the Government knows that all the people living adjacent to the airport are campaigning and will continue to campaign for the removal of the airport. Yet this Government says that the present site is the site of the airport and it will make no effort to plan for alternative sites. The Government has not one plan for any alternative site whatever in the future. It has made no effort to have an area set aside for use as an airport in future years so that proper planning can take place in the area so selected, to ensure that no hospitals, schools and other public buildings are built and residential areas are established in the flight paths and that transport routes to the city and suburbs are properly planned. There has been no attempt to plan whatsoever. 
This Government moves ahead in the face of world research and world experience and says, in effect: 'We are different; it will not happen here.' It is past the time when this head in the sand attitude, which plainly exists, should be dropped, when our so-called experts were exposed for the political lackeys that they are, and when the experience and research of world experts were taken into consideration. This Government takes into consideration only the noise pollution associated with aircraft Very rarely is mention made of the pollution caused by fuel vapour trails behind landing and departing aircraft. Airliners pollute our city breathing areas in a far worse manner than is allowed by local traffic laws. Motor vehicles would be put off the road if they were responsible for a fraction of the offences which are committed by airliners. 
Our experts fail to take into consideration the possible harm they are doing by routing aircraft over green belt areas in an attempt to reduce noise. This polluted air is falling within the watershed areas of our dams which hold our city water supplies.. No research is being done in this field on a long  term  basis, even though it is commonly known that in European countries it has been defined that this pollution has an effect on water supplies. For instance, the famous pines in Greece have been destroyed by this type of pollution. Perhaps our experts will say that the types of fuel will change in the future. But is this proper planning? We do not even know whether such fuels would be acceptable for use in densely populated areas. I refer to fuels such as atomic power, which has caused some doubt even at this stage. 
This is not a field only for aviation researchers; it is also a field for conservationists. The best scientific minds available in this field will plan for the future not only on a monetary basis but also on an environmental and ecological basis. But this Government has failed completely to institute this type of inquiry into the site of future airports. In fact, in answer to inquiries about the planning of future airport sites, it has been stated that there is no site within 50 or 60 miles of Perth. We must take into consideration not only the air traffic but also the associated road traffic because this traffic creates a pollution problem. All of these problems would be solved if they were considered by planners who had a proper scientific background. 
Previous replies which have been given to me by the Minister have indicated that there is no alternative site for an airport within 50 or 60 miles of Perth. But who is to say that such a site would not be acceptable in the future due to changed public transport systems? But if this is the only site - I do not accept that it is - at least it should be reserved for the future and the surrounding areas should be planned accordingly. Bearing in mind the fact that in the last few days the British Government has accepted a site at Foulness, some 50 miles out of London, as the site of its third airport, it is not impossible that a site some 50 or 60 miles out of Perth could be suitable as the site for a future airport in Perth. This matter must be investigated. 
Currently in Britain research is being sponsored by an oil company. An engineering consulting group is investigating the further development of wartime seadromes. It is investigating the possibility of establishing off-shore airport terminals and runways. Though radical in its concept, off-shore airfields were used with success by the British and American navies in World War II where no suitable land existed near strategic areas. Steel pontoons were hinged together to form runways. Now scale model tests have been carried out, using concrete floating sections filled with expanded polystyrene which is impervious to water. Reports in Volume 16, No. 4, of the 'Petroleum Gazette* of December 1970 indicate that the tests have been successful. 
The committee and the appointed experts should investigate these world research techniques, the feasibility, the costs, the environmental saving and the ecological saving. The last two savings are not ones which can be measured in cost but only in the value of man's health and of man's survival. These factors are reasons why an in depth study must take place. It should not be a matter of political convenience or of our thinking being bound by the concepts of today. Our thinking and our planning should be bound by the foreseeable and beyond - that is, the technical changes taking place in this day and age. 
I wish to use this opportunity to express my disappointment that these 2 Supply Bills do not include provision for matters which I and other honourable members have raised in this House. There has been no provision for extra payments to the States to provide for such things as the sealing of the Eyre 
Highway, something that has been constantly requested by State governments in South Australia and supported by State governments in Western Australia. The request has been constantly refused. A return to the States of their tax moneys in this way would benefit not only State interests but national interests. The Government shirks its responsibility, as is shown by these Bills. It does the same in the area of activity covered by the Department of Civil Aviation. No provision is made in them for the resumption of areas for airports, such as is required at Perth airport. These are matters which must be attended to in the immediate future. Although the Government has failed miserably in these fields up to date it is to be hoped that when Parliament resumes for the Budget session these questions will be resolved. The Government will resolve these matters if it has at heart the interests of the average person. 
One of the major disappointments is in the field of social services. During the closing days of this Parliamentary session no provision is made to ease the burden of the unfortunate person who receives only the wife's allowance to support a spouse. This is disastrous.. These people must face another winter on what is only a subsistence allowance granted under an often stupidly administered section of the Social Services Act. I shall cite one instance of a widowed pensioner who decided to marry an aged widow from overseas. Because of her remarriage this widow lost her pension. This couple found that although they were both over the age required to receive a pension they did not have the necessary residential qualifications. They were able to receive only the wife's allowance. Of course, if they had decided to live in an unmarried state, told lies and cheated, they would not have been thrust into such abject misery as they were. Then, to prove how ridiculous the situation can become, the unfortunate woman became so ill that she was able to qualify for an invalid pension. 
These stupid situations should not arise. People should be treated with more respect and should not be placed in the embarrassing situation of having to go through red tape-type interrogation. Surely this Parliament is able to legislate more humanely to eliminate such situations. We cannot expect a pensioner to maintain a wife on what is a pittance. I repeat, in case some honourable member missed it, that we cannot expect a pensioner to maintain a wife on what is a pittance. The wife's allowance is a disgrace. These people have been - ignored. Surely this matter can be resolved as one of urgency. It is all right to promise that this matter will be looked at in considering the forthcoming Budget, but these people are in desperate need now. 
 If I have time at the end of my speech we will discuss it. lt is nice to see that the honourable member is actually listening; I thought be was too busy talking. These people receive a fortnight what many people, such as the honourable gentleman who has jost interjected, receive a day by way of living away from home allowances. How they spend it I would not know. Surely we can have compassion and act with urgency in this field of human misery - an area in which people who are so suffering are often too proud to let the world know their problems. 
However, little encouragement is offered to any sector of the community. The Aboriginal housing grants have amounted to abject failure. The State Minister for Housing, Honourable A. D. Taylor, M.L.A., estimates that in Western Australia alone $20m is required to house Aboriginal families. This is no doubt due to the long history of neglect by this Federal Government and previous Western Australian Liberal governments. But to recant the reasons why this situation exists will not help. What is needed, now that there is an awareness of the problem facing the community - it is a community problem - is action and leadership federally to bring a quick solution to the appalling situation by giving special assistance to the Western Australian Government. The situation in Western Australia only highlights the bitter disappointment one feels on finding that there is inadequate provision for aged and Aboriginal housing generally. One can only arrive at the conclusion that as yet only lip service has been paid to these needs. 
To further reinforce this belief, only this week we had the revelation by the former Liberal Minister for Industrial Development in Western Australia,  Mr Charles  Court, that the State Liberal Government had been pressing, to no avail, for a tax deduction for housing loan interest to help young married couples. He further stated that interest rates on housing loans should be reduced.  His  view agrees with that of the new Labor Government in that State, which realises that housing is a social matter and that there can be no development without it. However, his awareness of the problem could have been generated by the public uproar at the Federal Government's direct raid on the home purchasers' pockets by the savage increases in interest rates last year. Public petitions begging for a reduction in these interest rates were drawn up and presented to this Parliament and the State Parliament without avail. How much of this mismanagement must we absorb before these protests are recognised and acted upon by this Government. No solutions have been offered in this session. 
Many anomalies flow from legislation. I instance the case of a young couple who, under the housing grants, should be receiving assistance. They went out of town some miles to obtain a cheap block of land. They spent all their personal savings which they both worked evenings, weekends and holtdays to earn, so as to construct their house on a self-help basis. They thus hoped to obtain a good family home. When they applied for their homes savings grant they were refused on the ground of the value placed on the home by the Department.  1  appealed to the Department on their behalf, sending detailed copies of the costs of building, which came well below that required by the legislation. I received a reply to the effect that the home was overvalued. No consideration was given to the actual cost of construction. One of the factors involved in the increased value given by the Department was the drainage of the block which was carried out to meet the requirements of the local authority. This increased the value of the block. No wonder such comparatively small allocations are made under this scheme. It is a political farce to utilise such slender excuses to dodge payment. When we have the legistion before us, we do not envisage anyone being so petty. It is quite scandalous. No wonder the people of Australia become suspicious of the intentions of this type of legislation. We who are prepared casually to deal with millions of dollars in the Supply Bills at such a late hour as this without the proper time to debate them should look at these matters to ensure that petty lines of demarcation are not drawn against individuals who are doing all they can to better their country. 
 I was pleased to find after my speech on an adjournment debate recently that the manager of the Australian Broadcasting Commission in Western Australia subsequently issued statements that the ABC was an autonomous body and had the right to select its programmes in the same way as any other organisation. This verifies my opinion that the ABC should be able to provide what the public wants which is direct telecasts of important football matches played in city areas of Western Australia on Saturday afternoons for the benefit of the sick, the aged and the shift workers. Therefore we were pleased to hear the statement of the manager of the ABC in Western Australia that he hoped the deadlock would be resolved in the future and extension of telecasts to country areas this week has provided us with some relief in this matter. However, I believe that the ABC should make a little extra effort and have the matter resolved this week and provide telecasts in the city areas because the matter has dragged on too long. I believe that the spirit of honesty and common sense of which the Western Australian manager of the ABC spoke should prevail. The argument put forward with regard to perimeter advertising is finished because if telecasts can be made to any country area the same picture image could be made available to city dwellers. The question now is one of service to the public in the city areas. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I  present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Humble Petition of the undersigned residents of the State of Western Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the present site of the Perth Airport is unsuitable because of - 
the morning fogs. 
its proximity to the Darling Ranges. 
its lack of planning, prior to construction. 
the loss to the local authority in rates and loss to the community in acreage of development areas and assets. 
the restriction placed on the development of surrounding shires due to existing flight paths and proposed flight paths; and 
the adjacent areas to the airport are suffering loss of value due to their unsuitability for high density development. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that action be taken to remove Perth airport from its present site to the site planned by Professor Stephenson's overall plan for the city of Perth, that is at Lake Gnangarra. 
And your Petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. What is being done to adjust the disproportionate rate of tax which is alleged by  Mr Hancock  of Hancock and Wright in Western Australia to be a contributing factor in preventing world corporations from participating in establishing steelworks in Western Australia? Is the right honourable gentleman aware that  Mr Hancock  is reported to have said that the main hurdles are in Canberra, where the conditions are too tough for capital to be forthcoming, and that this has already caused a number of world corporations to abandon the idea? Will he immediately take steps to rectify this situation? 
-I raise my protest over the lack of coverage in this Bill for an outworker or contractor, sub-contractor or owner-driver, particularly because of the growing practice of employing these people in the Commonwealth service. It would appear that the Commonwealth is utilising these people as a more economical method of having its work done. Call it cheap labour if you like. It is a worry that no attempt is to be made to protect what is, in effect, a large section of people performing work for the Commonwealth. With the passing of this Bill, the attraction will be there, on a cost basis, to further pass on work to sub-contractors or owner-drivers, thus avoiding the cost involved in the administration of this compensation Bill. It is regrettable that people who are honest, hard working artisans could be placed in the position that in 1 week they could work for the Commonwealth as fully protected wages employees under the provisions of this Bill, but they could be offered sub-contract or ownerdriver contract work the following week. 
The tragedy is that they will remain on the same type of work with great commitments in relation to their equipment to meet their contracts. These people are in extreme need of protection and there is no other adequate protection available to them anywhere. Assurances that this matter will be looked at in depth are urgently required, and assurances that this contract work will not be extended would be appreciated by those currently so employed. We would like further assurances that the cost factor will not be used to extend the subcontract system to the detriment of employees on wages when contracts are being looked at in the future. 
The Labor Party amendment gives these guarantees; so no difficulty in drafting the legislation can be envisaged. Only the adoption of the Labor amendment is required. Basically the only requirement is the ready acceptance by the Government of its obligation to these people. An accident to these people very often has disastrous effects, often leading at the very least to the repossession of equipment and vehicles and even the loss of their homes. They may go on to become bankrupts with no work to which to return. No doubt the Department of Social Services, which is handling this Bill, is well aware of the consequences with these contract people requiring social services in these circumstances. There is a need for rehabilitation training, but this is not preventing community problems. The real need is to see that all such people are fully protected by workers compensation, thus preventing the human tragedies which occur because of  the lack  of this protection. I ask the Minister to find a solution to this problem at an early date. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In  Committee 
The Bill. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
How many Commonwealth warrants have been issued, in each of the last 5 years, to assist State governments in apprehending road maintenance tax defaulters? 
How many persons have been imprisoned as a result of these warrants? 
How many warrants are current? 
It is with regret that I must say that I sat here and listened to so many people talking about trade unions who so obviously know nothing about them. I doubt whether they have ever held membership. If they did, I congratulate them. If they did not, then 
I suggest that they join a trade union and learn some of the principles involved. No doubt the Budget is so poor that Government supporters must spend their time talking about unions. One can only feel sorry for them. If they spent some of their time talking to trade union officials and members they would find that they are human beings who are just looking for a better way of life. Perhaps if honourable members opposite spent some time in the industrial courts listening to the evidence presented when the learned men grant wage rises they might understand some of the problems facing the ordinary man. But they seem devoid of this information. They are not even aware that decisions are made and carried out at the direction of properly constituted congresses and executives, and that one man acts as a spokesman only no matter how able he may be. 1 speak about the Budget with a feeling of despair for those people who have been neglected, not only by the complete inattention to their needs but by the paucity of the amounts granted. 1 refer to the pensioner and the part pensioner who sees the application of the means test continuing to their detriment. We had all hoped that a solution was in sight, that some formal attempt would be made to give justice to the pensioner and the superannuitant by ceasing to use the pension system as a political football. This Budget has finally convinced me that pensions must be taken out of the auspices of Parliament altogether and placed in the hands of an independent tribunal which will give proper consideration to the needs of these people and not take into consideration whether it is an election year or not. Perhaps this tribunal will be able to find how the wife of a pensioner can live on a wife's allowance of a miserable $8 a week or so. It is ridiculous to imagine that any thought has been given to the equity of the situation, that by some sudden miracle of aging process they are able to exist on half their counterparts' income. 
The situation often arises in which a pensioner has to look after a sick spouse, which necessitates extra work and extra expense, lt is political chicanery to offer them only this pittance just because their numbers are not sufficient to effect a swinging seat in Parliament. But the time is overdue to take a serious look at the situation and to treat pensioners as people and not as figures in the ballot box to be bought and sold at will. For that matter all wage setting should be taken from Parliament, including parliamentarians' salaries. 
In a country which pretends to support an arbitration system it is ludicrous to have 2 standards for the population - one for organised labour and another for the mist defenceless section of our community. The retired, the deserted, the bereaved are at the mercy of Party politics. I do not suggest they should fix their own incomes any more than we in Parliament should, for it is not only that justice should be done but that it should also appear to be done. If Parliament is to continue to set pensioners' incomes, perhaps Parliament would be content to have pensioners set Parliamentarians' salaries. I think not. So let us be decisive about this festering sore of injustice and forget Party politics. Let us find a true solution of the problem, perhaps by way of national superannuation. But let us discuss it and agree on a true solution so that old age will be a time of dignity and joy in a retirement well earned by all. 
An ominous note can be found in the Treasurer's speech. When he speaks about unions and arbitration it would appear that he is preparing for a confrontation with both these bodies. Does he realise that because of his Government's continued, irresponsible attacks on both these bodies which constitute a wide representation of Australian opinion and which have backgrounds of all political followings the Government is destroying public confidence in the fabric of law and order which we as Australian citizens hold so dear, which we in the Australian Labor Party stand for? I refer to the lawful organisation of workers in trade unions who in turn make their applications in respect of wages and conditions to a lawfully constituted authority of independent tribunals free from political bias and the interference of Party politics. However, we see the frightening situation of a government continually attacking an arbitration system formed under its own legislation, the members of which are appointed within the framework of its own legislation passed during the course of its reign. What sinister purpose has the Government in making this continual attack on our democratic framework? What is the purpose of its continual attacks on the trade union movement which consists of normal, everyday Australian citizens of all political colours? Is it that the Government wishes to destroy all that is unique in our Austraiian way of life, where the password of the Australian worker, the citizen, is a 'fair go for all'? There is some purpose in this pattern of attack when it is used to attempt to hide glaring deficiencies in the Budget and to attempt to conceal over 23 years of mismanagement by resorting to the trick of attacking part of our properly constituted community, it is a despicable form of politics and can only weaken the framework which goes to make our way of life. it is far past the time that this country was administered by statesmen with the interests of the nation at heart and not by politicians who utilise day to day situations for personal Cabinet ambition. We lack an administrative blueprint. This Budget should be one, but it is just another cog in an admitted stop-go policy, so long fostered by this Government which now complains about the way wages steadily increase. They steadily increase in order to keep up with prices and usurious interest rates - interest rates which were boosted by this Government in late 1970 and which caused an immediate increase of rent for most tenants and even larger weekly increases for home purchasers. Some were even forced to extend their purchase period from 5 to 7 years. This in turn caused a disastrous slump in the building industry from which it has not yet recovered. 
Although world trends are now towards a reduction in interest rates, no relief is offered by this Government. Without question, if there is an easing of interest rates generally in the distant future, interest rates on existing homes will not drop. Those people who have bought homes and paid an interest rate of 13 per cent on the loans will be unable to withdraw from their contracts. That situation will have been brought on by this Government which alone is responsible for the mismanagement. The ordinary man in the street has been brought to such a position where he must campaign for more money to enable them to exist. Their position is made even worse by the attack on wages through taxation, direct and indirect, in this Budget. 
The Government knows full well that the ordinary man will not be able to absorb these increased costs. It is fatuous nonsense to slate otherwise. The Government also knows full well that rank and file trade unionists will bring pressure to bear on their leaders to rectify the situation. In this lies the danger of Government statements about the 'economic responsibility' of the Arbitration Commission. Where is evidence of economic responsibility to be found in the Government's planning in this Budget? The Budget is a vacant, unimaginative document designed to extract more money from the people who can offer the least resistance to the demand. The lower the wage the harder the earner is hit. It is long past the time for strong measures to be taken to freeze unrealistic profits, particularly in the non-productive areas ofmoney making, money in hire purchase debts and home finance. Such measures would be an immediate relief to the not so rich and no doubt would boost building and allied industries. If world trends are followed this must eventually happen, even if it is when the trade union movement itself enters this field and offers active and real competition. 
The lack of provision of an Army base as promised for Western Australia for so long is a bitter disappointment to a State whose major cities are closer to Asia than to Canberra. This remoteness from the eastern States may account for the lack of consideration. Western Australia and eastern Australia are not even linked by an all-weather highway as yet. The request for the relatively small amount of $6m, which is all the Commonwealth is asked to contribute, has again been ignored. What do we need to do to persuade the Government to initiate a sensible and balanced defence system for the west? Do we need a war or a threat of war because I find it too hard to believe that even this Government would abandon us completely in time of war? The Government is getting far too much out of iron ore royalties alone to do that. But it is a senseless situation when one half of the area of Australia is left without proper defence planning. We have a naval base in the making at Cockburn Sound and an airfield on North West Cape. But where is the balancing power of the Army? We would be more reassured when a firm date could be offered. This situation is like the rest of the Budget. It lacks an eye to the future. Is it to be a disaster? 
We have not yet had any indication of what the future holds in regard to the present monetary crisis. Is there to be another recession or depression? There is the Government's indecent haste to destroy the trade union leadership and create industrial anarchy. Perhaps the Government is acting on the theory that if they are destroyed there will be no real opposition to further wage cuts by way of taxation or by other legislation. However, wage cuts will lead only to rank and file confrontation. Union leadership and arbitration will be bypassed if the Government's plans, which are shaping towards fruition, so that it may rule by force and fear, are implemented within the next 12 months. It would appear that the ranks of the unemployed will be further swelled by the farming community which is dying a slow death, so to speak, at the moment. Many producers are awaiting execution by stock companies and banks which are content at the moment to allow them to remain on their properties with a growing interest bill. The companies know full well that they must eventually become the owners of the properties, that is, if they are not in fact already the owners, due to unpaid stock bills and so on, which are compounding. 
The only business survivors in country areas will be the banks and the stock companies. This will mean an influx to the cities of the country's unemployed and dispossessed farmers. I already have a number of them in my electorate and they are doing the most menial jobs. These men are the most insecure of all sections and they will be the worst hit by increases of unemployment in the future. The farmers in the most pathetic situation are those who have sold properties to families or others who have been unable to meet their commitments. These people have no cash income and must find work again at a very late stage in life, because due to the means test they do not qualify for social service benefits. This Budget offers no relief to them so they continue to compete in the employment field and perhaps help this Government achieve its purpose of a pool of unemployed to suppress wages. 
Out of all of the comments made on the Budget by newspapers the most appropriate appears to be that of the Melbourne Herald' which said, in effect, that the Treasurer's first Budget told the average wager earner: 'You are overpaid. We will take the surplus from you. We can handle it better than you can'. He appears to be obsessed with demand inflation - potential demand at that. But Australia's problem today is not excessive demand but cost inflation. There has been, in fact, a disturbing slow-down in demand. It is difficult to escape the conclusion that the Govern-, ment has taken the lazy way out. This comment was a very appropriate description of a Treasury device which has been tried overseas, and failed, and can lead only to a general slow-down and unemployment. The suspicion arises that the surplus of $630m which has been budgeted for is planned for unemployment relief.No other explanation which is of any value has been offered. Perhaps the Treasurer is planning some of the capital expenditure works as unemployment relief works. 
There are hidden reductions in war service building loans. The amount of the loan to each individual has been increased but the total amount allocated for war service homes has been reduced by Sim. This means that fewer war service homes will be built this year. So in fact a cut back in war service homes has occurred. At the same time, the curtailing of the CommonwealthState Housing Agreement has been described as treachery by one Liberal State Housing Minister. This curtailing leaves a situation in which the States will be unable to have proper planning over the years for low cost housing. They will be at the mercy of every yearly Budget, at the whim of the Federal Cabinet and the Federal Treasurer of the time. Quite clearly there is no argreement no reassurance, that housing will not fall victim to changing circumstances as we have seen with so many items in this Budget. Reassurance is needed in this area. The Government's departure from its agreement with the States on housing seems in keeping with the lack of overall planning of which I complained. 
The Budget offers no relief to local government bodies which are suffering under usurious interest rates. This is a field that the Commonwealth can enter with results in employment and local works. The Commonwealth can assist by making grants to local government bodies and by providing loans to local government bodies at reasonable interest rates. Not only local government bodies in the cities are feeling the economic stress, but country shires also are unable to raise loans even to meet previous commitments. The future is indeed bleak, with falling country populations and incomes. 
The Government's attitude in completely ignoring this area in the Budget is similar to the contempt shown to the education crisis which exists in Australia and which has brought condemnation from private and government school bodies. This problem is a compounding one which has suffered a lack of attention for so long that there will continue to be a large number of young people in the employment market. If proper schooling facilities were available these young people would still be studying for their own benefit and for the benefit of the nation. It is not enough for the Government to say that it cannot keep up with the demands on it for universities and colleges of advanced education. The suspicion exists that the Government believes that by curtailing the facilities for education at the lower level it is reducing the demand on universities and colleges. This may well be true, but it is a disgrace that so many of our young people and children of migrants who have come to this land believing it to be a land of promise are denied opportunities which are their right and which they should not have to beg for. 
A country is judged internationally by its standard of education and technology. We are not keeping pace; as has been proved by recent surveys in both government and private sectors. The evidence has been substantiated and is irrefutable. Campaigns have taken place to draw the attention of the Government to the gravity of the situation, yet the matter has been substantially ignored. What has to happen before action is taken? Is this yet another matter which is being saved as the subject for an election gimmick? We have had. these situations before, and how many election promises have been kept? Very few have been kept, and those that have been honoured have been subject to severe pruning. 
Education is one area which must not be allowed to degenerate as it has in the past until it has become a political instrument for buying votes. The future of our young people, who will have charge of our nation's future, must be taken far more seriously than it has been in this Budget. In the fields of social services and education the average man is prepared happily to make some sacrifices. It is up to the Government to recognise this and to take action to put these matters on a sensible standing above politics. We need imaginative action over and above the personal ambitions of Government members, above vote catching measures ia election years and above party politics. In. fact, for a solution to problems in these areas pol /cians must act as statesmen and not as PO.ticians. This is not too much to ask for the sake of the nation. . 
This Government has forsaken the interests of the country. With the increased overseas control of our finance, no wonder our Government has not been able to predict how a world monetary crisis will affect us. The decisions on Australia's finance are now made, overseas, with some 60 public companies engaged in non-bank financed activities being substantially overseas owned, with 39 overseas banking institutions being represented here since 1957. With the overall trend of joint participation by Australian and overseas financial institutions, the hope of Australian control of our financial destiny will become even more remote unless the Government is prepared to take strong action to protect us as most democratic governments protect their people. During the year 1970-71 the Government foreshadowed possible action to increase the degree of . competition within the economy and from external sources. It also foreshadowed measures to dampen spending on non-dwelling building construction. Was this because it presented a challenge from overseas financial institutions which had a vested interest in the continuance of these projects? But the Government was content to see a dampening of home dwelling units which was caused by the lending cutback of the banks. In all the Government has proven by its past actions and its Budget proposals that it is completely orientated not to the average Australian but to the financial institutions, major mining, investment . and production monopolies which seem to be protected in this country. 
This position is not unique to Australia. The same situation applies in the United States of America where lack of action by politicians is described in one report as: Bureaucratic cowardice and anticipatory polities'. One can only hope that this description will not apply to this Government, that action will be taken and that anti-trust legislation will be made effective to prevent the growth of price fixing monopolies and overseas control of all that we buy and borrow. These non-competitive industries are like this Government which holds the ordinary working man and the social service pensioner to ransom. We are working for the Government and overseas interests. It is time our national pride came to the forefront. It is time this Parliament introduced truly Australian self-protection legislation on which all members of this House would agree. In those circumstances we could really consider the benefits of a truly Australian Budget based on a blueprint for the future and not a stop-go policy. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Giles)  adjourned. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of  the  House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of residents of the Division of the Australian Capital Territory respectfully showeth: 
Thai there is a likelihood that education in the Austraiian Capital Territory will in the foreseeable future be made independent of the New South Wales education system. 
That the decentralisation of education systems throughout Australia is educationally and administratively desirable, and is now being studied by several State Government Departments. 
That the Australian Capital Territory is a homogeneous and coherent unit especially favourable for such studies. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that  a  Committee of Enquiry, on which are represented the Department of Education and Science, institutions of tertiary education, practising educators, and the Canberra communty, be instituted to enquire into the form that an Australian Capital Territory Education Authority should take, the educational principles and philosophy that should underlie it, and its mode of operation and administration. 
Any your Petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Recently I asked a question on notice regarding the sinking of the S.S. 'Hanna' or its presumed sinking after its crew had left it on 4th March of this year some 2,000 miles from Fremantle with its decks awash and at least four of its main bulkheads collapsed in what was moderate weather for that time of the year. The crew were fortunate that they were taken aboard the m.v. 'Glastone Star' which had stood by for 24 hours. What appals me is that this ship had been allowed to put to sea in an obviously dangerous condition with the possibility of loss of life to the crew and the further danger of the hulk to other shipping. In normal circumstances one would think that a ship such as this would have been kept in port. The S.S. 'Hanna' had been in its new owner's hands for some weeks. I believe that Taiwanese interests had purchased it from American interests. The ship had gone from Taiwan to Adelaide to load bulk grain. At Port Pirie in South Australia 2 Commonwealth surveyors ordered structural defects to be repaired. Repairs included welding plates over splits in the ship's deck. The work was effected under the supervision of representatives of the American Bureau of Shipping. However the grain was not loaded and the ship proceeded to Bunbury in Western Australia for a load of ilmenite sand. This was after a permit had been issued by the representatives of the American Bureau of Shipping, which permitted the S.S. 'Hanna' to carry cargo provided it underwent a complete survey within 60 days. 
At Bunbury the harbourmaster, acting as a Commonwealth surveyor, inspected the vessel in relation to the cargo and discovered further structural defects. A Department of Shipping and Transport surveyor from Fremantle further inspected the vessel and endorsed the decision of the Bunbury harbourmaster that the repairs should be effected under the supervision of the American Bureau of Shipping, whose local representative subsequently issued a report to the effect that these repairs had been effected, confirming the view of his counterpart in South Australia that the ship be allowed to carry cargo provided that it was surveyed within 60 days of the date of the South Australian inspection. Because of this, according to the then Minister's reply to the question, and because it held the necessary international certificate this potential coffin was allowed to sail, no doubt with full insurance cover on the vessel and its cargo of ilmenite sand. 
The vessel was subsequently abandoned about half-way between Australia and South Africa with broken frames and adjacent steel plate buckled and sinking 9 days after leaving Bunbury in Western Australia and in comparatively good weather for that time of the year. The Department of Foreign Affairs and the Department of Shipping and Transport have expressed in writing to the Panamanian Government, with which the ship was registered, and to the American Bureau of Shipping their concern in the matter. I ask: Is this good enough? Here is an obvious situation where a floating death trap was discovered in Australia and allowed to leave. How many other ships travelling under Panamanian registration are in the same condition? How many other ships receive clearance certificates from the American Bureau of Shipping, which is a classification society authorised to act on behalf of the Government of Panama, when the vessels are in an unseaworthy condition? This is an international scandal and it is up to the Australian authorities to ensure that this type of incident cannot again occur and not to leave the burden of responsibility to the seamen to refuse to man such ships or to waterside labour to lose its income by taking industrial action to prevent the loading of such vessels. 
It is of no use to say that some other authority issued a clearance. It needs the confirmation of our own Commonweatlh surveyors to ensure that this dangerous practice is not tolerated. It is no good waiting until we have a loss of life of crew or until another vessel, possibly a passenger vessel, collides with a floating hulk. No party actually saw the 'Hanna' sink. No attempt was made to ensure that the hulk was disposed of. Where was the Australian Navy on this occasion? Who has some evidence of where the hulk is? The casual manner in which this whole matter has been treated is beyond comprehension. If some loophole does exist in our international agreements in relation to safety it is up to the Government to close that loophole. This can be done only by proper inquiry and investigation, by the responsible Ministers exerting their authority to ensure that the full facts of such incidents are fully disclosed and by taking action to ensure that Commonwealth inspectors are not in fact overruled by some outside party. I believe this is what has happened in this case. 
An inquiry, preferably an open inquiry, into this matter is needed, for beyond doubt the people who practise in this field of marine surveying will want the responsibility sheeted home to the people concerned. If someone took a risk on behalf of some shipowner, this should be revealed not as a matter of retribution but as a preventive against such incidents in future not only to guarantee the safety of those who man the ships but also to protect those who travel as passengers in these and other ships. On this occasion all were lucky. Had heavy weather been encountered, as could be expected in this area at this time of the year, it could have led to heavy loss of life. This is an untenable situation and not one which we should be prepared to stand by and allow to happen. No doubt this House will be informed of the replies to our official protests to the Panamanian Government and the American Bureau of Shipping and an inquiry will be instituted into the standard of qualifications and other relevant information regarding the circumstances of those who certificated the vessel as fit to leave the Australian port. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Which of the recommendations of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Aircraft Noise, tabled in the House on 29th October 1970, have been adopted. 
Have any recommendations not been adopted; if so, what recommendations and why. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble pteition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That they are gravely concerned at the apparent appalling increase in crime in Australia, particularly in densely populated areas; 
That they fear the police forces of the various States and Territories are undermanned and underequipped to handle the increase in crime; 
That their concern is aggravated by the apparent number of unsolved crimes particularly those involving violence to the individual including murder. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray thai the Honourable Members of the House of Representatives will seek to ensure that the Commonwealth Government will seek, the co-operation of the States and supply extra finance to the States to enable; 
proper town planning and development to halt the increase in densely populated areas which leads to increased crime. 
the proper staffing and equipping nf police forces to enable adequate crime prevention and detection measures to reduce the frightening increase, of both solved and unsolved crime, 
. the proper detention of and rehabilitation of criminals, and 
compensation to victims of crimes of violence, and your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. , 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and the Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That due to higher living costs, including increasing charges for health services, most aged persons living on fixed incomes are suffering acute distress. 
That Australia is the only English-speaking country in the world to retain a means test for aged pensioners and that a number of European countries also have no means test. 
That today's aged persons have paid at least 7i per cent of their taxable incomes towards social services since the absorption of Special Social Services Taxation in Income Tax and continue to make such payments. (7i per cent of all taxable incomes for 1966-67 amounted to $783,082,150 and this year will produce more than $800,000,000 more than sufficient to abolish the means -test immediately.) 
That the middle income group, the most heavily-taxed sector of the community, subsidises the lax commitment of the upper income bracket through the amount of social services contributions collected by the government and not spent on the purposes for which they were imposed. 
That the abolition of the. means . test, will give  a  boost to the economy by: 
additional tax revenue .from pensions  
swelling of the work force,- and 
increased spending by pensioners. 
That it is considered just ' and right to allow people who have been frugal,' have lived their lives with dignity and have been anything but an encumbrance on the nation, to maintain that dignity to the end of their lives- free from fear of penury. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that 'the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to abolish the 'means test for all people who have reached retiring age or who otherwise qualify for social service benefits or pensions. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and the Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled, we, the Citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia, residents in the State of Western Australia do humbly petition and pray that all levels of Government responsible in Australia will take note' of the wishes of we, the Citizens, in so far as we request: 
That the Commonwealth co-operate with all authorities to ensure the early sealing of the one East-West road link, the Eyre Highway, and that urgent consideration be given to increasing the maintenance of the road in the intervening period and endeavour to curtail the dreadful road toll, injury and vehicle damage. 
That the Commonwealth consider this road as a Defence Measure for the whole of Australia and road link connecting the two coasts of the Continent, and consideration to the sealing from the aspect of the increase of Trade and Tourism within Australia, thus encouraging the retention of the finance in Australia which is now going overseas. Consideration be given on the grounds of a better understanding between the people of all of the States of Australia, because of their improved ability to travel and meet one another. 
That consideration be given to one of the most heavily taxed groups within the community, the motorist, and be given the opportunity to enjoy some of the tax fee as charged, by being able to travel with reasonable comfort and safety on the major highways of Australia. 
That consideration be given to returning specifically for this purpose the increased revenue received from the increase in petrol tax. 
We, the Petitioners humbly pray that the House of Representatives in the Parliament Assembled would take immediate steps to ensure provision of funds to provide for the all weather sealing of this important highway, the Eyre Highway, linking East and West and your Petitioners as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and the Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully request: 
That the Commonwealth Government give urgent consideration when making grants to aged persons homes that conditions of tenancy be imposed to protect the tenant who makes a donation to gain admittance to these homes which is very often their life savings. 
That conditions of tenancy ensure that evictions do not take place without the intervention of an independent tribunal, such as appointed by the Minister's Department. 
That the Commonwealth ensure that these properties are not resold after a person is evicted but is let. 
That all steps are taken that everyone is assured that no profit has arisen from an eviction. 
That representatives of the residents are appointed to the Board of the home. 
That annual elections are held for representatives of the residents on the board of management. 
That an annual audited statement of accounts is submitted to the Social Services Department and is made available to the residents of the premises to ensure that all charges made and costs are to the satisfaction of the residents. 
That Government give consideration to a total review of the conditions of grants to ensure that protection is given to the residents of these aged persons establishments and to the management. 
Your petitioners humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled would take immediate steps to ensure that these requests are met so that people who have reached retiring age can enter these premises with dignity and peace of mind, and without fear of insecurity of the future in having to establish themselves- in other premises. The petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
1 present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament Assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That they are gravely concerned at the apparent appalling increase in crime in Australia, particularly in densely populated areas;  That they fear the police forces of the various States and Territories are undermanned and underequipped to handle the increase in crime; 
That their concern is aggravated by the apparent number of unsolved crimes particularly those involving violence to the individual - including -murder. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Honourable Members of the House of Representatives will seek to ensure that the Commonwealth Government will seek the co-operation of the States and supply extra finance to the States to enable; 
proper town planning and development to halt the increase in densely populated areas which leads to increased crime, 
the proper staffing and equipping of police forces to enable adequate crime prevention and detection measures to reduce the frightening increase of both solved and unsolved crime, 
the proper detention of and rehabilitation of criminals, and 
compensation to victims of crimes of violence. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and the Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully request: 
That the Commonwealth Government give urgent consideration when making Grants to Aged Persons Homes that conditions of tenancy be imposed to protect the tenant who makes a donation to gain admittance to these homes which is very often their life savings. 
That Conditions of tenancy ensure ' that evictions do not take place without the intervention of an independent tribunal, such as appointed by the Ministers Department 
That the Commonwealth ensure that these properties are not resold after a person is evicted but is let. 
That all steps are taken to ensure that everyone is assured that no profit has arisen from an eviction. 
That representatives of the residents are appointed to the Board of the Home. 
That Annual Elections are held tor Representatives of the residents on the Board of Management. 
 That a Annual Audited statement of accounts is submitted to the Social Services Department and is made available to the residents of the premises to ensure that all charges made and costs are to the satisfaction of the residents. - That Government give consideration to a total review of the conditions of Grants to ensure that protection is given to the residents of these Aged Persons Establishments and to the Management. 
Your Petitioners humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled would take immediate steps to ensure that these requests are met so that people who have reached retiring age can enter these premises with dignity and peace' of mind, and without fear of insecurity of the future in having to establish themselves in other premises. The Petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
This Bill illustrates clearly the Commonwealth Government's attitude to State governments, for the funds to be made available to the Western Australian Government will not be by way of grant but as a loan requiring high interest payments. The Commonwealth's attitude has led to a situation in Western Australia where most major railway developments, and possible areas of profit for railways, are in the hands of private enterprise. I instance the north-western area of Western Australia where the railway lines which carry the iron ore have been developed and are owned by private companies instead of by the Commonwealth or the State. If, instead of adopting a niggardly attitude, the Commonwealth had had vision it would have been possible for the Western Australian 
Government to develop these lines. For that matter, if the Commonwealth were genuinely interested in national development and decentralisation it would have taken the initiative and ensured Australian ownership and control of these railways. It would have linked them with a coastal rail system thereby linking the Geraldton rail terminal with northern ports. This would be the logical step in providing a rail link for the northern ports with the rest of Australia. 
The Government has expended enormous sums on subsidising airlines and coastal shipping services and it is incredible that a feasibility study was not made of the works proposed to be undertaken in accordance with this railway agreement. It is the Government's lack of vision which continues to hinder the development of Australian transport systems. At present the Government is pursuing a piece by piece programme under which in most cases funds are available only to improve existing routes. No overall planning is envisaged and instead of there being effective development the Government is trying to solve existing problems. It is necessary to extend and redesign marshalling yards and freight terminals. One wonders whether the works that have been completed already will not require further expansion. I hope that when that situation arises the Commonwealth will make funds available not only for that purpose but also to enable a proper study to be made of future requirements so that, high tonnage lines will not be developed by private combines leaving only uneconomic areas for government railways. 
The agreement overlooks one important issue. No provision is made for the rehabilitation of tracks and rolling stock. The Commonwealth, in effect, is saying to the State: 'We will help you establish the standard gauge and to acquire rolling stock, but it will be up to you to maintain them'. It is too much to expect a State to bear such costs. It will be impossible for the State to meet such expenditure under the present financial structure of the Commonwealth and the States. This is a national project and should be planned on that basis. The time is overdue for the Commonwealth to take a truly national interest in the future of Australia's transport systems. The Government should drop its ill-planned, stop-go, stopgap policy of waiting until a problem arises before it reacts slowly to deal with it - that is, if it deals with it at all. This attitude is evident in the Esperance to Kalgoorlie railway line fiasco. 
Where is the Government's interest in national development and decentralisation? Seemingly it has no interest in the national development of Australian railways. If it were interested it would be promoting the improvement and standardisation of suburban rail systems to a modern standard. It would be financing experimental passenger systems, not only on an interstate basis but also on an intrastate and suburban basis in an effort to ensure that our railway systems have an economically competitive future and do not deteriorate to the stage where they become a drain on the taxpayer. A feasibility study should be undertaken to determine whether railway systems should be a drain on the taxpayer or should be developed as a community amenity. A study should be made of suburban railways as a means of easing road congestion, reducing the road toll and combating pollution. This is the type of thinking which is needed; not the type of thinking which permits the construction of a standard gauge line on which trains, like the Indian-Pacific train, operate at an average speed of only 45 miles an hour. It is as quick to travel by motor car as it is to travel by the Indian-Pacific. In fact I could make a journey a dam sight quicker in my car. Perhaps there is some additional profit to be gained from selling sleeper accommodation. Perhaps the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  will explain the motives in placing into service something which, by world standards, is obsolete. 
It is envisaged on a world basis that future trains will travel at speeds ranging from 150 miles an hour to more than 300 miles an hour. It is ridiculous that with Australia's vast distances the Australian public should be given such poor service. The maximum speed at which the IndianPacific train travels is 75 miles an hour, and this is on our main east-west line. That maximum speed is maintained for a brief time only, hence the low average speed. Perhaps the Minister will be able to indicate whether it is proposed to speed up this service. We cannot make our railway systems pay because we are suffering from obsolete planning and obsolete equipment. We have an obsolete Federal Government whose lack of consideration was typified by the recent overnight increase in Commonwealth rail fares when pensioners and others who had planned to travel were faced with increased fares making it impossible for many of them to travel or, because of the short notice involved, if they did travel, to arrive at their destinations with no spending money. I instance this situation as an illustration of the lack of thought and consideration which seems to filter through all aspects of Government policy. 
As the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  mentioned, Western Australia is not receiving favourable treatment. In fact the treatment it is receiving is inequitable. It will be faced with unreasonable interest rates and whatever expansion works it undertakes will be a direct drain on the State Treasury or on Commonwealth funds which are made available to that State. It is time action was taken to conduct a feasibility survey to ensure co-ordination of all forms of transport and to review subsidies to enable a rationalisation of the cost to the Australian taxpayer, particularly because of the lack of overall return on public money invested in our railway systems. The Australian taxpayer must meet the total cost involved in this Bill as well as the interest payments that will become necessary. Although the payment to the State may seem substantial, the situation is frightening when regard is had to the amount that must be repaid simply because the Commonwealth Government will not recognise its responsibilities and make grants to the State or remove from the State the responsibility for constructing the railway works proposed. 
The east-west line is the only all-weather land link to Western Australia. The Commonwealth Government has seen fit to refuse funds for an all-weather road so it is important that the proposed standard gauge lines linking with the main railway system should be developed for defence, trade and tourist purposes. The Commonwealth Government should provide at least one fully integrated land transport system to Western Australia. It should not wait until ad hoc pressures from private development companies force a decision which may be too late. The profitable ore lines are in the hands of private companies and the cost of obtaining the use of such lines or acquiring them would be prohibitive. The present situation is similar to what would be the situation if all airports were in the hands of private companies. There is lack of planning and the situation could arise under which the decisions concerning Australia's internal rail transport were made in overseas boardrooms and were dependent on fluctuations in overseas markets and economies. It would be appalling if this situation were allowed to develop, but there are no Government plans to provide railway extensions into our northern regions. Obviously such development will come only with private companies which will consider their own needs and not the needs of the Australian community. If they want any moneys for development from the Commonwealth, they must repay the amount almost twice over, as is the case in this instance. The Commonwealth has made an investment for which it will receive the benefit of having an integrated rail development on which to utilise more efficiently its own rolling stock, achieving more economic use and quicker turnround of its own rolling stock and all the profitable benefits which accrue. It is regrettable that it never took a larger degree of responsibility in the matter. Once again, it is leaving the State to carry a heavy financial burden. 
I agree with the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin)  that this is a very vital area of aviation. He went on to quote the present general manager of Qantas Airways Limited. Let me quote the former general manager of Qantas,  Sir Hudson  Fysh, in a letter to the 'Sydney Morning Herald' of 21st September 1971. The letter is headed 'Qantas under pressure'. It reads as follows: 
The reported result of the recent negotiations between Australia and the US ('Herald', September 20), in which Australia has been forced to give way in allowing a greatly disproportionate number of seats per week on the South Pacific services between the US and Australia to the US operators, and a great increase in seats, at the very time when aircraft of both countries are operating on an average far less than half full, can only come as a shock to all those who have at heart the interests of Australia and Qantas, and of good international relations. 
In fact, a case could have been made out for a conference to reduce the number of seats being flown till traffic improved, not to increase them. 
The flat refusal to allow the Qantas Jumbo jet to fly to the US though Pan American Airways were flying the type to Australia illustrates the Western-type pistol-point negotiations which took place and which stood Australia up in a corner, and can be described as a triumph of might over right. 
The result of the negotiations, or the way in which they have worked out, denies the right of one of the participants to equal ownership of the inter-country air traffic on a basis calculated to produce operation without financial loss. This denies the very basis of international air transport negotiation as I have always seen it. 
It is to be hoped that a new and equitable agreement can be negotiated speedily and before irreparable harm has been done to the Australian operator, which, unlike the mighty US companies, cannot afford to operate one of its important routes on the basis of half empty, unpayable seat places. 
Meanwhile, Australians will rally round their own company, Qantas, and the superlative service it provides. 
I think that answers anything that may have been said by the honourable member for Mitchell. It is with genuine alarm for the wellbeing not only of the air traveller but also of those people who live near our airports - in particular, our international airports - that I rise to support the amendment of the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones).  We have had two near airline catastrophes of a major nature which have virtually been dismissed with a slight note of reproval to the parties concerned, in a way so casual that it raised the ugly suspicion that this is a common occurrence and that it was just unfortunate that the matter became public knowledge. No other explanation could be offered for the inactivity of responsible bodies by way of inquiry. Must we wait until a crash actually occurs, wiping out not only the passengers and crew but perhaps a school or hundreds of nearby residents? 
This is of more concern to people living in areas adjacent to the Perth international airport where the runways are currently being extended to take the jumbo jets. These runways will place flight paths over populated areas so that these people have not only the invasion of privacy by aircraft noise but now the added fear that safety standards are much lower than was previously thought. Even if the authorities are satisfied in their own minds that all is well they should have taken steps by now to ensure that their convictions were backed by evidence produced at a properly constituted inquiry and that the inquiry's findings and recommendations for steps to be taken to prevent such further incidents will be made public and put into practice immediately. The Western Australian public has had its fears aroused by the contents of an article published in the 'West Australian' newspaper on Thursday, 22nd July of this year. 
The article referred to the refutation by the spokesman for the Australian Federation of Air Pilots of the statements of the Director-General of Civil Aviation. Terms such as 'pre-judging the issue' are used to refer to the Director's allegation that a pilot of a Pan-American Boeing 747 had made a major error in judgment. So we have a public situation of two responsible bodies making statements of blame in a manner which can only alarm the public. Still there has been no Government move to bring reassurance to the situation. There has been no suspension of Boeing 747 flights until the suitability of the airport landing system is resolved. Surely this would have been a reasonable action in view of reported statements by Federation spokesmen that the airline wanted a further test conducted on the T-VASI system before allowing their 747 pilots to use it for landings, particularly when the visual approach slope indicator system, the system employing red and white guide lights, is known and accepted as being unsuitable for jumbo jets. Is it not reasonable that, if there are doubts about the so-called accepted system and there is no acceptable alternative, flights be suspended until all possible doubts are eliminated? Once these doubts have been expelled, the public must be informed fully and assured that these matters have been investigated fully and properly. A joint select committee which will properly investigate all the aspects mentioned in the amendment and which will report to the Parliament and the public is the answer. 
The suspension of flights by overseas airlines into the United States of America is not such a terrible challenge to the United States, which is threatening to ban Aer Lingus, Ireland's international airline, from New York a year from now unless American carriers are granted permission to land at Dublin. However it will allow Aer Lingus to continue less lucrative services to Boston and Chicago. The United States has been trying for 25 years to obtain permission for its international airlines to land aircraft at Dublin, but the Irish will allow them to operate only through Shannon. It would appear that if it is possible for the Irish to negotiate in this manner on landing rights, it should be possible for us to take a stand on safety. In particular, whilst our Director-General of Civil Aviation was in the United States of America to discuss the United States ban on Qantas jumbo jet flights to America, with the disadvantage of having had one Australian compromise deal rejected by the United States of America, he negotiated from a situation of weakness, with lack of government action to support Qantas and a heavy commitment to purchase the United States Boeing 747B at $21m odd. All the problems which have been facing Qantas must be investigated. With aircrew insecurity, a record unemployment level among aircrew and an international monetary crisis taking place, it will be a national disgrace to allow such major expenditure to continue. Unless all aspects of operations by Qantas are investigated by a joint select committee we will create a situation in which we could be compounding errors in management or errors in judgment. 
It rests with the Parliament finally to make a decision to involve itself in the task of finding out why our major international airline cannot be put in a position similar to British Overseas Airways Corporation, which made a substantial net profit of  $6,857,280.  Why can Qantas not be put into a similar situation? BOAC has a triple automatic pilot system fitted to its Boeing  747  jumbo jets to allow automatic landing in bad weather. It is all this kind of information which must be placed before a joint select committee for evaluation. From evidence arising from intensive research presented to such an inquiry it may well be found that existing airports are in fact unsuitable for the Boeing  747  and its approach systems. We must bear in mind that we are currently expending large sums of public moneys, millions of dollars in fact, to extend runways and provide landing systems for flight paths over densely populated areas, without due consideration to the safety of those people under the flight paths or to the noise nuisance to which they have  so  strenuously objected. It may well be found that international airports need urgent resiting to cater for new aircraft not now in use but which it is envisaged will be in operation in the foreseeable future. 
The existing system of deciding to purchase an aircraft, then making landing sites and systems to suit the purchase at public expense needs investigation, more so when public expenditure is demanded to allow foreign competitors to land in Australia to the disadvantage of Qantas and to the disadvantage of Australia's foreign exchange balance. In the proposed inquiry we should look at the effects on our foreign exchange balance, of our policy of allowing our airlines to purchase aircraft fully constructed overseas when we have a failing aircraft construction industry in Australia. A proper look at all aspects of Australian aircraft assembly may well reveal that a heavy protection policy for Qantas is justified. After all, this policy was adopted for the motor industry. Why must we continue to be a slave to American industry and to American airlines, which are in turn heavily supported by their government? Let us take an independent, comprehensive look at the overall situation which is now facing the airline industry by utilising the services of a joint select committee. 
We must bear in mind that supersonic aircraft and flight are with us. It is imperative that the select committee look at this 
18938/71- Jยป.-64J 
aspect. It may well find that Qantas, which I understand has options on supersonic aircraft, is intending to use these aircraft at airports totally unsuitable because of their siting. Perhaps for safety reasons only it will be found that most major Australian international airports need to be shifted. This Parliament must be fully informed. Are the Qantas Concorde and supersonic flight aircraft be become another Fill fiasco? This can be avoided by proper investigation now. There is evidence available that must be investigated. To give a few examples of the things that should be investigated, I quote from the 'Paddington Journal', which has done a lot of research on this matter. It states: 
The Real  Cost 
All aircraft cost millions of money, but that's only metal and paper and doesn't hurt anyone. What we also have to pay, as revealed by SST tests over 7 United States cities and by Concorde flights over England and France, is a feeling of human despair at forever surrendering peace and quiet, damage to property that may or may nol be compensated (and will take a long time), aborted young in humans and animals (one Mink farmer lost 2.000 kits) landslides and animal stampedes in the path of the sonic boom (from 40 to 60 miles wide on the ground along the whole flight path of the 'plane), pollution from highly dangerous industrial poisons' added to SST fuel, as well as other fallout; the gigantic noise of the SST especially at airports; the danger to buildings (a Reuter report in the Guardian (London) on 5/8/67 said the French Government paid ยฃ143.000 in 1966 in compensation for damage and that ' . . . a fresh wave of anxiety swept France this week when a farmhouse in the north-west collapsed, killing 3 people. Survivors said they heard a loud sonic boom just before the roof beams fell in'); the upset of the stratosphere - 'It is known that SST operation will introduce substantial additional moisture into the stratosphere. This moisture may destroy some fraction of the ozone in the atmosphere leading to an increase in the ultra violet radiation on earth. . . . Life could not exist if the earth were not shielded by ozone from the full effects of ultraviolet radiation; it is not presently known just what adverse effects small increases in ultra violet radiation might have on leafy plants and sensitive life forms. . . . 
All this evidence is available and should be looked at. Remember, these are problems in flight, and we must investigate all these aspects if we are to operate international airlines and aircraft. We must have an investigation on world standards. Let us not continue eternally to bury our heads in the sand on the question of aircraft safety and aircraft noise. These matters all are associated with Qantas not only of the future but of today. This Parliament will be asked to ratify purchases of aircraft, expansion ofairports, and underwriting to the extent of millions of dollars of public funds. The Parliament should be fully informed of the consequences of its vote. We must take action before a major tragedy initiates world sympathy and belated public protest and even belated Government investigation. We have had the good fortune of near misses. We have not had a 747 come down in one of the crowded suburbs that are adjacent to all our major airports, or a Concorde creating damage in the countryside or devastating our metropolitan suburbs. It may well be found that our fears are groundless but we should have a proper investigation to be assured and take whatever action is required in the Parliament. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament Assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Sales Tax on all forms of Contraceptive Devices is 271/2 per cent. (Sales Tax Exemptions and Classifications Act 1935-1967). Also that there is Customs duty of up to 471/2 per cent on some Contraceptive devices. 
And that this is an unfair imposition on the human rights of all people who wish to prevent unwanted pregnancies. And furthermore that this imposition discriminates particularly against people on low incomes. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Sales Tax on all forms of Contraceptive Devices be removed, so as to bring these items into line with other necessities such as food, . upon which there is no Sales Tax. Also that Customs Duties be removed, and that all Contraceptive Devices be placed on the National Health Scheme Pharmaceutical Benefits List. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Will the Minister for the Army, subsequent to his assurance that all troops will be home from Vietnam for Christmas, and bearing in mind that some Western Australian servicemen have been advised that they will have to travel from Townsville in Queensland to Western Australia by train and that they will arrive in Western Australia after Christmas, either arrange earlier departure dates from Townsville to ensure that Western Australian servicemen arrive home for Christmas or arrange air transport so that families and servicemen will not be disappointed? Further, will he give assurances that all troops will in fact be provided with transport within Australia which will allow them to be reunited with their families for Christmas Day? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and the Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully request: 
That the Commonwealth Government give urgent consideration when making grants to aged persons homes that conditions of tenancy be imposed to protect the tenant who makes a donation to gain admittance to these homes which is very often their life savings. 
That conditions of tenancy ensure that evictions do not take place without the intervention of an independent tribunal, such as appointed by the Minister's Department. 
That the Commonwealth ensure that these properties are not resold after a person is evicted but is let. 
That all steps are taken to ensure that everyone is assured that no profit has arisen from an eviction. 
That Representatives of the residents are appointed to the Board of the Home. 
That Annual elections are held for representatives of the residents on the Board of Management. 
That an annual audited statement of accounts is submitted to the Social Services Department and is made available to the residents of the premises to ensure that all charges made and costs are to be to the satisfaction of the residents. 
That Government give consideration to a total review of the conditions of grants to ensure that protection is given to the residents of these aged persons establishments and to the management. 
Your petitioners humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled would take immediate steps to ensure that these requests are met so that people who have reached retiring age can enter these premises with dignity and peace of mind, and without fear of insecurity of the future in having to establish themselves in other premises. The petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House  of  Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the sales tax on all forms of contraceptive devices is 27ยฝ per cent. (Sales Tax Exemptions and Classifications Act 1935-1967). Also that there is customs duty of up to 471 per cent on some contraceptive devices. 
And  that  this is an unfair imposition on the human rights of all people who wish to prevent unwanted pregnancies. And furthermore that this imposition discriminates particularly against people on low incomes. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the sales tax on all forms of contraceptive devices be removed, so as to bring these items into lino with other necessities such as food, upon which there is no sales tax. Also that customs duties be removed, and that all contraceptive devices be placed on the national health scheme pharmaceutical benefits list. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and the members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That due to higher living costs, including increasing charges for health services, most aged persons living on fixed incomes are suffering acute distress. 
That Australia is the only English-speaking country in the world to retain a means test for aged pensioners and that  a  number of European countries also have no means test. 
That today's aged persons have paid at least 7ยฝ per cent of their taxable incomes towards social services since the absorption of special social services taxation in income tax and continue to make such payments. (71 per cent of all taxable incomes for 1966-67 amounted to $783,082,150 and this year will produce more than $800,000,000, more than sufficient to abolish the means test immediately.) 
That the middle income group, the most heavilytaxed  sector  of the community, subsidises the tax commitment of the upper income bracket through the amount of social services contributions collected bythe government and not spent on the purposes for which they were imposed. 
That the abolition of the means test will give a boost to the economy by - 
additional tax revenue from pensions 
swelling of the work force, and 
increased spending by pensioners. 
That it is considered just and right to allow people who have been frugal, have lived their lives with dignity and have been anything but an encumbrance on the nation, to maintain that dignity to the end of their lives free from fear of penury. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to abolish the means test for all people who have reached retiring age or who otherwise qualify for social service benefits or pensions. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of . the House . of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of. Western Australia respectfully showeth: 
That due to the higher living cost, persons on Social. Service Pensions are finding it extremely, difficult to live in even the most frugal way. 
We therefore call upon the Commonwealth Government to increase the base pension rate to 30 per cent of average weekly male earnings, plus supplementary assistance in accordance with ACTU policy and by so doing give a reasonably moderate -pension. 
The Average Weekly earnings for adult male unit wage and salary earner means the figures issued from time to time by the Commonwealth Statistician and published quarterly. 
Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate and House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to bring about the wishes expressed in our Petition; so that our Citizens receiving the Social Service Pensions may live their lives in dignity. And you Petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Sales Tax on all forms of Contraceptive Devices is 271 per cent. (Sales Tax Exemptions and Classifications Act 1935-1967). Also that there is Customs Duty of up to 471 per cent on some Contraceptive Devices. 
And that this is an unfair imposition on the human rights of all people who wish to prevent unwanted pregnancies. And furthermore that this imposition discriminates particularly against people on low incomes. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Sales Tax on all forms of Contraceptive Devices be removed, so as to bring these items into line with other necessities such as food, upon which there is no Sales Tax. Also that Customs Duties be removed, and that all Contraceptive Devices be placed on the National Health Scheme Pharmaceutical Benefits list. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Last week 1 raised the matter of service men who will be returning home from Vietnam being assured of being home with their families at Christmas. I raised the matter because of a letter written to the West Australian' by a constituent of mine. She wrote: 
Would the Prime Minister please explain why West Australian boys in Vietnam will not be home for Christmas? 
We were promised they would all be home; now my son has written to say that they are being sent home from Townsville by train, and therefore can't make it for Christmas. 
I would like to know why. 
The Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  has assured the House that these men will be home by 25th December, for which assurance I thank him. However, due to a misunderstanding of reporting in newspapers, people still express anxiety. I am still receiving letters and telephone calls about this matter. I feel that it needs further clarification by the Minister. I feel that the Army's reluctance to fly home other ranks is due to Treasury restrictions placed on it. 
I turn to one other aspect of servicemen in Vietnam - that is, the small group who will be left behind in Vietnam for Christmas. Due to their small numbers and the restricted nature of their duties, it would not be impossible for the Government to arrange Christmas leave in Australia for these men. There was a call from the Government side to honour these servicemen from Vietnam with a parade. I feel that instead of having parades and eulogies spoken on their behalf a gesture more &gt;n keeping with their service would be to allow all servicemen the opportunity of celebrating the cessation of hostilities in Vietnam by being in Australia. I feel that very few people in Australia would criticise the Government or the Treasury for making this humane gesture. The distress of the servicemen and of their families must be no less than the distress of people who would have been affected before the Minister's assurance was given in the House. I quote from a further letter, which has been published, about the people remaining in Vietnam. It highlights the distress felt by the people concerned. It states: 
I heartily endorse the remarks of- 
It gives the name of the person to whom I referred initially -  1, too, am a mother of one of the few left to battle it out in Vietnam. I also was assured that my son would be home for Christmas. 
As the army has no hesitation in flying our sons to a war we should not be involved in, I sec no reason why they cannot be transported home as promptly. 
The remarks of the Army Minister,  Mr Peacock,  on the matter did not impress me - rather like handing a sweet to a crying child. 1 urge all mothers and wives of the men in 4 RAR to unite and force the Federal Government to rectify this blunder. 
And I do hope  Sir Robert  Menzies sleeps peacefully at night, which is something 1 have not achieved for the past six months. 
In the overall cost of the Vietnam conflict such a humane effort would not be noticed, even by the Treasury which caused other ranks to use slower and cheaper modes of transport when going on leave, whilst officers and politicians travel by the more expensive modes of transport, except, of course, those people who by choice travel by slower and cheaper modes of transport. But the point is that such people have a choice and a voice with which they are allowed to express a choice or to protest, which right is denied to a serviceman. He must do what he is told. It cannot be argued that the small group of men in Vietnam cannot be dispensed with because, in fact, there is fear for their safety. Let us ensure their safety and the happiness of them and their families by extending the Minister's assurance to those servicemen who are left in Vietnam. 
asked the Minister for the Navy, upon notice - 
Are pollution control devices planned for the Navy's new destroyers and other new craft? 
If so, will these devices completely eliminate pollution sources from these ships? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the sales tax on all forms of contraceptive devices is 274 per cent (Sales Tax Exemptions and Classifications Act 1935-1967). Also that there is customs duty of up to 471/2 per cent on some contraceptive devices. 
And that this is an unfair imposition on the human rights of all people who wish to prevent unwanted pregnancies. And furthermore that this imposition discriminates particularly against people on low incomes. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the sales tax on all forms of contraceptive devices be removed, so as to bring these items into line with other necessities such as food, upon which there is no sales tax. Also that customs duties be removed, and that all contraceptive devices be placed on the National Health" Scheme Pharmaceutical Benefits List. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Telecommunication Divisional Office in Parkes 
I thought that the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  made a very relevant point when he referred to the fact that Australian banks have been established in Papua New Guinea. He made the point quite strongly that the Territory has no national banks. In fact, I do not feel that we Australians have given them anything which they can call their own, let alone a nation. They own nothing and I think that that is in fact the crux of the problem facing us in Papua New Guinea today - our investment from outside and no national interest. I am appalled at the apathy which exists in Australia and in the Government ranks about what we are doing to a nation entrusted to us by the United Nations to administer not only for the benefit of Australia but primarily for the benefit of the local population of Papua New Guinea, to give them nationhood in a responsible manner and to allow that nation to take its place in the world community of nations. 
Let us remember that Papua New Guinea will be our nearest foreign neighbour with an equal say in the world community. What memories will they have of us? Let us not delude ourselves about the attitudes of the local population or of those in authority in the Territory. Let me quote from the House of Assembly debates of the Parliament of Papua New Guinea from 1st March to 19th March 1971. On 16th March 1971 at page 4030  Mr Paulus  Arek, the member for Ijivitari - I ask Government supporters to look very closely at this speech - said: 

 Mr Lapun has introduced the motion and I support il. The motion reads very clearly on the subject, but during  Mr Lapun's  speech he was frightened and 1 think be has no faith in Papua and New Guinea. Why is be frightened? Does he think we will be fighting among ourselves? I would like to know which country in the world has developed without disputes, bloodshed and chaos. Do you think to get self-government we will have to raise our hands to heaven and that God will give us self-government and independence without war? We will achieve it whenever we are ready and we have to prepare for it. Do not think that there will be no bloodshed and chaos when we want self-government. This is false talk. People in England fought for independence, Americans fought for independence and many other countries fought before getting independence. We must not be frightened, for this will happen to us. 
That was said in the Parliament of Papua New Guinea.  His  reference to their readiness to fight for independence should make us think. Here we are speaking to estimates of money to be spent in a country where they do not in fact want our physical presence. We should be speaking instead about a grant to be issued to and spent by their own Parliament and by their own departments in a manner totally decided upon by the voice of the local people. We in Australia would be speaking as  Mr Arek  spoke if the same decisions we are imposing on Papua New Guinea were being debated in the British House of Commons in relation to Australia, In defence of the perpetuation of these decisions we of course say that they are not ready and by some mysterious judgment of the wise man say that at some future, distant, undefined date they will be ready 
What will we have to do? Will we have to sacrifice the lives of some of our young people conscripted under the National Service Act to suppress a population aroused by such incredible actions as this Government's decision to make separate wage systems for Papuans and New Guineans and expatriates? According to  Mr Warren  Dutton, the member for North Fly when opening the Papua New Guinea House of Assembly 'This system has saved the Australian Government more than $100m'. This is a dreadful expose of cheap labour exploitation for which we will have to answer in the future. This decision alone has caused more harm and more division between races than any other decision that has been made by the Government. Further, when one considers that the Australian Government in 1969-70 spent $1,226 for every person in the Northern Territory and yet in the same year spent only $71 a person in Papua New Guinea one cannot wonder at the bitterness of the local people who see, rightly or wrongly, the white man enjoying a superior wage structure for the same work and winning positions in the Public Service ahead of local men. According to the rules applied, this must be upheld. But one successful appeal against this system can do untold harm in race relations. We have done all these things as an autocratic administration trying to transplant our system ' to another country and using the local population as servants. 
On a recent visit to New Guinea I was confronted at the front door of my abode by a fine strong healthy young man of approximately 30 years of . .age seeking house work. The reference he handed to me stated that he was a good worker but was apt to borrow things. I should think he would borrow because if he had a family to support, the miserly amount paid to him as a domestic would be quite inadequate. Fortunately he could not read the reference himself, but somewhere, sometime it will be read by a more literate friend and this man will become another potentially resentful citizen, as must a large number of these men who have been forced to take the only available work as servile servants with a backyard garage type building for accommodation. These people will be the voters and the decision-makers of our nearest neighbour. What memories they must have. 
When we speak to those people who will communicate and who have some authority, we find that they use, as a yardstick of our sincerity towards them, the standards which we have set for our own Aboriginal population. They claim that we have dispossessed the Aboriginal of his land, of his birthright, and that our general attitude is to treat Aborigines as second rate citizens. This is something tangible which they can see and on which they can judge us, as does the rest of the world. It is not a very pretty sight and it offers no reassurance to them. Recently I had the honour of representing this Parliament and laying a wreath at an Anzac Day ceremony in a New Guinea town. 1 was impressed by the way in which almost the total population turned out in pouring rain and the manner in which the local ex-servicemen paraded together with expatriate ex-servicemen. But I was not impressed to find that 2 servicemen's clubs existed - one a substantial, well appointed structure for expatriates, and another structure, which was unlined and had a plain cement floor, for native ex-servicemen. I was proud to attend both clubs because the ex-servicemen of both clubs had fought for the freedom of their country. But I repeat that I was so bitterly disappointed at the disparity in treatment that it was difficult not to make further ill will by complaining whilst there. This Parliament is the proper place in which to seek to have this type of discrimination eliminated. 
The legislation on wages only furthers this type of disaster. We have been lax in coming to grips with the problem. We have treated it as though time does not matter. The basic education facilities in Papua New Guinea are insufficient in quantity or quality to cater for all of the population. There is a crisis in education there which is even worse than that which exists in Australia. I admit that the Government has established higher educational institutions, but it is a matter of too little too late. Too much is left to the missions and to other voluntary agencies. To illustrate this point, one of the establishments proudly shown to me was a returned servicemen's school. It was housed in a good building by tropica] standards for that area. It had just been completed. It had a cement floor, an iron roof, asbestos half walls and openings for windows. It was a palace compared with the building which the pupils had just left, which had a dirt floor, a thatched roof, woven walls and bush timber. This is the situation some 22 years after the closure of the Second World War. The just completed building was constructed of some secondhand material by voluntary labour using donated money. All this is being done for the sons and daughters of ex-servicemen who were our allies and to whom we owe so much. 
All this aroused my interest in the state of the basic book stock of the libraries. At that time some of the libraries did not possess a modern set of reference encyclopedias, others had a fair standard of stock, but none was in any way equal to what we would expect to be available to Australian citizens generally. Here I might add that the expatriate population must suffer, although those attending the higher educational institutions would have access to modern material. But this materia] would not be available to those who depend in the restricted general system of public libraries. In fact, I wonder how many of the indigenous population receive sufficient education to appreciate and use the library system in a country in which there is little else to offer to those seeking extended learning or self-education, or insufficient income to finance the library system. This is a system which, with self-government, the country will inherit. We give these people little to look forward to. The buildings are old and inadequately stocked. But this is common. The attitude has been to mould Papua New Guinea to a situation in which maximum profits flow to Australia. One political party has even gone so far as to attempt to perpetuate the situation by sending a political organiser to Papua New Guinea. I am sure it is to protect the interests of its members Who are expatriates in that country. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Hallett)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister repre senting the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Can the Minister say whether the area to be resumed or purchased for the Perth Airport in Newburn was subjected to planning proposals by the Belmont Shire for rezoning as industrial development or residential development. 
If so, were these proposals rejected by planning authorities. 
Was the Department of Civil Aviation consulted by the planning authority on these proposals. 
Was the Department of Civil Aviation in any way party to the rejection of these planning proposals because of the possible extensions of Perth Airport. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth 
That the Sales Tax on all forms of Contraceptive Devices is 271 Pยซ cent. (Sales Tax Exemptions and Classifications Act 1935-1967). Also that there is Customs Duty of up to 47i per cent on some contraceptive devices. 
And that this is an unfair imposition on the human rights of all people who wish to prevent unwanted pregnancies. And furthermore that this imposition discriminates particularly against people on low incomes. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the sales tax on all forms of contraceptive devices be removed, so as to bring these items into Une with other necessities such as food, upon which there is no sales tax. Also that Customs Duties be removed, and that all contraceptive devices be placed on the National Health Scheme Pharmaceutical Benefits List. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House or Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully sheweth: 
That death from mass starvation and disease is occurring among Pakistan's refugees on a scale unprecedented in modern history. 
That, as part of the world community, the Australian Government has an immediate responsibility for concerted action. 
That present Government aid to the refugees in India is meagre and shameful for a country of Australia's position and wealth. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled, should: 
Increase monetary aid for the refugees in India to at least $10,000,000 immediately and make provision for a further and extra grant for the victims of the famine in East Pakistan. 
Grant tax deductibility to donations of $2 and over to Australian voluntary agencies working with the refugee problem. 
Ensure that the Australian Government does all in its power to help bring about a political settlement which would be acceptable to the people of East Pakistan. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the sales tax on all forms of contraceptive devices is 27i per cent. (Sales Tax Exemptions and Classifications Act 1935-1967). Also that there is customs duty of up to 47ยฃ per cent on some contraceptive devices. 
And that this is an unfair imposition on the human rights of all people who wish to prevent unwanted pregnancies. And furthermore that this imposition discriminates particularly against people on low incomes. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the sales tax on all forms of contraceptive devices be removed, so as to bring these items into line with other necessities such as food, upon which there is no sales tax. Also that customs duties be removed, and that all contraceptive devices be placed on the National Health scheme pharmaceutical benefits list. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and the Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That due to higher living costs, including increasing charges for health services, most aged persons living on fixed incomes are suffering acute distress. 
That Australia is the only English-speaking country in the world to retain a means test for aged pensioners and that a number of European countries have no means test. 
That today's aged persons have paid at least 71/2 per cent of their taxable income towards social services since the absorption of Special Social Services Taxation in Income Tax and continue to make such payments.71/2 per cent of all taxable incomes for 1966-67 amounted to $783,082,150 and this year will produce more than $800,000,000, more than sufficient to abolish the means test immediately.) 
That the middle income group, the most heavily-taxed sector of the community, subsidises the tax commitment of the upper income bracket through the amount of social services contributions collected by the government and not spent on the purposes for which they were imposed. 
That the abolition of the means test will give  a  boost to the economy by - 
additional lax revenue from pensions. 
swelling of the work force, and 
increased spending by pensioners. 
That it is considered just and right to allow people who have been frugal, have lived their lives with dignity and have been anything but an encumbrance on the nation, to maintain that digity to the end of their lives free from fear of penury. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to abolish the means test for all people who have reached retiring age or who otherwise qualify for social service benefits or pensions. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
 I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and the Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. We, the citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia, residents in the State of Western Australia do humbly petition and pray that all levels of Government responsible in Australia will take note of the wishes of we, the citizens, in so far as we request: 
That the Commonwealth co-operate with all authorities to ensure the early sealing of the one East-West road link, the Eyre Highway, and that urgent consideration be given to increasing the maintenance of the road in the intervening period and endeavour to curtail the dreadful road toll, injury and vehicle damage. 
That The Commonwealth consider this road as a Defence Measure for the whole of Australia and road link connecting the two coasts of the Continent, and consideration to the sealing from the aspect of the increase of Trade and Tourism within Australia, thus encouraging the retention of the finance in Australia which is now going overseas. Consideration be given on the grounds of a better understanding between the people of all of the States of Australia, because of their improved ability to travel and meet one another. 
That Consideration be given to one of the most heavily taxed groups within the community, the motorist, and be given the opportunity to enjoy some of the tax fee as charged, by being able to travel with reasonable comfort and safety on the major highways of Australia. 
That Consideration be given to returning specifically for this purpose the increased revenue received from the increase in petrol tax. 
We, the petitioners humbly pray that the House of Representatives in the Parliament assembled would take immediate steps to ensure provision of funds to provide for the all weather sealing of this important highway,the Eyre Highway, linking East and West and your petitioners as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I regret the tone of Government speakers in the debate on the estimates for the Department of Labour and National Service not only at this time but also on previous occasions. It has been one of direct criticism and direct provocation of the working man - the family man. Government speakers have constantly attacked loyal citizens, many of whom have adopted this country as their new home and many of whom who have defended this country as loyal servicemen, and housewives who, because of inflation, have had to go to work and, because they arc workers, have joined the appropriate organisations which represent them in advocating improved working conditions and which are more commonly known as trade unions. Once members or office bearers of trade unions these people become targets of constant attack by Government supporters who, regardless of the true feelings of those they are attacking, say things under the privilege of Parliament against which ' the trade unionists cannot defend themselves. It is incredible that these self-same people who offer this criticism are not prepared to confer or to act to prevent further problems. 
I instance the unemployment situation which exists in Australia, and I refer in particular to the Western Australian building industry and its dependent industries. As late as last Friday the group of building unions in Western Australia sent a telegram to the Acting Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  requesting that he send the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  to Western Australia to inspect the unemployment situation at first hand so that he would be in a position to act properly in this matter and would be able to gauge personally the distress of the people affected. To date, nothing has been acknowledged nor, for that matter, has there been any glimmer of hope for these people, who have an official registered figure of 364 unemployed. However, this is not a true figure, for it does not take into account the worker who is receiving part-time employment for one, 2 or 3 days a week. The union estimates that the true figure is actually closer to 675 unemployed. This does not take into consideration the contractor in the building profession without union affiliation who is likewise affected and who is receiving only part time employment and is fast approaching bankruptcy with the additional burden of the normal Christmas recession in this industry. 
Building approvals at the normal ratio at this time of the year are approximately 1,400 a month. But approvals are down to an all time low of approximately 950 a month. Money is available from a few building societies at fairly high interest rates, but the public confidence has been shattered. There is no immediate demand. With this Government's constant rattling of the war drums in its determination to confront the trade union movement, to force strikes upon the family man who can ill afford them, it is in an atmosphere of extreme despair that some of the building workers in Western Australia are considering a strike meeting next week in an attempt to determine what action they can take, such as the banning of overtime or voluntary short time. This is a disastrous situation - a depression situation - brought on by the policies of this Government. But it is not only the worker who is suffering. The building companies themselves are also in difficulties. So far, 18 companies have folded this year owing some $2m and, according to reputable company liquidators in Perth, the position is fast becoming worse. Still the Minister fails to act, even though allied industries - groups involved in hardware, sheetmetal and roofing - are closing down. One group of 4 companies in roofing and sheetmetal went into liquidation owing $112,000. No doubt further reaction will be felt in due course as the deficiencies are passed on to smaller businessmen and contractors in the so called deflationary spiral. 
I wish to quote in this respect the remarks of  Mr Mitchell,  the  President  of the Master Builders Association of Western Australia, who said that the industry was gravely concerned over the downfall of building companies in 1971. He stated: 
I have recently held meetings with the Allied Trades Association and the Chamber of Commerce to discuss this problem. We all agree that things are going to get worse before they get better. Unless the Federal Government changes its stop go policy towards the industry, many more people are going to be caught. 

 Mr Mitchell said further that the MBA had warned the Federal Government 2 years ago that a number of builders would be ruined unless something was done to help the industy, but no-one took any notice. This Government was warned as far back as 2 years ago; yet it has followed still this deliberate unemployment policy which is wrecking even its own supporters because  of  its callous disregard for the final outcome. For the Government to foreshadow to this Parliament a Bill relating to industrial relations and to present the estimates of the Department of Labour and National Service for consideration without offering a solution to these problems is beyond the comprehension of the ordinary man in the street, lt is to be hoped that the Minister will offer some assurances to the people concerned, will indicate his intention to offer some answer to the employment situation and will commence to offer some solutions in the area of the administration of conciliation of which honourable members opposite speak so much. 
One must realise that no Commonwealth conciliator is based in Western Australia to deal immediately with Federal disputes. All conciliators must come from the eastern States. It is about time that consideration was given to an increase in the size of the staff to deal with disputes which result from the industrial climate provoked by insecurity and unemployment. Employees are even less able to bear the cost of extended disputes because the advantage of conciliators being immediately available to consider those disputes does not exist. How much of the time lost in disputes is attributable to this lack? It would be better to give over-attention than lack of attention to these people. These administrators of industrial peace should have sufficient time available not only to know the industry in Perth but also to know the people involved in employer administration and union administration in all States. In this way not only might they solve problems but also might foresee them and advise the Minister and his Department in time to ensure action before a dispute arises and not after a dispute occurs as is now the case. This might reduce some of the political advantage that enables the ruling party of the time to gain votes, but it would ensure smoother industrial relations. 
It is imperative that some action be taken in this area of prevention. This is preferable to threats from distant Canberra or wherever the Government may be making its latest threatening noises. Action in the area of preventive conciliation is needed urgently. We do not need the creation of artificial disputes between workers and employers to benefit the outside interests of governments. This has been suggested by the Acting Prime Minister as an election issue to save a government. The offer of assistance to employer and worker organisations to assist in solving their differences is what the Australian public seeks, and not a constant stirring of these problems with the added burden of unemployment being encouraged or not prevented in certain industries. With national unemployment in excess of 61,848, the Building Workers Union in Western Australia has requested the Federal Government to make a special grant of $5m out of the estimated Budget surplus of $630m to assist the Western Australian building industry. I hope that the Minister will endeavour to go to Western Australia to survey the situation and for once to sit down to talk rather than to threaten. He should find out just what is needed to bolster the confidence not only of the workers but also of the employers and the general public. Action, not talk, is the challenge. Let us have industrial peace. Let us not use the trade unions as a whipping boy. Let the Government realise that it is industry generally which suffers from outside attack. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House or Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully sheweth: 
That death from mass starvation and disease is occurring among Pakistan's refugees on a scale unprecedented in modern history. 
That, as part of the world community, the Australian Government has an immediate responsibility for concerted action. 
That present Government aid to the refugees in India is meagre and shameful for a country of Australia's position and wealth. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled, should: 
Increase monetary aid for the refugees in India to' at least $10,000,000 immediately and make provision for a further and extra grant for the victims of the famine in East Pakistan. 
 Grant tax deductibility to donations of  $2  and over to Australian voluntary agencies working with the refugee problem. 
Ensure that the Australian Government does all in its power to help bring a political settlement which would be acceptable to the people of East Pakistan. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Member of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Sales Tax on all forms of Contraceptive Devices is  27ยฝ  per cent. (Sales Tax Exemptions and Classifications Act  1935-1967).  Also that there is Customs Duty of up to  47ยฝ  per cent or. some Contraceptive Devices. 
And that this is an unfair imposition on the human rights of all people who wish to prevent unwanted pregnancies. And furthermore that this imposition discriminates particularly against people on low incomes. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Sales Tax on all forms of Contraceptive Devices be removed, so as to bring these items into line with other necessities such as food, upon which there is no Sales Tax. Also that Customs Duties be removed, and that all Contraceptive Devices be placed on the National Health Scheme Pharmaceutical benefits List. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Has the Acting Prime Minister received a communication from the Building Workers Union group in Perth, Western Australia, requesting him to send the Minister for Labour and National Service to Western Australia to investigate unemployment in that State, in particular in the building industry? Will he comply with this request? Further, can he inform the House what other action he intends to take to relieve the unemployment position in Western Australia? Was the Government further asked by the same group to make a special grant to Western Australia to bolster the building industry? Was this request refused? If so, why? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament Assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the sales tax on all forms of contraceptive devices is 27$ per cent. (Sales Tax Exemptions and 
Classifications Act 1935-1967). Also that there is customs duty of up to 47ยฝ per cent on some contraceptive devices. 
And that this is an unfair imposition on the human rights of all people who wish to prevent unwanted pregnancies. And furthermore that this imposition discriminates particularly against people on low incomes. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the sales tax on all forms of contraceptive devices be removed, so as to bring these items into line with other necessities such as food, upon which there is no sales tax. Also that customs duties be removed, and that all contraceptive devices be placed on the national health scheme pharmaceutical benefits list. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned residents of the State of Western Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the present site of the Perth Airport is unsuitable because of - 
the morning fogs; 
its proximity to the Darling Ranges; 
its lack of planning, prior to construction; 
the loss to the local authority in rates and loss to the community in acreage of development area and assets; 
the restriction placed on the development of surrounding shires due to existing flight paths and proposed flight paths; and 
the adjacent areas to the airport are suffering loss of value due to their unsuitability for high density development. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that action be taken to remove Perth Airport from its present site to the site planned by Professor Stephenson's overall plan for the city of Perth, that is at Luke Gnangara. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Will he personally inspect the unsealed section of the Eyre Highway by driving a motor vehicle across this section at an early date. 
Will the Government give consideration to making a special grant to South Australia to seal the Eyre Highway. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
What were the maintenance costs on the unsealed sections of the Eyre Highway between Ceduna and the South Australian border in each of the last 5 years. 
What percentage of Commonwealth fund contributions were allocated for this purpose it each of those years. 
What is the estimated cost of maintenance of the unsealed section in each of the years 1971 to 197S inclusive. 
What percentage of Commonwealth funds would be used for this purpose. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
How many private motor vehicles accompanied by their drivers travelled by rail between Port Augusta, South Australia and Parkston, Western Australia in each of the last 5 years. 
What was the return in revenue to the 
Commonwealth Railways for this transport in each of those years. 
What is the estimated return to the Commonwealth Railways for this type of transport in each of the years 1971 to 1975 inclusive. 
What effect will the sealing of the Eyre 
Highway between South Australia and Western Australia have on this revenue. 
asked the Minister  tor  Shipping and Transport, upon notice:  (.1) How many (a) fatal motor accidents and (b) motor accidents occurred on the unsealed section of the Eyre Highway in each of the last 5 years. 
Can he say what was the cost of vehicle repairs and medical services as a result of these accidents in each of those years. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Sales Tax on all forms of contraceptive devices is 27i per cent. (Sales Tax Exemptions and Classifications 1935-1967). Also that there is Customs Duty of up to 47i per cent on some contraceptive devices. 
And that this is an unfair imposition on the human rights of all people who wish to prevent unwanted pregnancies. And furthermore that this imposition discriminates particularly against people on low incomes. 
Your petitioners therefore most humbly pray that the Sales Tax on all forms of contraceptive devices be removed, so as to bring these items into lini' with other necessities such as food, upon which there ls no sales tax. Also that customs duties be removed, and that all contraceptive devices be placed on the National Health Scheme Pharmaceutical Benefits List. And your petitioners, as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned residents of the Stale of Western Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the present site of the Perth Airport is unsuitable because of: 
the morning fogs. 
its proximity to the Darling Ranges. 
its lack of planning, prior to construction. 
the loss to the local authority in rates and loss to the community in acreage of development area and assets. 
the restriction placed on the development of surrounding shires due to existing flight paths and proposed flight paths; and 
the adjacent areas to the airport are suffering loss of value due to their unsuitability for high density development. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that action be taken to remove Perth airport from its present site to the site planned by Professor Stephensons overall plan for the city of Perth, that is at Lake Gnangarra. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question to the Acting Prime Minister is supplementary to a question I asked last Wednesday. Has he yet found, or had drawn to his attention, a telegram from the Building Workers Union group which was sent on 29th October 1971 requesting him to take action on unemployment in Western Australia? 
-We enter yet another period of debate of the Estimates with Western Australia still being an isolated area of land. Western Australia does not as yet have an all-weather road link. If it were to require urgent defence equipment by land at the wrong time of the year - when it was raining - would this Government call 'Parley' to the opposing forces so that the road could dry out and the equipment could be brought across? What a ludicrous situation. It is not impossible to imagine rail links also being cut. It would be impractical to bring equipment any way other than by road or rail. These estimates make no provision for alternative means of transport. In a country ideally suited for air-cushion vehicles or hovercraft, there is no provision for their supply or even for experimentation with them in our forces. If we are not going to have proper road links or satisfactory rail links completely around Australia and if we are not to provide for the total air mobility of our forces, an imaginative approach is required. We have a failing aircraft manufacturing industry which is totally capable of manufacturing air-cushion type vehicles. It is important that this area of defence mobility and manufacture is investigated immediately not only to ensure adequate defence but also to bolster and retain the development of the Australian industry, and so prevent these estimates from being a year to year record of overseas expenditure with no coherent plan for the future. 
It is useless for honourable members opposite to talk of outside threats without paying attention to the internal defence policis. These policies must include complete mobility, and one important facet would be the joining of the east and west of Australia by the sealing of the Eyre Highway. The Government's answer to this type of thinking would be to string a couple of strands of barbed wire along the top of the rabbit-proof fence; it would not provide the necessary S6m to give an allweather road link with Western Australia. Western Australians generally appreciate the provision of the Cockburn Sound base, but this does not seem to lessen their desire not to be treated in a cavalier fashion by the Commonwealth, and unfortunately this is what is transpiring. 
In October 1970 I asked the then Prime Minister to institute a detailed ecological study of Cockburn Sound, prior to the construction of the causeway, in an effort to prevent the pollution of the Sound with its resultant deleterious effect on marine life. I further asked whether he would investigate the proposals to have Garden Island declared a prohibited area to the public, with the resultant adverse effect on the availability of public open spaces in the area, and the proposed eviction of some 60 holiday home owners without compensation being paid to them. In all these aspects I met with refusal. In reference to the ecological survey the then Prime Minister admitted:   . . clearly the matter of tidal flow and the amount of area through which the tide could flow, that amount being, if I could put it this way, the bridge part as distinct from the hard causeway part, would have an effect on the general area and I am sure would be taken into account by the construction authorities. 
This has not happened. Construction has taken place as a matter of convenience to design and not on any basis of pollution or ecological control, lt is imperative that this situation be rectified before the Sound is ruined for posterity. It is not as if we are not aware of the situation; it is something which should be above and apart from party issues. An assurance from the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  is required in this matter. 
As for declaring Garden Island a com.pletely prohibited area there arises another problem for which no solution has been found. In addition to the holiday home owners, this area has been used by members of a power boat association for over 10 years. Some 20,000 power boats are registered in Western Australia, and their owners will be denied access to some 7 miles of safe anchorage and beaches and could be further denied an area of water up to, I think, a quarter of a mile, which is defined for security reasons around the Island. The people most affected will be the 380 members of the Cockburn Sound Power Boat Association, which is a club of 10 years standing. Surely allowance can be made for clubs such as this. We are not at war. Club members would have no cause to go more than 100 yards inland. Whytake away from them and the numerous other users of this area what has been an unspoiled and safe recreation area? Surely there is room for all activities to be conducted in the area. Let the Minister not use the excuse of the Americans being offered the use of the base, as this offer to the Americans or, more importantly, the manner in which it was made, has created deep resentment in Western Australia. The Premier of Western Australia,  Mr Tonkin,  accused the Prime Minister of riding roughshod over the States. He said: 
I think he might have consulted us as a matter of common courtesy. 
This illustrates the general attitude which has been evident throughout the establishment of the base. There has been a complete disregard of the need for cooperation with the State, a disregard of the ecology of the Sound and a disregard of the citizens of Western Australia who have been dispossessed of their areas of relaxation. All this could have been avoided by personal contact, by discussion and by investigation. Even at this late stage it is not beyond hope that the Commonwealth could restore its image by consulting with the State authorities in these matter. I believe that all that the people desire is to be advised fully in these matters and to be given the opportunity to agree with what is proposed rather than to have something thrust upon them by Canberra. 
A number of my constituents have been alarmed to find that the Department of the Army does not in fact intend to ensure that all troops are home from Vietnam prior to Christmas, as was the impression given in the initial announcements. It has been estimated that up to 1,000 servicemen could remain in Vietnam, lt is up to the Minister for the Army  (Mr Peacock)  to spell out what is to happen to these men so that they and their families can plan for the future. Surely with an expenditure such as that envisaged in these estimates it would not be impossible for the Minister to assure the Committee that the maximum number of men will be returned home - even if it means a return trip for some. But there is no excuse for the atmosphere of indecision which exists today. Honourable members and the public need to be more fully informed of these matter by statements in the Parliament, not in pronouncements made at a luncheon or Press conference in the United States of America or in the United Kingdom, which has been the recent practice of our absent Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon).  Let Australia be administered in Australia by Australians for Australians and not to please some passing political leader of another nation. Let the Government put first loyalty to the Australian public and the State governments. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
How many petitions were presented to the House in each of the last 5 years. 
How many of the petitions were (a) granted, (b) refused and (c) not acted upon. 
asked the Minister for the 
Interior, upon notice: 
Can the Minister say what is the market value per acre of land to be resumed for Perth Airport in Newburn. 
What is the price per acre being offered to residents. 
Can the Minister say what is the value of adjacent residential and industrial property per acre. 
Has an estimate been made of the cost to Newburn residents to establish themselves on properties of similar acreage and equal amenity at a similar distance from the City of Perth. 
asked the Minister for the 
Interior, upon notice: 
Were any offers of purchase of property made to any property owner in the Newburn area prior to August 1971. 
If so, who were the property owners and what price was offered per acre. 
Were any purchases or guarantees of purchase made; if so, what was the. final agreed price per property. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth 
That the sales tax on all forms of contraceptive devices is 271 per cent (Sales Tax Exemptions and Classifications Act 1935-1967). Also that there is customs duty of up to 471 per cent on some contraceptive devices. 
And that this is an unfair imposition on the human rights of all people who wish to prevent unwanted pregnancies. And furthermore that this imposition discriminates particularly against people on low incomes. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the sales tax on all forms of contraceptive devices be removed, so as to bring these items into line with other necessities such as food, upon which (hers is no sales tax. Also that customs duties be removed, and that all contraceptive devices be placed on the national health scheme pharmaceutical benefits list. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That they are gravely concerned at the apparent appalling increase in crime in Australia, particularly in densely populated areas; 
That they fear the police forces of the various States and Territories are undermanned and underequipped to handle the increase in crime; 
That their concern is aggravated by the apparent number of unsolved crimes particularly those involving violence to the individual including murder. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the honourable members of the House of Representatives will seek to ensure that the Commonwealth Government will seek the co-operation of the States and supply extra finance to the States to enable: 
proper town planning and development to halt the increase in densely populated areas which leads to increased crime, 
the proper staffing and equipping of police forces to enable adequate crime prevention and detection measures to reduce the frightening increase of both solved and unsolved crime. 
the proper detention of and rehabilitation of criminals, and 
compensation to victims of crimes of violence, and your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Here again estimates are presented to this Committee without any provision being made for the sealing of the east-west road link - the Eyre Highway. In answer to a question in which I asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  personally to inspect the highway by driving across it, he said that he would not do so, and he said that he was adequately informed on the condition of the road. If he is adequately informed on the condition and is aware of the human suffering and heartbreaks which face very many people who travel interstate in search of work, to visit relatives and friends, to enjoy a well earned rest on annual leave or long service leave, or a retirement trip, then he must be immune to human suffering. 
On one of my many trips across Eyre Highway recently I assisted people who had lost their vehicle through fire. Another motorist had holed his sump when he struck a rock, and the motor of another car was overheating because the radiator had shaken adrift. All this happened within one hour. I can honestly say that in mv many crossings of the Eyre Highway there has not been an occasion when some unfortunate motorist has not required assistance. This is totally apart from the statistics relating to cost which were revealed in answer to my question on this matter. 
Under questioning the Minister has admitted that a tremendous amount of Commonwealth money has been spent on maintaining the Eyre Highway and that more will be spent. Earlier this year the estimate given for sealing the 310 miles of the highway from Ceduna to the Western Australian border was 9m. The South Australian Government currently is sealing the section from Ceduna to Penong, leaving a section of 266 miles unsealed. However, the incredible refusal by the Commonwealth earlier this year to meet the South Australian Government's offer, whereby the South Australian Government would contribute S3m, or one-third of the cost of sealing this section of the highway, and the Commonwealth would contribute S6m, or two-thirds of the cost, is completely beyond comprehension. In this area of national responsibility it is not a question of the Commonwealth needing to reach into its pocket to supply the money immediately. The money could be provided on a definite programme over the next few years. It must also be remembered that questions have revealed that maintenance of this section of the highway in the past 5 years and in the next 5 years will have cost $1.6m and that damage caused to vehicles, for which claims could be made under insurance policies, will amount to a minimum of $200,000. 
In February this year the South Australian Premier said that 8 people had been killed in the previous 16 months on the unsealed section of the Eyre Highway and that 6 of them had been killed as a result of head-on collisions because visibility was impaired by dust raised by other vehicles. The Minister for Shipping and Transport says that he is fully informed on the condition of the road, yet he does nothing. What is needed to stir him to action? How many deaths must occur or who needs to die before he will take the matter to the Cabinet and stop mouthing platitudes when speaking of road safety and blaming motor vehicle manufacturers for the problems on our highways? Let him put the Commonwealth's house in order first before asking the motorist and the manufacturer to spend millions of dollars on improving the safety of motor vehicles. Let him use some of the money which has been raised by the imposition of heavy taxation on the motoring public and provide proper roads for public use. 
Recently a statement was made by the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  to the effect that the Government is to provide $4m for a road to the East Alligator River area of the Northern Territory to serve the new uranium province east of Darwin. Whilst not denying the benefits which will flow to Australia from the development of the north, this highlights the contempt with which the Government treats Western Australia. The West Australian' newspaper agrees that there is a need to seal the remaining section of the Eyre Highway. The editorial in that newspaper on Monday, 8th November 1971, which was subsequent to answers being provided to the question I had asked, stated: 
The Commonwealth's attitude is not only imposing a heavy maintenance burden on South Australia, but for the sake of $6m, which could be spread over several years, it is putting too much of a drag on national road funds upkeep. This unsound practice is not made any better by the Commonwealth's getting revenue of SI. 3m in the past 5 years from private motorists who travelled across the desert by rail - most of them no doubt because they wanted to avoid the dust bowl. Canberra's aim should be to get the maximum value and safety out of the heavy South AustralianWestern Australian capital investment in the highway and to get maintenance costs down to the minimum. 
It appears that the Commonwealth will continue to make a yearly contribution of $25,000 to South Australia for the maintenance of this road, which in itself is totally inadequate for the projected maintenance costs for the next 5 years. ft is estimated that the maintenance costs on the road will be Si 90.000 in 1971-72, $180,000 in 1972-73, SI 80.000 in 1973-74, $170,000 in 1974-75 and $ 1 60.000 in 1975-76. South Australia will have to provide a large part of the money in order to overcome a national problem. One becomes very suspicious that the Government has a vested interest in continuing to ensure that it receives revenue from the Commonwealth Railways, as many vehicles are forced to utilise the railways' pickapack system because of the road conditions. As a result, there will be a further swelling of the Commonwealth's coffers from railway revenue. 
Again the Commonwealth is badly lacking in providing assistance for the development of rail links in the north-west of Western Australia. It has allowed to develop a situation in which all the north-west railways to iron ore developments are privately owned instead of being major revenue earners for the Australian railway system. The Pilbara region is still unconnected by rail to eastern or Western Australian centres of population. It has been mooted that the Pilbara region could be serviced by rail by upgrading the MullewaMeekatharra railway, building a new line to Mount Newman, joining the Mount Newman-Port Hedland line to the Mount Tom Price-Dampier line and providing general cargo terminals at Port Hedland and Karratha. To do this the Government would need to have access to two privately owned iron ore railways and would need to become involved in a capital outlay of between $S0m to $60m. 
Here again, Commonwealth money would be needed to develop this rail link, and this country would be paying a type of rent for the use of a rail link which should be the property of the public and a revenue earner for the Government. Recently the Commonwealth approved an expenditure of some $70m for a line from Alice Springs to Tarcoola, a distance of about SOO miles. Whilst not decrying the benefits to flow from it, I think it would be pleasing to Western Australia if the Commonwealth were to investigate and subsequently propose a rail link between Alice Springs and the Pilbara rail system at Mount Whaleback, the terminus of the Mount Newman railway. 
Even the honourable member for the Northern Territory can see the value of this. We hear a lot of talk about this area being impenetrable desert country, but this is far from fact. This link has been traversed on occasions and in fact has been given the name of National Highway Code 121, as it links Route 1 on the west coast with Route 1 on the east coast, one to one. or as some would call it, the Capricorn Highway due to its proximity to the Tropic of Capricorn. It covers a distance of some 900 miles. One writer who surveyed the route indicated that the route from Mount Whaleback to Alice Springs has a 200 mile stretch of stabilised sand ridges, some up to SO miles long, then it is flat and smooth with sparse spinifex and in many parts gravel. The ballast for the critical 200 miles was available from the Runton Range and Baron Range. The benefits not only to the Pilbara but also to Alice Springs are too obvious to be mentioned. 
One might compare Alice Springs with Salt Lake City, Utah in the United States of America where the railway line crosses the Great Salt Lakes. The city is the junction for the Denver, Rio Grande, Western Union Pacific and Western Pacific railroads, lt is the capital of Utah and is similarly situated to Alice Springs. It has meat packing, oil refining, smelting and other allied industries. Alice Springs could be the rail junction where east meets west and could have similar development. It could help to justify the huge expenditure of public moneys each year on the Northern Territory and could up and develop what is known as the 'dead heart' of Australia. But more importantly it could provide an imaginative link with Australia's most vital area for the future development of our economy if not already our most important area - the Pilbara region of the north west of Western Australia. The Commonwealth must demonstrate its interest in industrial development, defence development and tourist potential by taking action along the lines T have outlined. 
1 present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That a migrant who has been a member of the Australian workforce for many years, has paid taxes and acquired Australian citizenship, and seeks to live the last years of his life in his native land or, if an invalid, wishes to see his relatives, is denied pension transferability. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray 
That the House of Representatives, in Parliament assembled, seek to have- Australia adopt the principle followed by Britain, Italy, Greece, Malta, The Netherlands, France, Germany, Turkey. Canada and the United States of America, who already transfer the social entitlement of their citizens wherever they may choose to live. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australian respectfully showeth: 
That the Sales Tax on all forms of Contraceptive Devices is 27i per cent. (Sales Tax Exemptions and Classifications Act 1935-1967). Also that there is Customs Duty of up to 47i per cent on some Contraceptive Devices. 
And that this is an unfair imposition on the human rights of all people who wish to prevent unwanted pregnancies. And furthermore that this imposition discriminates particularly against people on low incomes. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Sales Tax on all forms of Contraceptive Devices be removed, so as to bring these items into line with other necessities such as food, upon which there is no Sales Tax. Also that Customs Duties be removed, and that all Contraceptive Devices be placed on the National Health Scheme Pharmaceutical Benefits List. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
1 present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and the Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled, we, the citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia, residents in the -State of Western Australia do humbly petition and pray that all levels of Government responsible in Australia will take note of the wishes of we, the citizens, in so far as we request: 
That the Commonwealth co-operate with all authorities to ensure the early sealing of the one East-West road link, the Eyre Highway, and that urgent consideration be given to increasing the maintenance of the road in the intervening period and endeavour to curtail the dreadful road toll, injury and vehicle damage. 
That the Commonwealth consider this road as a Defence Measure for the whole of Australia and road link connecting the two coasts of the Continent, and consideration to the sealing from the aspect of the increase in Trade and Tourism within Australia, thus encouraging the retention of the finance in Australia which is now going overseas. Consideration be given - tin the grounds of a better understanding between the people of all of the States of Australia, because of their improved ability to travel and meet one another. 
That consideration be given to one of the most heavily taxed groups within the community, the motorist, and be given the opportunity to enjoy some of the tax fee as charged, by being able to travel with reasonable comfort and safety on the major highways of Australia. 
That consideration be given to returning specifically for this purpose the increased revenue received from the increase in petrol tax. 
We, the petitioners humbly pray that the House of Representatives in the Parliament assembled would take immediate steps to ensure provision of funds to provide for the all weather sealing of this important highway, the Eyre Highway, linking East and West and your petitioners as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
The Committee is considering the estimates for the Department of Civil Aviation with many questions of importance to Western Australia unanswered or not answered satisfactorily. 1 refer particularly to the residents of Newburn whose land is to be resumed for the Perth Airport. In reply to a question I asked about whether an estimate had been made of the cost of re-establishing these Newburn residents on similar properties of similar acreage with equal amenities a similar distance from Perth the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  representing the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton),  indicated that no such estimate has been made. He stated that properties would be purchased in due course by negotiation and on the basis of fair market values. I ask: But what market? The market was killed by the Commonwealth Government's announcement of an intention to resume land and by its blocking of plans by the Belmont Shire for development of the area. 
In answer to a question I asked, the Minister indicated that the Department of Civil Aviation had been aware of applications by the Belmont Shire to zone the area for other than rural purposes, yet the Government expects honourable members to be naive enough to believe that the Department of Civil Aviation did not influence the refusal of these plans by the then Liberal Minister in the State government who had the responsibility for such decision. If the Department did not have any influence on the decision, why was the Department consulted at all? The Government should not expect the public to be so naive, particularly when subsequent aircraft noise zones were proposed by the Department of Civil Aviation and were adopted by the same State Minister - the town planning authority - without alteration or argument. The situation is farcical. An application in 1962 by the Belmont Shire to zone land for residential purposes was refused because of. the airport. An application to zone it as industrial land in 1969 was refused because of the airport. It is nonsense to use any other reason for a refusal because every shire has the right to zone land within its boundaries and to develop areas in a proper manner. Without question the Commonwealth Government has influenced decisions of the State authorities to the disadvantage of the people they purport to represent. 
Land which cannot be bought for industrial purposes for less than $17,000 an acre - in many cases industrial land adjacent to this area is valued at $30,000 an acre - is being bought or, to more aptly describe it, is virtually being stolen by the Commonwealth Government for $3,000 an acre. The only customer for this land is the Commonwealth Government No-one else will buy or bid for the land because of the Commonwealth Government's interest in it. It is even difficult to obtain a true assessment of the value of the area because of the artificial restrictions imposed by the Commonwealth Government. Ls it any wonder that the owners of the property say: 'You cannot beat the Department'? Land which has been acquired for the purpose clearly defined on airport plans as a freight terminal is being treated as rural land at rural prices. However, the biggest confidence trick in the whole of the machinations of this disgraceful action, has been the situation where residents have been persuaded to write to the Department of Civil Aviation pleading to have their land acquired on the grounds of hardship - a hardship that has been created by the very department to which they are forced to write. What hypocrisy! Is it to avoid any payment for compulsory acquisition? ls it to ensure that the unfortunate people who have been reduced to near bankruptcy by the Department or worried into ill health are the first to accept a ridiculous price for something which they cannot hope to replace in size or amenity or at a similar value? These people have been discomforted and displaced from their homes after having pioneered the district. What a reward for people who were prepared to suffer hardships initially in establishing a future for themselves and their families in the area. 
Even now it is not too late for the Government to recant and start treating these people more favourably. It is far past the time when some firm arrangement was made with the Belmont Shire as to the actual payment in lieu of rates lost, bearing in mind that the Shire had planned the total development of its area on its ratable return, including Newburn as an industrial and residential complex. Here again the action of the Commonwealth Government will force up rates in the remainder of the shire because of the loss of revenue from Newburn to the Belmont Shire. No wonder the Belmont Shire continues to campaign to shift the airport. It does so not only on these grounds but also on the ground of the extreme discomfort being suffered by the residents of Belmont's adjacent areas because of the aircraft noise, which is evidenced by the many petitions presented to this Parliament supporting the removal of the airport. In fact, I have to hand a petition containing some 1,532 signatures also calling for the removal of the airport on these grounds. But we should not forget the thousands of people who have petitioned the Parliament in the past. It is long past the time for these estimates to make provision for a second site for Perth airport, as in other Australian capital cities and, for that matter, in capital cities around the world. What makes the Minister decide that Perth is so different from other cities? 
Apparently the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  wishes Perth to suffer the pollution of aircraft 24 hours a day. With the expansion of the airport we will suffer further from night flights of international aircraft and from interstate and intrastate freighters. Let us look at what one of the sufferers had to say about it: 
Having lived alongside the London Airport in England up to the year 1963 one of my reasons for leaving England to come to Australia was because of aircraft noise. It involved the 4-engine jets. They built  a  sound barrier at London Airport but it had no effect whatsoever on the noise level in the area. Consequently the properties in adjacent council areas had the effect of reducing the rateable value of properties, which was natural enough. Because no-one wanted to live in these particular areas it brought property values down. 
At that stage he left the country. Now he lives on the border of Victoria Bank and South Perth and now finds a similar problem developing. 
According to the Department's own noise exposure forecasts, he has little hope of relief. Here again for some strange reason the Department of Civil Aviation feels that workers in industry can be exposed to aircraft noise without retaliation. The Department has persuaded the Town Planning Authority to adopt zoning proposals which allow for heavy to light industry in varying degrees within the noise exposure zones but prohibit high density living, schools, hospitals, etc. Apart from interference with the overall zoning and planning of shires and cities, I wonder what will happen when unions of workers in these areas commence pressing claims for disability allowances and the provision of protective equipment in order to protect those people who will be affected. 
No doubt that situation will arise because the hazard has been clearly mapped and defined by no better authority than the Department of Civil Aviation. To date the Minister has refused to provide sound proofing compensation for these residents who are affected, even though this is done in other countries. Does the Minister think that Australians will tolerate more than will the people of other countries? We have a problem which is increasing. It is no use attempting to sweep it under the political carpet. It must be faced now. Every delay makes the solution more complex and more costly. It is a problem of modern days requiring modern answers. 
The argument has been proposed that we would need to go too far from the city to establish an airport. I do not accept this argument. However, if many miles were involved there are fast modern systems of transport available which could be utilised as city to airport links. One of the latest means of transport to be evolved is the British 300 miles per hour hovertrain which has undergone its first successful tests. A 35-ton 100-seat hovertrain could be in service in  2i  years, but it is estima ted that it will be 5 to 7 years before a fully proved vehicle is in service. However, the principle is sound and is capable of being developed to produce speeds of over 700 miles per hour. Distance and time will present no problems in the near future in relation to the placement of airports. Money which can be saved in purchasing outlying land could be expended in providing a suitable transport system to the city. No matter where we put an airport near the city it soon becomes a congested traffic area, creating a traffic problem for the State government and the local authorities. This places a further burden on the local community. No doubt Govermment speakers will say that no matter where the airport is situated the population will follow. But if the Government is farsighted enough, sound protection green belts will be preserved around the area of airports and suitable trees planted to protect the area. The reason we have problems today is the lack of Government planning. 
asked the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
In view of the petitions presented to Parliament and evidence of pending evictions at Aged Persons Homes erected under Commonwealth subsidy, will he take steps to ensure (a) guarantee of tenancy duration protection to aged people paying donation deposits for entry, (b) that the audited annual statements of the income and running expenses of these establishments are made available to residents and public, (c) that evictions are not possible without recourse to an outside independent tribunal, (d) that units that do become vacant because of disputes are not resold but let, (e) that all boards of management have resident representatives elected on an annual basis and (f) that a review is conducted of the conditions of making grants to the satisfaction of residents and boards of management. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
Does the Australian Broadcasting Commission intend to provide again in Perth city areas the facility of direct telecasts of local football matches; if so, when will telecasts commence. 
Can he say whether the Australian Broadcasting Commission's current policy of no direct city telecasts is influenced by a similar policy adopted by commercial television stations. 
What were the Australian Broadcasting Commission's reasons for terminating city football telecasts. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of residents of the Division of the Australian Capital Territory respectfully showeth: 
That there is a likelihood that education in the Australian Capital Territory will in the foreseeable future be made independent of the New South Wales education system: 
That the decentralization of education systems throughout Australia is educationally and administratively desirable, and is now being studied by several State Government Departments: 
That the Australian Capital Territory is a homogeneous and coherent unit especially favourable for such studies: 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that a Committee of Enquiry, on which are represented the Department of Education and Science, institutions of tertiary education, practising educators, and the Canberra community, be instituted to enquire into the form that an Australian Capital Territory Education Authority should take, the educational principles and philosophy that should underlie it, and its mode of operation and adminstration 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That there is a crisis in Aboriginal welfare in the South West Land Division of Western Australia resulting from a population explosion, poor housing and hygiene and unemployment and unemployability. 
That there is a need to phase out native reserves in the South West Land Division of Western Australia over the next three years. 
That town housing must be provided for all Aboriginal families where the bread winner has permanent employment or an age or invalid pension entitlement. 
That such housing must be supported by the appointment of permanent 'home-maker' assistance in the ratio of one home-maker to every eight houses or part thereof. 
That incentives of housing, 'home-maker' services and training facilities must be created in centres of potential employment and for those who are currently unemployed or unemployable. 
That insufficient State or Federal assistance has been made available to meet these requirements. 
That adequate finance to meet these requirements ean only be provided by the Commonwealth government. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will give earnest consideration to this most vital matter. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Sales Tax on all forms of contraceptive devices is 271 per cent. (Sales Tax Exemptions and Classifications Act 1935-1967). Also that there is Customs Duty of up to 471 per cent on some contraceptive devices. 
And that this is an unfair imposition on the human rights of all people who wish to prevent unwanted pregnancies. And furthermore that this imposition discriminates particularly against people on low incomes. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Sales Tax on all forms of contraceptive devices be removed, so as to bring these items into line with other necessities such as food, upon which there is no sale.- tax. Also that customs duties be removed, and that all contraceptive devices be placed on the national health scheme pharmaceutical benefits list. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and the Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That due to higher living costs, including increasing charges for health services, most aged persons living on fixed incomes are suffering acute distress. 
That Australia is the only English-speaking country in the world to retain a means test for aged pensioners and that a number of European countries also have no means test. 
That today's aged persons have paid at least 7i per cent of their taxable incomes towards social services since the absorption of Special Social Services Taxation in Income Tax and continue to make such payments. (71 per cent of all taxable incomes for 1966-67 amounted to $783,082,150 and this year will produce more than $800,000,000, more than sufficient to abolish the means test immediately.) 
That the middle income group, the most heavily-taxed sector of the community, subsidises the tax commitment of the upper income bracket through the amount of social services contributions collected by the government and not spent on the purposes for which they were imposed. 
That the abolition of the means test will give a boost to the economy by - 
additional tax revenue from pensions 
swelling of the work force, and 
increased spending by pensioners. 
That it is considered just and right to allow people who have been frugal, have lived their lives with dignity and have been anything but an encumbrance on the nation, to maintain that dignity to the end of their lives free from fear of penury. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to abolish the means lest for all people who have reached retiring age or who otherwise qualify for social service benefits or pensions. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will every pray. 
Petition received. 
Year after year,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  we see a steady governmental increase in fuel tax charges ruthlessly adding to the inflationary spiral in Australia. No regard has  been had to the effect on the community. On the one hand the Government makes, .loud statements as to the effects of inflation through wage increases and the private section of the community which increases charges to meet added costs in the never ending spiral of the small person attempting to meet everyday living costs. We have here just one example of Government inspired inflation where the cost will be passed on in the community. It is far past the time when Government departments ceased to look on the public purse as an inexhaustible source of revenue. We would be most impressed if the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  would give some assurance that this will be the last such increase for many years and that some attempt will be made to control prices in this field. Action is what is imperative, not words and accusations against workers and small business people who are the people who will be required to meet these increased charges. 
The people who purchased diesel units because they were cheap to operate are now seeing their profit margins being attacked by this Government on a regular basis. These people would not protest so loudly if they were assured that the additional revenue to be gained by these increases will be returned to the motorists by way of improvement in the roads they use. But this money disappears into general revenue. I think that with the increase that is to take place the Federal Government should be in a position to seal the eastwest road link, the Eyre Highway. Many operators of diesel units - and these are the people who will have to bear this added burden - utilise this road link to serve the country in its progress. Is it too much to expect this Government to return to that section of the community some part of the increased charges? 
I know that on previous occasions the Minister has argued that if this tax were returned to the field from which it was taken it would then be argued that the tax on liquor and cigarettes should be returned to the field from which it came. But this is a different argument. This is an area of national concern where a tax is being levied. Australia has an appalling road accident toll largely contributed to by its inadequate road systems and lack of funds at the local level to take the necessary action to rectify known hazards such as those that I have previously mentioned when speaking in this House about the Eyre Highway. If the Commonwealth is not prepared to do this it must make sufficient allowance in the Commonwealth aid road grants to the States to enable the States to take action. It has been indicated by the South Australian Government that it is prepared to do its share. That Government has offered to pay $3m of the $9m necessary to complete the sealing of the Eyre Highway. That is a very responsible attitude. 
The truck operator who regularly uses this highway acknowledges that South Australia has already commenced to spend its share and no doubt he hopes that the Commonwealth will face up to its responsibility and pay its share. The Minister should assure the House that the extra tax gleaned from diesel fuel will be spent in areas such as this, for this is one of the most heavily taxed sections of the community. When a diesel unit is purchased the buyer pays a heavy tax on the purchase price. Every spare part is burdened with a heavy tax cost. Every tyre carries a heavy tax burden. Every mile travelled means further taxation in many States in the form of road maintenance tax which is imposed by the States, not because they want to but because they must, because insufficient Commonwealth funds from sources such as this finds its way back to the States for road maintenance, development and safety. Yet this Government has put yet another burden on transport operators in the form of increased taxes. It would be more fitting if the Government were to take steps to allow truck transport operators to survive and expand in business by pegging their costs for fuel and allowing them to continue to serve this country. Transport operators are in a service industry which affects rural, building and living costs for a high proportion of our community. 
If this Government wants to contribute to the inflation about which it so loudly speaks but does nothing, it must realise that this tax is one of the surest ways to increase the costs to all sections of the community - no doubt large sections of the same community fail to realise how or why these increases occur. The facts are that as costs increase inflation continues, because this Government is paying only lip service to the problem of inflation when it has the audacity to increase charges in a field such as this which is already heavily overburdened with increased costs. This Government has no regard for this industry. It contents itself, for instance with a miserly contribution towards maintenance of the unsealed part of the Eyre Highway. Under the heading of health and welfare the Government evidently does not consider public road safety important enough to receive individual attention in the Budget Papers. On page 55 of the Budget document an amount of $150,000 is to be distributed amongst all the States for this purpose, while the Commonwealth is to spend $400,000 on the promotion of road safety. Let the States have some major proportion of the proposed fuel tax increase so that something more meaningful can be done than the provision of the miserable sum of $550,000 in an annual disaster area about which so much is spoken. If we are to have this yearly inflationary taxing system then let this tax be used for the betterment and safety of the public against whom this tax is levied. I ask the Minister to assure the House of the specific reason and the use of this tax. The people have for too long seen the annual attack on their incomes through increased taxation, direct and indirect. They want some reassurance that this money is not just levied against them in order to meet some unspecified Government expenditure. 
asked the Minister for the 
Army, upon notice: 
Will he give details as to what steps have been taken to return servicemen from Vietnam to their home states for Christmas. 
Will he take steps to ensure that troops planned to be left in Vietnam are returned to Australia for Christmas either on recreation leave or preferably on a permanent basis. 
asked the Minister for the Army, upon notice: 
Is it the practice of Army authorities to charge men suffering from sunburn with having a self inflicted wound. 
If so, (a) what are the possible penalties involved, (b) how many men have been charged for this offence in the last 12 months, (c) how many have been convicted and (d) what penalty was imposed in each case. 
asked the Minister for the Navy, upon notice: 
What pollution control measures are taken by ships of the Royal Australian Navy: 
at sea and 
in port. 
What disposal methods are used with: 
packages and wrappings from stores, 
waste stores and 
effluent. 
1  present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Member!, of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That they are gravely concerned at the apparent appalling increase in crime in Australia, particularly in densely populated areas; 
That they fear the police forces of the various States and Territories are undermanned and underequipped to handle the increase in crime; 
That their concern is aggravated by the apparent number of unsolved crimes particularly those involving violence to the individual including murder. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the honourable members of the House of Representatives will seek to ensure that the Commonwealth Government will seek the co-operation of the Stales and supply extra finance to the States to enable: 
proper town planning and development to halt the increase in densely populated areas which leads to increased crime, 
the proper staffing and equipping of police forces to enable adequate crime prevention and detection measures to reduce the frightening increase of both solved and unsolved crime, 
the proper detention of and rehabilitation of criminals, and 
compensation to victims of crimes of violence. 
And your petitioners, as In duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I  present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the sales tax on all forms of contraceptive devices is 27i per cent. (Sales Tax Exemptions and Classifications Act 1935-1967). Also that there is customs duty of up to 471 per cent on some contraceptive devices. 
And that this is an unfair imposition on the human rights of all people who wish to prevent unwanted pregnancies. And furthermore that this imposition discriminates particularly against people on low incomes. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the sales tax on all forms of contraceptive devices be removed, so as to bring these items into line with other necessities such as food, upon which there is no sales tax. Also that customs duties be  removed, and that all contraceptive devices be placed on the national health scheme pharmaceutical benefits list 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the sales tax on all forms of contraceptive devices is 27ยฝ per cent. (Sales Tax Exemptions and Classifications Act 1935-1967). Also that there is Customs Duty of upto 47ยฝ per cent on some contraceptive devices 
And that this is an unfair imposition on the human rights of all people who wish to prevent unwanted pregnancies. And furthermore that this imposition discriminates particularly against people on low incomes. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the sales tax on all forms of contraceptive devices be removed, so as to bring these items into line with other necessities such as food, upon which there is no sales tax. Also that customs duties be removed, and that all contraceptive devices be placed on the National Health Scheme Pharmaceutical Benefits List 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I  present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. "Hie humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That they are gravely concerned at the apparent appalling increase in crime in Australia, particularly in densely populated areas; 
That they fear the police forces of the various States and Territories are undermanned and underequipped to handle the increase in crime; 
Thai their concern is aggravated by the apparent number of unsolved crimes particularly those involving violence to the individual including murder. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Honourable Members of the House of Representatives will seek to ensure that the Commonwealth Government will seek the co-operation of the States and supply extra finance to the States to enable: 
proper town planning and development to halt the increase in densely populated areas which leads to increased crime, 
the proper staffing and equipping of police forces to enable adequate crime prevention and detection measures to reduce the frightening increase of both solved and unsolved crime, 
the proper detention of and rehabilitation of criminals, and 
compensation to victims of crimes of violence. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray 
Petition received. 
1 present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That there is a crisis in Aboriginal Welfare in the South West Land Division of Western Australia resulting from a population explosion, poor housing and hygiene and unemployment and unemployability,. 
That there is a need to phase out Native Reserves in the South West Land Division of Western Australia over the next three years. 
That town housing must be provided for all Aboriginal families where the bread winner has permanent employment or an age or invalid pension entitlement. 
That such housing must be supported by the appointment of permanent 'Home-maker' assistance in the ratio of one home-maker to every eight houses or part thereof. 
That incentives of housing, "home-maker' services and training facilities must be created in centres of potential employment for those who are currently unemployed or unemployable. 
That insufficient State or Federal assistance has been made available to meet these requirements. 
That adequate finance to meet these requirements can only be provided by the Commonwealth Government. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray, that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will give earnest consideration to this most vital matter. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Immigration. Is it a fact that his Department is giving consideration to the deportation of Christopher Coles, a 19-year-old British citizen who was recently convicted and gaoled in Western Australia for disrupting a church service? Is this deportation based on  Mr Coles'  political beliefs? If the deportation is based in any way on  Mr Coles'  political beliefs will the Minister investigate the case with a view to allowing  Mr Coles  to remain in Australia if he so desires? 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
What are the criteria for a person to prove hardship in respect of the acquisition of land  by  his Department in the Newburn area for extensions to the Perth Airport? 
Are the length of residence, sickness, money owing to banks or mortgages outstanding taken into account? 
asked the  Minister  representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
How many freighter flights have utilised Perth Airport during each of the last 5 years, and to which company did these flights belong. 
How many of the flights arrived between the hours of (a) 6 a.m. and midnight and (b) midnight and 6 a.m. 
How many international flights utilised Perth Airport over the last 5 years between the hours of (a) 6 a.m. and midnight and (b) midnight and 6 a.m. 
What were the countries of origin of the international flights. 
Which of these countries exercise curfew hours in their national territory. 
How many domestic passenger flights utilised Perth Airport over each of the last 5 years between the hours of (a) 6 a.m. and midnight and (b) midnight and 6 a.m. 
How many of these flights were (a) interstate and (b) intrastate in each case. 
asked the Postmaster- 
General, upon notice: 
How many street receiver boxes for postal articles have been: 
installed and 
removed in the Electoral Division ofSwan during the last 5 years. 
In what suburbs were they 
installed, and 
removed and what was the reason foreach removal. 
1 present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and .Members  qf  the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
Thai the sales tax on all form* of contraceptive devices is 27i per cent. (Sales Tax Excemptions and Classifications Aci I935-J967). Also that there is customs duly of up to 47+ per cent on some contraceptive devices. 
And that this is an unfair imposition on the human rights of all people who wish to prevent unwanted pregnancies. And furthermore that this imposition discriminates particularly against people on low incomes. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the sales tax on all forms of contraceptive device* be removed, so as to bring these items into line with other necessities such as food, upon which there is no sales tax. Also that customs duties be removed, and that all contraceptive devices be placed on the national health scheme pharmaceutical benefits list. 
And your petitioners, as in duly bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
 I present the following petition: 
To the honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That there is a crisis in Aboriginal Welfare in the South West Land- Division of Western Australia resulting from a population explosion, poor housing and hygiene and unemployment and unemployability. 
That there is a need to phase out Native Reserves in the South West Land Division of Western Australia over the next three years; 
That town housing must be provided for all Aboriginal families where the bread winner has permanent employment or an age  bt  invalid pension entitlement. 
That such housing must be supported by the appointment1 of permanent 'Home-maker' assistance in the ratio of one home-maker to every eight houses or part thereof. 
That incentives of housing, 'home-maker' services and training facilities must be created in centres of potential employment for those who are currently unemployed or unemployable. 
That insufficient State or Federal assistance has been made available to meet these requirements. 
That adequate finance to meet these requirements can only be provided by the Commonwealth Government. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives' in Parliament assembled will give earnest consideration to this most vital matter. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I rise to speak on a matter which is of grave concern to many of my constituents. I have received a number of letters, telephone calls and personal calls from both concerned constituents and those people who have suffered. I speak of migrants. I have attempted to ask during question time whether the Minister for Immigration  (Dr Forbes)  intends to rectify the situation, but to date I have been unable to obtain the call. We have a situation where many migrant families who have come to Australia, many of them large families, are suffering hardship through employment and housing difficulties. 
Some of these people from countries such as Burma are destitute when- they arrive here due to their government's policy of allowing them to bring here only $8 per person. My personal experience is that on occasions my office has had to organise child welfare assistance and the assistance of charitable bodies, and in fact we ourselves have provided furniture and money on occasions. Their plight is a disastrous one. We have found families sleeping on the floor, the man of the family without employment or money for fares to go and look for a position. It is up to the Government to ensure that all people coming here are housed and fed. These people to whom I have referred pay their own fares, often on hire purchase. Thus they are faced with problems when they come here. This situation must be stopped. Guarantees of employment should be offered provided that they do not involve the displacement of those who are already Australian citizens. 
A recent report in an eastern States newspaper referred to our migration programme as the great Australian con trick and talked of Turkish families promised well paid jobs in their own profession. One man was a journalist yet he became a labourer on S47 a week. He was promised a housing commission home, yet he had to pay rent of S22.50 a week for a flat to be shared with other people. He was promised a crash course in English immediately on arrival, but he had to wait 16 months. He was promised low living costs and he was met with intiation and threatened unemployment. These are real problems which not only are causing damage to our international reputation but are creating a hard core of impoverished people within our own community. We have the pitiful situation where it is reported that one couple have had to send their children back to Turkey to be looked after because they could not afford to keep them here because of the circumstances. The truth about living costs here shocked them when they arrived. They were told in the official brochures before they came that bread cost 17c or 18c a loaf. They found it to be 24c when they arrived here. They were told that sugar cost 20c per lb. instead they found it to be 22c. They were told that cigarettes cost 38c a packet but found that they cost 44c. They were told that rent was from $10 to $15 a week instead of $20 to S30. These figures are quoted from the official brochures. The truth is a disgrace to us. Surely we do not need migrants so badly that wc have to deceive them. 
Some of the people who have been concerned with the problems they are facing in Australia and who have contacted me have said that they could go home if they had not sold up, left their positions of employment, bringing qualifications to Australia which would be normally acceptable but because of the current economic trends they are unable to fit into the community and often place a heavy burden on the welfare services both official and voluntary. Lel the Minister make proper provision for these people, but more importantly let him make an immediate investigation into the situation. I often find it difficult to understand the decisions made in this field. For instance, the number of rejections of applications by people who have relatives in overseas countries and who wish to nominate these people as migrants are very high. On occasions the Minister has acted with compassion, and for this I thank him. However, this does not explain the other cases which moot with refusal. I instance the case of an English businessman in Rivervale. Western Australia, who wishes to sponsor his brother-in-law, wife and family so that they may come to Australia wilh guaranteed accommodation and employment. These people are refused permission to come to Australia on the grounds that their child has a serious medical disability. The disability of the child, whose appearance is that of a normal, healthy, funloving child, is that of being a slow learner. These people cannot come here even if they pay their own fare. 
This businessman is denied family assistance in his business, the child is denied a happier future in Western Australia, and the slow learning children's group in Western Australia, which has made excellent steps forward in educating these people, misses the opportunity of giving this child an education which would be perhaps better than it could receive in the country where it is now. lt is an incredible situation. T instance the case of a lady who was refused permission to come here to marry a gentleman who wished to sponsor her and a child. This lonely man who has worked to bring tip a family here and whose wife is- deceased must suffer . the consequence of the ministerial refusal in this case. The letters from the lady are loo heart-rending to read in public. However, 1 will make them available to the Minister. No doubt he will act with compassion. I feel that these are cases which should have been treated with common sense and compassion in the first place. 
The Minister could maintain the quota by. allowing families to be united. If these cases that come to my attention are representative of what occurs in other electorates the heartbreak and bitterness must he compounded around Australia. I have records of sisters, brothers, mothers, fathers, cousins and fiancees all of whom have been refused permission to be united in Australia. Some families have had to be permanently separated because one section of the family has nol been accepted here and has been accepted  by  such countries as Canada. The point I make about these people who have close relatives in Australia and who wish  to  come  to  Australia is that they would be able  to  fit into our community without being a burden on the social services system. They would not  be  ill-informed and would know what  to  expect  on  their arrival here. But  it  is a national disgrace that  we  permit people  to  come here  to  live as they are forced  to  live for the first few months here, with the danger, in a failing economy and an unfavourable employment situation, that their  position of  poverty will  be  perpetuated. The only other section  of  the community in respect  of  which the rest  of  the community and the Government tolerate these conditions is the Aboriginal section. On behalf  of my  constituents who are so  concerned  about the matter 1 have raised, I ask the Minister and the Government  to  take steps  to  ensure that all migrants permitted  to  come here have housing security and employment security and  do  not displace Australian workers  or add to  the employment difficulties  of  people already citizens of Australia. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
How many people in each State have been fined for failing to return a quarterly return to the Bureau of Census and Statistics. 
How are people selected in each State to provide these regular quarterly returns. 
What is the basis for objection to be exempted from this selective group for those who do not wish to comply with the return of the quarterly return. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
What legislation has been enacted by the Commonwealth under its powers in section51 of the Constitution, placitum xxiii A - benefits to students. (2)Is it the intention of the Government to enter the field of primary education under this power. 
Why has this power not been used to remedy the lack of educational opportunity throughout Australia. 
I  present  the  following  petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Sales Tax on alt forms of Contraceptive Devices is 274 per cent. (Sales Tax Exemptions and Classification.-. Act 1935-1967). Also thai there is Customs Duty of up to 471 per cent on some Contraceptive Devices. 
And that this is an unfair imposition on the human rights of all people who wish to prevent unwanted pregnancies. And furthermore that this imposition discriminates particularly against people on low incomes. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Sales Tax on all forms of Contraceptive Devices be removed, so as to bring these items into line with other necessities such as food, upon which there is no Sales Tax. Also that Customs Duties be removed, and that all Contraceptive Devices be placed on the National Health Scheme Pharmaceutical Benefits List. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned residents of the State of Western Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the present site of the Perth Airport is unsuitable because of: 
the morning fogs. 
its proximity to the Darling Ranges 
its. lack of planning, prior to construction. 
the loss to the local authority in rates and loss to the community in acreage of development area and assets. 
the restriction placed on the development of surrounding shires due to existing flight paths and proposed flight paths; and 
the adjacent areas to the airport are suffering loss of value due to their unsuitability for high density development. 
Your petitioners .therefore humbly pray that action be taken to remove Perth airport from its presen. site to the site planned by Professor Stephenson's overall plan for the city of Perth, that is at Lake Gnangarra. 
And your petitioners, ab in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
I claim to have been misrepresented by an article published in the 'Daily News' of 2nd December headed MP: Too Many Pauper Migrants'. The report is so abbreviated from the Hansard that it gives the impression that I was criticising the actual migrants themselves when in fact the Hansard shows I was requesting an inquiry into the matter of hardship, housing and employment security and an assurance on these matters to be given to migrants. Further the article indicated that I had said that by bringing these people to Australia the Government was damaging the country's international reputation. In fact the Hansard shows that I said: 
These are real problems which not only are causing damage to our international reputation. 
I was referring to comments 1 had previously made in my speech to wrong information given to intending and actual migrants by official Australian sources. In no way did my speech reflect on the actual migrants, who have my complete sympathy and support. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Will be take steps to direct each Minister who has the use of three rooms in Parliament House to make available one room for the use of private Members. 
If not, will he consult with the Presiding Officers on the feasibility of providing prefabricated accommodation in the Parliamentary gardens. 
Does the Government intend to proceed with the proposal for a new and permanent Parliament House; if so, when. 
If not, what alternative proposals are intended to improve the accommodation available to private Members and Parliamentary staff. 
How much longer can private Members expect to be required to remain three and two Members to a room. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
In view of the intended possible extension of the Perth Airport and the resultant loss of 1,700 acres of rate-able land at Newburn, has he considered a request submitted by letter from the Belmont Shire on 29th June 1971 and acknowledged by him on J 6th July 1971 relating to the return to the Belmont Shire of certain land compulsorily acquired from the Shire for Army purposes and now no longer used for those purposes. 
If so, what reply will be sent to the Belmont Shire. 
-I support the amendment. This debate relates to the adjustments that are to be made to the broadcasting and televising of political and current affairs material. I am disappointed that in the past - and it would appear that this will happen in the future- little attention has been given in the issuing of station licences to the provision of equal free time to local government candidates who stand as independents in many areas. In particular in Western Australia, where political tickets are not run, the candidates even for shire  president  or town mayor are virtually unknown figures who, because they are fully involved in their own positions earning a living or running a business, are unable to expend the time or money to present themselves and their viewpoints to the public. The exceptions are those people who have very large incomes, and thus the field of radio and television is restricted to them. 
This aspect should be looked at by commercial and Australian Broadcasting Commission stations to ensure that it becomes a general practice to present to the public these very important candidates for honorary positions. Local government is the third arm of government. It is the least remunerative, the most thankless, but one of the most important arms of government. The media have an obligation to see that these candidates are presented to the public - the Government has this obligation, also - in such a way that a proper choice is made by those who elect them. It is regrettable that the legislation does not encompass this aspect. The Government does not seem to accept the responsibility for legislating in this area. The resistance on the part of a national station to spending time on this type of broadcast can be understood, but there are now sufficient diversified stations - regional stations - to ensure that mainly local audiences are involved. We can all realise from the escalating costs of our own electioneering broadcasts the utter impossibility of the ordinary worker or small businessman wanting to serve the community in this field, meeting the costs of a properly presented, full representation of himself and his policies. 
It is time that a firm decision was made and ensuing legislation brought down for the provision of equal free time for local government candidates, State parliamentary candidates, Federal parliamentary candidates or, for that matter, any person standing for an elected position of important community function where most of the community population has the right to vote or will be affected by an election. I hope that in the future when granting station licences serious consideration will be given to this matter. The legislation before the House, which is aimed in one instance at a final saving of bookkeeping, will permit all licences held by one group of interests to be considered together in a total operation. This must effect some major savings not only for the stations concerned but for the Postmaster-General's Department. It appears to be in line with the Postal Department's general policy of centralisation in this field but the savings are not being passed on to the public licence holder, in particular the pensioner or the widow who has the misfortune to have to care for a growing family who are reaching their teens and who go out to work and who, because of the miserable income these children bring in, is charged a full radio and television fee. It is regrettable that the same attention to savings is not being given to those people as is being given to the stations and the Postmaster-General's Department in this legislation. 
Amidst all these administrative savings and the monopoly licences and extensions which have been granted what sort of service is the public receiving in return? It was only last year that what appeared to be collusion between the private and government stations in Western Australia resulted in the screening of video tape recordings of Perth football matches on the evenings of the match days being discontinued after a dispute over the payment for the television rights with the football authorities. This was a further blow to the public, the under-privileged and incapacitated who for various reasons were unable to attend the matches. It was a blatant disregard of service to the public. The televising of these matches by ABC country stations took place only after I had raised the matter in this House, and I thank the Postmaster-General for his indulgence on that occasion. Why not pay a little extra to give service? Even if something extra had to be paid to the football authorities, a television coverage of the football matches should have been provided for the public, which pays far too much for too little service. Not only the government stations but the private stations should be prepared to make some effort to give service. 
Let us not try to deceive anyone by saying that stations are not overall profitable enterprises. This is proven by the need for such legislation as this which rationalises the period of licence renewals, makes provisions affecting ownership of commercial broadcasting and television stations and makes provision for more usable time for the broadcasting and televising of political and current affairs programmes. I believe this legislation will lead to higher charges for broadcasting and television time and will protect the existing stations' length of tenure as licence holders. Anyone who considers what has happened to live drama in radio and television in Western Australia cannot deny that Western Australia has acting talent that should be developed in radio drama as well as in theatre. However young actors or actresses in Western Australia will never gain experience or employment in radio drama or television unless a wider use is made of this field. 
The Government is pursuing a policy of centralising radio and television production which precludes top line Western Australian actors and actresses from working in those media in their home State. There is room in today's radio media for sound art forms for radio drama to allow our young writers, producers and acting and creative talent to be fully employed. This was proven by the independent McNair Anderson radio programme surveys, which showed that in some cases ABC radio drama had an audience in excess of that of other features and that an increase in locally produced output was warranted. In the field of light entertainment in radio and television in Western Australia productions are almost nil. No television light entertainment production of any note was produced in Western Australia during the 3-year period from July 1968 to July 1971. This is an appalling record of lack of service not only to the public but to the Western Australian acting fraternity organisations. This situation comes out of the system of monopoly that this legislation is substantiating. As I recently heard stated, he is indeed a superior being who does not abuse a monopoly. 
Let us look at the result of this monopoly in Western Australia. From 1963 to 1968 actors were used in local light entertainment productions by the ABC. Light entertainment, in conjunction with artists and musicians, on ABC radio and television used to provide employment for actors. According to actors' representatives a total expenditure on light entertainment production has been reduced from a figure of $26,570 in the peak production year of 1965-66 to about $8,000, inclusive of increased wage rates. From 1963 to 1965 radio output of light entertainment in Western Australia averaged about 70 national half hours, 60 State half hours, 30 quarter hours, 250 record programmes, 26 magazine items, 22 half hour television programmes per annum. In 1968 the figures for ABC radio in Western Australia had fallen to 13 live national half hours, 13 recorded half hours, 6 quarter hours, 7 magazine items, and 35 State half hours. In television, the figures were thirteen 10- minute interludes and 13 Billy Borker 5- minute programmes. The 1970-71 figures are not known but calculations among performers indicate that the number of television programmes was nil for 3 years up to July 1971 and almost negligible in radio. If we are to have licensing conditions, these provisions should be outlined as a condition of station licensing. A greater local Australian content should be a licensing condition. 
Tonight 1 refer to the procrastination of this Government in granting to the States specific funds to be utilised for a national purpose. The situation is highlighted by the recent plea of the South Australian Government to the Commonwealth Government for assistance to finish the sealing of the Eyre Highway. Admittedly, several pleas have been made in the past and this matter has been raised several times in the House. But on this occasion the Labor administration in South Australia has indicated that it is willing to meet two-thirds of the cost of the work on what is mainly a through road in that State. It is the only east-west road link available to the long-suffering public. After nearly a quarter of a century of national administration by the Liberals, no move is being made to meet the $2.5m which is required. It is a sorry state of affairs when a national government makes no attempt to provide a defence, trade and tourist link between its major seaboards. Yet this Government recently approved expenditure of $7.1m in Thailand to build an east-west highway there, and only 66 miles are involved at that. In addition to this, a further $1.3m was expended for feeder roads in .southern areas of Thailand. This is all very commendable, but are not the citizens of Western Australia and eastern Australia at least equal to the Thais in the eyes oi this Government. 
The Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  continues to speak of public education on road safety and the part vehicle manufacturers must play, then goes on to ignore totally the Government's responsibility in this matter. It is far past time that action, instead of words, was taken. In a question on notice I challenged the Minister to traverse the road by car personally. Of course, this was refused, yet this Government is content to continue to increase charges against motorists from the time they purchase a vehicle with its excessive tax component. Every gallon of fuel they buy increases their tax burden. What do the long-suffering members of the public get in return if they wish to spend their holiday money within Australia visiting the national capital and the State capital cities? If people have the misfortune to damage their vehicles on the 290- mile horror stretch of the Eyre Highway they have ruined vehicles and their hardearned money is expended on repairs instead of on their holiday. Perhaps the Minister now will base his defence of his attitude on the comments of 4 senior gentlemen who made a leisurely trip of survey across this dirt track to report to the Australian Automobile Association. Mind you, it took them 6 days to travel from Adelaide to Perth. If they were in the trucking business, they would have gone broke after their first trip. However, a report from these daring people after their epic journey was published in the 'Sunday Times' in Western Australia on 27th February 1972 under the heading: 'South Australian Horror Road not Dangerous'. This is an incredible statement. I noticed that 3 of the party were to fly back to the eastern States and another was to travel by train. Of course, the car was freighted back to Victoria. Perhaps the wheels had fallen off .or had been shaken off. This is an amazing performance for a road survey. One spokesman for the group said that he was surprised at the standard of the road, especially the socalled horror stretch. He said: 
This stretch is safe if drivers use their common sense and do not exceed SO miles per hour. Trouble started when drivers went from bitumen sealed road to the unsealed road and still maintained their average of 70 miles per hour. 
The speed limit, of course, is 65 miles an hour. This was the comment of a one leisurely crossing expert. He said that there were ample hazard signs along the road. He said also that petrol prices were in keeping with the long distances that petrol had to be freighted. I only hope he is able to get his rose coloured glasses off in time to give the luckless motorist more valid and genuine advice so that the motorist does not have to finish up by freighting his car home in pieces as a consequence of accepting that dangerous advice. As a regular user both in past years and currently - in fact, I would use the road up to 4 times a month in some periods  -  I should like those one-trip experts to tell the people who have holed the sump of their car, damaged their car's suspension, have been run into or have run into someone else in the dust created by another passing vehicle or who have broken down or have been run into by another vehicle blinded by a dust cloud that they were travelling too fast or were not exercising enough care. Insurance companies consider interstate travel so dangerous in these circumstances that insurance excesses of $150 a car are only too common. Because of this excess, they do not replace windscreens which are broken by stones flung up on sections of this socalled highway. Do not tell me that this road is safe. I can only say that standard equipment for a traveller is extra water, extra petrol, extra oil, wire, tools and a tow rope. 
Yes, one can ring up for that after travelling 100 miles or so. Fortunately 1 have been lucky enough to only need those items to assist other travellers. Never a trip passes without my having to assist some luckless person. I do not condemn travellers for having radiator trouble, tyre trouble, holes in the sump, and wheel bearing and suspension damage. I do condemn the situation which permits this horror stretch to exist. Nobody can bring back the lives that have been lost in the tragically unnecessary accidents or compensate the injured who have been maimed for life. Nobody can compensate for the ruin of long-range plans and for hard-earned long service leave pay or holiday money which has been expended on repairs. Nobody can erase that bitter memory, but this Government can contribute by assisting the South Australian Government in its genuine attempts to seal this highway at the earliest date. 
Let us have no more of this nonsense of saying that people are trying to maintain a 70 mile an hour average before they get into trouble on this road. Most city people are so petrified by the road surface and by their unfamiliarity with it that they travel at very low speeds. Sections of the road are subject to weather conditions. On occasions I have made a perfect crossing in reasonable safety because the South Australian authorities have used as many as 5 graders on the road. Then it has rained and a week later sections of the road have been a sheer torture trail due to heavy traffic which has cut it up badly. After heavy rain most of the road is under water with all the ensuing problems. On occasions, sections are closed or detours made but it is wholly irresponsible for any organisation or person to allow any impression to be gained by the motoring public that cautions and precautions should not be taken, lt is even more irresponsible for this Government, which pays lip service to road safety, vehicle safety and driver education, to continue to ignore its responsibility to the nation in this matter. 
Must we have more deaths, more hideous injuries, more ruined vehicles and destroyed caravans and more human misery before firm action is taken? If any person in the Government had the experience of assisting with rolled-over vehicles or has assisted in dragging sheep from a rolled-over semitrailer and has then had to help with the destruction of most of those sheep he would take a more concerned look at the problems and a solution no doubt would be the result. I should like to refer to a recent letter published in the 'West Australian' of 26th February 1972 which i think sums up the viewpoint of the motoring public. Under the heading: 'Treacherous 310 Miles' the letter states: 
Yet another fatal accident on the treacherous unsealed South Australian part of Eyre Highway has caused me to lodge a protest on behalf of those who can't - those who have lost their lives through man's apathy. 
Eyre Highway, over which 1 travelled recently, is of national economic and defensive importance and should be in a first-class condition of safety. 
I challenge the Australian politicians responsible for the 310 miles of unsealed hell to forsake the comfort of their supersonic jet aircraft and simply drive an average Australian family car over this so-called road both ways during summer. 
I am sure if this challenge is accepted and after the dust has been removed from their tortured bodies that they will get the message. 
I am sure that they will. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Works whether the Minister for Works received a telegram last week from the Building Trades Association in Western Australia requesting that Commonwealth works be released immediately in Western Australia to relieve 'the building trades' unemployment situation. If so, what action does the Minister intend to take in the matter? 
All honourable members of this House must be receiving, as I am, protests from conservation bodies on a national or State level and from their own constituents protesting about proposals to give permission for supersonic land overflight corridors across Australia and permission for airlines to land supersonic transports - SSTs - in Australia. There is also the possibility that Qantas will purchase 4 Concordes. People in my electorate who have constantly petitioned this House for the removal of Perth Airport from its present site and the installation of a night curfew on flights are vitally concerned with this issue because of the Commonwealth Government's intention to expand the Perth Airport, virtually in the heart of Perth suburbs. They note that with the Concorde comes a very high level of airport noise and a high pollution effect is alleged. A Concorde's recent flight to South America proved that it cannot meet Federal Aviation Authority requirements either for noise or overpressure. Concorde flights over Cornwall resulted recently in sonic boom produced over a wide boom track. It was highly destructive, resulting in claims amounting to about $stg50 a mile of paid flight. Subsequently insurance companies acted in a scandalous manner and introduced in their insurance proposals clauses safeguarding them against such damage claims. 
Let us not be naive enough to suppose that insurance companies in Australia will not act in a similar manner. They will move quickly to protect themselves, and when they do, who is to pay? It is unlikely that it will be the Government or the airlines. In Western Australia the then Liberal Government legislated to prevent citizens from suing airlines for such damage, provided they were complying with government instituted Acts and regulations. Citizens are virtually powerless and unprotected against government decisions which lead to their discomfort. The Government's consideration of 2 corridors, one for east-west traffic and another for west-east traffic, is unopposed as far as the ordinary citizen is concerned. 
The corridors would need to be 50 miles wide, the distance over which sonic booms travel. But the alarming point is that the so-called uninhabited area where the corridors commence on the Western Australian coast is near Broome and it goes to Cobar, 439 miles from Sydney across our developing northwest, adding further problems for pioneers of our north; then it crosses the Alice Springs area and passes across the northwest of New South Wales. We can only hope that common sense will prevail and the corridor will never be established, even as a test, for tests seem to gloss over the facts in reports to the public, and companies, whether they are aircraft manufacturers or airline operators, make efforts to sell their products. The 2 corridors would equal a 100-mile strip or approximately 170,000 square miles of Australia, 5 per cent of the area of our nation to be affected by an unnecessary nuisance. 
The American public have rejected them as have the English public. The United States Government has rejected them. Surely this Government will take its customary course and follow some other nation. It is disastrous that in the one field in which we may become a leader we are to give landing rights to international flights by SSTS at our airports such as Perth, thus not only boosting the sale of Concordes to Qantas but also to other airlines for it has been reported that aircraft salesmen say that if one aircraft is sold, 200 will be sold on the basis of keeping up with the competition. 
What has been preventing sales and the subsequent use of these aircraft has been the lack of co-operation from governments concerned about the welfare of the people they represent in refusing overflight permission on land routes; but not the Australian Government. It is the first to be reported to have offered overland routes and landing facilities. This is consistent with its attitude over a long period, yet it has the impertinence to put out a booklet called 'Action Against Aircraft Noise' which refers to noise abatement procedures by aircraft and land zoning. We know all about that through the Newburn scandal, where land was resumed at bedrock prices. The booklet also refers to noise exposure forecasts, aircraft noise certification and restricted scheduling of aircraft at certain airports between 11 p.m. and 6 a.m. But that is not so at Perth, one of the most affected airports. The booklet goes on to say that the Department of Civil Aviation is very much aware of the problems presented by aircraft noise but there is not one word about SST flight plan proposals. It is a public relations effort designed to lull the public into believing that all is being done on their behalf. Even a short paragraph would have been enough to indicate an awareness of the problem. It would have been welcomed, but instead there is sinister silence. 
Let us look at what the Concorde has to offer the travelling public. At Fairford the French and British prototypes 001 and 002 took off and landed within 5 minutes of each other. They left a covering of smoke and fumes that was still present IS minutes later. This occurred over a wider area than happens with other aircraft, due to the longer runway needed. If any one of the cars bringing passengers to the airport had excessive exhaust emission it would be put off the road. Why should not aircraft be banned in similar circumstances, or departure points shifted to areas where there is no effect on population or ecology? An aircraft is being offered to the public which has only snob value, for the operational costs are so high  -  in fact 3 times as high - that a $700 subsonic economy flight would cost about $2,200 for the same supersonic journey. 
The high fuel consumption of the Concorde means more refuelling stops, greatly reducing any airspeed advantage. In a newsletter issued by the British Aircraft Corporation on the Concorde's South American trip it was stated that the flying time from Toulouse to Cayenne was 5 hours, as against 8 hours for a subsonic flight. It left out the facts. The subsonic trip is non-stop while the Concorde was on the ground at Sal in the Cape Verde Islands for refuelling for 1 hour 58 minutes. The Concorde took 6 hours 58 minutes for the trip and a non-stop subsonic jet would take only 1 hour longer. 
In the Concorde there is a lack of passenger space. It is reported that it is almost impossible to provide the passenger comfort, galley and toilet facilities necessary for long flights. One report says that the Concorde resembles nothing more than a flying pencil. Its tubular cabin is so low and narrow that a person needs to stoop as he moves down the aisle between the seats. If the Concorde represents a step forward in terms of speed, it represents a leap backward in passenger comfort and world safety standards. It is not too late to take note of informed public opinion. It is important that the general public is more fully informed on the implications of the granting of night paths and landing rights. 
It is to be hoped that ali information and research in this field is made public and that people who will be affected along the flight paths and adjacent to airports have a say in their future environment. Let us not have mandatory decisions being made by Ministers. Let the people of the northwest, the Northern Territory, Perth and New South Wales have a say before millions of dollars of taxpayers money are expended on catering for these ecology threatening monsters. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned residents of the State of Western Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the present site of the Perth Airport  is  unsuitable because of - 
the morning fogs. ; 
its proximity to the Darling Ranges. 
its lack of planning, prior to construction. 
the loss to the local authority in rates and loss to the community in acreage of development area and assets. 
the restriction placed on the development of surrounding shires due to existing flight paths and proposed flight paths; and 
CO  the adjacent areas to the airport are suffering loss of value due to their unsuitability for high density development. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that action be taken to remove Perth airport from its present site to the site planned by Professor Stephenson's overall plan for the city of Perth that is at Lake Gnangarra. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Sales Tax on all forms of Contraceptive Devices is 27ยฝ per cent. (Sales Tax Exemptions and Classifications Act 1935-1967). Also that thereis Customs Duty of up to 47) per cent on some Contraceptive Devices. 
And that this is an unfair imposition on the human rights of all people who wish to prevent unwanted pregnancies. And furthermore that this imposition discriminates particularly against people on low incomes. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Sales Tax on all forms of Contraceptive Devices be removed, so as to bring these items into line with other necessities such as food, upon which there is no Sales Tax. Also that Customs Duties be removed, and that all Contraceptive Devices be placed on the National Health Scheme Pharmaceutical Benefits List. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
 I hope that the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Whittorn),  was not serious when he made reference to a form of drug taking. The honourable member has highlighted the incompetence of the Postmaster-General's Department in industrial relations and in settling industrial disputes. He also highlighted the fact that the legislation is aimed at approximately 100,000 workers in the Commonwealth service who, the Australian Labor Parly has said, should come under the Commonwealth arbitration system and not the Public Service. The Government refuses this as it wishes to use this legislation in its antiunion campaign. Listening to the previous  speaker  and observing his general attitude it was not hard to understand that this is not a conciliation Act but a bans and limitations clause being inserted in the Com.monwealth Public Service Act by the Parliament. In his attitude and words he exposed the truth that this is an attack on the Public Service workers and their associations' office bearers. 
The legislation is insidious in its nature in the precedent it will set and in the industrial electoral manoeuvering which the Government is now commencing for the purpose of this year's election, lt sets precedents of industrial terminology which are unacceptable to any person in organised labour. It sets a precedent for this terminology to be used in the Government's planned industrial confrontation later this year, engineered possibly by the Department of Labour and National Service, at the direction of the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch),  in a forlorn effort to retain the existing Government in power. There can be no other reason for this legislation for in no way is it conciliatory. The term 'industrial situation' which is used is so wide and takes in so many persons - employees or not - directly affected by the so-called industrial situation, that its powers are reminiscent of powers given to police forces in totalitarian states. Why have these powers been introduced? The Minister claims that the Public Service Act is not adequate to deal with direct industrial action. He further admits that unrest is growing and is not limited, as in the past, to the areas of Commonwealth employment that were essentially industrial. In his second reading speech the Minister said: 
Of more recent years, there has been an increasing tendency tor a wide range of officers and employees in the Public Service to either threaten or take part in industrial action. 
What a glaring admission of failure by the Minister. Why has he not had the administration investigated? Why has he not removed the causes of unrest? Why has he attacked this large body of responsible people in our community - people with public school backgrounds, people with tertiary education, people who have often held commissioned rank in the armed services when they so willingly served this nation? Why not remove the causes of dissent? Why make these people who are often not members of trade unions and often with no Australian Council of Trade Unions or political affiliation, the scapegoats for what is obviously the result of this Government's being in office for nearly a quarter of a century? It is only over the last few years that any dissension has arisen, so the responsibility rests squarely with the Government. With incredible duplicity because of its own failures to create an election confrontation with the people it should be representing, instead of threatening, withour attempting to investigate the cause of the unrest, we are faced with the appalling terminology 'industrial situation'. 
No doubt our first major confrontation in the Public Service will occur when someone attempts to apply the terms of this legislation in an unreasonable manner. Let us remember that the same people who have caused the frustration in the past will be administering this Act. No improvement in administration is envisaged. The only hope these people have is for a Labor government to give them a new Minister with a new approach to their industrial problems, someone who will find the core of the problem, not as is envisaged here, by preventing people from carrying out most of their duties in a normal manner, with the minimum of inconvenience to the public, and leaving the section of disputed work to a later date when the dispute itself is settled, thus causing a minimum loss to the community. But now a direct stoppage of all work will be the only alternative to the workers involved. The penalties that would apply for not handling an unsafe object or working in an unsafe way are so severe that the only course left to the employee - I say 'employee' and not unionist' or 'association member', for they are all involved in this legislation with equal penalties - will be to stop work, with all its inconvenience and loss to the worker and the community. 
There is no escape clause in the legislation. lt is a mandatory piece of legislation. If the Government wanted - I suspect it does for its own perverse reasons - to build a fighting, organised workforce at all or most levels of the Public Service, this is one way to achieve that end. The public servants will need to organise far more militant and efficient bodies to defend themselves from the penal provisions by which they can be affected. Perhaps one good thing to come out of all this will be a political awareness. They will be made aware that who occupies the Government benches really does affect them, and that the Labor Party is more representative on industrial matters. In fact there will be a new era of political understanding and action by people whom one would consider to be, in the main, uncommitted. It is disastrous that so much hardship must be caused to so many in its course. 
Let us look at what this confrontation will bring, remembering that there will be no go slow, no safety procedures drawn up by employees, no putting aside portion of work functions that is disputed as to by whom and how it should be done, but a -direct refusal of all work. It will mean that not only one section will stop but all connected sections will give support to get the dispute over quickly. For if they do not support their fellow workers they run the risk of the Minister's venting his spleen by standing them down under the provisions of the Act. We could have the situation where the Department of Supply, involving other unions, could come out in support of the Postmaster-General's Department, causing a spread of industrial trouble to outside unions who have members within the Department of Supply and, of course, causing further inconvenience to private industry. What good worker will stand by and see his fellow member or worker in distress? I wonder at the lack of industrial relations undertaking or training, which is obvious by this so-called flexible legislation. It makes a dictator of the Minister. 
Now this Government has refused any wage increases already granted to similar workers, hence the freezing of the 9 per cent increase flow on. There has been no similar freezing of prices. It will mean that work procedures will be changes, even if it is to the detriment of the public. The employee will not be able to protest, for if he takes some action to refuse he faces trial without witness, without union representation or legal representation. I remind the House that this applies to the individual who is not a member of an organisation. Let us look at the interpretation of 'industrial situation'. As defined in the Bill,, industrial situation' means: 
the refusal or failure to perform work, including (without limiting the generality of the preceding words of this paragraph) the refusal or failure to perform work in a particular manner, at a particular place or at a particular time or while particular circumstances exist. 
Who makes the decision? What is work in a particular manner? An unlawful order to perform work contrary to traffic regulations could be given. Schedules could be set that are impossible to maintain at lawful speeds. Do not say that it will not happen. It has happened in previous situations. A comparatively minor person in administration can create an industrial situation which will not be disputed at the point of time but will become an industrial disaster as it becomes a major issue after it has been allowed to breed resentment amongst the workers, and become the focal point of a further meeting, leading to worse industrial relations than already exist. 
It is well known in the field of industrial relations that where you have constant disputes and constantly poor industrial relations you have a bad employer. The situation is alleged by inference by the Minister that constant bad industrial relations exist in the Commonwealth Public Service. It is remarkable that the State Public Service is not having this type of trouble. I find it impossible to believe that people of the same educational standard, devoted to their employer - the vast majority of them loyally remained with either the State or the Federal Public Service during boom times when much more attractive wages, over-award payments and conditions were offering generally - and residing in any one State were so totally different temperamentally as to cause such a large variation of work attitude that the Commonwealth is having trouble in maintaining control although the States are not. There is. only one possible answer to this. The administration itself must be reflecting the same autocratic attitude as the Commonwealth Government and must be showing a similar lack of response to worker opinion as it does in its own departmental dealings with the public. 
The Postmaster-General's Department has been quoted as the yardstick for attacking all public servants. This Department is constantly under fire for its total lack of recognition of laws applying to citizens in all States such as building regulations, parking regulations or any other State ordinance which it cares to ignore. What type of respect does an administration such as this expect to command? Anyone who behaves like an outlaw must expect to be treated as an outlaw. If any private industry had as many problems as the Post Office has - problems created by petty administration attitudes - an immediate investigation would take place. What is more important is that an immediate change of attitude would result. If the Minister or his Department are incapable of overcoming the problem then surely there is some outside body which would provide the necessary answer. 
I suspect that if closer consideration were given to union submissions and association submissions, startling changes and results would follow. If this legislation is the only answer that the Public Service or the Minister can come up with, I suggest that they should seek advice from the Western Australian Government which is capably handling its State Public Service. Are we to believe what we have been told by Government speakers - that this legislation is a genuine attempt to solve the problem before it occurs? Those honourable members may genuinely believe that due to their inexperience in the industrial relations field. But one detects in this Bill a gentle wedge which may be used for further amendments not only to this Act but also to legislation dealing with other industrial situations. Workers do not want to go on strike but they do so out of sheer frustration due to a a lack of results in negotiation. Most trade union officials, most employee association officials, want to lead a normal life but often they have to negotiate in an atmosphere of frustration and directions subsequently given to them by ordinary citizens who are their employers in order to reach a reasonable conclusion or have to take direct action as a result of recommendations made at a meeting. We seem to forget that any direct action decision is made by a group and not by an individual. For any speaker to say that a penalty of $1,000 against any person is conciliatory is ludicrous. 
What is the main cause of industrial disputation in Australia today? The employers can agree with the unions. The unions can agree with the employers. But the Government intervenes when it believes a claim should not be granted, such as an increase in wages. On no occasion does the Government put forward an effective case or effort in opposition to price increases. This legislation would be more effective if it were in the field of price and inflation control instead of provocation of the Public Service. With automation being instituted generally can we be assured that proper, meaningful discussion will take place about work procedures, . retraining or redundancy? I fear that the stringent provisions in this Bill will be used to suppress any protest. The Bill in fact makes any discussion subject to the threat contained in the Bill. In the light of the previous record of the Postmaster-General's Department the discussions will not take place until industrial stoppage occurs. Who is going to assure us that all of the facts in any dispute will be made public? This Bill provides for the Arbitrator or bis deputy to decide to what extent, if any, the facts will be made public. Why not take the example of the State governments and make all the facts public? I regret that this legislation was not discussed with and agreed to by the parties affected so that a workable piece of legislation which was fair and equitable to all parties could be brought down. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and the Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled, we, the Citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia, residents in the State of Western Australia do humbly petition and pray that all levels of Government responsible in Australia will take note of the wishes of we, the Citizens, in so far as we request: 
That the Commonwealth co-operate with all authorities to ensure the early sealing of the one East-West road link, the Eyre Highway, and that urgent consideration be given to increasing the maintenance of the road in the intervening period and endeavour to curtail the dreadful road toll, injury and vehicle damage. 
That the Commonwealth consider this road as a Defence Measure for the whole of Australia and road link connecting the two coasts of the Continent, and consideration to the sealing from the aspect of the increase of Trade and Tourism within Australia, thus encouraging the retention of the finance in Australia which is now going overseas. Consideration be given on the grounds of a better understanding between the people of all of the Stales of Australia, because of their improved ability to travel and meet one another. 
That consideration be given to one of the most heavily taxed groups within the community, the motorist, and be given the opportunity to enjoy some of the tax fees as charged, by being able to travel with reasonable comfort and safety on the major highways of Australia. 
That consideration be given to returning specifically for this purpose the increased revenue received from the increase in petrol tax. 
We, the petitioners humbly pray that the House of Representatives in the Parliament Assembled would take immediate steps to' ensure provision of funds to provide for the all weather sealing of this important highway, the Eyre Highway, linking East and West and your Petitioners as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral and relates to the high cost of telephone calls for pensioners and retired persons. Will the Minister have examined the possibility of granting concessions on telephone call charges and further concessions on charges made to pensioners and retired people on the installation of telephones which are often required for medical calls? Will the Minister undertake to have made a complete review of concessions to pensioners and retired people in this field and to have concessions granted in keeping with those citizens' restricted incomes? In view of the steeply increased charges of the Postmaster-General's Department, will the Minister withhold any action against any pensioner who is unable to meet these charges until a review takes place and concessions are made retrospective to the last increases? 
I support the amendment. The Opposition is critical of the lack of action in this field of navigation, particularly since this matter was fully debated in 1967 and amendments were moved by members of the Opposition. The Parliament was urged to take action on recommendations from the Labor Party Transport Committee after consultation with the parties concerned in the industry, but no action has been taken. Nobody will deny that a revision is necessary. This applies to all legislation. As time progresses, modern innovations come to hand, methods and speeds vary and in this case crewing requirements change. It is imperative that these matters come before the Parliament for amendment as soon as a system changes. In this case we have had a tremendous change in the types of packaging of goods carried by sea. We have seen containerisation introduced, with all its encompassing equipment. We have also seen the change to bulk handling and bulk cartage. There has been an enormous increase in vessel tonnages, with a decrease in crewing per ton. But with all this change no action has been taken to review the provisions of the Navigation Act in relation to these matters. I am not saying that the current regulations are sufficient to cover all aspects of national or international navigation needs as they are affected by Australian standards. 
Let me instance the incident involving the S.S. 'Hannah'. This vessel was cleared from an Australian port by an Australian surveyor; yet it was soon to become an abandoned hulk left floating to menace other vessels - both passenger and cargo vessels - threatening the lives of seamen and public alike. We would all agree that the legislation is deficient when this can occur. It is in itself an exposure of the deficiency of the legislation which can allow such a situation to exist. Of course, some would say that existing provisions can prevent such an incident recurring, but I do not accept this because no person in Australia would be so deficient in his duty, so negligent or so callous of life as to allow the incident concerning the S.S. Hannah' to recur. 
So I must reiterate that the legislation itself is deficient. It is so deficient that it allowed a rust bucket bought for a song to be placed under a flag of convenience by its new owners and to come to the land of all foreign comers take all' - Australia. It was rejected by one licensed surveyor in Australia as being unseaworthy for carrying a cargo of wheat, then accepted by a specially found surveyor and cleared at another port for carrying a cargo of ilmenite. All the time the only real protesting parties to this were the maritime industry unions, not the Government. Finally, this potential death trap was allowed to leave an Australian harbour, under Australian legislation, and to be abandoned at sea in comparatively calm waters. The lives of the crew were saved because of the favourable weather, not because of Government action. What a scandalous situation. 
A further display of Government neglect was that the floating hulk was left drifting in the sea lanes. Where was the Australian Navy in this instance? It should have constantly plotted this ship's course or destroyed the hazard. I feel sure that this is one field in which the Navy would welcome the practice. Why did not the Government take action? I prefer to believe that the legislation was deficient enough to prevent the Government from taking action. But on either count, the Government stands condemned for not taking immediate action to introduce legislation which would have rectified the situation. In the first instance the Government in fact should have been able to prevent this ship from sailing. What subsequent inquiry has been held and what has the result of that inquiry been? It is no wonder that the unions take issue on safety factors, though this may create unnecessary discord in the industry. 1 say 'unnecessary' because, if the Government was doing its legislative job, action by other parties would be unnecessary. Let us have a public inquiry into this matter. Let the facts on all aspects as to who was at fault - the legislation or the people concerned - be made public. If the people were at fault, let us ensure that the same mistakes are not made again. If the legislation was at fault, then let the Government take immediate action to correct the anomaly. 
To continue to allow ships of convenience, which take a flag of convenience in order to avoid obligatory safety standards, national and international wages obligations which they have to meet under the laws of Australia and other more stabilised countries, and the repatriation of seamen, to come to Australia and not be challenged effectively on their standards by our navigation regulations is a national scandal. But further, to leave it to the trade union movement alone to protest is only compounding the folly. The only people other than Labor members of Parliament who have raised their voices in protest publicly have been the maritime unions who are concerned about Australian trade, and the Australian workers affected. They have protested at flags of convenience utilising island seamen on minimum wage standards and conditions, thus taking away most, if not all, of our inter-island trade and benefits generating from such trade. They have expressed their alarm to such a degree that it has led to the support of their attitude by the Australian Council Of Trade Unions which, in February this year, passed a resolution which is far reaching and comprehensive in its condemnation of all of the malpractices associated with this section of the industry. 
But what do we have from the Government? We hear of no thought, no statement, no examination of the facts and no revised legislation which would adequately protect the Australian citizen. We hear of no legislation to protect the Australian ship owner or to ensure that even the ships of the Australian National Line have a security or rationalising of cargo. We hear of no guarantee that cargo sent overseas as aid will be transported in Australian ships. The United States of America ensures that at least SO per cent of aid cargo must be carried by United States vessels. Recently we had the situation where our aid to Bangladesh was carried in a Japanese ship. We have absolutely no legislation in Australia to provide such a guarantee. No doubt the Government will say that it is not necessary. How ludicrous this is, when one realises that so many countries have found it necessary to legislate to this end. Some 22 non-communist countries have legislated to cover not only this aspect but also the question of a registry of shipping and other questions. Our shipping lines should be covered by the mantle of similar protective provisions as other countries have. We should not place Australian shipping lines in the disadvantaged position in which they find themselves today. 
Let us look at what we need to do in order to compete with ships of other countries. Argentina provides that a minimum of SO per cent of all goods carried under any international commercial trade agreement, government cargoes, purchases by official departments, state enterprises and dependencies, municipal and provincial governments and also companies in which the state has a minimum investment of 50 per cent are to be reserved for Argentine national ships. Argentina imposes additional tax and grants import duty concessions to the extent that export credits granted by Argentine banks may include only 85 per cent of the freight element if Argentine transport is used. Argentina also has a number of bilateral trade agreements with other countries which contain clauses providing for the carriage of cargo on a 50/50 basis. 
Let us look briefly at the provisions in other countries. In Bolivia 30 per cent, rising to 50 per cent, of cargo is reserved for national ships. In Brazil imports and exports by federal, state, municipal and public departments and public enterprises are reserved for national ships. It also has a number of bilateral agreements with other countries which provide for the sharing of the carriage of cargo on a 50/50 basis. In Chile 50 per cent of imports and exports have to be carried on Chilean ships. In Columbia a minimum of 50 per cent of all cargo must be carried on Colombian ships. In Ecuador all government and official imports must be carried on national ships, although this requirement is not strictly enforced. In Ghana insurance clauses are annexed to import licences requiring importers to use ships of the state-owned line. Other countries having similar provisions in favour of their own shipping lines are Guatemala, India, Indonesia, Morocco, Pakistan, Peru, the Philippines, the United Arab Republic, Uruguay, the United States of America, Venezuela and the Latin American free trade area - but not Australia. This is an incredible situation which must be rectified in the immediate future by appropriate legislation. 
No doubt it will be claimed that certain protection does exist. But anyone noting the laying up of the Australian National Line ships and the cargo carried from Australian ports by regular overseas lines and ships carrying flags of convenience will know the truth of the situation. The cries for protection of the people who work in the industry have so far been ignored. For just this once let some Government action be taken before this question becomes a real issue of dispute between workers, employers and the Government. 
Turning to the people who are employed in the shipping industry, recently I had cause to make an inquiry on behalf of a constituent who wished to improve his standing and employment opportunity by obtaining the necessary certification for the merchant marine. He had achieved the best he could in Western Australia, which was coastal master, officer's competency certificate. He found that to obtain his second rating for foreign seagoing ships he had to undertake a 3 weeks' radar instruction course and a 16 weeks' general study course but these courses were available only in Melbourne, Sydney or Newcastle. A portion of the courses could be undertaken by correspondence. What an incredible situation, for a State which has the naval training base of HMAS 'Leeuwin' to have no training facilities for private industry. Let us look at a student who must travel 2,500 miles and incur heavy travel costs, loss of wages and living costs. It makes it impossible for this Western Australian to follow what is bis natural career to which he is adopted. So he is lost to the industry. 
It is no good saying that the State may take action to assist in this matter because in fact the Commonwealth provides the standards and the examinations. It is regrettable that this matter has not been rectified; that some facility for training in conjunction with naval facilities has not been provided. This is a factor which must be considered when eventually this legislation is comprehensibly revised. The Government must consider the question of the education standards of the officers and men in service training using Commonwealth facilities, and not rely on the personal sacrifice of the individual. If it is to be accepted that the trends in size, design, equipping and reliability of ships will eventually call for fewer certified personnel, in relation to the tonnage of those ships, who will need wider skills and training in management, many ratings or gradings will disappear. 
Ideas differ on the appropriate training and qualification for each level of crewing. Some consider that the future lies in the integrated crew, including the dual-purpose officers who are equally at home in the engine room and in deck departments. Others consider that eventually the large, automated oceangoing ship will need a single senior engineer officer of graduate standard assisted by technicians and mechanics. Again, there is some doubt whether there will ever be more than a few openings for a full career at sea for men of graduate calibre. Japan, with its rapidly improving position in the world shipping field, employs, in greater numbers, personnel who have been educated to graduate standard, and in the United States merchant marine it is becoming increasingly common for the engineer officer to have a degree. But whatever the final outcome of progress, the people who must be involved, who must be listened to and fully represented in the formative stages, are those who will actually work in the industry; and this will be done through their recognised organisations. It is only in this way that progress with industry stability will be achieved, and this is in the national interest. 
Our Australian shipping lines are not only our first line in commerce trading, nationally and internationally, but also are our first line of defence. No-one would imagine that any nation could have operated in World War I or World War II without the great contribution given by the merchant navy. So while being a commercial venture it is an industry venture which warrants constant Government assistance and attention legislatively. It is because of this, and for other reasons, that I support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  in these terms: whilst not opposing the provisions of the Bill this House condemns the Government for having failed to amend the Navigation Act to comply with International Labour Organisation and Intergovernmental Maritime Consultative Organisation Conventions, modern shipping practice, and effective safety operations, as promised by the Minister for Shipping and Transport in August 1967, and for failing to introduce a Bill to provide for an Australian Register of Shipping. 
This amendment highlights the alarming laxity of the Government in the field of shipping protection. Let us consider again the shipping register question. One of the features of recent years has been the development of fleets by nations which previously were dependent on the services of others. Many developing countries, in particular, have aspired to own and operate national fleets on the grounds that large tonnages of their national products are carried by sea and that the possession of their own fleets will give them independence and, by saving foreign exchange, will contribute to their balance of payments. They have, therefore, encouraged the development of national shipping companies. In many cases the emphasis has been much more strongly on the development of liner services than on operating tramps or tankers. 
Existing members of conference lines serving these countries have admitted new national lines to a share of the trade. In some cases they have given these countries technical assistance in developing their businesses. The major point is that these countries have developed their national shipping registers to ensure that the registration of their ships under their national flags confers benefits and, of course, some obligations. The registering power grants protection in various ways to the owner of the ship itself and all who sail in her, wherever she may be trading throughout the world, and also upholds the power of her master to command the vessel in accordance with that country's national law. In return it imposes regulations concerning safety and other matters, including the welfare of passengers and crew. This is a most desirable form of protection for the citizens of any nation. 
The effect of flag discrimination on trade can be dramatic. Let me instance a few proven cases of the effect of flag protection legislation by various nations. After the legislation I previously mentioned had been enacted and enforced, the proportion of liner traffic from the United Kingdom to Uruguay carried by United Kingdom operators almost halved between 1962 and 1967. On the United Kingdom to Brazil route it declined by almost a quarter between 1958 and 1967. After negotiations took place and under threat of further discrimination, new agreements in conference line arrangements came into operation. This decreased the United Kingdom share of this shipping even further. In both of these examples the nation legislating for its national lines has been the country to gain, although there is always the problem of some loss of trade to ships travelling under flags of convenience. This applies mainly to private cargoes. Of course ships of convenience have operated under charter to augment the expanding fleets of these national lines. 
Australia, an island nation, situated in Asia with dependence on the sea to ensure that its trade functions effectively, has stood idly by and allowed new and independent nations to outpace it in respect of national interest and legislation. It is far past the time when this situation should be reversed. Must we wait until a newly independent New Guinea shames us by taking legislative action to recapture its own island trade and to expand and operate profusely in Australian waters? Foresight not hindsight is what is required urgently. We need action, not explanations. We expect action of the Government. People can be assured that a Labor government will take the necessary urgent action. 
I support the amendment and condemn the use of flags of convenience which have been described by the 1958 Maritime Transport Committee of the Organisation for European Economic Co-operation as: 
The flags of such countries as Panama, Liberia, Honduras and Costa Rica whose laws allow and, indeed, make it easy for ships owned by foreign nationals or companies to fly these flags. This is in contrast to the practice of the maritime countries (and in many others) where the right to fly the national flag is subject to stringent conditions and involves far-reaching obligations. 
Thus the country of registry of flags of convenience has neither the power nor the administrative machinery to impose effectively any government or international regulations. Nor has the country the wish or the power to control - the companies themselves. It imposes no national standards for the safety or conditions of service of the crew, as there are no national trade unions protecting the seafarer with which the operator need negotiate. Thus we urge the Government to support the amendment or to take other urgent action to rectify the existing situation. 
Sitting suspended from 5.55 to 8 p.m. 
The honourable member for Mcpherson  (Mr Barnes)  spoke of the interests of the community, but he failed to realise that unionists are the community - that returned soldiers, post-war school graduates and migrants are all workers, and that they are the very people about whom he complains. Being a Country Party member, he made no reference to the cost to the community of Australia of rural subsidies, for which the community pays; yet he complains bitterly about some of the costs of strikes. It is time that he appreciated that both are necessary and can be minimised only by better government management.  His  application to communist literature is amazing; it is almost obsessive. He gives publicity to the communists, and makes them national figures that they would never be without the help given by Government supporters. He highlighted the Government's failure to control inflation since the Labor Party was last in office and price control existed. At that time prices and wages were not in any sense inflationary but related to living costs. 
We will deal with that later. Again we are faced with a piece of political legislation aimed at the working man. For a long time we have seen a concerted lobbying by employer organisations for the Government to do something to take the heat off the disclosure of their excessive profits. They are supporting moves to manipulate figures to show a loss factor to avoid taxation payments on the real profits. In fact, the practice is so common that Australia has become the land of overseas takeover and investment. So the spurious arguments which have been advanced in support of this amendment to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act claiming that it is a move to control inflation have been exposed and can be completely rejected. 
If there had been any doubt in any worker's mind as to whom the Government is representing, it has been completely removed by this debate, in which it has been exposed that this amendment is being made at the behest of the larger investment groups, who are no doubt paying heavily for the support they are receiving. All members of this House will have been lobbied with mail from the employer groups, and they will have seen copies of very expensive advertisements by the same groups in the Press. There can be no doubts in anyone's mind that this legislation is designed to control and suppress wage increases and to force wage fixing on the working man through the courts without introducing price or profit controls, lt is blatant politics at their worst. The best that could be said is that the Government does not really understand what it is doing. I take note of the interjection of the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  in relation to price fixing and his reluctance to support in any way its introduction. He said that price control is a failure, as of course is this Bill. 
This legislation will make the militant unions more militant and more inclined to demand action outside the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. The weaker unions will be forced to follow suit, because the desperate, despairing rank and file membership will demand action. But because of the legislative mumbo jumbo that is being imposed by this Government on the unions it will be impossible for unions to take the action demanded by its members. More work will be created for the overworked union officials, who very often work twice the hours that the members who they represent do, and for less pay. Their only satisfaction is the work that they do for the cause in which they believe. Their problems are being compounded by this legislation, which makes amalgamation of unions even more difficult. Its aim appears to be to ensure that the system of a multitude of minor, understaffed and undercapitalised unions continues to exist, thus ensuring that the constantly festering sore of constant industrial disputation continues to divert attention from the Government's own failure to control the economy. 
In the light of the excessive profits of some companies, it is strange indeed that restrictive legislation is being imposed on the people who physically make the effort to manufacture the goods which are sold for profit but that no control is being imposed on the shareholders, the profit takers. An appalling double standard is being perpetrated ad infinitum by this Government. There is truly one rule for the rich and another for the poor. But the supreme hypocrisy of the situation is shown by the Bill's utter contempt for this Parliament. Late last year the Australian Labor Party politicians, in a sincere attempt to rationalise inflation, refused a pay rise of some $3,000, forcing the Parliament to abandon the legislation giving a pay rise to members of the Parliament, at the same time rejecting increases of anything up to several thousand dollars a year for public servants, including conciliation commissioners. Let us remember that at that time this Government claimed, as it does even now, that inflation is caused by wage spirals. On these grounds it intervenes in pay claims by public servants before the Public Service Arbitrator, and in national wage case hearings and hearings before other wage fixing tribunals to prevent wage and salary increases. 
Almost daily Ministers and other members on the Government side make statements decrying activity by unions to secure for their members just living wages. But what do we find in this Bill? It provides an increase in salary for commissioners of approximately $4,000 per annum. Not only is there an increase, but the increase is to be made retrospective to the date when this Parliament rejected the Bill which originally made provision for the increase to the self same commissioners last year. What supreme contempt of this Parliament to so rapaciously attempt to bring the raise in through the back door after its being rejected in a move which could be said to be in line with what the Government says should apply to the rest of the community. But the worst feature of this is that it tears from the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission what little respect the ordinary trade unionist has for it. If the commissioners do not agree with this back door trickery, let them make a statement to this effect. Let them show the restraint that they are always imploring the workers' advocate to show. Let them follow the practical lead of the politicians. Let them refuse to accept the wage increase completely or. at the very least, refuse to accept any amount over the $2 a week which was said to be a sufficient increase for the ordinary worker. If they refuse to do this, all that can be said will no doubt be expressed by the worker when he expresses his disgust at the paltry national wage increase. 
This legislation places the commissioners and the Minister on trial in the eyes of those workers. But no matter what the Government, the Minister or the Commission may say, the very act of bringing forward this Bill discredits for all time the cry that wage and salary increases are the cause of inflationary problems. This Bill increases wages for a select section of our community who will no doubt find the money harder to spend than would those whose wages they seek to freeze by their actions and the intent of this Bill. Apart from being an effort to reward them for services rendered to the Government, is this Bill not a sop to the strong investment lobby, other political groups and all those whose one fanatical desire is to prevent a truly community representative government, a Labor government? Without question, this legislation is. It will be as completely ineffective as the existing Act has been during the last 23 years of Liberal rule. 
Everything that is wrong in existing industrial relations has occurred during this long term of Liberal administration, and if industrial relations have become worse it is this Government which must accept responsibility. It is responsible for not initiating earlier action to relieve the situation highlighted by the Moore and Doyle case. The Government should have introduced legislation to overcome the problems exposed by that case instead of having allowed the situation which has existed for years. The solution is known, and in fact has been referred to by the courts themselves. They have referred the matter to the Attorneys-General. The present situation will no doubt continue because this Government has a vested interest in maintaining a situation which divides the workers' organisations. In the case to which I have referred, the costs of bringing the action which divided the State and Federal organisations were no doubt met by government agencies. No ordinary worker could hope to take such extensive legal action at his own expense, so we must assume that government instigation was the fundamental cause of the problem. So the taxpayer pays for the Government's politicking in union affairs. However, here again we have a Bill which will cost the taxpayer further large sums of money. If the union member does not pay as a taxpayer he will pay as a union member. 
I refer to the fantastic expenditure involved in postal ballots which must ensue in the case of amalgamation. Somebody must pay the cost of printing, postage and clerical staff. Either the union member or the taxpayer will pick up the bill of many thousands of dollars. If it is just for the Government to impose such conditions of ballot on the public at large, it must be agreed that it is just for this Government in turn to hold a ballot, a referendum, to obtain the same sort of mandate from the people whom this legislation will affect, the general voting public. But, of course, this action is not being taken because it is being imposed at the behest of sectional extreme groups only. The Government is saying: 'We are immune from your judgment; we will make up the rules of your democratic organisation for you. You are not able to decide the method of conduct or management yourselves; we the Government will decide the terms and if you do not agree, if you do not comply, we will fine you, imprison you or disband your organisation and refuse its right to exist'. The Government claims that it is democratic. How ludicrous. 
Let us look at the Minister's own statement in relation to amalgamations. He said: 
Thus if the eligible membership of an organisation is 1,000, five hundred will be required to cast a vote and, assuming that that SOO vote formally, 2S1 or approximately 25 per cent will be required to vote in favour of amalgamation. 
The Minister knows full well that when voting is not compulsory there is no hope that anywhere near that percentage of the Australian public will vote. For instance, we have only to look at the local government body elections throughout Australia. They fully illustrate the point; a 25 per cent vote of the total vote enrolment would be nearer the rule and not the exception. In fact, the Minister illustrated his awareness of the true situation in a speech he gave on 2nd March 1972. He was referring to the recent metal trades amalgamation, of which he quite rightly approved, and said: 
The results of the ballots showed that almost 86 per cent of those voting in the AEU ballot favoured amalgamation, 73 per cent in the Boilermakers and Blacksmiths Society and almost 70 per cent in the Sheet Metal Workers Union. The percentage of total membership of the union of those voting were 9 per cent AEU, 40 per cent Boiler Makers and Blacksmiths and 36 per cent Sheet Metal Workers Union. 
Does the Minister for one second imagine that, with the difficulties which will be imposed by this Bill making it almost impossible for the people who took an active and responsible attitude to the organising of the amalgamation, they would have been able to comply with the provisions of the amended Act. Why are these provisions before us now? There is no evidence to substantiate the need for them. The Minister, in referring to the only amalgamation of recent times which has cr-.used any public or political interest said: 
Thus, it makes provision for what are commonly called court controlled ballots for office bearers when requested by the committee for management of a union or by a specific number of its members. However, these are not mandatory and the great majority of union elections are conducted by the unions themselves. This is relevant to the suggestion which has been made that there is a history of 'ballot rigging' in these 3 unions. The record does not bear this out and it is supported, 1 believe, by the fact that there has not been a request from the membership of any of the 3 unions for a 'court controlled ballot' for a considerable number of years. 
So, by his own logic the Minister proves that in fact there is no need for this aspect of the legislation. In the face of the logic the Minister has made a completely contrary decision and put forward the legislation which includes something that has always been repugnant to workers organisations. 1 now refer to the penalties. 
Let me draw the attention of the House to page 46 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill which sets out the schedule of amendments to penalties which read like a horror story. It is intended to amend section 5(1.) by increasing the penalty from SI 00 to $400; section 5 (1a.) from $100 to $400; and section 5 (2.) from $50 to $200. Honourable members should remember that these are all penalties which are to be increased. It is intended to amend section 42 by increasing the penalty from $20 to $100; section 125 from $100 to $500 or imprisonment of 6 months; section 138 from $200 to $400; section 143 (3d.) from $100 to $400; sections 152(1.), (2.), (3.) and (4.) from $20 for each week of default to $200 and, in addition, $50 for each week of default; sections 152(5.) and (9d.) from $40 to $200; section 153(4.) from $20 for each week of default to $200 and, in addition, $50 for each week of default; section 154(1.) from $100 to $400; section 158 from $100 to $400; section 160(5.) from $200 or imprisonment for 12 months, or both to $500 or imprisonment for 6 months, or both; section 166(2.) from $200 or imprisonment for 12 months, or both to $500 or imprisonment for 6 months, or both; section 169 from $200 or imprisonment for 12 months, or both to $500 or imprisonment for 6 months, or both; and section 170a (2.) from $200 or imprisonment for 12 months, or both to $500 or imprisonment for 6 months, or both. 
So we read in this schedule the periods of imprisonment which can be inflicted on workers for following their consciences. We also see that the increases of penalties, carrying terms of imprisonment, are in the main directed against the worker and not the employer. A fine in terms of money means very little to an employer as there is no price control to prevent him from passing his costs on to the public in the form of increased prices. So much for the 
Minister's earlier interjection. But this is not so in the case of the union or employee whose only source of income is restricted. Section 138 (d) of the Act, which carries a fine of $400, has the words: 
Advise, encourage or incite such a member to retard, obstruct or limit the progress of work to which the award applies by 'go slow' methods; or 
Section 138(e) has the words: 
Advise, encourage or incite such a member - 
To perform work to which the award applies in a manner different from that customarily applicable to that work; or 
To adopt a practice in relation to that work. 
When read together, one can see the intent of the Minister's recent statement on productivity. Who will decide what are production norms? Will it be the production manager or the time and motion study officer? This is in keeping with what has been imposed on the Public Service. It makes no provision whatsoever for the agreement of the shop committee which decides on the safe and fair way of performing its duties. This course of action is completely provocative. The system is open to abuse by the unscrupulous employer who unfortunately still exists today. Not all employers are as enlightened as the honourable floor-sweeping member who spoke in this debate this afternoon. The situation will continue to exist while we have a Government which continues to attack the reputation of trade unions and their members. It is far past the time for proper recognition to be given to the part which unions play in the economic community. The trade unions should be able to take their place and participate in advisory and consultative areas of management. The gap between employer and employee should not be further widened. However, this is what is happening mainly because of Government intervention. 
One of the worst features of this legislation is that it discriminates against the smaller weaker union which does not have the background to support itself against the provisions of the Bill. Let us face the facts: The more difficult the Act, the greater is the collusion to defeat its provisions between the larger unions in the interests of their members and the employers with whom they are dealing, who co-operate in the interests of common sense and the welfare of their employees, who are associated with the unions. 
The Government claims that it wants strong unions, yet it is doing all that is possible to defeat this. The sooner it is realised that strike decisions are made not by the union officials but by workers frustrated at the lack of results, the sooner we will be able to do something to genuinely speed up the processes of conciliation by workers real representation at workshop level. The Government should take steps to ensure that all employers in competition have the same basic labour costs. To do so the Government should take action to control contract labour which is in the hands of what are in fact employment and material handling brokers. They care nothing for the effect of their acts on the community and the bankruptcy that overtakes contractors, particularly in the building and transport industries. This position causes the more reputable firm more concern as it competes against them. But the overall costs of non-payment of wages and debts must be borne by the community - the taxpayer. For instance the majority of unpaid road taxes is owed by the small operator who, due to unsatisfactory prices passed on to the smaller operator by the major contractor- 
The Minister said that it is the Government's intention to change the composition of the bench of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in a moderate manner, but he assumes that he will remain as Minister and that the composition of the Government will remain the same. This argument is ludicrous. This legislation will remain on the statute book until rejected or amended at some future stage. The Government may well be creating a rod for its own back. It is arrogant for it to say that it is not its intention to do something under this legislation. The arrogance of power was illustrated by the attitude of the Minister. Not one of us knows what the future holds and at all times we should legislate in such a way that we spell out in clear terms what is to happen. A solicitor may never have had an industrial brief. He may never have had any experience in industry. It is most unlikely that he would have had any understanding of the emotions of a situation on which he has to sit in judgment. 
If the Labor Party had suggested such a proposition it would have been accused of creating a position for someone like Bob Hawke. This clause of the Bill is open to political privilege and employers as well as unions should take action to see that it is not abused. I do not agree with the view that this clause should be worded loosely to allow for flexibility. Such flexibility has not been provided in other clauses which deal with the imposition of penalties, amalgamation of unions and so forth; so why should there be flexibility in respect of appointments of privilege, which I take it that this clause intends, and not the same flexibility in other clauses? The contradiction and arrogance of this clause is absolutely appalling. 
We have gone from the actual needs of the community to what industry can afford to pay. In this clause who will determine what is the public interest? What section of the public will take the dominant role in determining the sectional interest? It has been said that a functional point in public interest is to protect the weak against the strong, the strongest in this case being the employers and the Government. We are in this Bill establishing the basis of revolt against the arbitration system, for it establishes a system whereby wages will be frozen at governmental will, making the wages struggle even more the part of politics than it Ls now. But before the revolt occurs, out of sheer frustration at their inability to establish procedures satisfactory to the mass, a lot of workers' money will have been spent in taking points of dispute to courts in an attempt to dissolve and to challenge the meaning and intent of clauses in this Bill. This will do nothing for industrial peace. But on the performance of the Government, if of course the public continues to tolerate it and leave it in power, this Government will again legislate to change the situation to suit that of the employers at any particular point of time. 
Who are the employers which this legislation is aimed to assist? In the main they are overseas based companies, shipping and cargo handling companies and investment, companies whose profits have been enormous and will continue to increase in what will become a comparatively wage controlled area with no control on profit margins. This legislation should be establishing a basis of conciliation, not arbitral dictation, which it does. In fact, it brings about a situation in which, by a low wage structure based on 'public interest' objections, or lengthened hours in the 'public interest" in industries such as the Public Service, public transport, hospitals and other essential service industries, this plea will be used to subsidise industry, to control the wage cost structure, to escape the cost to the Government or, as they would say, restrict the cost to the community, the taxpayer, but in so doing we create another section in the poverty area. Strangely enough to work in essential government or semigovernment services has always meant and still does mean a low wage structure. In fact the minimum wage with small margins is more the rule than the exception in that area. The over award payment is usually obtained from the high profit industries. 
Sitting suspended from 6.1 to 8 p.m. 
 Before the suspension of the sitting for dinner we were speaking about public interest and the effect of over award payments which had been given to those industries which could afford them, quite often for very good reasons such as lack of safety or uncomfortable or insecure working conditions. Because of this the Government has typically over-reacted in the matter and has become carried away by its own propaganda. But let us look at the public interest. I say that it might well be in the public interest to withdraw this legislation, if we are looking at it from one viewpoint of public interest. Let us look at the pastoral award, under which the wage for a worker is $42.50 a week. Yet if a pastoral worker who has a wife and 2 children stops work and goes on to unemployment benefits, he receives $43 a week, a gain of 50c. 
If the Department were doing its job, the anomalies would be pointed out to the Minister, and no doubt he would rectify the situation. But how will this Bill be applied when this area comes under scrutiny and the pastoralists plead poverty stemming from the effects of Government mismanagement which is being felt by all pastoralists? Indeed they have said that. Now that they are losing the assistance of the low wage structure for Aboriginal workers, who should be paid an adequate pastoral award wage but who are not receiving one yet, what has the Minister done to enforce the award payments in this area? What prosecutions and enforcements have taken place? Will he say that it is not in the public interest to act? What happens when the Minister relinquishes his portfolio and another interpretation is placed on the meaning of the section by another Minister who may decide, for instance, that it is in the public interest to refuse all wage increases. That could well be the view of a future Minister. 1 say another Minister' because this Minister is supporting an increase for commissioners of $4,000 a year, retrospective to when that increase was refused by the Parliament, so he is in part supporting increases for the upper levels but not for the actual productive worker. 
The public interest is in effect a sectional interest decided on by who is in power. It is a sectional viewpoint that does not have the benefit of a majority decision by referendum or vote of any sort. It will be determined by the educational and financial background of the person deciding it. It does nothing for the individual worker or his dependants who are directly affected by the decision which is made against what may have been proven to be a just claim in every other way. On the evidence submitted a claim could be completely proven in every aspect, but the allowance of the concept of outside or public interest could then lead to the suppression of the claim. The Minister might say: 'If these people are not satisfied in that employment, let them find some other avenue by which to earn a living or, in the extreme, go on unemployment benefits.' We all know that the old concept of the Australian home with the wife always there to rear the family in dignity and comfort on the one adequate wage is a thing of the past. Today, to have any standard at all, both husband and wife must work. This has happened only during the last 23 years of Liberal Government rule. By wage freezing and hours freezing, which are the intent of this legislation, the situation will be perpetuated - so much so that until some governmental action is taken to make the family unit what it was, what people fought and died for in 2 world wars - the fundamental bastion of our society - the family will become embroiled in some of the most bitter industrial disputes just to obtain enough income to suffice in our modern community. Even in a man's unemployment benefit the family unit is means tested on the earnings of the wife. 
We urgently need new thinking and a new approach to wage fixing and fringe entitlements and costs borne by the worker on the lower income scale if we are to have industrial peace. Justice not only needs to be done but needs to be done in such a way that every man, and woman in the community at large understands what is being done. Where else in the field cf human relations can one find so much legislative mumbo-jumbo and impediment to human understanding and friendship as is placed in the hands of people who create a career out of what has become the industrial battlefield. This clause increases the legal ammunition which must be paid for by the community in disputes of a technical nature. I would be more impressed, as I feel the community would be, if no profit whatsoever were to be made in the taking of industrial cases by those who have a vested interest in causing the dispute and subsequent delay in payment of the wage increases. If the legislation lessened the possibility of litigation by making payments retrospective to the date of application, with an over-riding interest payment on the money withheld for that period, we would be able to say that some genuine attempt was being made to speed up finalisation of disputes and the avoidance of them. But to continue in the manner in which we are proceeding is a farce. 
I appreciate that the Minister admits his inability to bring in adequate price control legislation. The Government says that it is beyond its ability to legislate in an adequate manner to control prices and profits, and I concede its failure. On the other hand, what gives the Government the temerity to imagine that it can be any more successful with industrial legislation which is in effect a price and production control. Of course, this legislation is doomed to failure. If the Government wants success in the field of industrial legislation, it will need to make imaginative new departures such as the setting up of an all party committee so that it can at least obtain some basic understanding of the problems and not rely entirely on its preconceived ideas to legislate. But any legislation which in itself allows outside intervention of a third party, after the 2 parties directly concerned have agreed, to change that decision in the interests of other people, sets dangerous precedents - precedents which other people will see and use at a later stage much to the discomfort of the existing government. It is not too late for rational thinking and the withdrawal of this legislation in the public interest to take place. 
I direct my question to the Minister for the Army. Subsequent to his recent visit to Western Australia and his inspection of 18 acres of land currently held by the Army in the Belmont Shire, with a view to evaluating the request of the Belmont Shire to have those 18 acres returned to it for public use and for the establishment of aged persons homes for local residents, what steps has the Minister taken to meet the request for return of the land made by the Shire deputation headed by Councillor Wheatley? Does the Minister agree that the land owned by the Belmont Shire since 1913, and compulsorily acquired in 1940 by the Commonwealth for wartime purposes and not now used, should be returned for this very worthy cause? Further, is the Minister aware that Commonwealth land holdings in the Belmont Shire amount to 25 per cent of the total Shire area and will rise to 33 per cent with further airport resumptions, thus restricting the development of the community amenities for the Shire? 
I will be brief in my remarks because I understand that the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  is anxious to join in this debate, and the time is limited. In looking at the amounts involved in these 2 Bills, one realises the immense investment in the airline industry and the immense cost to the community in indebtedness - $28.5m to Trans-Australia Airlines for four 727-200 jet aircraft - making a total indebtedness in this field by TAA of approximately $70.6m which will be outstanding, with an additional $25. 7m being proposed in these Bills to be further outstanding by Ansett Airlines of Australia. In all this section of borrowings there would be over Si 00m outstanding for this and previous purchases overseas, which in this case must be repaid at figures approximating 6 per cent interest. Who is paying the cost of overseas purchases? The money is coming out of the unending pockets of the taxpayer, who has to maintain the 2- airline system, which was begun and has been supported by this Government. An inflated fare structure is needed to maintain this system, but Ansett Transport Industries Ltd discloses no satisfactory cost structure in its annual reports. 
I concede that in accordance with the terms of the loan Ansett Transport Industries Ltd is required to make financial records available to an officer authorised by the appropriate Minister. However, the results of these sightings are not reported to this Parliament or to anyone but the Minister, if that is what he desires. For all this, what service does the public get in return? The public cannot even travel direct from Perth to Canberra: they must take the tiresome course of going from Perth to Adelaide to Melbourne and then to Canberra, or from Perth to Melbourne and then to Canberra, or from Perth to Adelaide to Sydney and from there to 
Canberra, or they must take some other circuitous route. No thought is given to the problem despite the huge investment of public moneys. The difficulty may be caused by the dual mainline routing of the airlines, and as lending is insufficient to warrant 2 aircraft on a direct route not even one is supplied. Recently, nominal recognition has been given to the problem by a minimum separate scheduling by both airlines, but I suspect that this arose after criticism by overseas travel agents who were holding a convention in Australia. Although the ridicule that arose from the incredulous observance by the travel agents of this farce may have led to the change, their severe criticism of the fare structure has not yet brought about a reduction or revision in that respect. 
The Government is more than aware of the criticism made, yet here by these Bills it is proposing to guarantee millions of dollars to both airlines without receiving any reassurances in return that scheduling will improve. More important, we have no assurance that the economies of scale involved in the use of these larger aircraft - which carry more passengers, with a loading of up to an additional 50 per cent, and with little extra operating cost - will enable fare reductions to be made, bearing in mind that airline fares here are too high on world standards today, or that the comfort and convenience of the travelling public will be a first priority. No doubt this is most unlikely on past performances, for petty economies have been affected without consideration for passenger comfort or convenience. 
As an example, TAA in Perth some time ago removed its older and more commodious transport vehicle used between the airport and the city and replaced it with a smaller and more uncomfortable unit obtained from a contractor. It could be driven by a woman. No doubt the overall cost was and is a saving to the airline, but it is a minor one, and the airline does not consider the public. If this type of thing is allowed to grow, it will set the standards of a particular airline, or of the industry, because the airlines compete on a similar basis and one seems to do only what the other does. We can merely hope that for the huge investment of public moneys in ancillary services, the little things that affect the little man who wishes to use what should be a public service - but is not to date - will receive the attention of the respective airline administrations. 
More important, I hope that this amendment will be supported and carried by members of the Government parties. The amendment is in the following terms: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: consideration of the Bill be deferred until Ansett Transport Industries Limited form a separate company to conduct airline operations and related activities approved of by the Parliament and provision is made for this company to report annually to  Parliamenf. 
The report of TAA to Parliament is in reality meaningless if the competing company's cost structure is not available for examination and comparison, bearing in mind that the Government guarantee on the purchase of equipment by both airlines, the supply of facilities to both airlines through the Department of Civil Aviation, and the guarantee of some Government loading to be shared between the two. 
How can the public be assured that they are getting true value for their money? It could even be said that one cannot compare the efficiency of the management and the costs of TAA without those of its nearest competitor being available. It is a common accusation against government and semi-government bodies and, in fact, a common criticism of Australian Labor Party policies on public enterprises, that those enterprises become top-heavy with a high cost structure and become unworkable. If Government members really believe this, they will support the amendment, for it seeks to provide a true comparison of costs. They should support it if for no other reason than that they believe in true competition and private enterprise based on fair dealing to all sections of the community, and to ensure that we discharge our duty as members of Parliament to sec that the taxes we collect are properly spent. 
The honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  referred to Australian Labor Party policy on this subject. I point out to him that the civil aviation policy of the Labor Party, which the honourable member so conveniently omitted to detail, provides that we will examine the detrimental effects of rationalisation on the operations of TAA and on the travelling public and on the development of Australia; that we will support the policy of government business being carried by government-owned airways, and that a referendum seeking power for the Commonwealth Parliament to make laws with respect to aviation will be conducted. Nowhere does the Labor Party say that it rejects the 2-airline policy. In fact, our principal  speaker  in this debate has supported unequivocally the 2-airline policy. At all times on these matters the Australian public can rest assured that the democratic processes will be carried out and that referendums will be conducted. 
Thursday, 25 May 1972 
asked the Minister for the 
Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, upon notice: 
Which of the recommendations of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution, tabled in the Senate on 10th June 1970, have been adopted. 
Have any recommendations not been adopted; if so, what recommendations and why. 
Does the Minister for Social Services agree that the pensioner wife's allowance of $8 per week payable to wives under 60 years of age is inadequate to enable them to live reasonably? Will the Minister take immediate action to increase this amount to a reasonable living standard to guarantee to all married pensioners an income that is at least equal to that paid to other pensioners so that there will be no discrimination against the younger wives? Does the Minister further agree that a wife who stays at home to look after a sick and aging husband instead of hospitalising him, which would represent a much greater cost to the community and the Government than the payment of a reasonable pension, is doing a service to the community and should be rewarded? 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Did the National Council of the Australian Road Federation and the State regional committees recommend that the Commonwealth Government should accept full financial responsibility for the construction, maintenance and continued up-grading of a system of prime necessity national roads. 
Did the minimum standards include (a)  a  sealed surface, 2-lane, all weather road, (b) a minimum of speed restricted areas and (c)  a  high standard of safety. 
Did the National Council also recommend for immediate Commonwealth financing the roads from (a) Darwin to Townsville, (b) Townsville to Brisbane, (c) Brisbane to Sydney, (d) Sydney to Melbourne, (e) Melbourne to Adelaide, (f) Adelaide to Perth, (g) Perth to Darwin, (h) SydneyBroken Hill-Port Augusta, (i) HobartLauncestonBurnie and (j) Darwin-Alice Springs-Adelaide. 
If so, does the Government agree with the expert recommendations and when will they be put into effect. 
I wish to draw attention to the particular plight of unemployed in my electorate of Swan. This unemployment situation has had particular effect on the industries which in the past have employed mainly migrants, people who were promised a future and security in this country. Now these people are confused to find themselves unemployed, paying high rents and large repayments for houses, a legacy of the land price boom inflation of the previous government in my State and high interest rates passed on to them by building societies and brought about by the Commonwealth bond rate increase. They are further confused by the continuing practice of the Commonwealth to allow the migration of people who are not related to previous migrants. Many of these people would get relief from their home payments, if they could, and obtain repatriation return, if it were available, to their home countries where they would not be political pawns in national politics. 
They firmly believe that migration should be stopped until the employment situation is rectified. 
These people have seen attacks made by employer groups on the wages structure of those already in employment Recently an attempt was made by a particular employer to reduce wages by SI 2 a week. It is no wonder that the workers in those industries, who are in a large proportion migrants, revolted causing further problems. The type of letter they sent home can only be to the detriment of this nation's international reputation. It would be far better to stop immigration immediately, except to those people who have guaranteed employment or who are family dependents and do not affect in any way those persons who are in employment already, who are reuniting a family, or who are seeking employment in a restricted market. Why offer any further outside competition to an already overburdened area of employment opportunity? Why not make repatriation more readily available on an emergency basis to those who wish to return to their home countries? If they feel they have been misled by this nation it is up to us to rectify the situation in order to meet what is a human problem. It would be far better to curtail the funds provided by making them available only to those people who have migrated and who have been affected by unemployment. Let us not have political manoeuvring. Let us have action on their behalf. The Australian Government gives assistance to distressed areas overseas. Let the Commonwealth recognise that we have a distressed area in Western Australia. It is no good saying that we care about unemployment. Action is what is required; caring is not enough. 
The continual refusal to make unemployment relief funds available in metropolitan areas is disastrous. It is no good saying that the money would be wasted. It could be given for specific works that already have been requested by State authorities. I look to the needs of my area alone where requests by the Metropolitan Water Supply for capital funds to develop sewerage and drainage have been refused. Only the Commonwealth has these funds to be made available. Western Australia has a legacy from the previous government which allowed development to escalate without proper sewerage and drainage in certain areas, some of which are only a few miles from the city centre. If a reasonable request was granted it would mean immediate employment in labour intensive industry in the development of sewerage and drainage, giving employment relief to people who are least likely to obtain employment by other means. But just as importantly,it would give relief to what is a major problem in the west. Further, it would make available more land near the city on which development has been stopped for health reasons. But this unproved state of affairs would not apply only to my electorate; the benefits would he felt by all metropolitan areas if these funds were made available to the Metropolitan Water Supply through the State or given directly to local government bodies for similar developmental works. The situation is an urgent one in relation to both employment and health. It is one to which the Federal Government must commit itself. The State authorities are ready to absorb unemployment and act. Let us have some national leadership in these matters. Let us have some constructive action, not destructive criticism. 
When one looks about the electorate of Swan to see ways in which Commonwealth works could be initiated immediately to ease the employment situation, one realises that the Postmaster-General's Department could assist in the area of Manning by solving the parking problem at its technical centre. It could build car parking facilities. Parking is a constant challenge to the local council. As one looks around Commonwealth Government facilities in that area one sees a similar lack of provision. 
If such works can be found in this single area, surely the Commonwealth, if it were to take a close look at all its respon sibilities in the metropolitan area of Perth, could give meaningful stimulation to the building industry by meeting just its own needs and that of the community. I instance the need for school hall gymnasium facilities at high schools in my electorate alone. I instance Bentley and Canning high schools which have been campaigning activity for years for these provisions. They and other schools need these facilities. These are immediate areas of need for which Commonwealth money could be granted. The results would be effective immediately. 
The release by the Department of the Army and the Department of the Interior to the Belmont Shire Council of the 18 acres on which it wishes to develop 6 aged persons homes - it cannot do so at the moment - would stimulate building and would help house aged people. The Commonwealth should take the decision to return this land which was acquired years ago for defence purposes and is not now used. The Commonwealth Government could show that it cares about the people of the Swan electorate in Western Australia by looking to what physical works it could generate. It should ask its departmental officers about these things because they are more aware of the needs of the area. It should accept the recommendations of its experts and act. It should listen to the requests made by the State Government and instrumentalities for specific grants, in particular for labour intensive works. Above all, I reiterate that it should look at a further curtailment of migration except for family reunification. It should consider migrant unemployment relief and migrant repatriation. Above all, it should act. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
House adjourned at 12.12 a.m. (Friday) 
We have seen the amazing spectacle of Government speakers attempting to blame everyone but the poor Government for unemployment and inflation. I would appreciate it if Government supporters did not dodge the issue that they are responsible for the situation which exists in Australia today. I express my disappointment at the many areas of problems that the Budget fails to rectify for the people of Western Australia. I refer in particular to the employment situation in my electorate where industries such as steel fabrication works are in a serious situation due to the scaling down or, in fact, the stopping of development projects caused by the international economic situation, the effects of this Commonwealth Government's previous budgets and the failure of the Commonwealth to recognise the impending consequences of the situation and to take action on a national scale to rectify the crisis that it had .itself assisted to create. 
The Government will say that the future is better: 'We promise you that things will be better in the future. We promise that the Budget is designed to do this'. Before we move into the area of promises, what about the record number of bankruptcies, of companies in voluntary liquidation or in receivers hands? Who is responsible for this? Were those concerned all bad business men or were they caught up in the national mismanagement? What about those who, as a result of the collapse of the businesses, have not been paid and have had to go heavily into debt to survive? How long will it take them to recover? Will the Government departments, such as the Taxation Office, give a sympathetic hearing to their problems and wipe the debts? Of course not. So the small Australian businessman in the main, in the past a supporter of this Government, is wiped out financially and has to look around on the already overcrowded employment market for a position. However, he finds that he is too old or too inexperienced in the work offering or cannot compete with the unemployed migrant who is similarly distressed. Of course, a number of these people who cannot find decent employment are migrants and they have no hope of repatriation to their homelands, if they should desire to return home. 
This is a distressing human problem. It is of no use promising a tax reduction to those who have lost ail and cannot earn a living. Even if they do start to earn they cannot trust the stop-go policy of this Government on economic and taxation matters. Let us face facts: This is an election Budget and on the proven past performance of this very same Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  we will have a further mini Budget which will no doubt impose fresh taxes and be used to curtail any, in the Government's opinion, inflationary tendencies in the economy. That is, of course, when the working man begins to purchase new cars and consumer goods, and to save money for holidays and the future security of his home and retirement. This Budget will encourage and, in many cases, force the working man to spend. The old saying of the rich get richer and the poor get poorer may apply. But a more appropriate saying would be that the overseas companies get richer and the Australian companies and resources get taken over. Not one indication of real protection is offered to Australian initiative and resources in the Budget. Even in a Budget of only promises this is hard to understand. But again I dare say that if the promise of protection for Australian industry had been made, it would no doubt be as shallow as promises that have been made on the means test in the past by this Government and its predecessors. 
Let us look at 1928 when the BrucePage Government introduced the national insurance scheme. Prime Minister Bruce attended the Nationalist Party meeting which disapproved his legislation. He went back to his office saying that as he was not told to withdraw his legislation he would continue with it. But the final result was that the legislation was dropped, no doubt due to Party pressure. In 1938 Lyons promised that if elected he would introduce a national insurance scheme. The Temple Court financiers, the backers of the Liberal group, ordered Lyons not to proceed with the Bill without their permission. The result was that the legislation went through but was never proclaimed. It is still buried in the statutes. Remember that some of the inquiries associated with that legislation took 5 years. We then had to wait until Prime Minister Chifley of the Australian Labor Party was in power before any firm move was made to bring in the final planning for the abolition of the means test. A charge of ls. 6d in the ยฃ1 for social services was imposed to cushion the impact of the abolition. This collected ยฃ180m or S3 60m in today's currency. Menzies won the election in 1949 on a promise that he too would abolish the means test. But what happened to the $360m? It went straight into the Consolidated Revenue Fund to finance the Menzies regime. Newspapers called it 'The great steal' when the truth was revealed. 
Now, incredibly we have another promise to abolish the means test by a government with a history of betrayal in this area. People are expected to believe the Government. However, there has been no indication of where the money is to come from or what it will cost the community. There is to be just an investigation. If a national insurance scheme is to be brought in by this Government it would be brought in only to benefit the private insurance companies, not the people of Australia. How can the Government be trusted? In the words of an old proverb quoted by Prime Minister Chifley: 'Only a fool allows the same dog to bite him twice'. In this instance the Liberals are coming up for a fourth bite. I know that the Australian people are not fools. They will not be bitten by this pie-in-the sky promise. Facts are what they want. They want performance, not promises. They will not be bitten by a Government whose first action in taking office 23 years ago was to dispose of the finance set aside to do away with the means test. This Government has made only a vague election promise to investigate ways and means of eliminating the means test, and we will find subsequently that it will not be doing so. 
In 1938 benefits that were provided under the legislation at that time covered sickness, disablement, old age, widows benefits, dental treatment, travel to hospital, home nursing, infectious sickness, convalescent homes and many others of a comprehensive nature. This legislation was too progressive, and now 34 years later we are still waiting for complete protection in these fields. So much for the promises that have been made in this area. In the social welfare area there is so much to be done. Let us face it, we have a long history of neglect. On the one hand the Government says that it will provide home nursing care. Is this to be for our aged who must exist in rooms and substandard accommodation? We are made aware of the lack of Government initiative and of human understanding when the Government says that voluntary bodies will finally be formed, as did happen in the aged persons homes area. The Government did not have the courage to say to our aged community that it would tax them $2,000 to $4,000 to obtain admission to an aged persons home. Instead the Government said it would do it on the cheap. The Government would pay two-thirds of the cost and someone else would have to bear the rest. The Government said: 'If you do not have the money, it is just your bad luck'. Does the Government not realise the personal sacrifices that have had to be made by so many people, in some cases involving all of their retirement funds? I am not decrying the fine efforts of so many voluntary bodies. In fact, I belong to one myself. What I am saying is that assistance must be extended to include State governments which have waiting lists of people not able to . be accommodated by these voluntary bodies. Accommodation must be supplied with no charge for rent. 
 There is no real relief for the working mother. If genuine concern had been felt, immediate taxation relief by way of tax deduction for money expended on child minding in day care and family care centres would have been provided; These mothers' efforts to maintain themselves and their families should be rewarded. The diligence and initiative of these mothers- in not placing their burdens on the community should be recognised. This is particularly so in the case of the single parent. If the Treasurer listened to the voice of protest in Western Australia and paid attention to the current signing of petitions in this regard he would take another look at the matter. Many of these people are Working for a subsistence wage because of the charges which they must pay to child minding centres. Some are receiving a lower real wage than they would receive if they were on social services. 
The Budget also highlights the situation of the separated couple where a person paying maintenance is not able to achieve further taxation relief. He has 2 families to support. This restricts and retards the future of the children of both families. With the lesser amount of money to be distributed between so many, what chance is there for the children of either family to go on to higher education and to enjoy future prosperity. It is not enough to say that we cannot be responsible for (he breaking up of parents. Of course we cannot. But we can legislate to protect our most valuable migrants - the children of Australian citizens. The Government's record in this area is appalling. A fixed child endowment without a means test was introduced in 1941 by a Labor government. I venture to say that if it had kept pace with and been attached to wages and the current cost structure, we would have had a natural increase in the size of Australian families. This assistance would have obviated the necessity for a large number of our working mothers to continue at work. After all, the day when a woman worked by choice is gone. She must do it of necessity. It is another of the confidence tricks performed on working mothers by this Government. Paltry sums received in endownment are promptly absorbed by child minding fees or by necessities. Whatever the amount of payment is, it is totally inadequate. 
In the social welfare field it is always a case of too little too late. This is what happens to our pensioner community. When the Government is going bad and is in need of votes the age pensioner receives an increase at the whim of that Government, irrespective of the Party in office. There is no tribunal to which pensioners can appeal They must take up a political campaign to put their message across. Any increases that come are far too late and have no retrospectivity, and are given after the Government has had the maximum of publicity from them for the purpose of obtaining votes. This is not good enough for our senior citizens, who have been granted an increase which is now $3 per week below the recognised present poverty line. 
So the pensioner will be asked to support a government that has refused to attach the pension to an independent scale as requested by thousands of petitioners to this Parliament - that is, a fixed percentage of the average weekly national wage. No wonder they are frustrated as they realise once again that pensioners are being given an inadequate rise because of the lack of proper recognition of their plight by this Government which wishes to retain the ability to use pensions as a political ploy at some future date. The Government is not really interested in the pensioners' welfare. 
Another disaster is this Budget's refusal to recognise the unemployment situation in Australia, in particular in the metropolitan area of Perth. No emergency grants are provided to relieve unemployment or to repatriate migrants affected by unemploy ment. Many of the people who came from overseas during the boom years for construction work are now unemployed, heavily in debt, and have little future. All they want to do is to return to their home country. Many of the unemployed are New Zealanders or from the eastern States. The very least that the Government could do would be to make repatriation relief available to these people. But what does this Budget do? It foreshadows the arrival of 140,000 migrants who will only add to the employment queues and to the cost to the Australian taxpayer of social services, and who will offer further competition to our already record and increasing level of unemployment. Of the 132,000 migrants who came to Australia in 1971-72, 11 per cent are registered as unemployed. The figures do not include the part time workers, the building workers and the people who are just too proud and are not registered for unemployment relief. The figures issued are at best a guesstimate, not an estimate. 
The building unions in Western Australia have written to overseas countries requesting that no further migrants come to Australia until the situation changes. It is up to this Government to take immediate steps to stop immigration to Western Australia until the employment situation eases. More importantly, it must take a direct interest in the welfare of migrants who have been brought to this country by private project development firms which have nominated migrants and made promises which cannot be kept. Their entry is based purely on home project building and profit projects of the nominating company. They come not on the initiative of the Commonwealth or State governments but at the behest of private firms which have no responsibility whatever to the migrant, the taxpayer or the electorate. I ask that the franchise of these usurpers of the economy be withdrawn and that an investigation of firms so involved be made. I do not believe that any firm which nominates people, has them accommodated in its flats at the going high rentals and then sends commission salesmen to sell the migrants the company's project homes or first and second mortgages and in some cases, offers personal loans at interest rates of up to 14 per cent, should be allowed to continue to operated unchecked. I do not believe that firms such as this should be able to add to the already high unemployment figures that exist in Western Australia or should have any say as to what happens to Australia's immigration. It must be a matter for the Government alone. 
What has the Government done about the situation? Has it stopped immigration and redirected the finance saved to unemployment relief? Of course not. It wants to play politics with the human misery of the unemployed and the bankrupt. Why, we even have the situation of political canvassers representing Government candidates knocking on doors saying that the Government will cure the situation and blaming the State Government for the problems. Even newspaper advertisements have been used. It is incredible that after 23 years of Federal Liberal administration a national employment and financial crisis has been created. The Western Australia Liberal Government left the present State Government with a growing unemployment problem and a State Treasury deficiency of some $12m - approximately $lm a year for each year of its office. No wonder the average man refuses to believe anything that is promised by people who support this Government. 
Performance not promises, is what the public wants. The performance to date has been that of a stop-go economy, of stop-go welfare schemes and broken promises, particularly on the means test, and of Federal Government bond rate moves which have caused soaring home loan interest rates that have been passed on by building societies. No attempt has been made to ease this burden. In the area of home ownership and of direct assistance to existing home purchases there is a pitiful lack of assistance or of the understanding for the need to assist. But this lack of understanding and of compassion is again reflected in the failure of the repatriation benefit percentage payments to move forward. If a repatriation pensioner is receiving a 10 per cent or 20 per cent disability pension, or whatever the percentage might be, he is appalled by its diminishing value. In an inflationary economy it becomes poor reward for the sacrifices made. While other repatriation benefits move forward this aspect remains stagnant. 
All people are amazed at the lack of firm provisions to establish prices justification machinery. If this Government or any government wishes to control its economy, the inflationary spiral needs to be checked. This can be done only if the cost of goods and services to the community is stabilised and the employer, the worker and the arbitration authorities have time to stop and look at the overall costs which every worker in the community must meet. Then wage justification and price justification can be linked and time allowed for the economy to stabilise. Instead, we have price increases, often in anticipation of wage increases. But why is this allowed to continue? Why is a stand not made in the interests of the community, the farmer and the worker? I suspect that it is because this Government has not the courage to stand up to overseas companies, finance houses and the banks that own the finance houses, and say that this has to stop. 
The Government continues its never ending feud with the trade unions, provoking arguments by appointing a referee in the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and then saying to that referee: 'We don't care what you do so long as- our side wins. If it does not, look out'. Australia is a nation known for and proud of its sportsmanship and fair play. So let politicians start acting in keeping with our tradition of national sportsmanship of which we are so justly proud. Let the referee decide industrial matters and let the Government stop intimidating the referee. In fact, let us appoint more referees to decide prices, and pensions. Above all, once a decision is made on such matters let us respect that decision. Of course, it is good tactics in an election year to stir up a few strikes and to create a situation where employers and employees fight each other publicly. Threats from Canberra, always made with an eye to the uncommitted voter, are not needed in such a situation. Recent industrial disputes in which members of the genera] public have been the principal sufferers show the need for genuine preventive conciliation. 
Australia needs industrial peace and an end to using the trade unions as a whipping boy. It needs a government' that will treat the unemployed as people and not as statistics. The poor and unemployed will always be with us as long as a LiberalCountry Party government is in office. Previous performances indicate that members of the Government are devoid of any political morality. Their duty should be to govern Australia in a way that will benefit the entire country. Instead, their decisions and their whole attitude to government are based not on whether Australia will benefit but on whether they will keep the LiberalCountry Party coalition in power. The Government's attitude to unemployment in Western Australia is a case in point. The majority of the 12,846 persons now out of work in that State are in the Perth metropolitan area. The Government's attitude is: They are Labor voters, so why help them? Providing work for the unemployed would bring benefits to everyone in Western Australia. Indeed, with more money in circulation from the wages that those people would earn, the Government might help to bring about an end to the recession it has caused. But from the Government's point of view, money spent on helping the unemployed in Western Australia is wasted money because it will not bring the Government more votes. Very few members of the general public see the report issued monthly by the Department of Labour and National Service on the employment situation. Not many people would choose it for light entertainment. Month after month it has made grim reading. Page after page of it contains statistics that record the failure of the McMahon Government to come up with any ideas, suggestions, programmes or even sympathy with the unemployment situation it has created. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Immigration. In view of the unemployment problems in Western Australia, will the Minister investigate the possibility of immediately curtailing further Commonwealth immigration to Western Australia except of those persons who have guaranteed employment and housing or to reunite families and will not displace or add to the employment difficulties of people who are already citizens of Australia? Will the Minister make repatriation more readily available to those migrants who are unemployed and who wish to return to their home countries, including New Zealand? Will he make the additional funds obtained by the curtailment of immigration available for relief in the unemployment area until unemployment is relieved? 
Many speeches relating to law and order are made in this House but few are made about the personal protection of the individual in his dealings in the commercial world. I wish to deal with a very grave situation which exists and is associated with the bankruptcy laws of the nation. A constituent of mine - a  Mr Whitelaw  of St James - has drawn to my attention a serious situation which can arise when a company goes into liquidation without redress being open to the debtors.  Mr Whitelaw  had contracted with a company called Kempton Swimming Pools Pty Ltd for a swimming pool at a cost of about $2,500.  Mr Whitelaw  is a self-employed business man who is widely respected in the community for his diligence and honesty. Naturally he treated the firm on face value and its principals on the same basis. At great personal inconvenience and expense he arranged the finance, borrowed on the security of a maturing life insurance policy, paid a deposit of $50 to secure the contract, $695 for excavation and $1,200 for concrete work. He never heard from the company again to complete its end of the contract. The firm had gone into liquidation, leaving an unfinished hole in the ground, with no-one to sue, no bonds entered into and the only assistance offer to rectify the situation was quotes from other firms ranging from $1,500, representing a total cost of $3,500 for a pool originally quoted at $2,500. 
The alarming situation is that the principals of the company, through family relationships, are back in business - it is alleged - at the same address with a different company name. I ass further given to understand that several other people were left with holes in the ground and further uncompleted contracts and that there was no hope of these unfortunate people being able to obtain protection or redress. In times of hardship which exist today incidents such as this one are being highlighted. People might say that pools are a luxury but that is not the point. Where laws exist which allow such duplicity to continue it is long past time that the attention of the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  was devoted to rectifying such laws to ensure that people in industries are bonded to protect their clients, that some form of insurance is enforced to protect the client, and that where evidence is available that the sharp practice of liquidating a firm to avoid existing debts or unfulfilled contracts and where no genuine effort is made to meet obligations before going back into the same industry, individuals are protected. I ask the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts  (Mr Howson),  who is at the table, to draw the attention of the Attorney-General to this loophole which exists. 
No doubt the State authority will take all steps open to it to clean up any industry which becomes involved in such practices. But the State cannot legislate retrospectively. It would find it equally difficult to rectify the current situation of companies liquidating to avoid the completion of contracts. I ask for federal investigation and protection because not only do the clients suffer but the suppliers of basic construction materials and commodities also go unprotected. Some bonding system in this area is required for we can have the same people coming and going in an industry, to the disrepute of the industry and to the misfortune of clients and suppliers. This is one aspect of law and order which needs the attention of this Parliament and of the Attorney-General who should cooperate with the State to eliminate this practice. 
Motion (by  Mr Giles)  proposed: 
That  the question be  now  put. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Mouse adjourned at 11.38 p.m. 
I support the amendment but in so doing express my wish that it had gone even further and recommended the immediate installation of a curfew at Perth Airport and the immediate commissioning of a committee to find an alternative site for that airport - in particular the immediate resiting of the international airport before public money is further expended at the present site to accommodate what will, in the main, be night flights. Perth will be one of the few remaining airports where night landings will be possible for the near Asian area. It is deplorable that the people of Perth have to suffer increasing noise pollution which is being wilfully imposed upon them by this Parliament which has the power to prevent such action but does not act. In fact, the Parliament is directly responsible. Some people will say that the resiting of the present airport or the establishment of a second airport in Perth would be a waste of resources. This shows a sorry lack of vision and archaic thinking on the part of those concerned. 
It is by sheer accident of wartime demands that the airport is situated at its present site. The site was later confirmed by the establishment of the then new terminal for the Empire Games held in Perth. This is why it is situated at its current site; it is not due to proper town planning or consideration for the residents of Perth. In fact the recommendation of Professor Stevenson, the town planner, that the site be at Lake Grangara has been completely disregarded by previous State and Federal governments and, I am sorry to say, has not been considered by planning authorities, who in order to aid the extension of the airport at the present site have adopted the recommendations of the Department of Civil Aviation authorities. These recommendations call for building restrictions in the flight paths and immediate noise zone areas. No consideration was given to the overall planning of the metropolitan area; instead, the metropolitan areas, in relation to the placement of flat accommodation, hospitals, schools, community services and road patterns in these areas adjacent to the airport, have planning laws based on the needs of the- airport and not on the needs of the community. This is ludicrous. Airports and airport noise are placed before people. 
In an effort to explain the true comparisons to people whose thinking is back in the horse and buggy era let me inform honourable members that this is a similar situation to that which existed when planners established Australia's great cities around railway stations. In Perth millions of dollars of public money, and possibly Federal Government money, will have to be expended in order to overcome this lack of foresight and to allow the redevelopment of the city by sinking the railway line. Even the decriers must be able to comprehend that we cannot sink an airport to overcome a similar but worse impasse created by the placing of an airport in the middle of a city. Perhaps at some future date roads to link the various suburbs will be tunnelled under the airport at Federal Government expense. But would it not be far easier and cheaper to find an alternative site where proper planning for the good of the community can be undertaken? Fortunately we have a responsible Labor Government in Western Australia which has introduced legislation to control the noise and nuisance, but it is extremely doubtful whether that legislation will be able to control noise, a Commonwealth area in which complete irresponsibility has already been demonstrated. 
Because of the lack of a curfew there is a situation where charter flights for Service personnel or national servicemen leave, in the main, not during the day but after midnight. .Because there is no restriction the Federal Government takes advantage of a situation that exists in no other State. So Western Australian Service personnel are not given the choice of reasonable hours of travel. In fact, I suspect that they are treated like the other people who travel west on economy class. They would not be provided with a meal on board, a feature of air travel that is considered' to be the minimum provision in overseas air travel on routes of a similar distance. I am amazed to find that this facility has not been provided for the last 13 years. Perhaps this is because, unlike national servicemen and economy class politicians, administrators travel first class and are reasonably well looked after. This is only one of the many small matters that highlight the attitude of some people to travellers in the west. No wonder some large sections of the Western Australian community react against being dictated to by what they consider to be the eastern bloc. 
The decisions to impose the discomforts of aircraft noise, airport resumptions and airport sitings on the western State are made at this time outside Western Australia. Departure times from Perth are not based on the convenience of the Western Australian traveller but completely on the objective of giving the eastern States connecting schedules and greater aircraft utilisation. Consequently the departure times are set at unearthly hours. One prominent eastern State leader said very recently: *Who would want to travel to the West'. He was inferring that people would go there only because there was something in it for them. Well, it is about time that Western Australians began asking: What is in it for us? Why cannot the average Western Australian catch a plane to the east first thing in the morning like his eastern counterpart? Why cannot schedules be made so as to ensure connections to all other States with the arrival of all flights? There are numerous flights during the day ยฑrom other States to almost all States but a very limited number to Western Australia. 
It is about time that a stand on the issues of service, timetables and aircraft moise was taken. If we in Western Australia are to continue to provide profitable patronage to the airlines - it would not be denied that there is profit as both airlines appear to find sufficient business to arrive and depart together in most instances - then until such time as alternative sitings and noise control measures are found, let them have some respect for the people who provide their business. More importantly, let them show some consideration for the people who must live near the airport and its flight paths. I instance the people who reside in State Housing Commission homes and who are unable to find alternative accommodation. These people have a right to their rest and uninterrupted privacy. It is not unreasonable to ask that this Government give sincere consideration to what is being sought in this amendment insofar as it relates to Western Australia. The amendment seeks an investigation into the measures needed to avoid noise prob lems at Perth Airport and a study of the practicability of instituting a curfew there from  11  p.m. to  6  a.m., a curfew which applies in Brisbane, Sydney and Adelaide. In addition, full enforcement of the curfews is being sought. There can be no harm in inquiring into these matters in full co-operation with the State authority, which will co-operate to the fullest because its transport committee has recommended that a committee of State and Federal experts be appointed to investigate the possible resiting of the airport and other relevant problems. Here is an opportunity to take some action on State and Federal cooperation. It is an opportunity for this Government to express its concern for its Western Australian constituents. 
Let us take the politics out of this debate and support the amendment. No face can possibly be lost by the Government supporters in their own States reaffirming the need for legislation that this Government has already instituted in respect of noise control measures and additionally carrying out an investigation into whether there is a need to further extend that legislation to another State or to reinforce the legislation already in existence. So far as Government supporters are concerned, this is the most harmless form of amendment that could come from the Opposition, for it only reaffirms the need for existing Government legislation. So I ask that rather than playing party politics and party numbers, honourable members opposite should quietly and seriously look at the full implications of the amendment and accept it and vote for it. No doubt we on this side of the House would be surprised if this did happen, but let us be reasonable about it. 
This is a matter involving millions of dollars of public capital and concerning the safety and comfort of the people of Perth and its suburbs and, of course, the people in other cities. This is an opportunity for the Government to demonstrate its concern for the people it represents. Let the experts be commissioned in Western Australia to investigate and report fully on the situation. Do not disregard the thousands of signatures on petitions that have been received on this matter. Some will say that there is no other reasonable site left. However,  Mr Harry  Fletcher, a State member of Parliament, has suggested that the Pearce site could be utilised for an international airport and that the Pearce Air Force base could be transferred to Cunderdin, from which the Air Force operated during the war period. I do not venture &lt;to say that this is the final answer. Experts must be commissioned to analyse the overall situation and to arrive at a conclusion acceptable to State and Federal authorities. This was possible for Adelaide so why is it not possible for Perth? My regret is that this amendment does not provide for this action to be taken, but the Government must surely recognise this need and take the appropriate action. I only hope that the situation that would enable an inquiry into the measures which the Commonwealth and State governments should take to avoid these noise problems at Perth airport can be brought about. State and Federal authorities must co-operate for the good of the community, no matter what the political differences are. 
The State is anxious to assist, but the initiative can come only from the Federal authority. It is not satisfactory for the State Labor Government to be the only government acting in a responsible manner by legislating for noise control for the benefit of adjacent industrial and residential areas, only to find that all its efforts have been shattered by Commonwealth-controlled aircraft flying overhead - a matter in respect of which it has no redress. 
must go to Western Australia to investigate the situation. He knows that it is urgent and imperative. These grants for metropolitan unemployment relief are needed now. The Western Australian Government has taken action in limited form because of its limited budget, but only the Federal Government has the taxing power and funds available to it to take the action that is needed finally to resolve the problem. The Premiers of the 3 Labor States of Western Australia, South Australia and Tasmania asked for an urgent conference on the problem of unemployment because of the failure of this legislation which is now being debated to grant the necessary relief and when it  was found, following announcement of the unemployment figures yesterday, that we have the worst position we ha'Ve had in 11 years. These Premiers realise that their States are being starved of help. 
The West provides to the Commonwealth immense funds through its exports of raw materials and through its royalties, but little is being rechanneled to assist the unemployed and those in family businesses or to establish labour intensive works and industry. The Commonwealth continues to send migrants to Western Australia without consideration of the competition they provide to those already unemployed. I asked the Minister a question about restricting migration to Western Australia to family reunion only. He indicated that, as they left the hostels .within a reasonable time, there was no problem. This is ludicrous. Migration must be further curtailed to family reunion only. If more consideration were given to this matter the unemployment situation would be eased. It is up to this Government, now that this legislation has proved to be inadequate for unemployment relief, to take some action to grant the Premiers from the Labor States their request that a conference be held. 
Urgent consideration needs to be given to grants to metropolitan districts, in particular, which are most affected.  Major works  of a labour intensive nature are needed. The only thing that will assist Western Australia is for federal money to be made available for such matters as drainage and sewerage. This has been requested from time to time by the  Chairman  of the Metropolitan Water Supply Board. It is useless for the Minister to stand in this House and say that the unemployment figures are not so bad when compared with the figures for previous years. That is of no use to the people who have been unemployed for months. Many of them have lost homes, household possessions and their life savings through the loss of their employment or when their businesses collapsed. All the debates and assurances will not assist these people. Action - not promises - is required. Caring is not enough. Western Australia requires the assistance and co-operation of the Commonwealth. If this Government will not assist, does not care and wishes to use people's misery for political purposes, it is up to the public to express its condemnation of the shallowness of this attitude. No matter what colour a local government or a State government is, the Commonwealth must place itself above local politics and realise that if it is to be truly representative of all Australian citizens it must treat them all as equals. Unemployment is a national problem. In fact, the unemployment relief costs are paid by the national taxpayer through the national Government. Let the Minister personally investigate the misery of the unemployed. Let the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  call the Premiers into conference. Above all, let us not make politics out of human suffering and misery but find an immediate solution to what is a national problem. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Immigration. In view of the increasing unemployment revealed this week, is it a fact that migrants continuing to arrive lessen the job opportunities of those already unemployed? If so, will the Minister give urgent consideration to restricting migration to family re-unions and special cases until the unemployment situation is overcome? 
 I rise tonight on 2 matters. Recently I had cause to raise with the Department of Customs and Excise the question of some imitation gilt candleholders which had been sold in Perth in a manner which was quite attractive to the buying public. However, what the manufacturers failed to disclose was that the candleholders were made of an inflammable material. As 1 understand it, the candleholders are sold throughout Australia, there being, I am informed now by the Comptroller-General of Customs, no prohibition on their importation. This is an appalling situation and I feel that the public should be warned. A constituent of mine purchased one of these items and gave it as a birthday present to his daughter who subsequently lit the candles and left them burning on the wall. A fire occurred which damaged the house and those in the house were indeed fortunate that they were able to douse the fire in time to prevent it from destroying the house. 
These articles are brought into the country and I suspect that there is a substantial profit to be made from them because of the cheapness of manufacture and the amount of money for which they are sold. Some recently on sale were marked down from $10 to $5. Each one is a lethal piece of furniture. The regulations allow such a dangerous item to be imported but let us not say that the item is not dangerous for I have photographs of the damage done to the house and the remains of the candleholder which I am given to understand was quite attractive when it was sold. The item comprises 2 candlesticks and a mirror in the background. Who would not be tempted to buy it as a gift for, say, an aged mother or a young child? Who would not be tempted to light the candles if a power failure occurred or in circumstances where it was felt that candlelight was appropriate or if it was desired to use them as a nightlight? 
In case there is a fatality before some action is taken I am raising the matter in Parliament. I feel that the public should be made aware of the danger of this type of material. It is far past time that national Australian consumer protection standards were adopted in relation to materials and designs of both Australian and imported goods. The existing Australian standards association is a manufacturers' association concerned only with Australian goods. It is not a statutory body and does not look at imported articles or control Australian products sufficiently. It is the manufacturers' technical experts who do the research on their products and it is highly unlikely that standards will be laid down which would necessitate even minor increases in cost. In Britain and Canada there are strict safety standards, particularly for children's articles. Little attention has been given to this matter in Australia and I ask that some action be taken to provide controls in this area. 
Another matter of a serious nature to which I wish to draw the attention of the House is the appalling treatment of some purchasers of war service homes which were built or purchased in Western Australia in the immediate post war period. These homes have substandard brickwork which is not apparent when they are new. In addition the homes are subject to inspections every 5 years to meet loan requirements and as a result of these inspections instructions to repair the homes may be given. The Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  is currently looking into  2  cases in my electorate and I hope that some favourable solution will be found to the problem of restoration of these buildings. It is not possible to sell these homes. At one home one could put one's hand into holes in the wall. Surely some insurance is available to cover restoration work and to protect people against initial bad workmanship. In this respect I instance the cases of  Mr G.  Currie of Como and  Mr Doulton  of Manning.  Mr Doulton's  home has fretting of brickwork, holes in the mortar and allows water through the walls. It is a health hazard and also a structural hazard should there be an earthquake. I would not like to see too many heavy vehicles go past as further damage will occur. This matter of sub-standard construction has been brought to the attention of the Department and the Minister by  Mr Currie.  Letters from people reveal that this is clearly a common problem in Western Australia. How many other people are similarly affected is unknown. I quote from  Mr Currie's  file. As far back as May 1966 he received a letter from the then Minister for Housing,  Senator Dame  Annabelle Rankin, which stated:  lt is apparent from all these reports that it is not possible to ascertain with any certainty the cause of the fretting of the brickwork in your home, which has taken place since the home was erected some 14 years ago. Nevertheless the official papers do show that the State Housing Commission shared wilh you the cost of the repairs carried out to the brickwork in 1963, even though the Commission was in no way obliged to assist you at all in this matter. 
In your letters you make it clear that you are not satisfied with the assistance which the Commission made available to overcome your difficulty. However the point is that you, as the house-holder, are responsible under the terms of the Contract of Sale which you entered into when your purchased the home, for any maintenance necessary to keep your home in good order and repair. 
I have had regard to all the circumstances, but I can find no reason or justification why the cost of any remedial work required to the home at this point in time should be borne out of public funds. I regret, therefore, that I must confirm that no responsibility can be accepted by the Director of War Service Homes for any further repairs to your home. 
God help the consumer, in this instance a man who served his country. After being away he bought a home - his dream home - and finally found that he had been sold something shoddy. I find this completely despicable. There is a continuing tone through the letters that  Mr Currie  received. On 9th February 1966 the Director of War Service Homes wrote: 
The General Manager informs me that it was  necessary following a routine periodical inspection of the home in June, 1963, to draw your attention to the need for certain items of maintenance to be carried out, including the repair of fretted mortar to the brickwork. 
I am told that fretting of mortar in brickwork is a relatively common problem in Western Australia probably because the climatic conditions - winds and driving rain - are conducive to mortar decay over a period of time. Fretting of mortar is particularly prevalent in homes built in the early post-war years and probably the scarcity of cement and the poor quality of lime available at that time are the main causes. The problem is not confined to War Service homes. 
The repair and maintenance of a property is a responsibility of the householder and under the terms of the Contract of Sale which you entered into at the time you purchased your home, you are responsible to carry out any maintenance necessary to keep the home in good order and repair at your own expense. Repair of fretting mortar, especially after a' period of time, is a maintenance matter and therefore your responsibility under your contract. lt is completely beyond me to understand the reasoning behind this argument of buyer beware', which applies in this instance, it would appear, to people who have bought war service homes. I look for a final solution, which must be found. I am sure that the Minister will endeavour to find a solution. It is not sufficient to finance people to buy sub-standard homes when it is proven that there is a general problem with the group of war service homes that was constructed in the immediate post-war years. 
I rise on 2 matters. Firstly I wish to deal with the subject of immigration. I appreciate that the Minister for Immigration  (Dr Forbes)  has a difficult time making decisions on matters of immigration, but I must protest at the constant frustration which is being experienced by one of my constituents, a  Mr David  Crane of Rivervale. He is a self-made businessman who migrated to Australia from England and built up a hardware business in Australia. He is a credit to the nation for his enterprise and contribution to the community. He has now reached the stage where he wishes to bring his sister and her husband and their child from England to Australia.  Mr Crane  has guaranteed assistance to establish these relatives in a home and is in a financial position to do so. He has a need for assistance in his business and wishes to employ his sister full time to assist him. I believe that she has similar enterprise and enthusiasm as  Mr Crane. 
But, despite many requests to the Department of Immigration and the Minister for Immigration for them to be allowed to migrate to Australia on a full fare paying basis, they have been refused admission to this wonderful country. Why have they been refused admission? Because the family is in the unfortunate position of having a 10-year old son - a healthy looking lad in photographs - who is slightly retarded mentally. He is not seriously retarded. He attends a normal school in England. One can hardly imagine the bitterness and despair which must be felt by this fine family. The irony of the situation is that had they, as a young couple, migrated to Australia without a child and subsequently had a slow learning child, no thought would now be given to deporting the family. If they had migrated to Australia while the wife was pregnant or the affected child was a babe in arms no-one would have protested. To put such a barrier to reuniting a family is incredibly harsh. We all realise that we must have standards, but let us not lose all sight of human understanding. These are not people who will come here to swell the ranks of the unemployed or to take some opportunity of government housing assistance from another person; they are people who are assured of a home, an income, a future and a place in the sun for their child who will, I am sure, grow to be a useful Australian citizen. I ask the Minister for Immigration  (Dr Forbes)  to reconsider the situation and to see what can be done to admit the family. 
Another serious matter I wish to raise concerns the lack of fire-fighting equipment at Perth Airport, a situation of which I have been made aware. It has been brought to my attention that the equipment consists of 2 foam units of 800 gallons capacity, one water unit of 2,000 gallons capacity and one jeep-type light rescue tender with dry powder. The ladder equipment is 22 feet long and consists of builders type extension ladders. This equipment may be considered sufficient and may be common to other airports, but when one considers a 747 Boeing with its immense height and looks at the possibility of a 707 Boeing standing on its nose with its other exits blocked, one immediately wonders why snorkel or extension equipment is not available. It could be said that other equipment could come from the nearby civil station, but speed is essential in these matters: The first 2 minutes are crucial. Admittedly, other Qantas Airways Ltd extension equipment is available but there is no guarantee that staff to operate it would be available at a given moment; nor is it designed for this particular purpose. The fire staff would be too fully occupied to even attempt to organise it. As an observer, I fail to be reassured that all types of accidents would be of a nature that would not warrant elevator type equipment, particularly with the increasing size of aircraft. I feel that this is an area of public safety which must be looked at. It may well be that equipment may be planned to fill the gap, but if this is so its provision should be hastened and provision should be made to have stand-by equipment available in the intervening period. However, if no equipment is planned there must be an urgent investigation to determine what is required. Let us not wait until an accident occurs - heaven forbid that it should - because we would all be appalled if loss of life occurred due to lack of adequate or sufficient equipment. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I rise to support the amendment which has been moved by the Opposition and which highlights the weaknesses of Qantas Airways Ltd and its administration. While the amendment offers some solution, it does not pretend to solve all aspects of the problems of Qantas. It leaves that to the select committee which it proposes to appoint. Let the select committee ascertain whether strikes have any effect at all on the Qantas problem. Previous speakers have referred to the possibility of Qantas setting down at the Cocos (Keeling) Islands in order to effect substantial savings in route miles, landing costs and contra-entry obligations to other nations. However, one must sound a note of caution on the difficulties which could occur from Qantas landing at Cocos, even though it may be a desirable and practical aspect of the operations of Qantas. 
From previous proven experience close supervision of the industrial relations attitude of Qantas in emerging nations or, for that matter, in Australia would need to be observed for no-one would deny that the administration of Qantas has a history of industrial relation blunders. I instance the dispute and disrepute that Australia was brought into in Fiji in August of this year when Qantas chose, not to negotiate to a successful conclusion with the Fiji Airline Workers Union. We would not want to repeat this performance in Cocos or anywhere else for that matter. The industrial negotiators for Qantas threatened to pull out of Fiji if the Fiji union continued with its claims for approximately $40 a week for ground staff - this from our leading international tourist line. This gave Qantas a bad name in Fiji and other Pacific countries and one hopes that this performance will not be repeated anywhere. The situation in Fiji was threatened by the resolve, of locals to close Nadi airport to Qantas and to give its competitors, the British Overseas Aircraft Corporation and American Airlines Incorporated, free access to the airport. 
If simple matters such as this cannot be managed by the Qantas administration, it is small wonder that this amendment expresses disapproval of its management generally and its failure to act in a satisfactory manner. But this again comes back to the situation that the board of management itself lacks the diversification of interest and expertise that one would expect to find in a major airline and tourist operator, for, if Qantas lacks successful staff in the industrial relations field, it is equally true of the administration in its experience in tourism and hotel management. This criticism should be extended to include such people for only this year - again in August - the Qantas staff was engaged in a dispute with the company over hotel accommodation and had recourse to industrial action. 
But what of the passengers booked by Qantas? Their only protest, if they were, not satisfied, could and would be to tell others and not to book again themselves through the airline but to find some more acceptable venue, of service. It is indeed amazing that the company has not diversified into the accommodation field, for its annual expenditure on its crews in London alone and its inability to direct Australian tourists to residential accommo dation, which would be of direct benefit to the company, would warrant this diversification. This is amazing and it ties in with its one way traffic. The traffic of Qantas, in the main, is composed of Australians utilising their national airline, the familiar airline. It is not composed of those people who are attracted from other nations to visit us and to tour our great nation. This can be overcome only by a change of attitude by Qantas and a diversification of its activities. It must commence, at the booking agency level, the overseas promotion not only of the airline but also what Australia has to offer as a tourist centre. When one looks at Qantas promotions, it can be seen that, in the main, they are all orientated towards departure from Australia. The Singapore holiday, the English holiday and the student concession to England are all examples of the Australian-base thinking. 
Qantas could serve Australia well by ensuring that it has home bases in Europe, Asia, the United States of America and other nations. Perhaps thought should be given to appointing people on contract who in fact are experienced in all the facets of the tourist industry in overseas countries - people who would think about sending their own nationals to their employers country, Australia. This would infuse new thinking and new activity into Qantas. These people would not be people who have come up the promotion ladder by traditional methods at Qantas. They would utilise the skills and experience of people who are competing successfully against Qantas today and who are setting the standards that Qantas is attempting to achieve. They should not create the same furore which has been created by Qantas when it has set out to employ foreign or foreign based hostesses. I feel that the argument which applied in this case was the competition which was offered for existing jobs, often at the lower wage rates of another nation. This occurred with the matter of the Asian hostesses, when Australians were facing redundancy. 
I suggest the establishment of new positions, new diversification into booking and tour agencies, improved accommodation facilities and co-operation and financial interest in coach operations. If this business - let us not lose sight of the fact that it is a business - was not in a position to have a government guarantee for its purchases, as is defined in this Bill, and if it were faced with the question of where the money was coming from, Qantas would be setting out to do all of these things. Just as importantly, it would be setting out to ensure that balancing contracts on major sectional aircraft construction was given to the Australian aircraft industry. Qantas would not be satisfied with being only a minimal fitting agency but would be driving the hardest bargain possible, preferably on the high maintenance, high reconstruction sections of the aircraft, to ensure the continued life and development of our own aircraft industry not only for the financial, national aspect but also for the important aspect of defence. 
We as a nation must not be dependent on another section of the world for our parts and planes in times of international emergency, whether they be for civil or defence aircraft and Qantas, which has such an obligation to the nation, must be part of long range planning. That is why the amendment which has been moved by the Opposition is so pertinent to the future planning of our aircraft industry and for our defence. The amendment reads: 
firm arrangements are made for substantial co-operation procedures for imported aircraft, (2) a select committee is appointed to inquire into and report upon the effectiveness of Qantas management and (3) the terms of the loan agreement are set forth in a schedule to the Bill. 
Previous Government speakers have made reference to the fact that Qantas is now endeavouring to do something. No-one would deny that it is trying but what this amendment asks is that a select committee determines whether these endeavours are based on the correct guidelines and on the most effective management concepts. If we are to have reorganisation, let it be full and proper reorganisation and let the need to be constantly on the watch in this Parliament as to what Qantas is doing become completely unnecessary. For if Qantas or the Government have complete confidence in the effectiveness of Qantas management they will welcome the opportunity to put on record their reasons for that confidence. 
If they do not, they will further try to bury the bone, oppose the amendment and hide the facts that would be revealed by the select committee. There can be no other reasonable explanation for opposition to the amendment. 
The negotiation of immense loans of this nature in these troubled times of growing general unemployment and threatened unemployment in the aircraft industry in a manner which does nothing to alleviate that unemployment in any sector of the community indicates that this Government's priorities are completely out of touch with the needs of the community, particularly when the loan is being negotiated long prior to its actual date of requirement. For this Parliament to carry the amendment would in no way impair the delivery date of the aircraft in March 1974. In fact, this is the first time borrowing arrangements have not been completed before the matter has come before the Parliament. One suspects that this is being rushed through to prevent an incoming Labor government from taking steps to see that the Australian aircraft industry is fully protected in this deal by ensuring substantial co-production procedures for imported aircraft. It would be no secret to this Government or to the public that on each occasion on which matters such as this come before the Parliament the Labor Party moves in an attempt to protect and promote the Australian aircraft industry, for the Australian Labor Party realises it is mandatory that Australia becomes independent of the international arguments which have in the past affected the supply of defence materials to maintain skilled workers and machinery in the aircraft industry to ensure that it is ready to go into action when needed. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr Charles Jones's amendment)  stand part of the question. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
Were import licences for four-wheel drive ex-British Government fire engines refused in Western Australia. 
If so, on what grounds were they refused. 
Were import licences for four-wheel drive ex-British Government fire engines granted to Tasmania. 
If so, on what grounds were they granted. 
I commend the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett).  I only hope that he will extend to cover motor vehicles the remarks he made in relation to tractors. He is to be commended for bringing this before the House. I wish to raise a serious anomaly which exists in relation to Australian citizens who joined British forces - in this case I am referring to the British Air Force- in the 1930s. The particular case I mention involves a  Mr Fry  of South Perth, a constituent of mine, who at the age of 17 answered a local Western Australia advertisement and was admitted to the Royal Air Force. He served throughout the war with the Royal Air Force - for 3 and a half years with commissioned rank. He elected to take his discharge in Australia for personal reasons with a British bride.  His  furlough leave was spent travelling to Western Australia. 
A situation now arises, because of the principle expressed in the Commonwealth Employees' Furlough Act 1943-1968, as to the recognition of service with the Commonwealth of Australia, including State service. That recognition of service extends to service with the Commonwealth armed Services. But persons such as  Mr Fry  who served with the armed Services of our mother country - Great Britain - during the 1939-45 war are not recognised for furlough purposes under our legislation. Further, because he is receiving some 20 per cent of his pension from the English forces he is denied any of the fringe benefits available to other people who are receiving a 100 per cent pension. Even though his pension is 100 per cent - 80 per cent Australian and 20 per cent English - full recognition is not given to him. He has suffered a time of trial and tribulation since discharge, primarily because of his fight to obtain recognition for service rendered to the British Commonwealth. 
Surely as an Australian citizen who elected to undertake a full-time defence role career he should receive maximum recognition. The effect on the nation's purse strings would be minimal for in those early days the people selected were few in number. I ask the responsible Minister to look at the probability of giving full recognition to these people who are Australian citizens, who have retained their citizenship right through and who have served the British Commonwealth and the British Commonwealth only.I can understand some reluctance, to extend this benefit to people who are European migrants. But I feel that people who are Australian citizens and who have served with British forces should be given recognition. I ask that this matter be looked at. 
I wish to make a further plea to the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  because of a matter which has arisen in Western Australia. I know that the Minister will do all that is possible to assist. I refer to students of institutes, such as the Western Australian Institute of Technology, who are seeking social service benefits during the coming vacation period. In the main these people are training for responsible positions in industry. In the past they have been able to find seasonal employment but now, due to the high unemployment situation, this is almost impossible. This will lead to many students dropping out from institutes because of financial reasons. This will cause serious loss not only to them but also to industry and the community. One answer could be to follow Canada's lead of last year and provide employment in seasonal community service work. This is work which will not cause them to compete with our unemployed family unit workers who are currently in a distressed situation. A review of the whole situation is required urgently for these self-supporting students. Possibly they should be given some form of grant to enable them to continue their studies in the coming year. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
In speaking on the estimates for the Department of Labour and National Service I wish to raise some aspects relating to the situation in Western Australia to which I have made reference on previous occasions. Firstly, I refer to the lack of a residential Commonwealth industrial commissioner at Perth, one of Australia's furthest points from Melbourne which is the home of the majority of the Commonwealth Industrial Commission although I understand that one commissioner is resident in Adelaide in South Australia. I recently attended a meeting in Perth of the Industrial Relations Society. At that meeting this need was made known to  Mr Justice  Moore by way of a question from a person who I understand represented the Employers' Federation.  Mr Justice  Moore quite properly indicated that this was a political decision and not one within his jurisdiction. So I take this opportunity to raise with the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  this need and I ask him to meet it. 
I point out that travelling time and travelling expense are both tremendous when disputes occur and cause unnecessary delay in the settlement of disputes, resulting in lost wages to employees who are affected by the dispute and lost production by employers. The commissioners must necessarily spend some time familiarising themselves with the background of the disputing parties. If the commissioners were resident locally they would be fully familiar with the matter and in most cases would have the advantage of a personal relationship and the mutual respect which grows out of such a relationship which is so important in the settlement of industrial disputes. A local commissioner could be an advantage if the person appointed already had that happy relationship. 
Although Federal awards at this point of time are not in the majority in Western Australia their application in the main is to the whole of the State which represents an area which is as large again as most of the other areas in which an award may apply. 
It is imperative that this section of industrial relations should function smoothly. I do not say this in any way as a criticism or as a reflection on the staff of the Commission. I do so to highlight a deficiency in Commonwealth jurisdiction which must increase with the more widespread application of Federal awards to Western Australia and the growth of those industries to which Federal awards already apply. 
Another matter which is of particular importance to my constituents in Swan and the constituents of the electorates of Moore and Canning living immediately adjacent to the Swan boundary, is the question of the insufficiency of the Victoria Park District Employment Office. Again, I hasten to add that this is not a reflection on the people who work in that office. In fact, the Minister has a right to be proud of these people who are working under crowded conditions to assist a high volume of unemployment relief applicants. If that office were a profit making business or dependent on convenience and service to the public, it would have had to be extended to allow for more working space, more public area and more staff. 
The 21 people who work in that office all work under pressure. The counter staff spend 90 per cent of their day on their feet. If they want to use a telephone they must wait their turn until someone vacates it. These people are so devoted to their duty and to their obligations to the people whom they serve that in one instance recently a gentleman attending to the needs of the public at the counter was reluctant to take time off to attend to a personal bereavement. The staff in that office are a fine team. What are the alternatives to the situation? An immediate drop in unemployment would possibly be too much to ask of the Minister at this time. A lesser number of registrations would give some relief but this is not the complete or immediate answer. 
The answer lies in the immediate opening of offices at Cannington and Belmont which are situated near industry and population. This would lessen the distance which would have to be travelled by the unemployed to register. Let us remember that the Victoria Park office serves a population of 193,000 people which encompasses all of the Swan electorate, a large proportion of the Canning electorate through the Kenwick, Gosnells, Armadale, Byford, Pinjarra corridor and extends into the Moore electorate in the Maida Vale, Kalamunda, Lesmurdie area. The location of the Victoria Park office means that the unemployed have to travel many miles in order to register. A large proportion are migrants, some of whom have been unemployed for weeks or months. Because they are migrants who arrived in this country with little or nothing they are heavily in debt through purchasing furnishings and paying for accommodation and transport and who can ill-afford the luxury of the trip to the employment office. All that they are going to the office for is, in many cases, to re-affirm their right to unemployment benefits. 
When you have been there and stood and witnessed that as many as 98 people are being processed in half an hour before a long weekend commences it brings home the total inadequacy of the situation - the hopelessness of these people even being offered a position. One wonders at the tremendous pressure under which the interviewing staff are placed with an average registration in one month of 392 a week against an average placement of 240 a week. One wonders whether a prospective employee can be given the proper time for the interview because the nagging thought must be in the mind of the interviewing officer of the large number of people yet to be handled. He would be thinking of the large number of men and women who are standing crowded in the waiting area. If chairs were available to place in the waiting area - and they are not - there would be no room to put them because the counter was moved forward 6 feet into the public area some months ago so as to accommodate the staff. So the unemployed stand crowded like cattle waiting to be processed by grossly overworked staff. 
The original building was not designed for such a volume of work. Originally, it was a house set back from the roadway. An office was built between the front rooms and the footpath in a single story form, so h is not easy immediately to expand the size of the office. The possibility of creating an annexe to cater for female registrations at premises nearby is one alternative which could be undertaken whilst the other much needed offices are being investigated with a view to their establishment in Belmont and Canning. In those areas ample rental accommodation is immediately available. There could be some problem with an annexe adjacent to the Victoria Park office area but on a temporary basis I feel sure that the local authorities would co-operate in waiving any zoning difficulty which exists. 
The problem is there, lt is a real human problem which I am sure the Minister will look into on behalf of the people who are affected in the 3 electorates and on behalf of those people who so faithfully work for his department. But in choosing a site for a new office I make one comment in relation to public convenience. It is hoped that sufficient seating will be available for all applicants to allow them to wait in reasonable comfort. Sufficient room should be available to allow them to wait indoors during inclement weather. Public conveniences should be available with easy access. There should be sufficient nearby car park facilities so that interviews are not interrupted or the opportunity for an interview is not lost because a person has had to move his vehicle. All these problems exist at the Victoria Park office. 
Another matter which is of importance to my constituents is the situation which can and does exist in the case of many employers who go bankrupt or who are associated with liquidated companies and who subsequently return business as directors of new companies even though their former employees, sub-contractors and suppliers of the previous business have not been paid. In the case of employees, holiday pay and long service leave entitlements and wages outstanding have been lost. In the case of sub-contractors, particularly in the building trade, this is often the reason why they have to go heavily into debt or even into bankruptcy. The chain reaction is always severe. Yet people who are directors of companies started with nominal capital are able to find loopholes which enable them to continue the performance time and time again. I understand that the legal aspects of this matter are to be looked into by the Attorneys-General but this in itself is not sufficient. All aspects which affect employment need to receive attention by the Department of Labour and National Service and legislation should be passed by this Parliament, lt is in the employee area that the effect is felt most. Protection in the sub-contract field must be given not only for the sake of the subcontractors affected but also for the sake of the stabilisation of the industry affected, the firms affected and those people of sound intention who wish to remain in the industry without recourse to these unfortunate tactics but who must compete in the same industry with those who adopt unprincipled business methods. By legislating, by interesting itself in these aspects, the Government will do a service to the community and in fact reduce the call on the services of the Department itself by people affected by unemployment arising out of the situations which are being felt so much in the critical national unemployment situation which exists today. 
In speaking to the estimates for the Department of Shipping and Transport and as a member representing a Western Australian constituency, I express my concern on behalf of Western Australia at the lack of adequate Commonwealth financial grants to meet urban and other associated transport needs. We are all particularly conscious of the need to have sufficient funds available for forward planning to prevent the city and suburbs becoming choked by private transport, but more importantly what is required is forward knowledge of what moneys are to be granted, and when, and whether the funds will be sufficient and provided early enough to avoid the problem before it occurs. This has not happened in the past and there is no substantial evidence that it will occur in the immediate future under this Government. There is a danger that this area of Commonwealth-State relations will become an area for election gimmickry, grants becoming available only when elections are pending. This would be disastrous as the very quality of life, the basic factors of day to day living and of decentralisation are affected by urban transport requirements. It is wrong to say that this is a State responsibility for the States have neither the capital nor the taxing ability to deal with the problem. 
It is fair to say that any major transport links that have been instituted between the States in the past have placed an annual burden of loan repayments or overall maintenance on the States affected. In the case of Western Australia with the introduction of the standard gauge rail link with the east, an annual repayment of over $4m is required. All of these funds must be provided from the limited finances available to the State. This is why I make the point that there is a need for direct grants which do not place the repayment problem on the limited State Treasury. The present system affects us all because if repayments to the Commonwealth are so great this, in turn, affects the facilities that the State can provide in other areas. This aspect particularly applies to the existing Federal Government which makes grandiose statements when allocating funds to other fields, such as education, only if the States provide funds on a dollar for dollar basis. That system of matching grants will not be sufficient to solve the urban traffic tangle. It is not only the suburban rail and bus services which are affected but also the associated traffic and parking area planning both of which make huge capital demands. 
In Perth city it is currently planned to widen Wellington Street to 120 feet to provide for a metropolitan bus terminal. The Perth City Council has an extensive city road and traffic flow plan for the city centre. It is an idea] concept. But again the question is: Where will the money come from? No doubt the Council will avoid passing on to the city ratepayer the cost of a government proposal to cater for a transient population so it will ask the State Government for the funds. But the State Government must be granted funds from the Commonwealth to meet these needs for if any city is to survive some authority has to provide the funds for urban transport revival, for the provision of bus expressways. In Australia we are just beginning to think of providing express bus services to outlying districts while other nations are providing expressways for the buses themselves. But our buses get hopelessly caught in peak hour traffic. Our trains are of the conventional type. Many of them have been reconstructed under updating programmes, rather than renewed. In a country with distances such as we have in Australia, experiments with more advanced types of rail transport, at Commonwealth expense, to find the ultimate suitable form of transport in that area must be commenced. 
In the community interest public transport must compete with the private motor vehicle, which form of transport itself is constantly subjected to updating by manufacturers in order to effect sales and by governments in order to improve safety and efficiency standards. Public transport must be futuristic in design, planning and convenience. The existing system of urban volume transport under private, municipality and State government ownership and control is based on meeting existing volumes of passengers and of meeting, in the main, the needs of people who have a student's or a pensioner's concession or are unable to use a car for some period of time. People use public transport only because it is a bad second choice. If the opportunity presents itself they will use their own transport or accept the use of  a  friend's car. This attitude is ingrained in our whole community and it will remain with us until such time as governments recognise the need for fast, regular comfortable, and economic forms of public transport. Public transport will be popular only when it can offer the same comfort, prestige and convenience as private transport offers. This in itself will happen only when there is completely new thinking about the administration of transport generally and, more importantly, when the sources for the provision of funds are widened in the Commonwealth Treasury. 
Recently an urban shopping centre was opened in Western Australia. One of the main attractions of this centre is the provision of parking for some 2,000 cars. Acres of bitumen will be laid as each urban shopping centre comes into being. There will be a choking of access roads and a further dying of the old areas near the city as people are attracted away from them because of car parking problems. Someone in the community has to pay for the redevelopment of old areas in order to accommodate the car. But still we lack an efficient form of public transport in the old and the new areas, while all of our metropolitan areas become choked with cars. 
In this chamber we speak of decentralisation, but we pay scant regard to the existing problems facing our cities. As the suburbs grow the centre quickly chokes with people. We talk of establishing new cities. One wonders whether there will be  a  further duplication of the previous problem because  a  solution  or a  longterm plan has yet to be evolved or even considered. The authorities for implementing such  a  plan have yet to be established. The real cost to the community has never been ascertained. One suspects that land costs would be minimised if outlying areas were more readily served by fast, efficient and new concepts of transport I do not refer to the existing, accepted types  of  public transport but to the new forms of rail transport being evolved overseas, both in the tracked rubber tyred high speed version and the experimental air cushion type. We do not need a revamped version of existing types of public transport but the introduction  of  completely new types which can be evolved to meet the needs  of  this nation. 
Our own aircraft industry could well look at the use of air cushion vehicles in metropolitan and near metropolitan areas. No doubt other types of transport could be researched by this industry or by other Australian industries. This is the type of thinking that is required. No State authority has the kind of capital resources available to it to carry out this research, so the finance, the initiative and the offers must come from the central authority - the Commonwealth. We have evidence of the acceptance of this need in the amendment moved by the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  which states: 
That lite proposed expenditure be reduced by $10. (As an instruction to the Government to enter into dicussions with the New South Wales and Victorian Governments and any other interested State for (a) the acquisition and assumption of responsibility for their railways and (b) the provision of capital investment in urban public transport as recommended by the Bureau of Transport Economics in June 1972.) 
But it is not sufficient to plug holes or to revamp old systems. A completely new approach is required. My colleague the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Webb)  referred to monorails. This is a worthwhile suggestion because that system is suited to run in conjunction with roadways. lt can run both along side roads and down the centre of median strips. The future planning in roads to link both our existing and planned cities must be carried out in conjunction with public transport planning. The Commonwealth already is making some grants for roads, with some stipulations attached. But here again the planning is centred around the acceptance of the concept of the growth of the motor car. Again action is taken only after the growth problem appears to choke an area. It is imperative that the areas of population already established are not choked and are not made redundant in a business sense by the shopping and living areas being overwhelmed by traffic, as has been the American experience. The Western Australian Government has recognised this problem and is taking some steps to prevent its proliferation by the provision of bridges, overways and through ways and by upgrading the existing transport systems. But without large amounts of capital from the Commonwealth this action will not be adequate. 
In speaking to the estimates for the Department of Social Services and the Repatriation Department I wish to make brief reference to a number of points raised by my constituents. One which is constantly being brought to my attention is the difficulty often facing widows of exservicemen who apply for a war pension and are more often rejected than accepted. On refusal they become perturbed that no information or reason for refusal is given - just the right to appeal again. This secrecy causes concern. Possibly if frankness were exercised in the first instance much work and .worry by a lot of people associated with the application would be avoided. I feel that the widows of our exserviceman should have the way made easier for them. In most cases their lives have been one of suffering disability because of their husbands' service to the nation. Surely it is not too much to ask for better treatment of these people. 
Another matter which has been reported to me is that since the adverse publicity given to repatriation patients during a recent inquiry, patients in repatriation wards for the treatment of nerve cases at Hollywood Hospital in Western Australia are. being required to do what can only be termed 'fatigue' duties in their wards - the delivery of meals, the cleaning of areas and other work of this type. It may well be that this work is considered to have, some rehabilitative value to the persons concerned, but if this is the real reason all patients should be so advised and not left in the position where they consider themselves to be a form of cheap labour or the subject of suspicion that their complaints may be under some differential treatment or cloud of suspicion. It is strange that there was an increase in this practice since the adverse publicity. Some feel the implication very severely. 
Another anomaly which exists is that the Department of Social Services will provide hearing aids, but refuses  10  supply batteries for them. It might be thought that if batteries were to be supplied they would be utilised for other purposes. I assure the Minister that those seeking the concession would not be so petty, so let us have a review of this situation. On the subject of hearing aids generally I must make reference to the lack of provision for subsidy under the Social Services Act. There is provision for the very young and the. aged, but people who are in the majority - the working people or the housewife - go unaided, often at tremendous cost to themselves. During their lifetime they would require several changes of hearing aid; changes which often are delayed or denied because of the prohibitive cost. I understand that other countries have seen their way clear to offer subsidies in some cases and in other cases give a free grant to all those with impaired hearing. This is one area of social services which must be revised and world trends adopted. 
Similar aspects apply to the supply of artificial limbs. It would appear that an age pensioner is excluded from the benefit of the Rehabilitation  AC  provisions in relation to the supply of artificial limbs. It is a disgrace that so many people, once they receive the benefit, go to work and are thrust on their own resources or the resources of the maimed and limbless associations or the Red Cross or some other such voluntary body for the renewal of artificial limbs. It is shameful that these people are not given the security of mind of knowing that their often limited incomes will not be called on to meet the costs associated with their disability. This area needs review. By their individual determination these people save the Government the responsibility of maintaining them on Invalid pensions or other social services. It is imperative that a review take place in this area. 
A further serious anomaly which came to my attention recently concerns the plight of the deserted woman who has been living in a de facto relationship. It would appear that such women suffer from discrimination which often is not earned. The particular case I raise is that of a woman who had children by a previous marriage and then further children in a de facto relationship. She finds that she is ineligible for deserted wives' rights because the de facto husband was the last to leave her. She receives child welfare assistance but no medical subsidies, which are so essential for any person with young children. If she were over 50 years of age she could qualify for a B class widow's pension, but the ludicrous situation is that the B class pension is less than what would be paid to her in child welfare assistance. Surely this area of strict differentiation can be sensibly adjusted to treat all parties equally. It would avoid embarrassment for those people who, because of human loneliness, have accepted companionship for a period. I do not think it is our position in legislation to sit in judgment on people in a way which offers criticism of their morals. We should make the welfare of the. individual the first consideration. 
However, this is consistent with the attitude adopted towards our national servicemen. When they are inducted it is indicated to them that they are on duty for 24 hours a day, but should they suffer an injury while on leave on a week-end they find that they are without insurance protection. Many young men have had their lives blighted in that way. They should be. granted special benefits outside those already available to compensate for their lack of insurance cover. I refer also to the repatriation benefits available to those people who serve overseas in support of the Americans. Let us make some small comparison with the benefits payable to those people they support. Under the Budget provisions a double amputee receives about $96 a fortnight. He can receive an additional $35 a fortnight as an attendant's allowance, a clothing allowance of between 85c and $1.70 a fortnight, and perhaps a transport allowance of $12.50 a fortnight, making a maximum total payment of SI 45.20 a fortnight. 

 His counterpart in the United States receives between $US208 a fortnight and SUS492 a fortnight, but a double amputee can receive a total maximum payment of SUS725 a fortnight. In addition he has the opportunity while serving to take out insurance of $US15,000 for SUS2.70 a month. Of course, it can be said that we make a free motor vehicle available in certain circumstances and allow a totally and permanently incapacitated pensioner to purchase a car free of sales tax, but this is a pathetic reward for a person who has won a government lottery. We have spent too much time in ensuring that people comply with the National Service Act. There has been too much debate on that point and far too little thought has been given to the protection and rewards by way of repatriation benefits that could be given to the people involved. I am sure that if we were to be as diligent and spend so much money on the welfare of those people better results would be obtained. It is said that a total of about $22,000 was spent in making sure that one 26-year-old man from Carnarvon in Western Australia complied with the National Service Act. If that sort of money was available to individuals as repatriation benefits we would be far more realistic about these matters. 
I appreciate the co-operation given within the limits of the Act by the Ministers concerned and I appreciate that it is because of the limitations of the Act that assistance is not given in many cases. I therefore suggest a rethinking in these areas in order to provide different treatment for modern soldiers returning to civilian life. At present they are not receiving the same generous treatment in many areas as was received by soldiers returning from World War II under a different government. I understand that over a long period returned servicemen have not been offered preferential, treatment in employment by Commonwealth departments even after being found to require repatriation benefits for the rest of their lives. In fact, it is common for private employers to invoke whenever possible section 12 (3) (b) of the National Service Act in order to reject the re-employment of people whom they are obliged to re-employ under the provisions of the Act. This course is sometimes followed when employees return with war or accident caused disabilities. They may be offered positions outside their capabilities and, of course, those positions are rejected. It is no wonder that these people become bitter. All that the Parliament has done is to add to existing benefits, lt has made no attempt to introduce modern thinking into the area of benefits. 
In relation to age pensioners, the Western Australian Government has a successful and generous policy of providing totally free transport to pensioners on State controlled transport systems, lt has meant the difference between a pensioner being housebound and having the ability to visit friends any time he so desires or of going to a beauty spot or the beach as the inclination takes him. I would like to be assured that the Minister will endeavour to see that free metropolitan transport is made available in all cities  throughout Australia. I hope that the' proven and acceptable Western Australian concession will become the Australian standard rather than the exception. In fact, let us look at the question of all transport concessions being made universal throughout Australia to all types of pensioners. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Corbett)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Interior. Is it a fact that 18 acres of land were resumed by the Army for defence purposes from the Shire of Belmont in Western Australia and subsequently released by the Minister for the Army, for which I thank him? Is it a fact that the land is to be offered back to the Shire at current market value of approximately $10,000 per acre? Is the Minister aware that this land is to be used for community amenities, including aged persons homes? Is he aware that the high price asked would negate any benefit of subsidy received from the Commonwealth for those homes? In view of the use to which the land will be put, will the Minister intervene to see that the property is returned to the shire at a price in keeping with the few hundred dollars paid by the Commonwealth when it compulsorily resumed the land? 
asked the Minister for Repatriation, upon notice: 
How many national servicemen have (a) received assistance . (b) completed their training and (c) received Commonwealth cadetships while studying under the National Service Vocational Training Scheme in. each State and Territory since the inception of the Scheme. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I take this opportunity to ask you to extend to the  Speaker  my congratulations upon his election to .that illustrious office, and may I congratulate you and other  Deputy  Speakers on your elevation to the very high office you hold. In this my first opportunity to speak in this House since my re-election I have cause to regret that it is not an opportunity to make wide reference to the problems in my electorate or to thank extensively those people who worked so hard to ensure my return here. In particular I would like to thank my wife. As did all other candidates' wives, she became so deeply involved. It would be wrong not to acknowledge the sterling efforts of my opponent's wife in her collection of sick and absentee votes. I regret for her sake that there could be only one successful candidate in what proved to be one of the most expensive and unfortunate campaigns I have experienced. I regret its unfortunate tone and sincerely hope that campaigns in future will be conducted on a higher plane. 
It gives me great personal pleasure to have an opportunity to congratulate the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  on measures which not only bring equality to areas where anomalies have existed but also take politics out of pensions and benefits. In past elections all social security beneficiaries have had to wait anxiously to see which party was elected and then to see what promises it was prepared to keep. I might say that they were often disappointed over the years. But at long last some system of automatic adjustment and automatic pension levels has been established, making pensions and benefits no longer a political football'. It was interesting to note that in Western Australia the Federal election was fought on State issues. This applied in particular to my own electorate of Swan. It demonstrated to the electorate just how little national leadership the then Government had to offer. It demonstrated to social security beneficiaries just how little hope they could expect from my opponents and how little concern my opponents really had for pensioners. When Labor's proposals were clearly and ably put forward the cry was: 'Where is the money coming from?' Frankly, we are still hearing it here today. We also heard the cry: 'You will pay', showing a complete disregard for the real needs of the under privileged within our community. This has been further illustrated by the attitude since taken by their Western Australian representatives. In fact one begins to wonder whether they are in the Federal or State Parliament. 
In the social services field let us look at a few of the problems which have arisen out of the granting of increases in Western Australia. There can be no reflection on the Minister for the actions of those outside the Parliament but there is a reflection on the greed or lack of understanding of those parties to whom I shall refer. These increases in some instances have been taken completely or mortgaged in advance by so-called charitable organisations running aged persons homes for the purpose of receiving rent or maintenance payments which in many instances absorb up to 25 per cent of pension increases, and in fact in a number of cases substantially more. Automatic increases in rent attached to the automatic increases in pension are envisaged by these organisations, so instead of the people receiving the full benefit of each rise they will automatically lose up to 25 per cent of the increase as determined by the board of management of those homes. 
Residents of these homes, who in the main have paid a donation of one-third of the cost of the building in which they reside, which donation is not legally recoverable - in fact they are prevented by the Act from recovering this amount of money - have protested that they would be financially better off in State housing commission accommodation because the rent for pensioners in such accommodation is much cheaper. Often they have no control over the amount of maintenance that has to be paid. I point out that no maximum amount is set out in the Act. No annual balance sheets have been distributed to the residents to justify these rises. No explanations have been made. The residents have not been granted representation on the boards of management of these homes. No election is held for membership of boards of management. There is no indication of the salaries being paid to those in control of the homes. It may well be that such persons are donating their time to the boards of control. This happens in many instances. In fact, I happen to be chairman of a body, the members of which all donate their time free of charge. It is unfortunate that, despite the good efforts of the Minister for Social Security to ensure regular pension payments and regular increases in pensions, action has been taken to mortgage such increases in advance. Such action is completely wrong and amounts to price rises without justification. 
Hundreds of persons petitioned the Parliament during the last session requesting that action be taken to ensure resident representation on the boards of control of homes for the aged and to provide for the annual election of such boards which should report in detail to the residents of those homes. It is imperative that such action be taken so that the residents will have a complete understanding of the situation and will be able to live harmoniously and enjoy peace of mind in their retirement. I know of instances of persons entering such homes under contracts that provided for no maintenance payments to be made. Some of these persons have succumbed to pressures which have been brought to bear on them over a long period and are making maintenance payments. The appalling fact is that initially the Federal Government met twothirds of the capital cost of such homes and the remainder was sought through public subscription. Some charitable organisations are still seeking public subscriptions. I have made contributions myself so I have personal feelings about this matter. 
The interior of many of these properties has been totally neglected. No maintenance has been carried out and will not be carried out until such time as the occupant pays the cost, leaves the home or passes on. This situation leads to dissension and anomalies. I have been given to understand that this situation has applied for a number of years. The creation of sub-standard accommodation is deplorable at any time. I hope that the Minister will be able to rectify the situation. The previous Minister was most reluctant to take any action. If the Minister cannot do so I will be perfectly willing to conduct a public appeal for funds to renovate disputed areas within such homes. It is only to be hoped that the boards of management will grant admission to the homes to contractors who are employed to undertake renovations. No matter what the reasons or the arguments, which undoubtedly will increase as the amounts allegedly owing by these residents become greater as a direct result of the pension increases granted by the Government, no-one should be disadvantaged in respect of the quality of the surroundings of his abode. 
I appreciate that these organisations face rising administration costs. All possible government help should be given to them to reduce such costs even, if necessary, by the provision of management staff from the Department of Social Security. Such officers are experts in the field of administration and would be familiar with all aspects of the Act. Their services undoubtedly would remove the burden of administrative cost from the residents. When one has regard to the multiplicity of organisations in this field - frequently sited alongside each other - one can understand that it is not fair to expect voluntary workers to continue to bear the burden if they desire to opt out. It should be borne in mind that the money invested in these homes is either taxpayers' money provided from Federal funds, money raised from contributions by residents or money received from public subscriptions. It behoves the Government to take a closer interest in the housing of our aged and to ensure that all pensioners benefit from pension increases. 
Undoubtedly the real interest of those people who organise such homes is in the provision of adequate housing for the aged. I have participated in the organisation of aged persons' homes and I believe that if the anomaly to which I have referred cannot be resolved, the New Zealand practice should be examined. In New Zealand the residents of such homes can capitalise on their homes - can sell them to the government for the housing of younger people or for the redevelopment of the area. The residents are given the opportunity to occupy government retirement flats at a nominal rental with no ingoing payment. In Australia there should be no mortgaging by outside bodies of pension increases without proper investigation, without representation of residents on boards of control and without a full and proper assessment of the needs of a particular establishment at a given time. Pensioners must be assured that maintenance charges are fully justified and that such payments are not to be utilised for expansion projects or for duplicated administrative costs. 
Equally important, it is time that such units were made available on a no entry fee basis. Most people believed that this was the ultimate aim when these homes were first established. However, far too few are becoming available on a no entry fee basis. Even after such homes have been resold at a price in excess of the two times criterion, which is provided in the Act, a rent in advance ploy is being utilised on occasion. By rights most of these units should be available on a rental basis now. The charges for them should not be in excess of rentals charged by the State Housing Commission for similar accommodation. Some of these homes demand a payment of $7 to $9 a fortnight in advance plus one-quarter of all future pension increases. In addition charges are made for rubbish removal, for the attendance of a welfare sister and for a community centre. After meeting such charges the resident has little or nothing to put aside. The Western Australian State Housing Commission charges $6 for a double pensioner unit and $3.50 for a single unit with no ingoing charge and it maintains the grounds where necessary. It maintains the premises in a fit and proper condition. 
The whole question must be examined. Many of these pensioners do not come within the categories listed in the findings of the survey on poverty conducted by the Melbourne Institute of Applied Economics and Social Research. However, as this is the only reliable survey into poverty available at this juncture, one can assume that a similar situation applies in most major cities, including Perth. The findings of the survey as summarised indicate that more than 25 per cent of the aged were poor and that one in every 4 was in a state of marginal poverty; 35 per cent of aged pensioners were poor and one in 3 was marginally poor; and 14 per cent of aged non-pensioners were poor or one in 7 was marginally poor. These are the people who have provided the backbone of this nation. They served Australia in 2 world wars, weathered a depression and experienced many economic recessions under the previous government. The old catchcry of 'more for the needy, not the greedy', does not apply to them. They are the unfortunate victims of our growing affluence - the unwanted relatives of our new generation. Although they are not unloved in many cases, with our new standards - be they right or wrong - it is not now customary to look after one's own aged as these current pensioners would have done for their parents. 
It is universally accepted that this is a community responsibility - a government responsibility. I congratulate the Minister for recognising and accepting this community challenge. Undoubtedly it will continue to be an increasing challenge, for we have seen the decline of the large family. It is interesting to note in my electorate of Swan that the demand for larger accommodation units is from migrant families who, in some cases, live frugally if not in poverty. This situation is highlighted by the findings of the Melbourne survey which indicated that large families with at least 4 dependent children, and particularly those with more than 5, were poor or marginally poor. This is true of people who migrated to Western Australia when there was a building boom in the north and who are now back in the city area receiving lower wages. Many of these people were affected by the latter Budgets of the now Opposition and are now receiving unemployment relief. 
Although these pension increases are to be paid retrospectively it will not solve all the problems of the needy because they have suffered for so long. For the man who retired 10 to 15 years ago, and his wife, the situation is often pathetic. Annual charity and blanket appeals and food hampers on festive occasions reflect not charity but abject poverty and bad government. Throughout Australia, particularly in Western Australia in relation to which honourable members have spoken of boom years for industry, enormous development and profits, no one can escape the shame of our community which allows people to be cold and hungry and, so often, too proud to ask for relief. We can only hope that the benefits proposed in the Bill will not be opposed, but that in this area of long neglect these genuine attempts to raise community standards among our social service beneficiaries will receive unanimous support. 
We can only hope that the defeat of the previous Government will impress on them in opposition the need to put people before profits, the need to honour promises that have been made, the need to honour the mandate given to them at elections which were won on promises made by them. If they can learn this they will become a useful Opposition, able to contribute constructively to the Parliament with ideas to improve standards in the community. They must learn not to oppose legislation mischievously when that legislation could bring benefits not only to government supporters but also to their own constituents. Honourable members opposite should remember that for 60 years their policies have encompassed a national insurance scheme which has never come to fruition. In 1913, 1927-28, 1938 and 1949 promises of such a scheme were made but were never honoured. The Government of 1938 introduced a National Insurance Bill which received royal assent in July 1938, but the government of the day, no doubt under the influence of private enterprise organisations which it represented in the Parliament, prevented regulations being gazetted, as a result of which the Act did not come into force. In 1949 R. G. Menzies said: 
Australia still needs a contributory system  of  national insurance against sickness, widowhood, unemployment and old age. It is only under such  a  system that we can make all benefits a matter of right and so get completely rid of the means test. During the new Parliament we will further investigate tha complicated problems with a view  to  presenting you at the election of 1952 a scheme for your approval. 
That is the end of the quote - the end of Menzies. Today, after 23 years, no such scheme exists and the means test is still in force waiting for the clearly stated policy of the new Government to be put into effect to abolish it. 
The amendment proposed by the Opposition is farcical. The puerile attack by honourable members opposite on the increases proposed is amazing. On the one hand they move an amendment which states that the Bill cannot achieve the target it sets out to achieve, that is, to pay every pensioner a weekly amount which is equal to 25 per cent of average weekly earnings, and on the other hand they say it will be a taxpayers nightmare. What a constant contradiction of words and actions comes from the Opposition benches. Honourable members opposite argue that because apprentices in the main are underpaid, relative to our living standards, the unemployment benefit must be pegged at a level below or equal to the apprentices' wage. They pay no regard whatever to living standards in the community. With tongue in cheek they say that the adjustment of the unemployment benefit will disturb economically desirable employment patterns in our society. What they should say, if they are honest, is that they wish to see a continuance of the unemployment pattern, a situation in which a skilled worker who is thrown out of a job would not be able to wait for a better position or accept retraining because he or she would be forced to accept the first position available. Because of the unsuitability of the person to the position, further job turnover or unsatisfactory service to the employer would result. 
It is a pity that honourable members opposite are opposing this measure merely for the sake of opposing instead of concentrating on giving a swift passage to the Bill, which will benefit every social service recipient. They should not be attempting to delay its passage. They may rest assured that the Government will insist that the benefits are passed on as quickly as possible. Despite the Opposition's alarm at the proposal to make payments retrospective, the Government will insist that the amounts be paid retrospectively. Honourable members on this side of the chamber hope that never again will a poverty survey result in findings so disastrous as those arrived at by the Melbourne poverty survey. We realise that more favourable results may be available in country areas and in other cities as a result of the increases which will be given by the Government, but it is unfortunate that such a period of neglect by the previous Government will still be reflected to some degree. However, it is impossible to make up such a tremendous backlog immediately. I am sure that as the problems are highlighted in the future they will be dealt with efficiently by the new Minister and the Government. 
Is the Minister for Overseas Trade and Minister for Secondary Industry aware that cut rate motor vehicle parts sold in Australia but manufactured overseas are in the main suitable only for popular model vehicles manufactured in Australia and not suitable for vehicles manufactured in and imported from the countries which manufacture the cut rate parts which are sent to Australia? Will the Minister investigate the position to ensure protection for Australian workers employed in the Australian parts  industry  and that the Australian public is not fleeced by the pricing of parts for imported vehicles? 
My question is directed to you,  Mr Speaker.  I refer to the recent heavy support from Opposition parties for legislation introduced by the Government, and the subsequent overcrowding which occurred on Government benches during divisions - I instance a certain Bill which was passed here - and the time lost in counting, thus delaying legislation, and the further many occasions on which divisions have been called, also delaying the business of the House. Will you institute an immediate investigation to see what may be done to install an electronic voting system in the House before the next session of Parliament, thus eliminating problems in the future? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Labour. What steps are being  taken to provide a Commonwealth employment office in the Cannington area to supplement the existing Victoria Park office? Is he aware of the inconvenience long suffered by both employees and employers due to the lack of this facility? If an office is to be provided, when will it be available? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the AttorneyGeneral. Is there any likelihood of the Government introducing legislation this session dealing with the control of monopolies and the many types of restrictive trade practices? If not, can he inform the House what stage has been reached in the preparation of any such legislation? 
Has the attention of the Minister for Social Security been drawn to the public statements made by  Dr Hames  and  Dr Fischer  of Western Australia that they were withdrawing from the pensioner medical service because of intrusion and interference by the Australian Government in the manner in which they practise? Will the Minister investi gate this claim to ensure that, if there has been any Government intrusion or interference, it is promptly ended and that steps are taken to prevent its occurring in any other instances? 
Has the Prime Minister's attention been drawn to alarm expressed by the Macquarie University Students Council as to the safety of some 300,000 political prisoners, civilian detainees and prisoners of war in South Vietnam who they believe are likely to fall victims of political and personal injustice? Will the Prime Minister clarify Australia's position in relation to these detainees, some of whom are detained subsequent to action oy Australian personnel? Further, will he clarify what action Australia proposes to take in relation to all political detainees in Vietnam? 
 I rise to protest against what I believe to be  a  grave injustice, that is being perpetrated against a small business and to protest against what may well be a widespread restrictive trade practice. The matter I wish to raise concerns the supply of television sets to a small outofPerth retailer who is involved in the sale, rental and servicing of television sets and other electronic equipment supplied by Thorn Electrical Industries, an eastern States distributor. Thorn suddenly refused to supply the business last week, after a meeting in the eastern States of a large buying group which has a store in the same area and which has been suffering from the increasing sales figures of this business - sales, I must add, based on personal service, a proper assessment of the value of trade-ins and the granting of a proper discount on articles purchased as well as the giving to customers of the benefit of technical advice. 
It is completely unethical and completely restrictive for a Retravision group, with its group buying pressure, to intimidate Thorn Electrical Industries to cease supplying Howard's Electronic Service Co. What is more important is that the local community, which has been receiving service at a reasonable figure, is being denied the continuation of the service provided. How many other people have been placed in this position by this type of action by these companies? These practices reflect upon the whole industry and must cease. I draw the matter to the attention of the Minister for the Capital Territory and Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Enderby),  who represents in this chamber the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy),  and to other honourable members, who may be able further to expose this type of activity. 
On putting pressure on the Western Australian representatives of the group for an explanation as to the sudden curtailment of his supply of sets,  Mr Howard  was told that the decision was not a local one and had been made in the eastern States because of pressure by a large buying group which had one of its discount group stores in the district which had been at a disadvantage in its sale of new television sets due to his sales activities. If that decision was made in the east regarding  the Western Australian firm, it is more than possible that this restrictive practice applies in other States as well. It is far past time that action was taken against these people to ensure not only that the small business is protected but also that the public is able to receive the benefits of true competition. 
I rise to speak on a matter of which, unfortunately, 1 have personal knowledge. I suppose all of us from time to time as members receive complaints from constituents regarding their problems as consumers with various firms, and we do all that we can to assist those unfortunate constituents. But it becomes difficult when you yourself are involved. It is terribly difficult not to allow your own personal displeasure to make you unreasonable. I am in that situation. However, since I have spoken widely around my electorate supporting complaints continue to come to light in relation to the firm with which I have experienced difficulties. 
In 1968 I had the good fortune to purchase a Volvo car which over the ensuing years did in excess of 120,000 miles without clutch problems, towing a heavy electoral caravan, towing a heavy trailer and towing other cars which had the misfortune to break down or become bogged on the Nullarbor. In fact, the car did 120,000 miles of solid, hard work with its original imported clutch. However, all good items eventually wear out. It was when the clutch wore out that a tragic error was made. The vehicle was given to a firm representing itself as experts in clutch and brake repairs. The cost, in excess of $130, was promptly paid and just as promptly, some 1,693 miles later, the replacement clutch failed. The firm concerned, a Repco subsidiary, Carbon Brakes Ltd of WA, gave a 3,000-mile guarantee, and subsequently the experts decided that the vehicle had been misused, thus causing the failure of the locally manufactured parts. The company offered a concession on labour, parts, etc., of $70 to do the job again, but of course would give no assurance that the replacement part would not fail again. Thus some $200 was paid for what I would call a botch job to a vehicle that had proven that with original imported parts it would return a tremendous mileage. So, of course, I do not intend to be caught twice. I will have the vehicle returned to its original design and have the repair done by the distributors of the vehicle at a much higher figure, but at least I will be able to reach Canberra in the car. 
This is all right for me. What of the ordinary man in the street up to his neck in hire purchase? 
He may. What of the man who has a family to maintain and who needs transport for his work? He is at the mercy of such people. When one talks around one hears such comments as this: 'Yes, a friend had a job done there. It was satisfactory for 8,000 miles, so it was out of warranty. What could he do?' One also hears of the new and used car distributor who laughs and says: 'They supplied us with so many parts that failed, and we had to do the job twice, that we refused to pay them'. One becomes quite rueful about not making inquiries about this firm earlier, believing its advertisement and being trapped. 
We can all be wise after the event. Some time ago when speaking on another matter I raised the need to register repair people, to exercise some form of control, because who can afford the legalities which are currently needed to retain redress? Only very few would risk throwing good money after bad. No doubt this aspect is traded on by these experts in fobbing people off. It is no good protecting these people with tariffs if their protection is to be misused to fleece the public. If their product is not as good as the original, let them be honest and admit it to the Tariff Board so that steps can be taken to ensure that a workable replacement is available at a similar cost to the customer until such time as they are able to ensure the durability of their parts and workmanship to preserve the good name of the overall Australian product. 
But I repeat that the whole question of automotive repair and standards needs urgent review. As things stand now just about anyone who claims to be able to repair is able to open a business to repair. The unfortunate Who suffers from his mistakes is the consumer motorist. As I pointed out earlier, it is difficult not to become angry in these matters when personally affected but when one thinks of the people who are similarly caught, who perhaps do not have the resources to finance the achievement of justice in this type of problem it could well lead to the loss of vehicle through inability to meet both repair costs and repayments. But, more importantly, when firms such as these deal not only with clutches but also with brake systems such failures could well lead to tragedy if the braking systems were involved. The sooner that examination, registration and grading of repairers take place the sooner a step towards road safety will be taken. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Housing. What stage have his considerations reached in regard to the possible use of Commonwealth land in the Belmont shire for integrated housing development? 
asked the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
) Have direct Canberra-Adelaide-Perth nights existed in the past. 
If so (a) when did they exist and (b) why were they discontinued. 
) Will he approach Trans-Australia Airlines with the purpose of bringing into operation such a direct service. 
If he is successful in his approach, when will the service commence. 
asked the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Will the Minister for Civil Aviation have TV sets showing local programs installed in suitable airport terminal waiting areas. 
asked the Minister for Education: 
1 ) Is it a fact that schools which represent a high capital investment are often unused out of school hours when community buildings are lacking in the area. 
If so, will he give consideration to having discussions with the State authorities as to what may be done to make available for community recreational purposes, on an organised basis, school buildings and amenities outside of school hours. 
asked the Minister for Air, upon notice: 
1) Is it a fact that Air Force personnel based in Singapore have in the past been able to return home effects to Australia free of cost. 
Have instructions been issued that this practice is to cease. 
3 ) If so, what is the reason for the change of policy. 
Will he ensure that all personnel, who went to Singapore with this understanding, receive the benefit of free transport of personal and household effects. 
asked the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to (a) the high cost of establishing motels and caravan parks in isolated areas and (b) the higher charges to the public for these facilities as the initial capital costs are passed on. 
. Will he give consideration to recommending granting or guaranteeing long term low -interest development loans to tourist services for the establishment of motels and caravan parks in isolated areas. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) What contracts have been let for the sealing of the Eyre Highway between Eucla and Ceduna. 
) What contracts have been completed. 
When is it expected that the sealing program will be completed. 
In view of the controversy  which has arisen in Western Australia over transport difficulties of prisoner-of-war survivors of the United States vessel 'Houston' going to Western Australia for a reunion and appeals which have been made to give them financial assistance, will the Minister for Defence clarify the past practice in these matters? What is the true situation in relation to the survivors of the'Houston'? Further, in view of proposals to hold an international convention of prisonersofwar in Australia in the future, what will be the policy with respect to transport assistance? 
asked the Minister for the Army, upon notice: 
For what periods has Kingston Barracks, Rottnest Island, been occupied (a) by Army units for training purposes, (b) for maintenance and construction purposes and (c) by other Services or civilian groups during each of the last 10 years. 
Is a record of occupancy kept on the Island; if so, what is the purpose of that record. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
What train derailments have taken place in (a) Western Australia, (b) Victoria, (c) South Australia and (d) New South Wales during each of the years 1970, 1971, 1972 and 1973 to date. 
What were the causes of these derailments. 
What action has been taken to prevent further derailments. 
Was track deterioration the cause of any derailment, if so has track reconstruction taken place. 
Have train speed restrictions been implemented in any of the States or by the Commonwealth subsequent to derailments; if so, in what States. 
What train derailments have taken place on Commonwealth Railways track during the years 1970, 1971, 1972 and 1973 to date. 
Are train speed restrictions imposed in any of the States because of inadequate track standards; if so, in which of the States does this occur. 
asked the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Will he approach Trans-Australia Airlines, and let me know the result, regarding the installation of inflight 
films on long interstate journeys similar to overseas airlines, and 
piped music for passenger comfort. 
asked the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Will he have illuminated city hotel and general directories installed in airport terminals. 
asked the Minister for Housing, upon notice: 
Will he investigate the New Zealand system of purchasing aged persons residences in older established areas and offering the residents low rental flats for retirement if they so desire, with a view to adopting a similar scheme in Australia. 
If so, will he also investigate the possibility of making the homes so purchased available to young families to preserve the balance of population in the areas and to utilise the services available. 
asked the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
What is the Capital Investment at (a) Perth Airport, (b) Jandakot Airport, (c) Mascot Airport, (d) Tullamarine Airport, (e) Brisbane Airport and (f) Adelaide Airport. 
What is the estimated cost of additional extensions to Perth Airport. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that Thorn Electrical Industries has taken action to restrict supplies of television sets to retailers. 
If so, has the Attorney-General received any complaints regarding this practice. 
Is this action contrary to the Restrictive Trade Practices Act. 
If not, is any legislation contemplated that will prevent this practice and will compel manufacturers or their agents to supply firms that are registered and operating a legitimate business with goods applicable to that business. 
Will the Attorney-General investigate the situation with a view to rectification and making goods freely, available to small retailers. 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Which firm has the contract for the Pink Pages of the Western Australian Telephone Directory. 
What is the expiry date of the contract. 
Are contributors to the Pink 'Pages compelled to pay accounts some time before issue of the Directory. 
Are accounts payable without sighting the proof copy. 
Is it a fact that the contractors accept no liability for errors made in publication. 
If so, what redress have advertisers for errors made in advertisements. 
Have there been any changes in policy of the Pink Page contractors in the years 1970, 1971, 1972 and 1973. 
If so, what were these changes of policy. 
Are separate charges made for city and country Directories. 
If so, why, and what is the difference in rate. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Transport been drawn to the proposals of the Government of the United States of America to compel motor manufacturers in the United States, as an environment, energy and consumer protection, to show on all new motor cars how many kilometres those cars can be expected to give to the litre? Will the Minister investigate the possibility of ensuring that all new cars sold in Australia show in a prominent position as a protection and guide to consumers a Government certified expected fuel consumption per kilometre as an Australian vehicle standards requirement attached to all new vehicles sold in Australia? 
At one point during the speech made by the honourable member for Mcpherson  (Mr Eric Robinson)  I was about to commend him for his rather keen appreciation of the expenditure on cultural activities, tourism, social services and so on, but then he went on to say that the expenditure was far too high. I became a little disappointed because I know that the people in Western Australia appreciate the benefits which they have received in the city areas particularly in regard to sewerage facilities, which were so sadly lacking in my electorate where developers had been allowed to develop without any responsibility in this field. I thought for a moment that it would be pleasing to note that somebody on the Opposition side had a similar viewpoint. However, he was only building up to an argument in relation to an amendment to which we are all opposed. 
It is to me a moving experience to be speaking to the first Labor Budget for so many years, for it is not only a budget from a government of which I am a supporter but to me it is a commemorative budget which sets out to bring about many of the social changes which this country has looked forward to for so long. More importantly, as a Western Australian, when I cast my mind back to this time last year I recall that I had to speak in a manner deploring the economic situation of the country, the widespread unemployment in Western Australia which had been caused by the then Government's failure to manage the economy and the human misery that was being caused. Let us not forget that after such a short period. It is pleasing to note that all these problems have now been eliminated by the change in administration. This country is amazed to find a government which is keeping its promises, and perhaps this would be one of the reasons for criticism of it. It is incredible to have people say that we are doing too much too quickly. 
We cannot do enough quickly enough because of the terrific vacuum which has been created by the 23 years of maladministration. 
In the last Budget debate I spoke not only of the unemployment but of the record number of bankruptcies and companies in voluntary liquidation or in receivers' hands. This situation has been mainly eliminated. I spoke of the excess migration which was crowding into our already overcrowded employment market. That too has been eliminated. As I look around I find that there are few problems left which need to be dealt with to solve the human problems which were looming so greatly at the time of the last Budget. The major one that is left is the question of inflation. With the co-operation of the States and perhaps of the Opposition it may well be that when the next Budget is presented this problem will have been grappled with to bring about a stronger measure of control. But I do not think that anyone in Australia would doubt that if this Government is given the power and the mandate to do something in that field, or any other field for that matter, that it will act. For it has proven in a few short months of office that it is a government of action, not of the promises and inaction which the Australian public has become so used to. 
The commencement of the program to abolish finally the means test is something this nation has waited for since 1928. It is something which has caused much politcal campaigning over the last few years - unfortunately done by people who had already retired and who were personally affected by it. There are few who started initially to campaign in this field who have lived to see the day when what they set out to do has at last been achieved. I feel that this is something that we should cast our minds to. It is something over which we should feel deep personal regret. It is an indictment of the politcians of this Parliament that the campaign- was ignored for so long. It is to be hoped that the program can be accelerated so as to eliminate the possibility that the few remaining people who campaigned so vigorously do not pass from this world before seeing the fruits of their efforts to bring the social conscience of Australia to bear on the need for all aged people to receive social justice. I have known many people who spearheaded the action, and it was always my deep regret that they could not see the fruition of the many promises made to them so glibly by poli ticians and political candidates alike. Let this not be another field of always too little too late. 
For the first time, the age pensioner has the assurance of a fixed increase in his pension, with a fixed amount in view. No doubt, the amount that has been set by the Government does not comply with the amount which has been outlined in petitions presented to this Parliament by hundreds of thousands of pensioners throughout Australia, namely, 30 per cent of the average weekly wage. The setting of pensioners' incomes needs to be taken away from the Parliament. If the average pensioner is below the poverty line on today's standards, that position should not be tolerated. If inflation continues to erode the very many advantages gained for the pensioner under this Government, there should be an appropriate independent assessment tribunal to set pensioners' wages. I have said for many years that the politics should be taken out of pensions, and I feel that this still applies. This is only my personal feeling; I only hope that the day will come when this will be accepted generally. 
It must be dreadful for any worker who has no superannuation scheme and who is accustomed to living on the inflated wages of today to know that he must retire within a week or so and receive and make do on the pitiful amount in relation to his current wages that the pension would represent, even with the generous increases made by this Government. If retirement is not something to look forward to, it will become a dreadful limbo of merely existing. Those sections of the community which must bear further personal charges and increased indirect taxation and be asked to forgo some of their income to assist the pensioner will appreciate that the standards that are being set today are those that will apply to them tomorrow and that their sacrifice today is not only something for the pioneers of our country but also something to which they can look forward when they too become pensioners. 
It is in this light that the actions - the overall actions - of this humane, socially orientated Budget must be looked at. It goes so far in the field of pensions, yet it still has a long way to go. This is because there have been heavy commitments to the easing of the means test, to education and to Aborigines. In regard to the easing of the means test, I know that the country people who at this point are enjoying prosperous times and who can survive without the many subsidies will appreciate that, in a large number of cases, the people "who will be assisted by the easing of the means test are the retired country people who have suffered many grave injustices and who very often have been forced to live in circumstances in which they would have preferred not to live, due to the lack of cash income and, no doubt, the so-called book assets. No doubt, this easing of the means test, with the consequent payment of a pension, will make their lives just that much more bearable. It is with this thought in mind, perhaps, that the country people, who are so generous in their nature, will look at that aspect. 
No longer will they have to tolerate the thought that for year after year the situation of counry Aboriginal reserves and shanty towns blighting the social scene of their country centres with a deprived Aboriginal community will continue. They know now that some positive action is being taken in this field, that this matter will be looked after for them in a proper and progressive manner and that they in turn will receive in their community the benefits of the improved standards of the Aboriginal section of their community. 
Of course, it is to be expected that this Budget or, for that matter, any action of this Government, will not satisfy certain critics within the community because of their political stance or their vested interests. But then, of course, we must remember that these people do not represent the majority of opinion, even though they set out to mould and/ or to pretend to represent that majority. This is particularly so in Western Australia where certain sections of the Press can be expected to be critical with monotonous regularity. In fact, if their editorials were any other way, possibly Labor politicians would wonder where the devil they were going wrong and why they were serving the vested interests and not the community. This is to be expected. (Quorum formed) I appreciate the opportunity to address more people. I regret the lack of Liberals in the House. However, this is normal. It is interesting to note, of course, that when I started to speak of the vested interests of the newspapers it drew some reaction from honourable members opposite. I am pleased to see that at least it has brought them out of their usual inertia. 
When I was so rudely interrupted, I was about to say that if one were to waste too much time listening to members of the Oppo- sition in the Western Australia State Parliament, one would wonder whether one's party lacked any State policies or State parliamentary aims, because the number of criticisms levelled at Federal matters and the number of times they talk about Federal matters is beyond comprehension. One often gets the feeling that they have not even read the Bills that they are criticising. I feel, when looking at newspaper comments, that we must have a particularly efficient air mail service to Western Australia which enables the local newspapers to approach leading State Opposition spokesmen in Western Australia who are then able to come out and say - no matter what the Bill is - that it is a disaster for Western Australia and that what the Minister presenting the Bill in the Federal Parliament said was all wrong. Perhaps, having so little to do, they are able to spend their time with their ears glued to the radio; I do not know. But the monotonous regularity of political statements made on Federal matters by people who obviously have not read in full either the statements made in relation to those matters or the content of the Bills, and who are relying only on newspaper reports, gives rise to much amusement on the part of the people who have read both the statements and the Bills in question. 
It is little to be wondered at that the public very often is ill informed as a result of this type of misrepresentation, and it is pleasing to see that some provision has been made in the Budget to allow for the proper informing of the public, in a factual manner, of what the Government policies are and how they will affect the public. This may solve the problem that has been brought glaringly to my notice by young people in the community who said that they were in a position where they could believe only one-third of what was in the Press, whereas before the saying was that one believed only half of what one read. It is alarming to think that this attitude can arise in the community, and no doubt it would be to everyone's advantage if factual reporting such as our national newspapers have been able to achieve were to be extended to all sections of the Press. 
One section of the community, particularly within Western Australia, which would not appreciate a Labor Budget is the people who are State-righters. One must bear in mind that Western Australia once voted for secession, which never came to fruition. Because of Western Australia's isolation, this feeling - whatever government may be in power - remains today, not so much in the younger generation but in the people who perhaps are in my own age bracket and beyond. When people refer to them as members of a colony they do not look on it as an insult but regard it as a compliment. In fact, we Western Australians are proud to be called Sandgropers We are proud to be Western Australians and we believe that no other State has the wealth of resources to prosper as a nation that Western Australia has. Thus I can understand the angry reaction of the people of the gold fields at the removal of something which they firmly believed they would retain for some time to come, probably because it had been fought for so vigorously by their Federal member, who at that time was a member of the Opposition. They believed that the matter would be carried on indefinitely. 
Unfortunately, in the first Labor Budget for many years these benefits have been removed. Personally, I would like to see them reinstated or at least reviewed with a view to their reinstatement or to some early assistance being given. But all people when they have their backs to the wall and are fighting for what they believe to be their future become desperate and united, even if their political views differ. Freedom or the right to work has never come cheaply in any area but these matters are the same as in an industrial situation where the processes of conciliation and arbitration operate. Above all there must be personal contact and discussion to bring about an early settlement to all problems. It is only when a slanging match develops on one side or the other, based on politics, that matters are unresolved. 
It is to be hoped that the unity of purpose shared by Western Australian colonists, sand.gropers, or call us what you may - Australians - will result in conciliation at an early date. It is unfortunate that some community dissension should occur as a result of a Budget that was aimed towards assisting the underprivileged, educating the young, healing the sick and sustaining them in their old age, and the housing of the aged and the young. It is a pity that one aspect should affect people in a State in such a way that they should think that action taken in Canberra in the interests of the nation followed an inhumane decision. That was not the intention. It is reassuring to see so many people co-operating to bring about a solution. I support the Budget. 
Will the Minister for Housing inform the House what further progress has been made in proposals to develop the 18 acres of Belmont Shire land which was resumed for defence purposes but has since been declared redundant for defence and is now required by the Belmont Shire for aged persons housing? Can the Minister give a clear indication of what the overall development will be and the population density of aged and young people if in fact this is to take place at all? When will a final desision be given on whether the land will be returned to the Belmont Shire or developed by the Commonwealth? Would any advantage be gained by shire representatives coming to Canberra to interview the Ministers concerned in this matter? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that only one morning newspaper and one evening newspaper are available in Western Australia. 
Is a high freight charge placed on national newspapers in Western Australia so that they are not competitive with local newspapers. 
Will the Minister confer with the Minister for Transport to see what may be done to ensure the removal of this freight barrier charge so that national newspapers are readily available in Western Australia. 
Will the Minister take all possible steps to see that a choice of newspapers is available to Western Australian residents on weekdays similar to that which exists on a Sunday. 
Is the Minister for Social Security aware of an article in a Western Australian newspaper of 15 September which quotes a witness appearing before the Senate Select Committee on Social Environment as saying that social security cheques for some Aboriginals in East Perth were mailed straight to a wine saloon? Is he further aware of an article appearing in that excellent paper, the Sunday Independent', of 16 September quoting a saloon keeper as denying those allegations? Will the Minister inform the House of the true facts of the situation? 
In referring to these 3 Bills in the cognate debate - the Aged Persons Homes Bill, the States Grants (Home Care) Bill and the Delievered Meals Subsidy Bill - one finds that very many problems experienced by our aged community have been looked at. One wonders what happened to people before the introduction of this type of legislation. Is it a fact that people are living longer or is it a fact that the young people of today are reluctant to care for their own aged relatives, preferring to institutionalise them, to put them out of sight and out of mind only to be thought of and visited on special anniversaries? We all hope this is not so. However, this type of legislation indicates an overall increase in the standard of living of retired people, that they are continuing as active members of the community, and that they highlight through their organisations to those in authority the need to give more attention to their section of the community. Even though the benefits enacted in this legislation are generous, they cannot attempt to solve all the problems with which the aged community are faced. 
Let us look at the question of meals on wheels. I often wonder whether it would not be better if this service were to become an extension of hospital services. Whilst I do not decry the tremendous amount of work done by the voluntary bodies, very often there arises a duplication of kitchens in the one area, with one at the local hospital and one at the meals on wheels centre, while in an adjacent shire no meals are delivered at all and will not be until some civic-minded group decides to commence an operation in that area. This is not good enough. If we are to have a social welfare service and if the aged are in need in one area, surely that need is reflected in all other areas. Thus it is pleasing to see that the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  is carrying out a national survey in this matter. But I feel the facility will become universally available only when Government initiative takes place to ensure delivery to all areas. In the case of services which deliver only meals which are prepared at other centres no subsidy is available, and often it is necessary for the shire councils to meet some of the costs of the service as sufficient volunteers are not always available and employed personnel are required to ensure regular deliveries. In fact in most cases of meals on wheels deliveries, shire councils give their full support. However, I feel it would be preferable if a system could be evolved which would give every person in Australia an equal opportunity to receive the benefits of government subsidies, no matter where they live. 
This also applies to home care. The people have to be there in the first instance to render this assistance in order to receive the subsidy, and in these days of full employment and of the working wife there is little to attract people to volunteer based schemes or to other organisations which rely upon employing part time employees. The Minister is to be congratulated on this attempt to make more funds readily accessible to those organisations through the States. The general implementation of the S2 for Si subsidy by the Com monwealth in this area of direct aid is long overdue. No doubt at some future date we will sec senior citizens centres operating as truly viable community aid centres and not as goodwill clubs, which they must all be at the moment. Let us face it; the only real resources available to them are the moneys they themselves raise from their own members, with some operating losses being met from shire and State government sources. I am sure that it is not a lack of desire but a lack of direction and resources that brings about the current situation. 
One must remember that in many cases people who use the centres come for brief periods from rest homes or retirement centres. Such accommodation provides somewhere to go for people who have been displaced from the family home, and to ask them to contribute anything but a nominal amount would be asking them for something which was beyond their capacity to pay. To ask those who paid key money, by way of a donation, to enter a settlement still to pay rent would be adding insult to injury. This is an aspect of the matter which, although 1 have been party to it myself, I have never liked. I refer to the charging of rent in advance by way of a donation of $2,000 or $3,000. Depending on the life expectancy of the person, it often works out that the person who has lived at such a home for, say three or four years has been charged up to $20 a week plus a weekly maintenance fee or rent - call it what you will - which in itself is subject to no controls by outside parties. 
Even though the Government provides twothirds of the actual cost of buildings by way of direct subsidy or donation, what happens in effect is that some party, whoever it may be, receives capital assets which act as bank collateral on which to operate with no controls. What amazes me is that the shires have not taken more advantage than they have of such a good thing, for where else could one obtain capital buildings donated by the Government and the public, with running costs met out of the pockets of residents and which is. then described by the term 'charitable'? Some organisations pay administrators substantial wages out of available funds. But the amazing thing is that for all the years of the existence of this scheme very few units are now available for rent without entry fee. 
It just does not appear to happen that organisations see their way clear to assist people who are unable to raise the entry key donations. This may be for very good reasons, but it certainly enhances the need for the very generous increases provided for in these Bills. People who have been waiting foi State housing commission flats for 5 years oi more and those who have money or assets which take them above the means test for State housing assistance and yet who have insufficient means to pay entry fees must be concerned about who is going to look after them when they reach an age at which they cannot care for themselves. They realise that organisations with cottages must give preference to their cottage residents for hostel type accommodation, for not only do they have a community and a personal obligation to those residents but they also have waiting lists for vacancies occurring in the cottages. So it can be seen that people who are not in the system become rightly concerned as to their future. No doubt, they are somewhat relieved to find a Minister who is prepared to act so quickly and sympathetically. 
However, it is useless to introduce legislation such as this if the State authorities, the local government authorities or the voluntary organisations do not take advantage of it. It may well be that these bodies are not aware of all the facilities that are available to them and only on inquiring and following their own initial interest do they find that these benefits exist. With this in mind, I ask the Minister to have prepared a suitable detailed pamphlet outlining all facilities and subsidies available and. more importantly, how to go about implementing them. These could be circulated to State governments. State members of Parliament, local government bodies, members of councils, voluntary organisations and their members and other interested members of the public. If such authorities or persons wish to find out anything now, they require to obtain a handful of pamphlets which make very dull reading if one is not interested in particular items. This may be the reason for the scarcity of welfare workers in Western Australia. I was appalled to find that the subsidy claimed by local government Authorities in Western Australia for welfare workers was only S5.475 for the period from 1 July 1969 to 30 June 1973 and for home care aid for the same period $26,000. This might account for the situation in my electorate of a home being sold up while the gentleman who occupied it was in hospital - he is now in a C class hospital - or another case of a home being sold up around a gentleman while his wife was in hospital and committed to a socalled C class hospital. These are the things that happen. If home care were readily available or if people knew how to go about getting assistance that is available to them, it could well be said that these personal tragedies would not happen. I commend the amendments. 
In speaking to the Estimates we must pay tribute to the present Leader of the House  (Mr Daly).  I hear some laughter from the Opposition. 
Yes, I thought I might. I thought the laughter was coming from members who were not in the last Parliament, but apparently it is coming from honourable members who should know better. We must pay a tribute to the Leader of the House for the hours that have been worked in this Parliament, even though they are spread over a longer period. However the developing committee systems, both Party and parliamentary, also add to the time that a member spends away from bis electorate. In fact one would feel that they could so develop that honourable members would spend so much time in Canberra that they would forget to go home to their electorate and be re-elected. The only thing that could be said for such a system perhaps is that new blood would constantly be coming into the Parliament bringing with it fresh ideas, but then again the knowledge gained over a long period by the parliamentarians in their familiarisation and research into subjects would be lost. If the excellent committee system is to develop in a proper sense honourable members will have to have more facilities available to them. The present Leader of the House has contributed more to the  j  efficient working of the private member than has any other Leader of the House to date. However, for a private member to keep in contact with the people and offer service to the people who elected him to be their representative with the assistance of one staff member is impossible for any member who is intent on doing his job. He must fall behind in some aspect of his work. 
Tribute has been paid already to the wives of members, who on their husband's election suddenly find they have to become a second or shadow member in the electorate and are expected to know all and be part of it all. When one considers the size of some federal electorates, such as my own, containing up to 6 or more State seats, one can see the multiplicity of work involved, particularly with the national Government's continuing involvement in further areas of local administration. 
Yes, I was talking about my wife, who does an excellent job. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  - Order! I would prefer it if the honourable gentleman would talk about Parliament, which is the matter under discussion. 
With the Government's direct involvement in the operations of local councils it is essential that service is able to be offered, that the national representative is able fully and correctly to be informed and that an avenue for obtaining information is readily available to the electorate itself. So often one hears the complaint that members cannot be found, that they are always in Canberra where they .are elected to go. It is up to this Parliament to ensure that a system is evolved whereby members or their representatives are available to the populace. 
Some references have been made to matters not being brought before the Parliament. One could say that so much has been happening so quickly that it is not possible to have all matters brought here. But to date the Standing Orders Committee of the Parliament has not brought down any recommendations on this matter, nor in fact am I aware that this Committee has discussed this subject. If the Parliament or any aspect of it is not functioning it is up to the Parliament, through its properly established committees, to solve these issues. It is not a proper course to make a political slanging match of the question, because such an exercise would reflect on the Parliament itself, as it would on a Party which, if it is not functioning properly, should discuss and solve its problems within its own confines. But this is an area which no doubt will have to be looked at by the Standing Orders Committee, seeing that there has been so much comment about it. 
No mention has been made of how difficult it is for a backbench member to get the call to ask a question. The system of allowing the Leaders of parties unlimited questions leaves too much in the trust of front bench members. When a leader is questioning a Minister and he feels that he is gaining capital from it, his consideration for the beckbencher is completely lost. It is up to the Standing Orders Committee to look at this matter again. I understand that it was looked at during the last Government's administration. The then members on the Government side, who are now in opposition, rejected a proposition to allow backbenchers more questions. Now that they have experienced the problem they understand what it is. 
Some reference has been made to the need to replace Parliament House. When speaking about Parliament House we as members very often look at the question of our own facilities. Unfortunately my office is directly opposite the cafeteria, and every time I walk out of my office and see the staff standing in a queue in the cafeteria I feel ashamed of the fact that they are put to such disadvantage when I can go and enjoy myself reasonably well in a well staffed dining room. I feel that one of the things we have to look at is the facilities of the staff of the Parliament before we look at anything else. Quite frankly I am surprised that we do not have industrial problems. Perhaps it is because we have such a high turnover of staff who do the menial work. I feel that this is one area that must be looked at. I ask the Leader of the House to make sure that this matter is looked at. Perhaps he may be able to work out a system whereby there is permanency of employment in the lower echelons of the staff, because if the Parliament is to function for more hours and function efficiently everybody who works for the Parliament should be able to do so in comparatively pleasant surroundings. 
I have often been ashamed when I have gone out to get a car at night to find the transport staff standing around in the rain holding umbrellas for members of Parliament. No thought is given to their convenience. On the way home, driving past the Russian Embassy I find that the police who are guarding the Russian Embassy are better looked after and better protected from the inclement weather than they are around the Parliament itself. I feel that it is about time we started to look at the Parliament as a Parliament and as a functioning place rather than as a secondary consideration. Our first consideration has always been for facilities for the members, but I think we have to give consideration to the staff. I ask the Leader of the House to consider this question when he is replying. I will not take any more time of the Committee as 
I understand that other members want to speak on these estimates. 
We constantly hear complaints about the escalation of land prices. The fringe banking organisations such as hire purchase companies and building societies blame everyone else but themselves. They cry piously about the matter, and the consumer continues to pay. The land agents, the hire purchase companies and the building societies make public statements that governments should not interfere. Let us look at one incident of which I am aware. It shows only the tip of the iceberg of wheeling and dealing, of deceit and vested interest of those people involved in the financing and dealing in land and the falsely inflated values which they create. It adds to the mounting cries for royal commissions into past deals and for controls for the future. 
A constituent of mine, a  Mrs Hogarth,  was persuaded to invest an initial amount of some $15,000 from her previous deceased husband's estate in a land syndicate. She now stands to lose not only the $15,000 but also her home and assets because of the laxity of conduct of the people responsible for financing the syndicate and the actions of the operators of the syndicate. Those involved were a  Mr Murdoch,  a developer, Beneficial Finance Corporation Ltd, Merchantile Credits Ltd and Town and Country Permanent Building Society.  Mrs Hogarth  had an initial sum of. $15,000 invested in land for her by Murdoch in a syndicate of 20 people. Subsequently mortgages were taken out on behalf of the syndicate for $701,000, the land being syndicated back at $857,000. The sum of $114,500 in secret commissions was allegedly taken by Murdoch. 
The finance companies must have known that these commissions were taken, that the value of the undeveloped land was heavily inflated at book values and that it was wrong to so act, because I understand that it is illegal to take such a commission. If the finance companies say that they were not in fact aware of the inflated values and the commissions, what is wrong with their checking system for their own investors whose money they are re-investing? One block involved was a 10 acre block with a main drain through it. Incidentally, the drain would cost over $100,000 to redirect to allow the development of that block. The block was valued for the purposes of mortgage at $75,000 and was sold by Beneficial Finance for $30,000 after the collapse of the syndicate to a person who, it is alleged, had filed for bankruptcy. On the day that it was sold to him it was remortgaged for $43,000 to a man with no money. Yet I am given to understand that he purchased from the finance company in the same area finance company land for $70,000. I ask: Is he a dummy for the finance company? One must bear in mind that the previous developer had entered into a deed of trust to develop the land using finance company money and providing no finance himself. He was to receive 50 per cent of the profits and the finance company was to receive 50 per cent of the capital increases plus interest at 15 per cent on its money. Why would the finance company not make such an agreement? It received from the syndicate's mortgages an income of $221,200 per year on its investment plus 14 per cent in interest, and on the secret commission section of the investment it received $27,538 in interest payments from the buyers. 
No matter which way he moves the financier of such a deal must profit from the inflation and from the multiple deals. He can lose only if the value of the land is deflated suddenly below the market value which he and his associates set, and so long as they are prepared to sell to people with little or no collateral outside the actual piece of ground being sold they have nothing at all to lose. Of course, if it were a bank transaction the situation would be entirely different, because the bank would require its investment of the finance to be otherwise heavily secured, and in the main banks are not interested in the false values set by the dealers. They in fact make their own valuations. 
There must be some arrangement between agents and finance companies because one is assured that finance is readily available for one and all. In fact one is told that the land will appreciate once that particular subdivision is sold out because the agent immediately is prepared to place it on the market at an increased value. Some would say thai it is a good investment for a young couple to make a few dollars on a block, but they must pay again and again for the inflated values because they pay not only the initial cost but also the additional costs of rates and taxes based on the false values set by such syndicates as that in which  Mrs Hogart  was inadvertently involved. I say 'inadvertently' because documents were transacted by the promoter of the syndicate with signatures witnessed by a person required to do so toy State law but who was not in fact present. He then represented that the signa tures were official as affixed to the document. In fact, even to this day he does not know the person whose signature he purported to witness. 
This lady, with an income from her present husband of only $60 to $80 per week, was allowed to become responsible on paper for repayments ranging from $700 to $1,000 a month. In fact it is alleged that at one time she became involved in a syndicating system that was responsible for debt repayment that could have been anywhere in the vicinity of Sim. No one is quite sure what the real position was because, as I mentioned previously, documents were allegedly exchanged without syndicate members' knowledge. I reiterate that it appears incredible that the financing organisations involved were not aware of what was taking place with the money invested by their own investors. But whatever their knowledge, the real losers were the syndicate members and in the end the consumer, who in this case must pay for what could be $1.5m mortgage losses wiped off the books of the collapsed syndicate. 
The law must be inadequate to allow this type of transaction to take place. It is up to State and Federal Attorney-General's departments to look at the situation and to secure the loopholes whereby land can be falsely inflated, falsely valued and finance virtually unsecured. Some will say: 'Let the investors beware'. This must be so but they too should have the protection of the country's laws. The type of people who become involved in these fringe areas are people who do not have experience in operating financial investment. To expand further the problem faced by  Mrs Hogarth,  she presented a not negotiable cheque with the syndicate organiser, who opened an account with Town and Country Building Society, a fringe banking organisation, which no doubt had had previous dealings with the syndicate operator and had no reason to be suspicious. Because of the lack of any real controls on the operation that cheque was negotiated without  Mrs Hogarth's  authority, and I understand that that and other sums were disgorged without her signature, with Murdoch acting as trustee. Whether this could be a common occurrence no one could say because there are no real checks in that area and in the other areas. 
I ask the Federal Attorney-General's Department to look at the matter. I ask the 
Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  who is sitting at the table, to draw to the attention of the Attorney-General the fact that controls in these areas are so loose. So many young people and young couples today without knowing it are paying for operations which are taking place before land is actually developed for them. Unfortunately too many people at the moment are caught up in the hysteria of making a fast dollar. They finish as  Mrs Hogarth  has finished. She lost ail that her husband worked for and all that he slaved for and in fact his superannuation. I dare say that nothing can be done to retrieve the situation for people such as herself. I do not know about the other 19 members of the syndicate. I believe that they too must bear the losses. I ask that something be done. I know it is closing the gate after the horse has bolted, but perhaps royal commissions could reveal what has happened in the past and protect not only those people involved in the past but also those people who could become involved in the future. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Housing and Minister for Works. Have all the States yet signed the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement? If not. when does the Minister expect this to happen? Now that the bond rate has risen to 8.5 per cent per annum does the new Agreement represent any real saving to people paying rents on housing commission dwellings built with money provided under the Agreement? When the Agreement is finally signed by all the States will any appreciable financial benefit flow to people borrowing for home building from terminating building societies compared with those borrowing on the open loan market? 
Has the Minister for Social Security noted in the Press recently reports that Aborigines in Western Australia were alleged to be spending their money on taxis, liquor and in other ways rather' than on family welfare? If the Minister has had an opportunity to investigate these reports will he advise of the steps he has taken and the steps he proposes to take in relation to this matter? 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Are checks conducted to ensure that market value is received for funeral subsidies paid. 
Can he say whether funeral costs could be inflated because funeral insurance and subsidies are available. 
If so, will he investigate the high costs charged to families of the deceased where subsidies have been paid over the last 12 months. 
asked the Minister for Social 
Security, upon notice: 
Is a high percentage of the total costs of aged persons' homes built by charitable organisations paid to architects. 
If so, will he investigate the possibility of making a central planning authority available to provide plans suitable for aged persons' homes in order to minimise costs. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What Tariff Board inquiries have been held in Western Australia during each of the last 5 calendar years. 
Has his attention been drawn to a belief in Western Australia that the Western Australian business community is neglected in Tariff Board inquiries; if so, is this belief well founded. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for the Med'a aware of the alleged action of the 'West Australian' newspaper to force an Australian news service to curtail the news service to the new daily paper in Western Australia, the 'Independent Sun', thus forcing its closure today? What are the circumstances? If it is true, will he endeavour to see what may be done to ensure that the Independent Sun' can be continued, thus ensuring true private enterprise and competition in the newspaper industry in Western Australia and an alternative source of information for the Western Australian public, and avoiding any unemployment in the printing and publishing industry which could arise from this action? 
asked the Minister for the 
Environment and Conservation, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to statements by the Annual Conference of the Australian Automobile Chamber of Commerce that Australia has reached a crisis point in worn tyre disposals and that motorists will be expected to pay for tyre disposals. 
If so, could this move add further to the despoiling of our natural bush by indiscriminate disposal of tyres by people avoiding charges. 
Will he investigate the situation and confer with the Chamber with a view to avoiding any problems arising. 
I rise to speak on the estimates for the Repatriation Department, the Department of Social 
Security and the Department of Health. In doing so I commend the Government for the tremendous forward steps already taken in such a short period of office of 10 or 11 months. However, a few anomalies still exist in several areas, some recognised and already the subject of planning to rectify them. Others as yet unrecognised still create concern. Recently I had brought to my attention by a constituent the position in which he is placed. As a youth of some 14 years of age he joined the Merchant Marine Service to help in the war effort. He worked as a merchant seaman for the full period of the war and suffered the harrowing experience of convoy duty under fire, with accompanying ships being torpedoed. Yet he points out that today he is denied repatriation benefits, as are his comrades of that period. Although he desires to retire when he reaches age 60 years as he would were he eligible for repatriation benefits, he now cannot do so. It is little wonder that he and others, who transported so many of our servicemen and shared the horrors of war with them, resent being treated differently. It is no wonder that they wish to be treated under the same legislation as their naval counterparts. I put this plea forward on their behalf now that so wide ranging a definition has been given in other areas such as that of national servicemen. Surely something can be done to grant full equality of rights to those men. Surely they served this country as well as any branch of the Services. We accepted with gratitude their services, their sacrifice, and their taxes. 
Another section of the community, small in number but recognised by no one at this point of time, should be subject to review and to consideration in this repatriation legislation or in similar legislation. I refer to those men, Australian citizens, who served with the United States Army small ships in the New Guinea war zone. Those men were civilian employees, Australian citizens, paying Australian taxes. They were required to wear a United States service uniform and to serve under fire. Now no government, Australian or United States, wishes to recognise them as a liability under their repatriation legislation. That is an incredible situation. I know it will be possible to say that in some areas they can be covered under the merchant seamen's legislation, but this is not factual. I instance the case of another constituent of mine,  Mr Bert  Andrew, who served with distinction in United States small ships in New Guinea waters in the early stages of World War II and suffered malaria and injury. He was, in fact, recommended for an award for bravery by the United States authorities. However, his claims for recognition of war caused effects to his health have been rejected since 1943 by the United States authorities. In fact, the Australian authorities have said that he should negotiate with the United States of America. 
Good grief, does not such a man even get the briefest of representations by his own authorities, the Repatriation Department? That Department should be able to act on his behalf, or he could be represented by the Department of Social Security. Surely we can assist our own citizens to obtain their rights from another nation or ally, a country that was not an enemy in the war. During all this period we accepted such persons as Australian citizens, imposed our laws on them and exacted taxation from them. Let us now protect them. It is shameful that they are ignored. Perhaps it is because they are so few in number that they are being ignored. 
I return to those people who have just been granted benefits because of their service in the 1914-18 war, and those persons who qualify as being more than 75 years of age but do not yet receive fringe benefits. They have indicated to me their thankfulness for the proposals made and the benefits granted, but it is pathetic to hear them complain of doctors who ask them to pay fees in cash before a consultation for their families is even entered into. I refer, of course, to their wives where they do not qualify for benefits. That comes hard for such people when they realise that even to be referred to a specialist - there is no other way to see a specialist except by being referred by their general practitioner - they must produce S4.80 in cash before the consultation takes place. As one man put it to me, it is nothing but money-grubbing. Thus one realises what any increase is benefits means to them. Hopefully, subsequent legislation in this session will eliminate most of their problems. 
I must make reference again to women of some 45 years of age who, if their children turn 16 years of age, are expected to work until they reach 50 years of age. Some of them are utterly devastated by the thought. It is all right, perhaps, under the existing Government, which believes in full employment; people such as these are, in the main, able to find suitable employment. However coming, as we have, from a period of grim unemployment under the previous Administration, which believed in having a pool of unemployed, these people were strongly disadvantaged. Unemployment benefits are not the answer. 
To look at the home nursing care aspect, it seems to me that the criterion that a registered nurse must attend the patient creates extreme difficulty for some persons who remain at home, particularly diabetics. When they become unable to administer insulin to themselves, often it is found that no nurse has called or, in fact, in some isolated areas it is impossible to obtain this assistance. If we feel that it is desirable to keep as many persons as possible out of nursing homes, it is necessary to look at the question of having neighbours or relatives calling to attend to them, even though they are living alone. It is far better for those who wish to do so to have the ready assistance of friends and relatives. No doubt the Minister has this aspect under review. I ask him to consider the needs of these people - many of them already in nursing homes - who, if this problem were solved, would be able to live in their own homes. 
In the short time left to me I must make reference to an amazing letter that I had from a doctor in Western Australia. I assure honourable members that I have written to him commending him for his honesty. The letter refers to the campaign that was mounted in Western Australia by some doctors in the Balcatta by-election. One of the doctors was a candidate for the Opposition. As this was a State election the local candidate, now the member, stood aloof and did not answer the misleading campaign, which became a onesided issue. So a swing in the State by-election has been attributed to this one-sided propaganda campaign. Bear in mind that no legislation had been prepared; only a request had been made to a caucus parliamentary committee outlining ideas and recommendations, and it has been the subject of discussions ever since. To say the very least, a campaign was mounted on an issue that was misleading, if not dishonest. The relevant paragraph in the doctor's letter to me reads as follows: 
Although it was a State election, Federal matters influenced the electors considerably. It is of interest that the Liberal Candidate concerned was a private medical practitioner, part of whose publicity included the fact that he was an A.M.A. Branch Councillor. He was known to be totally opposed to the DeebleHayden Health Scheme. He had been interviewed on the main Perth commercial T.V. station prior to the 1972 Federal Elections because of his action in preparing and making available anti-Hayden antisocialised medicine pamphlets for distribution from his own surgery and that of the doctors in the Federal seats of Stirling, Swan and Forrest. A week before the Balcatta by-election the 'Sunday Independent' gave prominence to the fact that the treasurer of the Balcatta Liberal Campaign Committee, also a member of the A.M.A. Branch Council and outspokenly opposed to the proposed new Health Scheme, had appealed to doctors for funds for the campaign. A letter appealing for financial support for the campaign, written by another doctor in the electorate to other private doctors throughout W.A. was given prominence in the media. 
I wrote and thanked the doctor for his honesty. I said: 
However, the position was most unique in that the public had in fact, really only heard the viewpoints of the anti-Hayden pamphlets made available by yourself presenting what was only one side of the argument. You will appreciate of course that we, at that point of time, did not have available any legislation to present until the report recommending the formulation of that legislation which is now to hand in the form of a white paper and no doubt you will have the opportunity to study it. 
Later in the letter I said: 
Thank you for taking the trouble to write to me in the matter and expresing your support for the Western Australian Labor Government. 
I commend him for his support of and his satisfaction with the State Labor Government in Western Australia. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Will he make public the dates on which the newly formed sections of the Eyre Highway, west of Penong, will be available for use by motorists. 
What is the expected date of final completion of the Eyre Highway. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to a report from the Australian Forestry Council questioning whether correct and complete technical data had been used by the Bureau of Transport Economics in carrying out its investigation on timber versus concrete sleepers. 
If the report of the Council is well founded, will he have the Bureau carry out a new investigation on the matter utilising any data the Council can supply. 
asked the Minister for the Environment and Conservation, upon notice: 
Has bis attention been drawn to the recent slaughter of wedge tailed eagles in Western Australia because of the belief that they were endangering livestock. 
If so, can he say whether this belief is well founded and the slaughter necessary. 
Will he have an investigation undertaken into the true facts and confer with State authorities. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
Have there been delays of up to two hours for passengers clearing customs at Perth Airport after a Jumbo Jet flight of in excess of 26 hours from London. 
If so, will the Minister investigate the situation to see what equipment and procedures are required to speed up the process. 
asked the Minister for the Environment and Conservation, upon notice: 
Is there a difference in the degree of protection given to Australian native wildlife species from State to State. 
Are many species which are recognised as useful in some States classified as vermin in others. 
If so, will he endeavour to have a national Australian Wildlife Protection Code introduced. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Do some doctors enforce cash payment of their fees by patients prior to consenting to a consultation. 
If so, has this practice increased subsequent to fee increases. 
Can he say whether this practice could be adverse to the health of prospective patients who delay attending a doctor until such time as they have sufficient cash available. 
If so, will he endeavour to confer with the medical profession to ensure that this situation does not arise. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to statements by graziers' organisations that private aircraft returning to Australia from Bali and nearby islands are able to re-enter Australia without quarantine checks for foot and mouth and other animal diseases; if so, are these statements correct. 
If the statements are correct, will he investigate the situation with a view to tightening the necessary procedures. 
asked the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
What steps are being taken in Western Australia to establish a second site for an international airport for Perth. 
When will the proposed site become publicly known. 
asked the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
What plans are in hand for the resiting of Perth Airport. 
-I rise to continue my protest on behalf of those constituents of mine - and possibly yours,  Mr Deputy Speaker  - who have constantly complained at the inability to get any Government to decide to apply a night curfew to Perth Airport or to arrive at a final decision as to its resiting. Over many years protests have been made and petitions lodged with this Parliament on the both matters, but to no avail. I can appreciate that a State and Federal committee are currently examining the possibilities of another site, but to all appearances this will not affect our generation as the extensions and additions to Perth Airport currently continue, ensuring that it will not be an economic or traffic demand possibility to have it resited. Let us face it: The more money spent there, the less likely it is to be shifted. In fact even with the deciding on another site, there are no plans to abandon this one. So the Department of Civil Aviation continues to purchase land for the ridiculously low price of approximately $4,000 per acre, whilst another Commonwealth department within eyesight distance of the airport demands $10,000 an acre to resell back to the original owner, the Belmont Shire. Let us take Belmont Shire. It is a case of two bob each way or, heads I win, tails you lose by the Commonwealth. No wonder the local residents see it all as a bureaucratic confidence trick for it appears no matter which administration you have the end result is the same. People are stuck with an airport virtually in the middle of the city suburbs. It is no good saying that the homes went there after the airport was developed. The first homes offered were converted Services structures immediately adjacent to the airport, some of which exist today. They were followed by the Hawke Government State Housing Commission homes, built with Commonwealth money. It was not determined at that date that Guildford Airport as it was then known, was to be a permanent arrangement, for it had been only a measure to allow for the expansion of aircraft use in a time of emergency, Maylands being too small. In fact the regional plan of 
Perth by Professor Stevenson showed the new airport at Lake Grangara with flight paths over sea and pine plantations but not over suburbs and hills. It was only the establishment of an international terminal to deal with Perth Empire Games traffic which sealed the airports doom financially, with too much money being invested by authority for governments to shift it. Do not blame the residents. They are not there by choice but by direction of authority, by being offered the only roof over their heads available to them from governments. In the past large tracts of private land were resumed for State housing development in what are now the flight paths of all night aircraft. 
The area has a history of resumption. Seeming intimidation by those in authority makes the residents bitter, for they are not there by choice. The Minister for Transport and Minister for Civil Aviation  (Mr Charles Jones)  has made it quite clear to local authority that he will not impose a night curfew on the airport unless requested to do so by the State Government or all the Perth shires. So we have the situation that local residents who are affected by the noise are unable to get the support of the State political parties to impose the curfew by request, and the shire councils affected - Belmont and Canning - lack the support of the rest of the metropolitan area, which is not concerned with the comfort and quality of life of the people affected, but only with the commercial convenience of their businesses and the travelling public. 
Some people have said that the Government as such should pay for the sound insulation of public and private buildings in the flight path. I think that this is an excellent temporary provision where sound meters give an indication that the level of sound is not acceptable to the humans affected. Also, people who have a home there and want to leave the area because of the noise nuisance factor should be able to sell out to the Government at a figure which allows them to be re-established elsewhere, bearing in mind that property values are often deflated in the area adjacent to the nuisance and it is far more expensive to be established elsewhere. A percentage over and above the deflated market value should be available and those selling and those in rented State homes who cannot stand the noise should have the opportunity to transfer to another rental area. But the whole question of the people's choice and their ability to ensure that they and their children do not have to reside and attend school in a noise polluted area should be looked at. 
On the question of compensation for the Newborn area, the rates of compensation paid have been on a captive market with only one customer to buy with the luckless outgoing person having to compete on a competitive market to re-establish themselves in another area. No allowance on an annual basis had been made for even the most minimal inflation figure being set at the time of the Government's announcement to take over the land. This is good business for the Government, but tragic for the seller who must buy elsewhere. But quite ludicrous situations arise such as the plight of poultry farmers,  Mr D.  Orazio and  Mr De  Prato, whose property is on the fringe of the proposed airport resumption line and not required for the airport and between there and the government railway marshalling yards. They are left with the only private dwelling and poultry farm in the area. Now, can honourable members imagine trying to raise chickens at the end of a 24-hour runway, alongside a 24-hour railway switch yard between hooting, slamming, shunting trains and roaring planes and all night lights? Not only do the chickens sometimes stampede and commit suicide with heavy losses, but I dare say those gentlemen often feel like doing something themselves. In fact, they want to sell, but who but a lunatic would buy such a proposition? In fact, what happened when they offered the property, part of which had been resumed initially by the Government to establish the railyard, was that the railway authority prepared to sell them a portion of the land so that they could expand. They would have to be kidding, surely. Have they no humanity at all? 
Quite apart from that aspect, the workers in the railyard barracks have to put up with any offensive odour which may waft across from the nearby chicken sheds and offal heap. No wonder local people become upset anytime we mention airport or railyards. These are people who went into what was a bush area and pioneered a district, went without the usual facilities planning to retire to small properties to provide security for them and their families. The whole question of the airport has been a tragedy to these people. They have not received a fair deal right throughout and we realise that this is what happens when people become dispossessed of their land. Now, I understand the present Minister has taken over a chain of events which were set in motion long before he took control of the Department. But I am aware of the personal interest he took in the matter when he was in Perth. I am also aware of the interest he has taken in the various proceedings of the committee that inquired into noise at airports. So he is one person who is qualified to look at methods of offering relief to the people affected. 
Of course, the final solution is to resite the international section of the airport and the cargo section - in fact, anything that moves at night. In the intervening period this Government should look at the possibility of sound insulation for the private homes, schools and business affected. And a fund should be established to purchase at reasonable figures those homes of people who wish to shift from flight paths and the offering of other alternative rental accommodation for those so desiring it. But some steps should be taken to offer relief, for if people are aware that there is an interest in them and an alternative is available, it will make the future more secure and take away the hopeless feeling. I have reams of correspondence on this matter from various parties. It is interesting to note that the State Minister for Transport and Railways shows some interest in this problem. In a paragraph of a letter to me, referring to the problem of  Mr De  Orazio and  Mr De  Prato, he said: 
The second part of your letter mentions airport noise which seems to be a relatively minor matter. The premises are about 2 kilometers from Perth Airport runways and the noise of approaching and departing aircraft would be no worse than for hundreds, if not thousands, of other people residing or working in the areas around the airport 
As you are aware the airport is under the control of the Commonwealth Department of Civil Aviation and you may wish to pursue this matter with the Commonwealth Minister. 
This is exactly what I am doing today. I welcome the support that the State Minister has expressed in this letter. However, I regret his inability to help  Mr De  Orazio. In another paragraph of his letter dealing with the problem of  Mr De  Orazio, he wrote: 
Dealing with  Mr De  Orazio's request for a curfew on the use of lights at night, the Commissioner of Railways has advised me that work performed between midnight and 6.00 a.m. is vital to the efficient functioning of Forrestfield marshalling yard and the movement of freight throughout the State, and the imposition of a curfew on lighting and the use of loud speakers during this period is out of the question, both from a safety and an operational view point 
It would appear that there is little hope for these people to find a solution as long as they reside or carry on their business in the area. I feel that this Government and perhaps the State Government are obliged to confer to see what can be done to purchase the properties and allow the residents to reside elsewhere. They have been imposed upon by governmental authorities and their problem is government created. I feel that it is up to the governments to find a solution to the problem. 
asked the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
What has been the average price, without improvements, paid per acre for land acquired at Newburn for the Perth Airport. 
What is the distance of the land acquired from Perth City. 
What other areas of land, which ere the same distance from Perth City, are available, and what is the market value per acre for replacement land for those displaced from Newburn. 
asked the Postmaster-General upon notice: 
Was the survey on which the regrading of post offices was based, particularly in Western Australia, commenced prior to 1973. 
If so, when was it completed. 
Will he review regradings in expanding areas so that the subsequent and future population growth since thelast survey is taken into account. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation, upon notice: 
Are checks conducted to ensure that market value is received for funeral subsidies paid. 
Can the Minister say whether funeral costs could be inflated because funeral insurance and subsidies are available. 
If so will the Minister investigate the high costs charged to families of the deceased where subsidies have been paid over the last  12  months. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation, upon notice: 
Have Repatriation patients in Western Australia, who utilise adhesive gum sets for post operation purposes, had difficulty in obtaining supplies with no alternative offered. 
If so, what were the reasons for the shortage. 
Will the Minister seek ways of overcoming any possible future shortage including alternative sources of supply. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice:  What is the- 
Comparative purchase price; 
life expectancy; 
maintenance cost per kilometre and 
safety record of 
Concrete and 
Timber sleepers. 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
What was the contract price per ton of iron ore in respect of all contracts ex Western Australia up to December 1972. 
Have any of these contracts been negotiated; if so, what is the comparable price per ton. 
How has currency revaluation affected each of these contracts. 
asked the Minister for Civil 
Aviation, upon notice: 
Can schools, public buildings and homes in the flight paths of aircraft arriving and departing from airports be insulated to reduce the noise nuisance. 
If so, will he take steps to institute a system whereby this is done at Government cost 
asked the Minister for Civil 
Aviation, upon notice: 
Is it the attitude of the Government that people affected by aircraft noise nuisance adjacent to airports should be compensated. 
If so, will the Government give consideration to purchasing homes and properties of persons affected, and ensure that the price paid enables them to reestablish in comparable properties in a new area. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
Can import duties be waived by ministerial determination. 
Have duty exemptions been granted in the past. 
If so, what was the amount of exemptions, and to whom were they granted in the years 1968-69, 1969-70, 1970-71, 1971-72 and 1972-73. 
asked the Minister for Educa tion, upon notice: 
What are the reasons for the Penrhos Ladies College, South Perth, being placed in category A in the Karmel Report. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to statements by  Dr T.  C. Helvey, Professor of Cybernetics at the University of Tennessee, that computer systems are being developed that will control traffic speeds  on  highways. 
If so, will he have his Department investigate and evaluate these claims with a view to incorporating any successful systems in Australia. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
With reference to the recent collision in South Australia between a fuel truck and a car and caravan in which 3 Western Australians were incinerated, will he investigate the possibility of Australian standards for the carriage of inflammable fuels being reviewed, taking into account fire fighting equipment for vehicles and training of personnel, including contractors. 
Where loose tanks are used on a table top type vehicle, will he also investigate the possibility  of  introducing under-run surround bars as a standard requirement. 
Where road contractors are using long distance hauls parallel to railways, will he investigate the possibility, in conjunction with State authorities, of rationalising the hauls with a view to eliminating the road danger as much as possible. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Is there a lack of suitable run-off areas for emergency use by commercial and other vehicles on major national roads, some in populous areas. 
If so, will he have a survey instituted with a view to bringing in a common policy for their installation in all States. 
Will he have his Department investigate the possibility of utilising loose material strips, similar to those developed for the end of aircraft runways overseas, to minimise the defacement of the environment. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
With reference to the British Advanced Passenger Train project and reports that it will be operating commercially within three years, have any steps been taken to: 
Evaluate the train under Australian conditions. 
Test the train in Australia at an early date. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Is it a fact, as stated by the  President  of the Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association of Western Australia, that one nursing home in the eastern States has closed because of financial difficulties and others have discharged patients. 
If so, what were the circumstances in each case. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Is it a fact, as stated by the  President  of the Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association of Western Australia, that private nursing homes in Western Australia will face a crisis early in 1974; if not, what is the situation. 
Can he say what are the profit margins for nursing homes in Western Australia. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to a statement by the Brotherhood of St. Laurence that rising building costs make it difficult to build aged persons accommodation under $10,000 per unit, and claiming a need for an increase in subsidy rates. 
Have grants for new hostels been taken up. 
Has there been a decline in the building rate of aged persons homes. 
What action is he taking in this matter. 
asked the Postmaster-General, up notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the New Zealand system of installing a missing friends notice board in post offices. 
If so, will he investigate the system with a view to similar installations in Australian post offices. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to allegations in the publication 'Fiji a Developing Australian Colony', of an Australian take-over of the Fijian economy by multinational corporations through subsidiaries and merger of Australian companies. 
In order to avoid further resentment against Australia, will he take steps to confer with the Fijian Government to ensure a similar protection of local ownership in Fiji, in respect of industries and Australian groups being established there, to the controls in Australia. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
With reference to an advertisement in the Australian Financial Review' for beach front freehold land at Nadi, Fiji, will he confer with the Fijian Government to ensure that total Australian freehold possession will not create future diplomatic problems with Fiji. 
Does he recall Australian public reaction to knowledge of similar advertisements of Australian land in the overseas press in recent times. 
asked the Minister for the Environment and Conservation, upon notice: 
With reference to the recent reports of the high death rate of wild donkeys being transported from Derby, Western Australia, to the eastern States for children's pets and pet food, will he investigate the position of the protection by Western Australia of these animals and ascertain the need to confer with State authorities to ensure the humane treatment and protection of the donkeys. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
With reference to the recent strong protests by world and Australian Trade Unions and prominent citizens to Spanish authorities over the gaoling of Spanish trade union officials and the alleged torture of prominent Spanish citizens imprisoned for suspected political activity, can the Minister say whether these protests have brought about any change in the treatment and trial of trade unionists and political activists in Spain. 
What is the attitude of the Australian Government in the described circumstances, and were any official protests lodged. 
Is political asylum available in Australia for people persecuted in this manner. 
nnett asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to statements by newspaper sources that a world shortage of newsprint is current and is affecting their supplies. 
If so, will the Minister investigate the position with a view to ensuring that the public is not affected by this shortage. 
If the shortage is to be an increasing problem in the long term, will the Government give consideration to licensing newspapers, similar to the licensing of television and radio stations, with a view to conserving newsprint supplies. 
Has the Minister for Defence received any approaches or had any reports from any source advocating the provision of a free defence force for Australia by selling Australia's natural resources to overseas interests and so attracting various foreign armed forces to Australia to defend those foreign owned resources? Will the Minister assure the House that he will do what he can to protect Australia from such a potentially dangerous and treasonable policy? 
I rise to make a number of references, which I shall keep brief to keep faith with the request that 1 facilitate this cognate debate on the Airlines Agreements Bill 1973 and the Air Navigation (Charges) Bill 1973. I wish to oppose the amendment which has been moved and honourable members will see why as I proceed. I shall refer to the aspect that although increased charges are levied, no allowance in extra charges is made to provide protection to the majority of people affected by air travel; that is, those people who live near airports and under flight paths. When one considers that $8.60 per airline passenger trip of taxpayers' money has been expended in the past by way of subsidy, one realises that money coming from the pockets of those affected by noise and, in the main, not utilising aircraft travel, subsidises this nuisance. 
It appears a strange coincidence that it is only working class and middle class areas which are affected by this nuisance. But perhaps it is wrong to call it just a nuisance for it is a threat to health. World authorities recognise the threat to health and education by this nuisance. Why can we not? If in doubt, I suggest honourable members should attend a school. Students have to wait while a plane passes overhead before the class can continue. Would Parliament itself accept such interruption or such distraction to concentration? Of course not. It would shift the airport, shift the Parliament or provide sufficient sound insulation at public expense to prevent the noise being an interference to the daily life of the Parliament. Why cannot the same provision be made for the workers' homes, schools, hospitals, etc., and the charge be made against the aviation industry? 
The people of my electorate are concerned about the American Service aircraft which used Perth Airport and apparently not the Royal Australian Air Force Base at Pearce. The noise from those aircraft is as bad, if not worse, than the so-called 'hush-power' VC10, as they make their slow - and residents claim unnecessary - climb away from the airport, without the added noise of warming up, etc., being considered. It is to be hoped .that the United States Air Force contributes its share towards the cost of air service facilities. If the charges have not been sufficient in the past for civil aircraft, it is obvious that the Australian taxpayer has subsidised the US Air Force. But perhaps a special charge is levied against these US Air Force planes, or do they enjoy tax and other concessions? The people adjacent to the airport would be very interested to know, as I would. 
Perhaps the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Mr Charles Jones)  will clarify this aspect and perhaps in the future order these planes to use only Service airfields. But we must commend the Minister for the steps which are being taken to ensure that the actual users .of air travel - that comparatively small percentage of the community - actually pays for the convenience it receives at the expense of the rest of the community. However, I reiterate that it is time the industry was obliged to compensate those who they inconvenienced by noise; that is, the people living adjacent to and under flight paths. 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to postage stickers being sold as stamps within an area in Western Australia called the Hutt River Province on the Westonia Postal Company's property. 
If so, what is the legal value of these stickers for use as postage stamps or collectors' items. 
asked the Minister for Labour, upon notice: 
Is it a fact, as stated by the  President  of the Western Australia Chamber of Manufactures, that a reverse cycle of labour migration from Western Australia is taking place. 
If so, what are the reasons. 
asked the Minister for Labour, upon notice: 
Is it a fact, as stated by the  President  of the Western Australia Chamber of Manufactures, that expanded social benefits, higher wages and salaries, a shorter working week, additional categories of leave and over award payments are adversely, affecting industry in Western Australia. 
How does Western Australia compare with other States in respect of each of the points mentioned. 
asked the Minister for Labour, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to statements on Western Australian television programs that a state of industrial anarchy exists; if so, are these statements correct. 
What is the industrial disputes record in Western Australia for each of the 15 calendar years prior to 1973. 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Does his Department in Western Australia intend to disband its Primary Works Country CableLaying Branch; if so, why. 
Is there Union opposition to the proposal. 
Is it a fact, as claimed by the Union, that 80 men will be affected. 
Will he investigate the matter with a view to reviewing the decision. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the high growth rate of bushland and roadside growth and the subsequent expected high fire risk in the summer of 1973-74. 
Will he investigate the possibility of the Defence Forces being directed to clear firebreaks where assistance is requested by Government and semi-government bodies. 
Will he equip and have trained members of the Defence Forces to assist with firefighting and burning off in the summer of 1973-74. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Will he investigate the possibility of declaring some isolated roads to be Defence roads. 
If so, will he permit the Defence Forces to work on the construction and maintenance of the roads so declared. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
With reference to the case of  Mrs King  of Canberra and her efforts to adopt her foster child, Kelly, will the Minister investigate the situation with a view to maintaining what is now a happy family unit. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to claims by the Civic Affairs Bureau in Western Australia, when appealing for funds for political propaganda purposes, that donations would be tax deductible. 
If so, has a loophole been found in the Income Tax Assessment Act to make this possible. 
Will he investigate these claims with a view to closing any loophole and protecting the public against fraudulent claims and practices by political front organisations. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
Are large portions of the parking areas at the rear of Parliament House unlit. 
Are female staff required to go to these darkened areas without escorts to retrieve their cars due to the late sittings of the Parliament. 
If so, will he take action to provide lighting in these areas or make suitable arrangements for protection of the female staff. 
asked the Minister for Supply, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the plight of  Mr F.  J. Stephens, Leathergoods Manufacturer, of Rivervale, Western Australia, over cost increases affecting Defence contracts. 
If so, has this led to staff redundancy and subsequent payoffs of female staff living locally and trained in this industry. 
Is he able to offer some solution to this firm's problems and prevent unemployment; if so, what action does he propose to take. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
Is it a fact, as stated by Professor Webb of the University of Western Australia, that living costs in Western Australia are artificially high because that State pays $2 million annually in customs duty to the Australian Government and that this would not be so in a free trade State. 
If not, will he clarify the position. 
 Asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to a statement by the  President  of the Western Australian Chamber of 
Manufactures that Australia is facing another recession within 12 to 18 months which will be worse than the 1970 debacle and which saw the mining market collapse and home values plummet under the previous Government. 
If so, can he say (a) what outside extra information the  President  has to make these predictions and (b) what qualifications superior to Treasury the  President  has which enables him to predict the precise time of the economic recession. 
Will he investigate the situation and make public any evidence of outside influences which may be revealed. 
What were the circumstances of the previous recession referred to. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to reports of the views of Milton Friedman, an American economist, being circulated to members, recommending a negative income tax, a shut down of social security and the closure of tax loopholes; if so, what is his attitude to these proposals. 
Is it a fact that books written by the economist are not available to Treasury officials; if so, does he consider that there is a need to rectify the situation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to statements in the November issue of 'Choice' that some imported children's books contain heavy metals and are potentially dangerous to children if chewed or sucked by them. 
If so, will the Minister investigate the situation with a view to prohibiting the import of children's books with a heavy metal content. 
Will he also investigate the number of these books that have already been imported and issue warnings or have them withdrawn from sale. 
asked the Minister for Trans  port, upon notice: 
What stage has his investigation reached as to the possibility of having displayed in a prominent position on all new cars sold in Australia a plate indicating a Government certified expected fuel consumption per kilometre as an Australian vehicle standards requirement. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the opposition of the Local Government Association of Western Australia to the urban development under the Salvado project. 
If so, can he say whether the opposition is well founded; if it is not well founded, why not. 
Will projects such as the Salvado project adversely affect any section of local government. 
If not, can he say why such opposition has come from the Local Government Association. 
asked the Minister for Transport,  upon notice: 
Do companies which claim to specialise in brake and clutch repairs run their own brief training programs, the result being that unskilled and semi-skilled people can effect repairs to these vital safety parts of vehicles. 
If so, will he investigate the possibility of instituting national training and examination of personnel by an independent authority before they are permitted to work on vehicles. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the success of the Perth Metropolitan Transport Trust's free 'City Clipper' bus service within the city block of Perth. 
Can he say whether any other States have instituted this service or plan to do so. 
Will he endeavour to encourage those States not already planning such a service to do so at the earliest possible date. 
asked the Minister for Trans port, upon notice: 
What period of time was taken to complete the last 200 miles of the Western Australian section of the Eyre Highway. 
How does this compared with the estimated period for the last 200 miles of South Australian section. 
What was the cost per mile of those 200 miles in Western Australia. 
What was the Commonwealth contribution to that cost. 
What is the estimated cost per mile of those 200 miles in South Australia. 
What will be the Commonwealth contribution to that cost. 
asked the Minister for Transport upon notice: 
Will he investigate the use of secondhand parts in smash repairs. 
Will he introduce national repair standards for crash repairs. 
Will he ban the use of secondhand parts or provide for testing procedures of these parts. 
asked the Minister for Transport upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to Western Australian proposals to license mechanics as a safety factor and to protect the consumer. 
Can he say whether there is union support for this proposal. 
Will he have the matter considered at a national level to ensure the licensing and registration of mechanics to protect the consumer and help reduce the road toll. 
Will he give urgent attention to the panel beating section in particular. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Will he investigate the licensing and examination of accident surveyors who are employed to assess vehicle smash repairs. 
Will he institute a national code of qualifications for these surveyors/assessors. 
asked the Minister for Trans port, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to statements by the Western Australian police criticising inadequate fire control gear for accident attention, brought to notice recently by incineration of accident victims. 
If so, will he confer with State authorities with a view to (a) increasing the fire equipment of all accident attending authorities and (b) making it mandatory for all vehicles sold and licensed to be equipped with workable extinguishers. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
Can the Minister say what are the comparative prices charged by newspapers in each of the capital cities per page of advertisement. Can he also say if any of these charges are affected by monopoly situations. 
asked the Minister for Tran sport, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that vehicles and machinery as used in municipal type works, including fire engines, road sweepers and ambulances, attract a higher freight rate of up to 100 per cent on conference line ships from Europe and the United Kingdom. 
If so. 
what are the reasons for the higher charges and 
will he endeavour to have the rates reduced. 
asked the Minister for Trans port, upon notice: 
Is there a difference in shipping charges in excess of 100 per cent more, for vehicle spare parts used for repair over those used for manufacture, charged by conference lines from Europe and the United Kingdom. 
If so; 
what are the reasons for these extra charges to the consumer, and 
will he intervene to have a reduction made in these charges. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
It is a fact that Australian merchant seamen who served with the United States Navy in the New Guinea war zone during World War II receive no compensation payments for war wounds or effects from either the Australian or the United States Government. 
If so, will the Minister take steps to rectify the situation and have benefits extended to them. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
With reference to the recent reports of the high death rate of donkeys being transported from Derby, Western Australia, to the Eastern States, did a large proportion of the deaths occur on Commonwealth Railways. 
If so, will he investigate the matter with a view to seeing what may be done to prevent future occurrences and ascertaining where the responsibility lay for this particular incident. 
asked the Minister for Trans port, upon notice: 
What steps need to be taken in Western Australia to establish a night flight curfew at Perth Airport between midnight and 6 a.m. 
If a curfew is applied, will it be possible to enforce it. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Will he give consideration to the issue of a separate licence to an airline commuter company to fly Canberra-Adelaide-Perth direct due to the inability of existing services to service this route. 
In the intervening period, will he permit charter companies to service this route. 
If not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Trans port, upon notice: 
Are inter-State flights between Western Australia and the Eastern States based on times to suit Eastern States' requirements for night curfews and traffic demands. 
What percentage of these flights are made to suit Eastern States' off-peak periods. 
If so, will he intervene with the airlines with a view to having flights re-arranged to suit the travelling public from Western Australia. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Is the Pallotine Mission in Western Australia seeking a grant of $78,750 for extensions to its existing youth hostel. 
If so, does the Mission wish to establish the hostel for the 1975 school year. 
Will the grant sought be made available in sufficient time to meet that deadline; if not, what are the reasons for the delay or refusal. 
asked the Minister for Trans port, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the recent successful demonstration tour of South, Central and North America of the European A.300B airbus. 
Will he ensure an early demonstration tour  of  the airbus in Australia to give the local aviation industry and other interested parties opportunity to evaluate its suitability for Australian conditions. 
asked the Minister for Trans port upon notice: 
Will he investigate the possibility of installing flight arrival and departure and now boarding boards at Perth Airport similar to those used at other centres. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Is it a fact, as reported, that north-west airports are faced with closure due to proposed changes of maintenance procedures. 
If not, will he clarify the position. 
asked  the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to a claim published in the newsletter of the Car Consumers Association that drivers of the Holden SS motor car are dicing with death. 
If so, will be investigate the claim to see if it has any foundation. 
If he finds that the statement is well-founded, will he take immediate action to ensure that the public is protected. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to press reports of a drink problem amongst the Yirrkala community on the Arnhem Land Reserve in the Northern Territory. 
Is it a fact that one in four of the Yirrkala men has a drink problem. 
Are most of the drinkers young men whose dignity is affected. 
Will the Minister investigate the situation with a view to immediate action. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to statements by spokesmen for the Yirrkala Aborigines suggesting (a) that the hotel at Nhulunbuy be closed and (b) that the tribal groups return from the missionfounded settlement to their own ancestral grounds around Arnhem Land to protect the culture, family life and tribal unity of the tribes. 
If so, will the Minister investigate these suggestions with a view to finding a solution. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to low cost portable flats suitable for attachment to existing residences. 
If so, would these flats be suitable for aged people. 
Will he investigate the possibility of making low interest loans available to families wishing to install such a flat for their parents. 
Would such installations lessen the demand for subsidised community type homes. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Was Miss Judith Durham who was recently quarantined advised that this would occur prior to her arrival in Australia. 
Was there any danger of her spreading a disease. 
Who was responsible for the cost of her keep while in quarantine. 
Can he say what was the financial loss to Miss Durham. 
Did her treatment differ in any way from other people entering the country. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the use of vibrator machines, that use electric impulses to reduce the user's weight, similar to those banned for import by the Commonwealth. 
Are these machines manufactured in Australia. 
If so, what standards are set by Health Authorities on their manufacture. 
Is it considered that the standards and supervision are sufficient. 
If not, what action does he intend to take. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Has the Attorney-General's attention been drawn to reports that Constable Paul Sandeman, of the hijack attempt of15 November 1972, is dissatisfied with his subsequent treatment. 
Has Constable Sandeman had to accept a position with less pay and less opportunity for promotion. 
Is it possible to provide Constable Sandeman with lump sum compensation and a pension. 
asked the Minister for Secondary Industry, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that prices in Australia for spare parts for tractors produced in the United States of America are 300 to 400 per cent dearer than the prices charged in the United States. 
If so, will he investigate the reason for these high prices with a view to seeking some adjustment. 
asked the Minister for Secondary Industry, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to statements in Western Australia expressing dissatisfaction with the level of industry being attracted to that State. 
What action has he taken to ensure Australian ownership of industry and the rights of existing Australian industry, in Western Australia. 
What are the details of industry attracted to Western Australia during the term of the existing Western Australian Government. 
What are the details of the contracts gained by those industries in that period. 
asked the Minister for Labour, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the proposed eviction of strikers from company towns in Western Australia. 
If these evictions take place, will it (a) affect the schooling of the families of strikers and disrupt family life, (b) cause hardship by way of cost of transfer of household effects and (c) cause further industrial unrest. (3)Will he confer with the State Government and Ministers in the Australian Government to ensure that future evictions of tenants in company towns cannot take place due to circumstances arising in an industrial dispute. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Has the Attorney-General's attention been drawn to the continued claims of the proprietors of the Westonia Pastoral Company in Western Australia that the area they occupy is declared an independent State known as the Hutt River Province. 
If so, what is the actual status' of (a) the area and (b) the persons residing in the area. 
asked the Minister for Educa tion, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to a report by the Australian National University Students Association on claims made in relation to speed reading courses. 
If so, did the report indicate that claims made by two firms were exaggerated and misleading, that controls were required, and that licensing of psychologists may be required. 
Will he investigate the situation with a view to establishing what controls are needed and refer the results to the appropriate Minister for implementation of the controls. 
asked the Minister for  Hous-  ing and Construction, upon notice: 
What further progress has been made with the development plans in respect of the 18 acres of land in the Belmont Shire, Western Australia. 
When will a final decision be made public. 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice: 
What was the comparative cost on the  open  market for a family home of 3 bedrooms in each of the State capital cities during each of the 5 calendar years prior to 1973. 
What has been the average increase in cost in each of the capital cities since December 1972. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
What approaches have been made by (a) State authorities and (b) other persons for a curfew at Perth Airport during thelast 6 calendar years. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
What progress has been made with development plans in respect of the 18 acres of land in the Belmont Shire, Western Australia, referred to him by the Minister for Housing. 
When will a final decision be made public. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Can he say how many homes were purchased with second and third mortgages in Australia during each of the last 5 years. 
Do second and third mortgages contribute to the inflationary spiral of home costs. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to statements by the  Chairman, Mr St.  John, at the opening of the Conference for the Retention of Australian Ownership, that the Liberal Party's failure to stop foreign ownership in Australia was one of the main reasons why Labor came to power in thelast Federal election, that the Labor Government despite its initiatives had not stemmed the flood of foreign ownership and that no detailed figures relating to foreign ownership were available; if so, are these statements well founded. 
Will he clarify the position regarding foreign ownership. 
asked the Minister for Trans  port, upon notice: 
Has concern been expressed by some people in respect of the merger of the Department of Transport and the Department of Civil Aviation on the ground that the high safety standards of the Department of Civil Aviation will be adversely affected. 
If this concern is not well founded, will he outline the precautions being taken to prevent the safety standards being affected. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to statements in the publication 'Fiji, A Developing Australian Colony' that little consideration is given to Fijians, that most Qantas flights arrive or depart from Nadi at unreasonable hours, that no local content is provided in food, music or personnel on international flights through Fiji, that Qantas industrial relations with its employees in Fiji have a long and very sad history, and that industrial disputes occur on a regular basis. 
If so, are these statements correct; if not, will he clarify the situation. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to reports of the establishment in Western Australia of secessionist groups in Perth, Kalgoorlie, Albany and several other areas. 
If so, has the Government had any representations on behalf of Western Australia from any of these groups. 
What is the status of these groups. 
asked the Prime Minister,  upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to statements by Western Australian secessionist leaders that the question of secession should be settled within Australian jurisdiction and not British, and drawing attention to the Australian Government's statements that the British Parliament has no right to decide Australian issues; if so, will he clarify the situation. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: _ (1) Is the Australian Government subsidy for pensioners hospitalised in Western Australia approximately, $5 per day. 
Do the daily costs at Royal Perth Hospital to maintain a pensioner patient amount to SS2.47 per day. 
If the position is as stated, what steps are being taken by the Australian Government to rectify the situation. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has the offer by  Dr S.  Hopcroft to grant the Australian Government the manufacturing rights of the anti-smoking drug, Non-fumer, been accepted. 
Is he satisfied that the drug is a satisfactory anti-smoking cure. 
If so, what steps are being taken to publicise its availability and promote its manufacture. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the success of stationing ambulances at centres along the Western Australian section of the Eyre Highway. 
Will he investigate the possibility of conferring with other States, with a view to installing a similar system on isolated sections of major national highways. &lt;3) Will he look at the question of an Australian Government subsidy for such services. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Can he say whether only one per cent of track in the United States of America is in concrete sleepers. 
Has his attention been drawn to statements that United States railroads are not convinced that concrete sleepers will stand up to the high speed and heavy loadings which pertain to their systems; if so, are these statements correct. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Were the following factors taken into consideration in utilising concrete sleepers in replacement programs: (a) freight from point of removal to new point of placement and the handling cost entailed, (b) the cost of the remaining value of sleepers written off, i.e., those with residual value but too low a residual value for economic re-installation, (c) cost of re-installation of displaced sleepers and (d) cost of any new timber sleepers supplied during a concrete re-sleepering program. 
If so, what were the findings in each instance. 
With regard to paragraph (a) of part (1), is a fact that this would entail a distance of not less than 500 miles if there is an ongoing program of resleepering With concrete. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Can he say whether concrete sleepers have been utilised in West Germany for many years. 
Is it a fact that no one design or specification has been in use -for more than 5 years; if so, what are the reasons. 
Is it also a fact that the first cost of timber sleepers has been lower until recently. 
Can he say whether West Germany regards maintenance costs for timber and concrete sleepers as equal. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Has it been recognised in the Bureau of Transport Economics evaluation that the conversion of any given section of track from timber to concrete sleepers will necessarily entail the removal of a large number of wood sleepers. 
If so, would some of these sleepers be recent renewals. 
Is it a fact that 70 per cent of these would have a remaining life and residual value. 
If so, what percentage of those sleepers would be re-used. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Is there any guarantee that the very low cost submitted for concrete sleepers is not a price to corner the market? 
What protection against future increasing costs in concrete sleepers are encompassed in the contract. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
On what grounds are the maintenance cycles adopted by the Bureau of Transport Economics for concrete and timber sleepers. 
Are these cycles more favourable to concrete sleepers than to timber; if so, why. 
asked the Minister for Trans port, upon notice: 
Was the report of the Bureau of Transport Economics, on which the decision was taken in relation to concrete sleepers, based on the same premises as were questioned by letter of 6 November 1972 from the Western Australian Minister for Forests. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Was the information presented at the International Rail Sleeper Conference in August 1973 incorporated in any revised evaluation of concrete sleepers; if so, in what way. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Will future tenders for sleepers be called in alternative materials, and will the basis of any evaluation be published. 
Has any regard been given to the environmental aspects of the decision to use concrete sleepers. 
If so, what were the findings. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
On what grounds can the assumption of a SO year life for concrete sleepers be justified. 
Was this assumption on the basis of a line carrying low traffic loading or a line carrying heavy traffic at high speeds. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Did Commonwealth Railways call tenders for timber sleepers of a heavier and costlier dimension than they favoured for a much more heavily loaded track on the broad gauge conversion in Western Australia; if so, why. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to reports of the establishment in Western Australia of secessionist groups in Perth, Kalgoorlie,Albany and several other areas. 
If so, has the Government had any representations on behalf of Western Australia from any of these groups. 
What is the status of these groups. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Can he say what aged people are housed or hospitalised within the flight approach and departure paths of Perth Airport. 
Can he also say if any of these homes or hospitals are insulated against noise. 
Does his Department have any plans to ensure that sound insulation is available if required. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Did he issue a Press statement on Sunday, 24 February, announcing grants totalling $330,000 for this financial year to preserve aspects of the national estate in Western Australia? Did the grants include money for the State Government, local councils, the National Trust and the Esperance Bay Historical Society to preserve buildings and valuable natural areas? Was this Press statement one of the. most important statements for Western Australia in relation to the national estate? Has the Prime Minister's attention been drawn to the fact that the 'West Australian' chose not to report one word of the statement as issued? Can he offer an explanation of why it was not reported in that newspaper? Will he clarify the context of that news release? 
It is with pleasure that I rise to support the Government's program for the future, particularly as it applies to Western Australia, for it is indeed an exciting and prosperous future for that great State, as has been the trend under the existing State Tonkin Labor Government, working with the benefits of the national Labor Government to assist it in its aspirations for the future of Western Australians. Never before has there been such cooperation between State and Federal authorities, with the State Government standing up for the rights of its Western Australian citizens in no uncertain manner. 
What have been the results for the nation - for Western Australia? For my constituents it has resulted in increasing prosperity in 1972 and 1973, as instanced by an average weekly male earning of $99 per week for 1972-73. It has resulted in Western Australia having the second lowest unemployment figure for an Australian State for 1973, with savings banks deposits in excess over withdrawals of $76,961,000 - an amazing recovery after the tragic national Liberal Government's Australia-wide recession of 1972, in which Western Australia suffered most. In fact, the recovery has been so great that exports from Western Australia for 1972-73 exceeded by $303. 8m imports into that State, with total exports for the year of $l,317.5m and retail sales of $925m. Admittedly, there was instalment credit of $225. 4m advanced for retail sales, but this indeed reflects the confidence not only of the retailer but also of the customer in the future of Western Australia and the nation. 
But despite all this, there will be knockers, both amateur and professional. The amateur is not aware of the facts and criticises in all honesty. But it is pleasing to note the Government's continuance of its program, to put the facts before the public for their own assessment for it is useless to try to correct the errors of past governments without informing the public what the Government is about to do and the subsequent results of those actions. No government should attempt to hide its actions, although one must admit that this has been the past practice. I do not doubt this is the major reason why Opposition parties want the practice of the Government distributing information stopped, so they can hide their actions in the future as in the past and so prevent comparison with present and past government practices. The public should be fully informed at all times. The professional knocker is in a different category. He is, of course, doing what he is paid for and one would be disappointed if he failed to earn the money he is so paid - paid in many cases to hide the facts of the previous Government's policies, to hide the fact that the last Liberal Government sadly neglected the State's rights of Western Australian citizens and that past Western Australian Liberal Governments failed to stand up to their Federal counterparts to gain just recognition of the rights of Western Australian citizens. 
The State's rights groups which have been formed in Western Australia have produced, and continue to produce, masses of statistics which prove this neglect. Their figures, which encompass 23 years of Liberal administration, prove this neglect. No wonder their disenchantment. No wonder they talk secession, in view of the lack of recognition by succeeding Liberal governments, both State and Federal, of the rights of Western Australians to a fair and equitable treatment in the distribution of national revenue. No one could be more sympathetic to the facts which they have produced than I am, but I appeal to those so involved to disregard the past harsh treatment under old governments and to give the new Government time to make its policies work. I urge them Jo wait and see if, in fact, they do work. I firmly believe those policies are already working. 
For the first time we in Western Australia at all levels - from local government, State government, and Federal government and from public bodies and public commissions - are being heard effectively and action is being taken on our pleas. I say again to the State righters, disregard the statistics of past hostile Liberal Eastern States orientated governments and let us reap the full benefits of what has been started for our benefit and for the nation's benefit. Do not be distracted by people who will use facts and figures - the statistics of past neglect of Western Australia by antiLabor national governments. Remember that these will be used by industry sectional interests to protect and promote their own particular viewpoint. 
We, as the majority of people, can look only at what is good for the majority - which comprises ourselves and our families as citizens of Western Australia - and df we look at the facts and statistics of what has occurred for the good of the general population since the inception of the Labor Government, we will indeed be loath to see any diminution of this progress. In my particular area this has been brought home to me by the numerous people who have commented on various aspects. People who for years have campaigned for the abolition of the means test have found it hard to believe that the Government took such prompt action in its first Budget to abolish the means test for all those over 75 years of age. The Government has the firm intention of further reducing this to age 70 in its coming Budget and finally to abolish the means test for all in the 1975 Budget. They were amazed to find it actually happening after having been promised and disappointed for so long by the Parties now in opposition. 
Pensioners have been amazed to find that they are now receiving regular guaranteed pension increases and will continue to do so until a firm amount of 25 per cent of the national wage is achieved. At last the politics - the petty handouts - will be taken out of pensions, and dignity and justice will be given to our senior citizens. 
The abolition of fees for tertiary institutes was brought home to me by the number of people who commented that when enrolling for this year's study no fees were payable. This is highlighted in the States Grants (Technical Training Fees Reimbursement) Bill 1974 by which Western Australia received $974,388 for training fees reimbursement - the Department of Education Technical Division receiving $951,648, the College of Nursing receiving $13,740 and the Pre-School Education Board receiving $9,000. Thus can be seen the benetfis to people who do not have the financial background. They now do not have to bear the burden of fees to better their education and thus serve the community with their greater skills. 
In my own electorate, we have had grants for projects ranging from youth centres and athletic fields facilities to traffic lights and pedestrian facilities. This shows the national 
Government's direct and intimate concern for the well-being of the public at what is primarily a local government level - an area which previously has been starved of funds. It is hoped that the success of the forthcoming referendum will enable even more to be done for the public generally by the national Government through local government. Money has been provided for the provision of a dental therapy training school at Manning. In January 1974 it was announced that the Federal Government would contribute $160,000 a year towards the cost of free dental services for school children up to the age of 15 years. The State Labor Government, with its usual prompt action, already has implemented this scheme. Its implementation will employ 350 school dental therapists. Construction is already well under way on the $490,000 dental training therapy school at Mount Henry, and the first 16 students begun their course of instruction in February of this year. 
There is a complete capital program in this area of some $5m to be funded jointly by the State and Federal governments. The Federal Government provides a total capital grant for the training programs and other recurrent costs and for the establishment of school clinics. In addition, 75 per cent of the recurrent early service costs are to be met by the Australian Government. Of course, we in the electorate of Swan are pleased to see the initial establishment of the first school in our area, as we have been pleased to see the extensive additions to and expansion of the Western Australian Institute of Technology at Bentley since the inception of the national Labor Government. In fact, everywhere that one goes one sees expansion and expenditure by the national Government. In fact, one sees a similar situation with the State Labor Government. 
This is indeed a far cry from the situation in Western Australia where previous administrations were so bankrupt that most premises which they used were rented, and public moneys were constantly being demanded to meet the increasing values of the day for rent, without the administrations ever hoping to own the premises. The facts of the matter were that taxes were being taken to pay for expanding government needs on a rental basis. Indeed, it is regrettable that this is still the policy of the Opposition parties in Western Australia and that in fact they have expanded these policies. As every Australian sees the sense in owning his own home wherever possible, we expect the same commonsense and leadership to be shown by the people who are elected to govern. We do not expect them to dissipate and mismanage our funds; we do not expect them to spend funds on rental accommodation and to finish up with no assets whatsoever owned on behalf of the people whom they represent, and to find that the profits have gone to a few of their chosen friends. It may be that it is not always possible for governments to buy premises, but it is clearly our duty to endeavour to do so. It is a pity to see such a policy still being followed by the Opposition parties in Western Australia. I can imagine the reaction of ratepayers if a local government authority were to attempt to do the same with its administration blocks. But what pleases me is that much favourable comment has come from my constituents on the amount of expansion and prosperity which they can visibly see and from which they are benefiting. 
For those who decry this policy, let us look at why it is possible to do what I have suggested. Payments to Western Australia from the national Labor Government, from its first Budget, for all purposes and including the State's Loan Council program are estimated to total about $465m in 1973-74, which is an increase of about $64m or 16 per cent over 1972- 73. This represents more than $430 per head of population in Western Australia compared with average payments of about $337 a head to all other States. It is estimated that Western Australia will receive financial assistance grants totalling $213. 8m in 1973-74, of which $6. 5m represents grants agreed to at the June 1973 Premiers Conference additional to those which the State would have received under the then existing legislation. At the same Premiers Conference the Australian Government agreed to provide $25m in special revenue assistance in 1973-74. Western Australia's estimated share is $2. 8m. 
In total Western Australia is estimated to receive general revenue grants of $21 6.6m in 1973- 74, which represents $201 per capita. This compares with an estimated $143 per capita for the 6 States combined. Thus, Western Australia receives considerably higher general revenue grants than the average, and this is in recognition of its special needs. Under decisions taken by the Loan Council in June 1973, Western Australia has been allocated $80.4m for State Government works in 1973-74. This includes an interest-free capital grant of $25.8m from the Australian Government. The remainder takes the form of loan allocations which the Australian Government has undertaken to support, if necessary, from its own revenue resources. Again, in per capita terms Western Australia is receiving a higher than average allocation - $74.6 per capita compared with $66.9 per capita for the 6 States combined. 
The Australian Government is making greatly increased sums available to Western Australia for education, health and welfare, the cities and other areas in line with its national policies in these fields. I will give examples of areas in which Western Australia is receiving greater than average increases. In regard to the sewerage program, in order to eliminate the backlog of unsewered premises, the Budget provided for a first contribution of $3. 8m to Western Australia in 1973-74. 1 must say how pleased my constituents, particularly in the Canning, Belmont and surrounding areas, were to hear of this contribution because they thought it was a pity to see development for development sake without attention being paid to the provision of local services. However, since then the Australian Government has agreed to provide an additional amount of up to $3m this year to Western Australia to assist the State in maintaining its accelerated program of overcoming the backlog in sewerage works in the Perth metropolitan area. This makes total assistance of up to $6.8m in 1973-74. 
It was pleasing to hear Her Majesty mention in Her Speech the new road program, including interstate highways and roads used for carrying goods for export. This emphasises the national responsibility and the priority given to this matter. It is estimated that in 1973-74 Western Australia will receive grants of at least $48m under the Commonwealth aid roads arrangement. In 1973-74 Western Australia's grant will be a minimum of $45 per capita compared with the all-States average of $24 per capita. This excludes assistance given for beef cattle roads. It is pleasing to note that this is the first occasion on which local government authorities have been given a copy of a report to use and to study prior to an actual decision being made so that their protests or suggestions or whatever it might be can be taken into account before a final decision is made. It is a far cry from what has happened in the past when local government -was told to accept what was put to it as a fait accompli. 
I think that in the future something should be done to ensure that local government closely participates in these matters, and perhaps those people who have a sincere interest in local government will lend their support to the forthcoming referendum in order to ensure that local government participates in this way. 
It was also pleasing to hear that attention will be given to the question of land acquisition. On 21 August last the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  wrote to the Western Australian Premier informing him that some $30m had been provided in the Budget for land acquisition for urban development over and above the sums provided for growth centres. Again the Western Australian State Government has not proceeded with the legislation. Why is this? The State Government wants to stabilise land prices and it has done 'a particularly effective job in this area. However, in order to pave the way for land acquisition it has to overcome the opposition which it has had to face in the Liberal Party controlled Upper House in Western Australia, and this is the only reason why the State Government has not proceeded with the legislation. It is in keeping with the attitude of honourable members opposite and of members in the Upper House in Western Australia. They have a complete disregard for the smaller man who is represented at local government and State government level. It was pleasing to hear reference made to this matter in the plans for the future. 
The importance of the creation of the Ministry for Minerals and Energy has been confirmed by the events of 1973 which were associated with the world energy crisis. Indeed, it could have been a crisis for Western Australia where the previous State Liberal governments, with the agreement of the Federal Liberal governments, had 'abandoned the policy of using local resources in the manufacture of power, with the introduction of oil fired burners. It is pleasing to see that the Western Australian State Government has been able to avert any crisis which could have arisen from that situation. Again, the Government of Western Australia has been successful in renegotiating the agreements with respect to iron ore exports. It has been able to gain in some cases an increase in royalty of 3i per cent which will represent approximately $ 15.5m for the State annually. This agreement could not have been achieved without the co-operation of the present Federal Labor Government. 
I do commend the planning that the Labor Government has for the future. It is to be hoped that those professional knockers who criticise will accept their responsibility not only as Australians but also as Western Australians and will at least give some time for these policies to go forward. As I said earlier, any statistics which are available and which demonstrate ill-treatment of Western Australia predominantly relate to times when that State was governed by anti-Labor administrations. It is interesting to note that there is no answer statistically to that claim. I defy anyone at all to prove other than that the governments of Western Australia at such times were anti-Labor and anti-Western Australia in their thinking. 
Did the Minister for Social Security note during February newspaper reports from Western Australia relating to claims made before the Western Australian Royal Commission into Aboriginal Affairs by a  Mr R.  W. Crosbie,  District Officer of the Western Australian Community Welfare Department at Katanning, and other allegations made by  Mrs B.  Hayward of Gnowangerup? Has he had a chance to investigate these allegations? If so what are his findings? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to public statements requesting the establishment of a genetics centre in Perth. 
What major cities in Australia have genetic centres. 
Does the establishment of such centres assist to reduce child deaths from genetic diseases. 
Will he indicate what assistance will be given to establish such centres, particularly in Perth. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to threats by the doctor at Karratha, Western Australia, to withdraw his services because of inadequate facilities and conditions generally. 
Has his attention also been drawn to the interest in the matter by the Trades and Labour Council which wishes to protect the workers there. 
What action is being taken to provide Australian Government assistance. 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to reports of Australian citizens travelling overseas being disadvantaged by lack of knowledge of their legal status in other countries. 
If so, will he have published by his Department a concise summary sheet of the legal status of Australian citizens in other countries for issue with passports and at departure points from Australia. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
Is it a fact, as alleged, that out of 340 school age children in the Yirrkala Aboriginal community on the Arnhem Land Reserve in the Northern Territory only 135 attend school. 
Is it also a fact that schooling for the Yirrkala children is not compulsory. 
If the position is as stated, will he confer with the relevant Minister to find a solution to the problem. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
What schools are within 3 miles of the Perth Airport. 
What schools are within the recognised approach paths and departure flight paths of the Airport. 
Are any of these schools insulated against noise. 
Does aircraft noise interfere with the functioning of these schools in any way. 
If so, are any plans under way to insulate these schools against noise. 
asked the Minister for Social 
Security, upon notice: 
Can he say what aged people are housed or hospitalised within the flight approach and departure paths of Perth Airport. 
Can he also say if any of these homes or hospitals are insulated against noise. 
Does his Department have any plans to ensure that sound insulation is available if required. 
asked the Minister representing  the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that Western Australian doctors, going to assist drought stricken Ethiopia by establishing a medical centre, have been refused financial assistance by the Disaster Emergencies Committee. 
If so, will the Minister investigate the situation with a view to seeing that assistance is required and may be given. 
I was interested to hear the previous  speaker  say that the timetable did not permit the previous Government to give Western Australia an extra seat. This is typical of anything that has ever been said by the Opposition about Western Australia - it is either too late or too early or too something or other. Western Australians usually get the harsh end of the deal. I am particularly pleased to see that in this case under this Government at least Western Australia is having some allowance made in that, facing an election, we are making room in the timetable to bring forward this particularly pertinent piece of legislation which at least will give some respect to Western Australians true feelings. If the record of metropolitan votes is any indication, the new seat of Tangney will follow the political colour of the person who so ably represented Western Australia in the Senate, as will the 5 senators who will be returned. It is with particular pleasure that I see this measure go forward. 
I do not wish to take up too much of the time of the House. This is a particularly fair distribution in the circumstances. The Commissioners have leaned over backwards, I feel, in an attempt to be fair. This is why there have been so few changes to the original recommendations that came forward even though I, for one, would have preferred to see the area of Applecross go back to Fremantle or some other area where the people are orientated in education, work, shopping and so on. In my opinion there has been a rather unnatural boundary and attachment to the area. It makes very little difference to the voting potential of the area but it is regrettable for the people concerned. However I was disappointed, as one always is in redistributions, to lose old friends in Manning and particularly in Bentley. I fail to understand the reasoning in moving (hem from the area of Swan. The distribution divides the area of Bentley - St James directly down the centre. The local shire council boundaries, shopping boundaries and so on are all centred within the area of Canning. However, I suppose that this resulted from the endeavours of the Commissioners to perform a very difficult job. 
I am particularly pleased to receive areas such as Guildford, Midland and Koongamia. But again, I feel that the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Maisey)  might possibly be upset at not having the areas of Swanview and Wexcombe added to the area of Swan. I think this might have been a logical conclusion. No doubt in some future redistribution this will be looked at. However, one regrettable feature is the high enrolment involved. If the 10 per cent difference had been preserved it would have been far preferable in the metropolitan area. When one looks at the new Swan electorate, at this moment with some 65,506 people, it makes one wonder about the justice of the service that can be offered to the people concerned. This is my concern - the fact that one member will represent such a wide area in the case of Swan distributed over an electorate about 16.3 miles long. No doubt I will service it to the best of my ability, but there is some inconvenience for people in travelling to the electoral office which is situated at East Victoria Park. Perhaps the question of relocation of the office needs to be looked at. These are factors which come out in redistributions. Somebody in the centre of an area before a redistribution usually finishes up in this situation. 
However, I am delighted that Western Australia is to have a tenth seat in the forthcoming election and I am delighted that the status quo will be preserved. Under these figures without question the seats of Swan and Perm will remain as they are with the type of representation that they have. All in all, I should like to take this opportunity to congratulate the Commissioners although I have some criticism of an overall job which has been well done, I feel, in the circumstances. My only regret is that it could not have been done prior to the last election so that Western Australia would have had at least another member on the Government benches. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
How much capital was extended by hire ourchase companies to motor vehicle dealers to finance floor planning of stock in each of the Australian States during the 5 calendar years prior to 1 January 1973. 
How much interest was earned in each of the States on the capital so advanced in each of the same years. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
How much capital was extended by hire purchase companies to the general public for financing the purchase of motor vehicles in each of the Australian States during each of the 5 calendar years prior to 1 January 1973. 
How much interest ' was earned in each of the States on the capital so advanced in each of the same years. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to suggestions that, in the interests of road safety, breathalyser equipment be installed at hotels for voluntary check by motorists. 
Will he have this suggestion investigated with a view to implementation. 
asked the Minister for Social 
Security, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to proposed evictions from aged persons homes, by aged persons organisations in Western Australia, because of disputes over rent and maintenance payments arising out of threats to expel members of the organisation for making public statements contrary to the organisation rules. 
If so, can he say whether their rules are undesirable and lead to conflict. 
What action can be taken to establish an independent arbitrator to consider matters of rent and maintenance in respect of Australian Government subsidised aged persons housing. 
What action can he take to settle existing disputes. 
asked the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the activities of the Civic Affairs Bureau in Perth. 
If so, can he say (a) who are the principals of this group, (b) what is their real purpose, (c) whether it is a front organisation for a political movement, (d) whether it is controlled within Australia and (e) whether it has overseas connections. 
Is the group controlled by the provisions of the Commonwealth Electoral Act. 
If not, will he provide for such groups to be controlled by the recently foreshadowed controls in this area. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Does a reciprocal agreement in tax matters exist, or are negotiations taking place for a reciprocal agreement, with the Republic of Ireland; if not, why not. 
If negotiations are taking place, what is the expected date of finalisation. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Were investigations made by the AttorneyGeneral's Department into the reasons for the closure of the 'Independent Sun' in Western Australia. 
If so, what were the findings of the inquiries. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
With reference to the Attorney-General's inquiries into the closure of the 'Independent Sun', Perth is it a fact that for several years the Mel-' bourne 'Age' has bought a Western Australian news service from the 'West Australian'. 
Is it also a fact that there was no reciprocal service involved. 
Has the Attorney-General's attention been drawn to a statement, alleged to have been made by  Mr K.  Macpherson, Managing Director of West Australian newspapers, and published in the 'West Australian' on 8 November 1973, to the effect that the 'Age' was supplying the 'Independent Sun' with a news service and that it was considered proper that the 'Sun' should supply the 'Age' with a West Australian news service. 
Did this proposition represent a major change in relations between the 'West Australian' and the Age'. 
Would the Attorney-General inquire as to when  Mr MacPherson  conveyed this message to the Age'. 
Would the Attorney-General also define whether this message represented a threat to the Age' news service from the 'West Australian'. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Is the Attorney-General able to investigate the constitution, membership and operation of the Newsagency Control Board of Western Australia and the agreements that newsagents in Western Australia are required to sign with West Australian Newspapers Ltd. 
If so, is it a fact, for example, that clause 14 of that agreement states that the agent shall not distribute any other daily, newspaper without the consent in writing of the Company and shall use his best endeavours to promote the sale and increase the circulation of the Company's newspapers. 
If so, does this and other aspects adversely affect the establishment of a second daily newspaper in Perth. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Are newspapers controlled solely by State Acts. 
In what States do Newsagency Control Boards exist. 
What is the composition of these Boards in each of the States 'and which are private or Government oriented. 
What are the areas of control of these Boards. 
Are any of the controls of a restrictive or monopolistic nature. 
If so, in which States do the apply and what is their nature. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Can the Attorney-General say if charges for newspaper advertising are affected by monopoly situations in Australia. 
How do charges for advertising space in Australian newspapers compare with major overseas newspapers. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Arising out of the Attorney-General's inquiries into the closure of the 'Independent Sun', Perth, will the Attorney-General examine the controls and restrictions on news services within Australia, particularly those concerning membership of Australian Associated Press and the availability of the Associations' service, with a view to ensuring that these conditions in no way restrict freedom of competition. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to reports that a 15-year-old Aboriginal lad appeared undefended by legal counsel in a Western Australian court on charges which could have led to his imprisonment for life. 
If so, will the Minister investigate the position with a view to implementing a system of checking and representation which will obviate the possibility of a re-occurrence of this type of incident. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
ls it a fact that the new hostel premises being constructed at Rossmoyne by the Pallotines are already nearing completion. 
Is it also a fact that youth are booked into it for the 1974 year. 
Can he say whether finance will need to come from overseas to complete the project if finance is unavailable from Australian sources. 
Is it a fact that mission funds from overseas have been advanced previously to the Pallotines in Australia to assist with their Aboriginal missions. 
Will he review the situation with a view to granting assistance to the Pallotines. 
asked the Minister representing  the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What fruit fly control measures are taken in each of the States. 
In which States are the home fruit growers compelled to be party to government or semigovernment authorities undertaking the spraying under threat of penalty. 
What are these penalties. 
What are the costs to the home owner in each ofth e States. 
Are any special provisions made for pensioners ina ny of the States; if so, what are the details. 
DrPat terson -  The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
All States have legislation requiring control of pests and diseases in horticultural crops. Specific fruit fly control measures are imposed in Western Australia, parts of Victoria and New South Wales. 
The Western Australian Government has a 'Compulsory Baiting Scheme', which can be applied following a 60 per cent affirmative vote at a poll held in any district. 
In Victoria there are proclaimed quarantine areas. Fruit movements from and to these areas are restricted and eradication measures are taken. 
In some inland areas of New South Wales a scheme of 'whole town treatment' may be imposed by local authorities following discovery of fruit fly. The treatment involves the use of bait and sprays and restriction of fruit movement. 
Western Australia and New South Wales. 
In Western Australia, penalties for noncompliance with fruit fly control can be up to $200 (minimum $10) under the Plant Diseases Acts and up to $50 under the Regulations. 
In New South Wales penalties of up to $100 can be incurred for failure to co-operate in any measures. 
Direct charges on the home owner are only imposed in Western Australia. Home gardeners pay once only, a 20 cents fee for vines or fruit trees of less than one acre, but when trees are planted on one acre or more and are four years old or more, a charge of 50 cents per year is made for each acre or part thereof. Under the'Compulsory Baiting Scheme', charges are determined by the statutory committee formed subsequent to a poll. 
No. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Health been drawn to reports criticising quarantine procedures in Western Australia? What steps has the Minister taken to investigate these reports and to ensure that proper quarantine measures are maintained in Western Australia? Is there any substance in the criticisms? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, who represents in this chamber the AttorneyGeneral. Has the Government yet had the opportunity to consider the Rae Committee findings on the state of Australia's securities industry? Does the Government accept the findings of the Committee and does it intend to take action to prevent such abuses as detailed therein occurring in future? 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Manufacturing Industry who represents the Attorney-General in this chamber. Is the Minister aware of the tragic situation in Western Australia with respect to the proposed provisions of the Fuel and Energy Bill now before the Western Australian State Liberal Government's Parliament which, it is alleged by the Law Society of Western Australia, State politicians and community leaders in that State, will remove civil liberties of Australian citizens? Will the Minister clarify how the provisions of this Bill affect the civil liberties of Australian citizens? Will the Minister clarify what protection is afforded the legal and civil rights of Australian citizens acting in Western Australia in disputes under direction by Federal organisations in respect of national decisions which cause the invoking of the penal provisions of that Fuel and Energy Bill? What protection can be offered to Australian citizens who go to Western Australia to carry out duties on behalf of a national body from the threat of the application of the provisions of the West Australian Act arising from the duties which they perform? 
I rise to draw attention further to the tragic circumstances in Western Australia where legislation which has been sent from the Lower House to the Upper House proposes to take from Australian citizens their basic freedoms at law and to give to an elected government powers which were not mentioned during that government's election manifesto. I refer to the Fuel and Power Resources Act Amendment Bill which was introduced by the Western Australian Liberal Government. It is alarming that there is no suggestion of a referendum to find out from the public whether they accept the concept involved in the legislation. The Law Society of Western Australia, trade union leaders, State Opposition members and community leaders are expressing their abhorrence of the proposals which take from citizens the right to trial by jury, which gives the Government the power of summary arrest, and which enable searches of homes without warrant to be carried out at a Minister's direction. 
I have said in this House in regard to similar legislation which was proposed here at one time by the previous Government that, even if one were to accept the concept that the existing administration is soundly based- in this case I do not think that the people who could propose such legislation are soundly based- once these laws are made they will be used in the future, perhaps by someone who is not of the same political beliefs, to suppress the public for other reasons than industrial ones, that is, for purely political ones. I have been dismayed to find that not one word of criticism has been uttered by the Federal Liberal Party representatives in this House to protect the freedom of their constituents- a freedom which once lost perhaps will be impossible to regain without bloodshed. 
It is appalling that there has been such neglect by those responsible for putting forward such extreme legislation which could be ascribed only to the worst types of government such as dictatorships or fascist administrations. These people should have been persuaded that the legislation should be withdrawn. It is a pity the Federal Liberal representatives have not approached their State counterparts to have the legislation completely redrafted, if not withdrawn. The legislation is sinister in its intent. It is not impossible to think of political candidates at a forthcoming election finding themselves in prison for activities or statements of support for workers' actions. Such things happen in countries not far from our shores. 
Even more restrictive amendments could be moved during an emergency session of Parliament called during an emergency declared by a Minister to give himself wider powers. If the Press and other media were suppressed during such sittings of the Parliament no reports of the proceedings would go forward to the public. This is possible within the terms of the Bill. In fact, if all the people, including those in the Law Society, who are protesting today were to protest during a declared emergency they would be subject to arrest and penalties. I would venture to say that today's protest outside Parliament House in Western Australia would be impossible under the terms of the Bill which suspends our proud West Australian heritage, our democratic constitution in that State. 
It is useless for a Minister or a member of any Party to say that they would not use the power in this way. Let us face it; politicians and political parties come and go but the statutes they create remain to be used by yet unknown people in the future. This is the tragedy of the situation. 
Instead of examining all the old, restrictive, unnecessary laws carried on from the unenlightened English anti-working class laws, which still apply unless repealed by a State, or requesting this national Parliament to examine and withdraw any anti-worker or anti-freedom laws instituted by previous national Parliaments, the Western Australian Liberal Party continues to support and perhaps even to suggest more repressive laws. The amazing situation is that there is no existing need for such legislation. The reason for the introduction of the legislation can be only political. The Bill has been brought forward perhaps to avoid future elections by suppression of political Parties and their supporters. If that is not so these provisions should not be in the Bill. 
As the legislation is retrospective in its nature, what will happen in the future when it is amended and when an emergency is declared to include the current protestors as offenders? These State people are obviously power crazy. They are prepared to suppress all opposition at all costs. How will they finance their special police force appointed privately by the State Minister? How will they finance the prisons specially established to hold the thousands of people who could be arrested on the accusation only of someone opposed to their beliefs? The money must come from somewhere, and perhaps this is where the answer lies to the real reason for the legislation. It appears that this scheme is to be sponsored by some overseas force looking to control our fuel and energy resources. Will this force provide the finance needed, because no responsible national government- even a Liberal one, I hope- would supply funds for a government to arrest people without charge or to hold them without trial. The Australian Constitution would not allow funds to be provided for such repression. Such finance could never come from national funds. 
To whom is the Western Australian Liberal Government actually beholden? This is something that everyone in Western Australia would like to know because no responsible freedomloving Western Australian could dream up so much repression or in fact support it. Perhaps the legislation will be amended at this time but the fact will remain that the total repressions were initially introduced and withdrawn or amended only as a result of public pressure. This pressure could take place only before the Bill becomes law because when it is law no person will be able to protest for fear of an emergency being declared. In fact many people who are about to demonstrate today outside the State Parliament 
House have asked me what protection they have from retaliation by State Liberals. All that I have been able to tell them is that if the present State Government fails to act in a reasonable manner and invokes penalties they will be in very real danger. So the fact that they are prepared to defy any dictatorship shows the depth of their revulsion at the proposals and their fear for the future. 
I have never known such public accord to such repression which most people describe as fascism. If this proposed law has done one thing it has united large sections of the community behind the State Labor Opposition in the need to root out this evil. People are demonstrating today and they will demonstrate in the future because they believe that this legislation will be used, and used viciously. They are frightened, and rightly so. Today I asked the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Mr Enderby)  who represents the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  in this chamber, what protection could be offered to Australian citizens who go to Western Australia to act on national decisions? It is possible that during an emergency lasting some 6 months they could be gaoled. It would appear that there is a possibility that no protection from a Minister's decision is available to them. It is frightening to think that people could in the normal course of their employment travel interstate and lose the protection of the law normally afforded them in their own State which would allow them to appeal to the High Court of Australia. This protection will be denied them. All Australians should interest themselves in what is happening in Western Australia because they could be the next to lose their democratic rights. They should realise, as Western Australians have realised, that the threat to freedom is not in Canberra but much closer to home. 
We have a situation in which there is the obvious collaboration of outside interests who wish to create something similar to what happened in Chile and in other nations where freedom has been suppressed. One only has to look at countries adjacent to Australia where Parliaments are closed or where truly free elections fail to take place, to realise that we do not have some sacred form of immunity from the international forces which affect the internal politics of other nations. Let us recognise that when some State authority has sold its principle for power and personal gain. I believe that this has happened in Western Australia. I believe that some people in Western Australia would be prepared to seize all power and even secede, no matter how illegal such action would be, from the federation to establish a totalitarian system of some son without giving 
Western Australians the opportunity to express their opinions on the matter by way of referendum or election. For what other reason would the State Government push forward with such ruthlessness this type of repressive legislation which the highest judicial authority in Western Australia is - 
-I rise to speak on the Sewerage Agreements Bill 1974 which will appropriate additional funds for sewerage backlog works in Victoria, Queensland and, more importantly to me, in Western Australia. It provides for Western Australia a further $3m in addition to the $3.8m already granted under the principal agreement for works commenced by 1 July 1974. The previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay),  made incredible allegations about the discussions with the States. In fact the Australian Government has accepted the States' recommendations on this matter and has given the States all they have asked for; so it is incredible that the previous  speaker  should not be aware of this fact. He is probably aware that in his own electorate of Boothby $450,000 was provided under the last agreement. I mention this fact in case he was not aware. 
The honourable member referred to the total inability of the States to finance sewerage schemes without national government assistance. In that respect I agree with him. For the constituents of my electorate of Swan the sewerage work undertaken initially by the then Tonkin State Labor Government with funds provided by the Australian Labor Government represented something more than connection to a sewer system. It meant freedom from pollution of the often high water table in the region, particularly in the Canning area. The ability to undertake proposals to develop an area, although only 6 miles from the heart of Perth, was affected because of building restrictions which prevented such development to its full potential. The lack of sewerage facilities was the main barrier. It is sad to say that this neglect had been perpetuated by State and Federal governments over many years until the coming of a Labor Administration in 1972 when State and Federal governments began to work together. I hasten to add that this is in no way a reflection on local government which recognised the need for sewerage. 
This matter has been the subject of constant public debate. There have been many calls for action which have been ignored. Is it any wonder that $3m was required to be spent on sewerage works in the Swan electorate in 1972-73? I am most grateful for such expenditure. I hope that the program initially undertaken by the State Labor Administration will be continued by the existing State Government whose leaders have, on occasion, expressed a desire not to allocate funds in this area. In fact, they are on record as indicating a preference for developers to be able to use package treatment plants and not to be compelled to have mainline sewers provided. It is hoped that the proper overall plan already undertaken will be continued despite the expressed reluctance of leaders of the present Western Australian Government. 
Sewerage works are labour intensive and will assist to provide employment for workers in the industry, for suppliers of material to the industry and for workers in other supply areas. The extra $3m will provide for local employment opportunities and for a better standard of living for local residents. It will offer redevelopment opportunities in high water table areas thus doing away with the horrors of septic tank use which is causing pollution to underground water in the porous sandstone below the Perth area. It should be remembered that underground water already provides a significant portion of Perth's water supply and is likely to become a more significant source of drinking water for that city in the future. It is therefore imperative that the possibility of pollution to this water by sewage be removed. 
In the suburb of Koongamia in my electorate, because of the hills and the composition of the clay base soil, State Housing Commission homes are not as yet connected to a sewerage system although pipe headworks are available. Household reticulation has not taken place. The result was that during last winter there was an overflow of septic tanks and leach drains into the storm water system and into the fresh water upper reaches of the Helena and Swan rivers. This was a disgraceful state of affairs. In fact, the State member for the area,  Mr Jack  Skidmore, drew my attention to one family whose carport and general area was flooded by refuse and who had to suffer the resultant stench. It is to be hoped that his approaches to the State authority will help hasten the overcoming of this problem. For the first time money for the necessary environmental works has been provided to the Western Australian authorities by a national government. The completion date for all sewerage works in the metropolitan areas is 1 982-83. 
Western Australians have commented to me that they are amazed at critical statements of the national Government by those in Opposition- by those who had taken no steps to offer a solution to the problems themselves. Today Opposition supporters speak only critically, which amazes me. People have made the point that when the proposed program reaches such areas as Geraldton and Kalgoorlie and other regional towns with populations exceeding 20,000 in Western Australia, the existing State Government will not indicate from whom the funds and planning will come. This is one of the major reasons why I think the State Government needs to be directed where to spend the funds. The Australian Labor Government planned these reticulation schemes initially and it will fund these initial projects but the Western Australian Government will continue to denigrate that effort. I am forced to agree with my constituents views on this aspect. 
In 1973-74 some $27.9m was paid out in repayable advances to all States. This sum contributed to the provision of some 79 reticulation projects, to 35 main, sub-main and carrier sewers, to 6 pumping stations and to 10 treatment plants. It must have been a record year but, quite frankly, who knows about it? Where has this been reported in the Press? Further expansion has been limited because of manpower availability and the need not to cause inflationary pressures by creating excess demands in the material supply field. Obviously there has been lack of forward planning for the production of supplies in some States. Although they can perhaps be excused for a lack of forward planning, it is unusual to see such consistent planning for the future by a national government with such a massive availability of funds for a specific purpose. 
This Bill ensures that existing programs will be maintained at peak level. It ensures that in my area the Perth Metropolitan Water Board will be able immediately to undertake mainline works in the Cannington, Queens Park and other areas. In fact, without this assistance it would have to cut back its works program with a consequent reduction in contract staff because I have been given to understand that the State does not have the funds to finance these works. The proposed expenditure will enable a reduction of the 102,000 unsewered homes in Western Australia Another important aspect is that it will help to overcome continuing pollution of our water reserves and waterways, including the Helena, Canning and Swan rivers. As time progresses we hope to see a better co-ordinated national approach to Australia 's water resources so that they can be utilised in the most effective way. 
This Bill is only part of a new and more responsible approach to urban affairs. It represents an appreciation of the need to provide a better environment for urban dwellers. We must bear in mind that this has been achieved only since December 1972, a year and a half ago. If one looks to the possibilities for the future in respect of what can be achieved in the urban environment by a national government under a responsible Minister, such as we now have, and one bears in mind the assistance given to local government through the Grants Commission and through the many other subsidy schemes now operating, and one sees other programs take shape and come to fruition eliminating problems associated with urban life- programs related to transport, health and social amenities- one realises the delays which have adversely affected progress in these matters. I refer to the delay of legislation in another place. We hope that this legislation will not be blocked in that House, because no doubt we have suffered some delays due to the double dissolution. It is hoped that these benefits will not be denied to the States due to any delay in what should be the States ' House. All the 3 States that will benefit specially under the legislation have commenced work. Any delay would be a tragedy. 
It should be noted that in 1974-75 $95m will be made available to the States- $88m for the larger cities, $5m for smaller centres and $2m for support activities. The amount being provided for 1974-75 sewerage works will be a mixture of non-repayable grants and loans at the long term bond rate. In numerical terms the sewerage backlog can be expressed at 537,300 dwellings or 17 per cent of the total number of houses in towns of 20,000 persons or over. So one can see the need for the urgency of having this Bill put to the other House and carried. I only hope that this happens. I support the Bill. 
I rise to speak about the Budget in the hope that we can get back to a serious atmosphere after listening to the last  speaker,  the honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley).  He criticised a  speaker  before him who cut red tape in getting information to this House and to the public about a levy of 10 per cent on unearned income after the level of application had been formulated. No doubt as further legislation goes to committees for formulation and amendment he will continue to criticise it. This proves what little there is left to criticise in the Budget itself. In fact it becomes an area for silly criticisms. I was rather amused to hear the age old subject of politicians' salaries brought into the debate, bearing in mind that a certain honourable member on the Opposition side who has spoken on this matter wanted $30,000-odd for members of Parliament. I am not arguing the case but I thought it was unfortunate that it came into the debate. 
I did not name the honourable member for Chisholm. I was not sure it was he who said it. I thank him for the identification; it is good to know. 
I am sorry about that. This is a momentous Budget. It follows a formulated policy which is consistently running through the Budgets presented by this Government. I listened to the Budget with a feeling of deep personal pleasure after hearing the grim forebodings of the Press and the Opposition. I could not take too seriously what was said about the Budget by the previous speakers because I have listened in this place to the knocking of people opposed to our endeavours to help Australians and to help the workers. Perhaps I had come to pay attention to them and had not thought that it was not political bias on their pan, but after tonight I cannot do so. After hearing the Budget Speech and the Opposition's reply, and then reading the newspaper editorials in my own State, I realise how ridiculous it is to expect anything but unthinking- or is it planned- constant abuse of anything constructive done by this Government. When I cast my mind back I recall it was these same people who advised others to vote no in the prices and incomes referendum. What a hypocritical turnaround. The tragedy of it is that their efforts are destroying their own supporters in the small business field. This is happening as a result of their constant fear mongering and their constant appeals to other people to refuse all things which are federal. They are destroying the confidence of their supporters. They are causing them to ask: 'Why continue? Let us give it away.' Their attitude has resulted in the collapse of the enterprise of some small business people, and the near collapse of others, who, if they had not been subjected to this irresponsible continuing barrage of depression talk would, as true Australians and as true entrepreneurs, have accepted the challenge of change and progress. It is not too late for responsible people to put up and shut up and get down to a national effort to overcome any problem. 
In this Budget, the Government has refused to deny the community its right to amenities, health services, urban services such as sewerage and transport, and education. Many new proposals are encompassed in the Budget. I ask those who stand in this place and condemn the Budget to say specifically where they would cut back on expenditure and would deny to the Australian public its just rights. I appreciate that it is normally the duty of an Opposition to criticise. But if members of the Opposition genuinely believe that a crisis exists, let them stop the nonsense and get down to supporting the solution. I say this sincerely and in a friendly manner as the number of my constituents who have said just this to me surprises me. They have let me know that they do not wish to be associated with, as they put it, the 'knockers opposite' whom they normally support. 
In the last year of the Twenty-eighth Parliament, with respect to my electorate, not one word of appreciation came forth from the Opposition in respect of the $3m spent on sewerage, not one word was said of the sum in excess of $250,000 spent on road safety projects and not one word was said of the tractor bounty subsidies totalling $ 1.75m paid to the Chamberlain's organisation to provide cheaper tractors for farmers and to ensure continued employment and trading in that industry. No reference was made to the immense increase in expenditure on education or to the innumerable other benefits. Again, all we heard from the Opposition was constant harping criticism. I do not expect any better standard of performance for the coming year. 
Despite the many benefits granted to local authorities in Western Australia, not one word of recognition of the actions of this Government has come from the Opposition. A direct grant of $490,000 was made to the Stirling City Council. No recognition was accorded this grant. Several grants of a substantial nature were made to local authorities in my electorate and not one word of recognition has been forthcoming with respect to that area. The situation is that the health benefits, nursing home benefits and the social security benefits which have been paid have been constantly decried. No recognition has been given to grants; there are only these continuing damning attacks on anything of a federal nature that is done. I say quite seriously to those who are opposed to the Labor Party that if they continue in this way they will find themselves in a situation in which nobody will believe anything that they say even when they have something of importance to contribute. 
I have had constant contact over the last few days with people in my electorate who have all used the expression: 'Who are we to believe?' Let me illustrate the problem that they face. The Swan Shire Council has received $1 10,000 from the Australian Government without any strings attached. Yet the Local Government Association of Western Australia opposes local authorities receiving any federal assistance. I turn to the South Perth City Council which has received $95,000. The  President  of the Local Government Association, which opposes federal grants to local governments, is a member of that Council. So, who was he to be.'l.- The Melville City Council received $147,000. I believe that they did not support us in our referendum. The Belmont Shire Council received $135,000. The Canning County Council received $172,000. We are putting our money where our mouth is. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Labor and Immigration. Can the Minister indicate what steps are being taken to provide further employment in Western Australia, particularly in the Perth area? 
-When this debate was adjourned last Thursday I was making the point that very little recognition has been given to the new impetus in the funding of the State and local governments and of organisations generally by the Australian Government. In fact, so many people have been so busy fighting about national issues that there is a lack of awareness of how to go about applying for the money grants that are available to them. The appalling situation has arisen in Western Australia of some shires not even applying for grants under the first review by the Grants Commission, which for the first time allows for direct funding of councils by the Australian Government. In fact, the only published comment from the responsible State Minister, who incidentally is opposed to direct grants to councils, was that the grants were insufficient in some cases. 
I ask: Just how long can this system of government that we know continue under this continuous barrage of mischievous and irresponsible misrepresentation? How can people be expected to respect laws made by a system so often ridiculed by the people participating in it? Of course they will not and so the system itself will break down unless we all apply ourselves seriously to making it work. We have people on both sides of the political spectrum who say the world is in an economic crisis and that the economic system under which we live has run out of wars to bolster its industries and to solve its employment problems. Whether this be true or not, there is no need to succumb to the constant fear mongering being promoted in certain sections of our community. This is one of the major causes adversely affecting the business community. I would suggest that in the interests of the people they claim to represent, solutions, not criticisms, be offered if they sincerely believe what they say. 
I was particularly pleased with the Government's intention to implement taxation relief on home mortgage interest payments. I was further encouraged by the fact that such proposal will favour those on a lower income, for they are the people who need relief most, not the people on the higher scales. I personally believe, and have been encouraged in this view by public expressions of opinion, that the tax must become a pay-as-you-earn deduction to give the maximum possible relief, for no matter what the implementation difficulty this could mean the difference in relieving heavy personal hardship in the community. I am personally aware of people who have their homes on the market because of increased home repayments. If we are to have any hope of wage restraint- to have any hope of taking the sheer desperation out of the call for increased weekly incomes to meet the sudden increase in home repayment pressures- surely the way to achieve it is through a weekly tax deduction system. 
It has been said that the people who are suffering are those who have over-bought- those who have over-committed themselves. But the situation is that they have been encouraged to do this by previous administrations. I refer particularly to those people in the migrant community who have been brought to Australia with nothing but perhaps the proceeds from the sale of their life achievement- their homes. They have immediately been encouraged to purchase another home in Australia and as they have not sufficient money to buy a home without securing a first and second mortgage they have committed themselves for all their earned income, gambling on the inflationary spiral of wages continuing in order to make ends meet. Many have entered into hire purchase agreements for home fittings. The less cautious have secured personal loans. This system was government sponsored in the first place. Everyone knew what was occurring but now that the folly of the system has caught up with the situation it is not sufficient to say let the buyer beware, and abandon those people. 
I appreciate that in Western Australia the State Government has appointed a committee to deal with real hardship cases but this in itself is not sufficient to solve the problem. The answer lies in the taxation system and in giving weekly relief to those people. If the Treasury cannot devise a scheme surely we should be prepared even to use consultants in this field. We should not be ashamed to admit to a lack of expertise in a given area. The benefit envisaged by this form of taxation relief will be $S00m in the first year, so I urge that the benefit be on a weekly basis. It is to be noted that those on the lower income scale will receive relief outside that planned for the home interest rate scheme. This will apply under the revised personal income taxation scheme which will ensure that the tax saving comes up to 40 per cent under the new rates to apply from 1 November 1974. In some cases this will mean that personal income tax will be abolished. The weekly abolition of tax payments would be of even greater benefit to other low income earners if a pay-as-you-earn scheme was brought in for home interest payments. 
The subsidy for aged persons' dwellings is to be increased to $4 to $ 1 for every home supplied by a building group. I hope that with this most generous increase in subsidy the welfare of tenants is safeguarded. I speak seriously of this aspect for many tenants are widowed people who sell their homes, with their memories of life's endeavours, to pay the donations to the aged persons homes organisation which provides no capital of its own but which attracts donations from the people who become founding donors. Some people pay up to $5,000 and gain no equity in the home. They pay a weekly rental which is called a maintenance charge. This weekly payment is decided in most cases by nonresident members of the homes- by people whose incomes frequently are higher than the incomes of the residents. I appreciate that these people are voluntary workers who devote much time to assisting a community effort. However because often no residents of the homes are represented on the boards of management those boards lack the advantage of having the views of residents. I hope that those claiming subsidies in the future will be required to ensure such resident representation on the boards of management to ensure protection of residents in particular units, firm terms of refund to those vacating units and the establishment of criteria for determining weekly payments. Most importantly, there should be appointed an independent umpire to whom residents can appeal. Perhaps such umpire could be an officer of the Department of Social Security. The management committee, of course, should also be enabled to appeal to the umpire. The question of the resale of units will always arise with respect to those organisations long established. They should agree to try new terms in the interest of the people they serve. 
Let us face facts, these organisations have been able to obtain freehold assets from founder donors and from government payments of taxpayers' money. These homes belong not to the community but to the organisations which hold the title deeds. There is no reason why such organisations cannot capitalise on their assets by sale or by mortgages and as these assets are created by the expenditure of public money I believe it is only fair that action be taken to ensure the continued protection of public money so invested. The Minister's intervention in that area would be appreciated not only by myself but also by the many residents and intending residents. 
The extension of eligibility under the States Grants (Dwellings for Aged Pensioners) Act to include single repatriation service pensioners who are permanently unemployable or suffering from tuberculosis, single invalid pensioners and class B widow pensioners is a welcome and overdue decision. This will lead over a 3-year period to grants totalling $30m. Some of the people who have been asking for cuts in Government expenditure no doubt would suggest that the Government cut back in this area, but with such a backlog of this type of accommodation throughout Australia it would be inhuman to follow such suggestions. The Government has cut back its expenditure in the Public Service sector. Employment growth is restricted to 2.6 per cent which amounts to an effective increase of 1 per cent for the year ending 30 June 1975. It would be impracticable to suggest further cuts when one notes the increased work load on public servants because of the Australian Government's continuing program of involvement in community affairs and its determination to give the Australian public a better way of community life. If, of course, the critics can suggest a staff saving in a particular area it undoubtedly will be implemented after proper examination. 
One particular aspect which has brought many expressions of relief from people who have approached previous governments without success has been the granting of tax concessional reductions for dependants residing overseas. The magnitude of the personal relief to many of my constituents has been brought home to me by their expressions of appreciation. 
It is to be hoped that sufficient funds will be found by the States to upgrade existing State housing commission homes. I have long been disappointed in the standard of many commission homes offered to people who have no other choice. When one considers the vast sums granted in this Budget- some $235m to the States in 1974-75- for such housing it is to be hoped that attention will be given to this area. I am pleased to note that in my State the Western Australian Housing Commission has programmed the upgrading of all rental properties constructed prior to 1966. This program will be implemented over the next 5 years commencing 1974-75. This would be possible only with the infusion of Australian Government funds. It is only by this direct interest and involvement that the Australian public will receive a fair share of this nation's prosperity. Let the fearmongers, the national disrupters, cease their nonsense. They should do so in the national interest. Members of the Opposition claim that the Australian Government has failed in the defence area. I note that defence expenditure in 1971-72 when a LiberalCountry Party Government was in power totalled $1,1 64m. The proposed expenditure in the Budget now before the House on defence is $ 1,499m. This is a fantastic increase when one considers the situation today when there are no wars to support - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I rise to speak in this grievance debate of the 29th Parliament because of the number of letters and other communications I have received from constituents saying that they hope that this Parliament will continue, that sanity will prevail and that the Parliament will not be curtailed in mid-stream as the previous one was by an election which cost more in terms of manpower, money, and lost progressive time than any industrial dispute in the nation's history. 
Public, reaction to these stop-go parliaments is one of disgust. I have taken the opportunity to send the text of the newspaper cuttings relating to private armies and matters of that nature about which people are complaining to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and have asked for his comment. When that is available I will send it to my constituents in reply. The complaints are so many that I think a circular will be required. Perhaps that will answer the interjections. The reaction of people is that we should get on with government and that honourable members opposite should stop playing the man and start playing the game. Perhaps the interjector will take note of that point. I have my personal doubts about whether the wishes of the public will be upheld for already there is the indication that attempts will be made to continue constant elections until the Opposition wins what it considers to be the lottery of the ballot. Because of what has transpired over the last few months we have seen a general downturn in public respect for the Parliament. I am losing my respect for some honourable members in it- and what it stands for. The people are losing respect for those who practise the profession of politics. I do not say this lightly but arising out of my contact with people not only in my electorate but also in other electoratesI interpose to say that I travel interstate often and have wide contact with people in other electorates- I find that people are fed up with political allegations and counter allegations and the old saying: 'Anything you can do, I can do better'. We should settle down to looking after the nation's interests and not our own interests. 
This Government has shown a consistency of purpose in its adherence to stated and published welfare policy no matter what the opposition. The Government is sincere. Indeed it was prepared to go again to the people soon after its election on its record to receive re-endorsement of its mandate. Above all the Government has demonstrated to those who had any doubts about what was said to be its lavish welfare program that such program would be implemented despite the desperate methods used within and without the Parliament to prevent its implementation. Any reversal of these policies by any antiLabor Government pressure groups, such as we have in this House, would mean that many people in my electorate would be adversely affected and many more in dire need. 
Western Australia has had a long history of neglect in State Housing Commission areas, particularly in respect of maintenance works. Some properties have been neglected for so long that it is now claimed that it is uneconomic to repair them. People are expected to continue living in those houses. Had the properties belonged to other than the State Housing Commission the local shire councils would have instituted work orders or condemned the properties. Recently the Western Australian State Government retrenched maintenance workers despite the desperate neglect of some State houses. An unfortunate aspect of this situation is that the properties are allocated to tenants who have already suffered life's setbacks and sorrows. They are deserted wives, widows, widowers, invalid pensioners and people who have been evicted from homes because of unfortunate circumstances. These people are not in a position to reject the neglected properties when offered them. In most cases such people are offered only one house; they have no choice. If a person refuses an offer he is expected to wait a further 6 months for another offer. If he accepts the offer he must wait 2 years at that address before becoming eligible for a transfer to better accommodation. These people have little desire to draw attention to themselves by public protest. In fact they comprise the least likely section of the community to protest at any level. 
Some of these homes have leaking roofs, damp and collapsing ceilings and dangerous electrical wiring and fittings. Many are in dire need of painting. They have rusting roofs. Not only are these homes uninhabitable but also they lower the standard of the area in which they are situated. These areas are usually sufficiently depressed without having these neglected homes. Other residents are trying at their own expense, to maintain a reasonable standard of living. Many of their homes are of credit to them. The shires often contribute to the depressed state of these areas by persisting with the original and narrow roads, open stormwater drains and few, if any, footpaths. These areas lack playing fields. The theory seems to exist that the shires do not get sufficient rates from these areas to justify expenditure on general maintenance, rubbish removal and pothole repairs. The housing authorities are just as guilty as the shires for tolerating the situation. It is not sufficient to simply build meagre accommodation and then forget the tenants. I raise the issue here, for the disgrace is that the funds for the dilapidated buildings, the branch maintenance funds, originally were allocated by the Parliament to the State on the trust that it would look after the welfare of the State citizens- all Australian citizens. All Australian citizens should be treated equally and the Western Australian citizen should receive as much consideration as a citizen in another State. If the State is not performing the functions entrusted to it the Australian Government should take a closer interest in the welfare of neglected people. 
I have raised this matter with the Federal Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  who has asked his Department to investigate neglected homes in neglected areas. In fact the Minister was good enough to personally inspect the area of Maniana in my electorate with me recently. Undoubtedly that area needs upgrading. Apart from the homes needing maintenance the area requires roads and footpaths. A large number of homes lack basic comforts necessary for aged and infirm people. Invalids are expected to use chip bath heaters. This may not seem a matter of great importance but it is of concern to a person who is incapacitated in some way. When such a person applies for a better facility he is told that no funds are allocated for this purpose. The national Parliament is able to supply funds for pensions, surely the State could make these homes habitable. Some attempt was made by the previous State government to clean up the backlog of neglect but the project was so vast that it was hardly under way when the new State government laid maintenance workers off despite the obvious need for their services. I am, therefore, pleased that welfare housing will be a priority of the national Parliament. One hopes that the shires which are undertaking regional redevelopment schemes and receiving Australian Government funds under the employment schemes will pay attention to these areas because this is a matter of urgency. 
I trust that the State authorities will pay urgent attention to this matter particularly when it is already planned to institute a massive program of upgrading homes. If this work were undertaken there would be no unemployment of building workers in the Perth area. In all areas of maintenance work- painting, structural repairs and plumbing- there is sufficient work to ensure a continuity of employment for some time not in the provision of new homes but in making existing welfare homes comparable to the homes supplied by private enterprise. There are several housing commission areas which do not require attention. All I ask is that all people who occupy government housing be treated equally. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-l rise to support the Conciliation and Arbitration (Organisations) Bill with much personal pleasure as this Bill is a milestone in Australian arbitration history. It removes much of the fears that arbitration as we know it will cease to work at an early date. There are different views as to the origin of the Moore v Doyle case. Contrary to the view of the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  who has just spoken, one union view is that employer interests financed the case to break the drive on piece workers in the form of owner-drivers who it was alleged at the time were being encouraged to break down the standards set quite largely by consent agreements between employer and union. 
It amazes me to find suddenly that the Opposition is coming out as a belated champion of the unions after spending almost every sitting day in union bashing. This is an incredible situation. I expect that it will be back to normal tomorrow. Also, I have heard read a telegram from a State Minister from Western Australia who has just been party to some of the most restrictive legislation destroying civil liberties that has taken place in Western Australia. I refer to the recent fuel and energy legislation in that State. This is an absolutely incredible situation. Any arguments which may have been subsequently put forward are completely discredited in my mind by that type of support for this legislation. In fact the whole situation indicates possible continuing legal challenge. One wonders how long employers Will tolerate this continuing creation of false disputes for political ends. With its accompanying ill feeling and loss of money and man hours, it is easy to see why the problem was kept alive for 5 years by the previous Government, even after it was made aware of the true situation. Since the disastrous Moore v. Doyle case the most important arm of arbitration in Aus.tralia the trade union structure- has been in constant jeopardy, exposed to the capricious actions of any employer or any person who wished to cause disruption within the arbitration and trade union system. It has only been because of the high standards of behaviour and sense of responsibility of people acting within this system that it has not in fact been destroyed. Once this Bill becomes law this fear will be minimised. 
Among those who support an arbitration system in Australia, this legislation will, we hope, encourage its use. Those who oppose peace within the arbitration system will no doubt oppose this legislation because it takes away from them the opportunity to cause dissension and dissatisfaction amongst the rank and file members of unions. Also it removes some of the anomalies which have existed in the past, such as the need to have a State organisation registered within a State, with the need to hold separate meetings, to have separate books of accounts, separate elections, separate returns to aU authorities and separate minute books, all to be open to challenge on any decision made within an organisation which claims to be a part of a federal organisation. 
In some States there has been a history of bodies breaking away from the main body because of some issue of the day, usually taking the form of a State body declaring its individual autonomy with a separate set of officials. The pattern for this frustrating disunity and trade union destructive machinery lies in the requirement to have dual registration and dual independent bodies in a given State. Under this legislation we hope to overcome these problems, although personally I do not doubt that there will always be groups of people within the community who will in pursuance of their political beliefs or for self-advancement continue to challenge such legislation in order to create disruption from which they personally may gain. 
I feel that while there is money to be made by using the forms of law to cause disruption, all arbitration legislation will always be open to challenge. Arbitration will only prosper in this country if the barriers, formalities and pomp are removed from the system. If all the money that has been spent on both the employers' side and unions' side had been invested in a conciliation of differences of views, the settlement of disputes and the training of industrial representatives on both sides, the arbitration system in Australia would have been enhanced beyond recognition. The non-use of the brain power and the money to finance a system to bring about a solution such as is contained in this Bill is an indictment of a system which has allowed itself to be exposed to attack and has been allowed to continue in this way for a period of 5 years. It has allowed strikes to take place and also lost man-hours to be perpetuated on demarcation disputes during that period. One wonders whether people are in fact sincere when they indicate that they want a solution. I only hope that in their foggy thinking they did not believe that it was to their advantage to maintain a dispute in order to weaken one side or the other. 
The Minister is to be commended for the stand he has taken and for his determination to offer a solution. It is to be hoped that this is recognised and appreciated by the States and in particular the authorities in Western Australia who are putting forward complementary legislation. Without the co-operation of the State bodies this legislation will not have the required effect. The indications are that Western Australia will follow the example which has been set by New South Wales. To most organisations the important factor in this legislation is the intention to validate any election or purported election, appointment or purported appointment, and the making or purported making or alteration or purported alteration of a rule. In this sense it could be said that the legislation is retrospective. Most people look askance at retrospective legislation. However, bearing in mind the importance of a stable trade union and arbitration system in this nation there is an urgent need to attempt to find a solution to our problems. 
An interesting thought which occurs to me is the actual validity in terms of State registration of State unions where union representatives validly enrolled in a federal organisation and not in a State organisation have participated in State union affairs, such as elections, but have not signed the proper application card in that State. I would question the validity of annual membership figures within the State registration system and also the proper appointment of many of the people who appear on their behalf within the arbitration system. A good deal has had to be taken on trust since the Moore v. Doyle case. Those who were aware of the true basic situation prior to this case- some having taken part in breakaway groups in the States and some having taken part in purported amalgamations between State and Federal bodies- realised the urgent need for all parties to put their house in order or have industrial anarchy. There are many insecure union registrations, both State and Federal. There are many insecurely held union positions. What would be the position in many of the cases involving writs taken out in the past where it was proved that the person charged or the person who had brought on the charge was not a properly elected person, that the organisation named in the charge or dispute was not actually the one so named because of some deficiency in forming, reforming or uniting? 
One could go on in this field indefinitely. Suffice to say this is not an exercise to expose past or present malfunctions but to offer a solution to them. I am not saying that there will not be problems of a domestic nature in respect of some bodies. It is to be hoped that any problems which arise can be determined in the overall interest of seeking a solution which will help all in industry to obviate the internal disputation which is constantly being brought about by clashes of personality or the whipping up of disputes by some political interests in order to further their own ends. The quicker this legislation and complementary State legislation is passed the better it will be for industrial peace. I commend the legislation. 
-In rising to support these 3 Bills- the Aged Persons Hostels Bill, the Delivered Meals Subsidy Bill and the Aged and Disabled Persons Homes Bill- I must indicate the tremendous upsurge in the provision of aged persons homes that will take place with the increase of the subsidy from $2 for $1 to $4 for $ 1. It is to be hoped that this will enable more rental units to be made available to the aged and will enable the charging of lower donations for entry if the costs as compared with today's costs of buildings are taken into consideration by the organisations affected. More importantly, I hope that the increased subsidy will encourage church bodies, local government bodies and other organisations to utilise for this purpose land they now hold near to local amenities. Particularly in my electorate, the waiting lists are far too long for those with money for the entry fee, but for those without the fee for entry the situation is quite hopeless. They are at the mercy of the whims of the more unscrupulous sections of the community and are being forced to pay far too much of their pensions in rents for often substandard accommodation. 
The day of retirement of a person should be one of relief from worry. However, this is not so in our community today. It is not a time of relaxation but a time of scrimping and scraping to make ends meet, with a subsequent effect on health and living standards. It is to be hoped that local government organisations will apply themselves immediately to finding an urgent solution in their immediate areas, for it will cost them nothing but their organisational and coordinating skills. For a little bit of planning and for having some consciousness of the problems of the aged in their areas they receive the benefit, totally free to them, of massive capital assets in buildings. Every aged persons centre is a gift from the Australian public to the organisation concerned, the gift comprising the founder tenant donations and the rest of the money, which comes from the Australian Government, with some smaller grants from State governmentsand, in Western Australia, from the Lotteries Commission. I am often amazed at the lack of activity of shire councils in obtaining for their ratepayers what is in fact a 100 per cent donation of assets which not only provides the prestige of assets but, more importantly, provides a facility for the people whom the councils serve, and at no cost to the ratepayer. The slowness of development in this area has been a matter of disappointment to me. It is to be hoped that with the new funding urgent action will be taken. 
One suggestion recently put forward by an architect was for the formation of a non-profit building organisation for the construction of aged persons homes, with donations of time by architects and builders. Perhaps with the cooperation of shires this is one way in which they could cut costs to ensure a good standard of structure which is in keeping with their other local facilities and extend into the hostel construction area for handicapped people and aged persons hospitalisation schemes to tie in with the services that shires already maintain, such as autumn centres and Meals on Wheels. There is a need for the local authorities to interest themselves more fully in these areas to ensure that all localities have a planned provision of all of the very necessary facilities. Too often one crosses from one shire to another to find that the neighbouring shire has a different interest and different priorities. If you live in shire A aU the faculties are provided; m shire B not aU of them are provided and in shire C none at all are provided- and I speak from experience within my own electorate. Some of these faculties have been talked of for years but it requires cooperation to ensure that they are actually provided and provided on a co-ordinated basis. The appointment of social welfare workers under the Aus.tralian assistance scheme will no doubt overcome the problem eventually 
I am pleased by the increased subsidy for meals, which is now 30c for a meal with a vitimin C content or 25c for a meal without it, which is an increase in the subsidy of 25 per cent. Here again, urgent planning in the development of area kitchens is needed. The very size of some of the areas served by the kitchens could lead only to a situation of an institutional type meal being served as time goes on, and the personal touch that goes with volunteer labour is in danger of disappearing. In some areas with a diminishing number of volunteers as the workload increases, the personal cost to the volunteer worker also increases. At this point of time there is no subsidy or offsetting cost to the volunteer who puts his time and effort into this service, and very often his car and petrol. Due to the expansion of the service these costs will continue to increase and some offsetting of these costs perhaps could be looked at in the future. 
I should like to see a study done on a vehicle with a specially designed interior to make meal deliveries and with facilities to ensure the delivery of a really hot meal. I should also like to see the implementation of a 7 day a week service instead of the 5 day a week service which applies in so many areas. I realise this will not be possible with volunteers, but it is to be hoped that there will be a realisation that a need exists to employ people for this purpose, and this is already happening as the scheme itself widens. These specialist facilities must be extended on a planned basis. A natural extension of the service is, of course, the provision of a visiting facility which, whilst providing a pleasant interlude for the house-bound patient, would also provide a home inspection to ensure that all was well in other aspects such as linen washing, personal problems and general home maintenance. Too often aged people have to spend a miserable winter evening due to lack of adequate heating or they have to spend an uncomfortable summer because of the lack of assistance with ventilation in the home; or they have a general worry as they see the grounds which they have tended over the years deteriorating because of their physical inability to cope. All of these aspects need looking at by a trained welfare worker, and here again shires could provide the solution. 
The State housing commissions should have means to ensure that tenants who are suffering the disabilities of age should not have to use wood fires for cooking and heating and chip heaters for water heating. Modern electric and gas faculties should be automatically installed for the aged. It is useless for this Government to provide assistance to the voluntary agencies to keep people in homes that are totally unsuitable for them. I wonder how many people occupy rest home beds because of the inadequacies of their own homes which are known to their doctors. This would apply particularly to State housing commission tenants of homes built in the immediate post-war years. It is past time that these problems were looked at and rectified, for while these Bills increase money and social benefits they cannot replace in real terms the human comfort of being able to stay in one's own home, often with its memories of a lifetime. There is a danger that all people at the age of 60 or 65 will be expected to become institutionalised, and I do not think that the Minister or this Government or anyone in the community would want to see this happen. I support the content of the Bills 
I support the Appropriation (Urban Public Transport) Bill, which will provide tremendous benefits to the people of Australia. In Western Australia's case it provides for the allocation of funds for things such as the replacement of the South Perth Ferry Services Barrack Street jetty and building, the acquisition of 65 buses, the Innaloo bus transfer terminal, the Rockingham bus transfer terminal, the Kwinana bus transfer terminal, car parks at railway stations, Gosnells bus depot, bus priority traffic management measures and stage 1 of the Mitchell Busway for 1974-75 construction. The Bill provides for specific benefits to the people of the electorate of Swan. I refer in particular to the provision of funds in 1974-75 for a ferry terminal at the Barrack Street jetty which, while situated in the electorate of Perth, services the regular travellers to South Perth and the Swan electorate. A terminal has been needed for many years and now at long last this Australian Government has seen fit to assist. This relief has come at an appropriate time for, with the growing redevelopment of South Perth into higher density home buildings, the ferry travel will be extended to Coode Street and the existing route will carry a greater volume of traffic. With this future growth I hope that funds will be available to provide the necessary modern ferries to complete their journeys in adequate time. I hope that the ferry services will be planned and provided for so that people will be attracted to fast, comfortable, pollution-free river travel and will not suffer the disadvantages of crowded transport due to the lack of forward planning. Personally, I would like to see investigated the possibility of ferry services to the Canning Bridge area in the south and the Garret Road Bridge area in the north to give an alternative, pleasant mode of transport. Perhaps it would lose money. But one will not know until such a service is tried. But is should be tried because we all should have the right to enjoy the comparative quiet of river travel. Any opportunity which encourages people to leave their cars at home and commute to the city by urban public transport should be encouraged. What is lost in the operating costs of public transport is gained by the advantages to other car users. The provision of $2,069,000 for 65 buses is welcome. However, it is to be hoped that these buses will take on new concepts of comfort. I raise this point because the difference in the standard of comfort of a tour bus and a metropolitan passenger vehicle is marked. In a tour vehicle one is assured of a seat and the opportunity to relax in an individual seat designed for the comfort of the passenger. The provision of such facilities in tour buses encourages people to use them and greater profits result. But the minimal comfort provided in buses used for city transport makes people who travel on them wish that they had used their comfortable cars despite all of the parking problems, or that they had accepted a lift in someone else 's car. 
If city transport systems are to succeed they will need to compete with the motor car. There is no way in which they do this today. One can see workers standing in queues waiting for buses in Perth peak hour traffic. These people are often exposed to the elements. One can see shoppers struggling with parcels, with nowhere to place them, sometimes for 20 minutes or more. This is a hopeless situation. When one does get on a bus one has the problem of finding a seat. If a passenger does get a seat it is probably soft enough but it in no way compares with the seat in a tourist bus and even less with the seat in a private car. In fact, metropolitan buses do not have the head rests supplied in tour buses and motor cars to prevent whiplash neck injuries in accidents. The plain fact is that metropolitan buses do not compete, no matter how modern their chassis and bodies may be and whatever the cost. 
Who wants to sit on the end of a seat while someone more unfortunate stands alongside and lurches into one's shoulder or lap as the traffic dictates? Who would want to be the unfortunate passenger who has to stand when travelling home by bus after a day's work or shopping, or perhaps after attending an afternoon film matinee in comfort? Who would want to face the rigours of a trip home on a metropolitan bus? No wonder people often use their cars although they have free bus passes, and I include myself in that category. One has only to look at the parking areas for bus crews to realise that buses do not provide the ultimate mode of transport. It is not sufficient to say that it is more convenient for bus crews to travel by car because of the staggered hours that they work. In the main they are like the rest of the community and seek the most comfortable form of transport available to them, which in this instance is a small, comfortable vehicle designed specifically for commuting, namely the motor car. For too long we have been required to sit 2 abreast or stand patiently in the middle of the aisle when we travel on buses. We have been forced to freeze in winter and to stifle in summer and hope for the time when we reach our destination and get relief or hope that the local shop is open so that we can get a cool drink. Apparently the authorities have not thought of providing water dispensers on city buses such as one sees on other forms of commuter transport. 
It is past the time for buses to start to compete with other forms of public transport. It should be noted that funds are provided in the legislation for car parking at railway stations. It is to be hoped that the rail service is continued and upgraded. I was surprised to see a Western Australian report recommending the abolition of city rail services. This was a unique report when one considers that in most cities in the world, including those in Australia, endeavours are being made to upgrade existing rail services and institute other more modem tracked systems. It will be interesting to read this unique report when it becomes available in January, for it may in fact prove the rest of the urban transport aspirations of other cities to be wrong. If the report can do this- and I doubt that it will be able to- it would indicate that some of the allocations being made to the States in this legislation for rail transport are a misallocation of funds. No doubt the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  will look at this aspect. 
I am personally envious of those cities which will be able to utilise the Australian Government's urban passenger train rail car which will be developed from the prototype which was displayed in Perth recently. I only hope that the pollution aspect of buses, the increasing world cost of fuel and the world wide effort to obviate the energy problems will all be taken into consideration in planning future city transport. This Bill is welcomed by the people of Western Australia. I admit that the people of Western Australia will not be provided with the facilities which will be enjoyed by the people of Sydney and the other cities- I refer to hydrofoils, ferries, electric railcars, upgrading of present systems, and even an experimental 2 -way radio system for buses. Perhaps the fact that Western Australia is not to get these facilities reflects a lack of forward planning for what is needed in that State. Many of us will watch with interest the progress of the ventures I have mentioned in other States. However, we are thankful for the $4,040,000 provided for the Perth urban transport system. It is to be hoped that this amount will obviate the situation in which the answer to falling patronage is to curtail services further and thus force people into a second family car category for purposes of convenience alone. 
It is long past the time for a hard look to be taken at the history of the failure of urban public transport to compete with the modern car. The tremendous cost which has had to be borne by the taxpayer in providing facilities for the private alternative to urban transport- that is, the carwhich requires road systems and parking areas is appalling. The short term solutions of propping up old systems that have proven failures must be avoided. Such systems should not continue to operate indefinitely. We should be planning to replace them with new concepts of commuter facilities not only in the cities but also in the regional shopping areas. The old systems should be replaced with an efficient cross-suburban system of transport, whether monorail, magnetic, or air cushion. The Australian Government is the only body which has the resources required to carry out this work. It is to be hoped that everyone will co-operate to see that solutions are found. I support the Bill. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Urban and Regional Development. Subsequent to recent announcements on the desire of public and national bodies to have the Palace Hotel in Western Australia and its contents preserved, can the Minister inform the House as to the future of the building and any plans to preserve antique furnishings at the expiry of the licensee's lease? Will the Australian Government take definite action to preserve this part of Western Australia's history and heritage? 
Is the Minister for Transport aware of proposed industrial disputes in Western Australia in relation to proposed cuts in airport fire fighting services? Are statements that fire services at Perth airport are of minimum standard as laid , down "by the International Civil Aviation Organisation correct? Are airport fire fighting services in Western Australia adequate? If so, will the Minister assure the House that they will be maintained at that standard? If they are not adequate, will he assure us that they will be brought up to international standard? 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Has the Prime Minister's attention been drawn to the incomplete reports in Western Australia of the Government's intention to continue with social service benefits as planned? Will the Prime Minister further clarify that situation? Can he give an assurance that the proposed program for stage 2 of the abolition of the means test will proceed as planned next April? 
-In his opening remarks the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  highlighted the manner in which the present Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  is ready to co-operate with the Opposition and the manner in which he intends to accept the amendments to the Bill. This illustrates the ready way he co-operates with the Opposition. This, of course, also must illustrate the way in which he co-operates with the States. I agree that it is indeed a credit to him. 
However, in rising to support the Australian National Railways Bill 1975, and in speaking to the Bill, one must bear in mind the special significance that the Australian National Railways Commission- or as it was then known, the Commonwealth Railways- holds for Western Australia. I refer particularly to the electorate of Swan because without the agreement on the then trans-line it is doubtful that Western Australia would have joined the federation. If this had not happened one of the first exponents of that linethe then Premier of Western Australia, that great explorer and statesman of vision, the first honourable member for Swan in the National Parliament.  Sir John  Forrest- would not have seen the opportunities in trade and expansion for the west come to fruition. It was impossible then for Western Australia, with its vast distances, to undertake, to establish and to maintain an interstate rail system. 
It was a master stroke of diplomacy and negotiation at that time to have the Une established at the rest of the nation's expense. No doubt had those men of vision in Western Australia at that time been able to persuade in fairness a way for the new national government to undertake and open up the isolated areas of Western Australia with railways. they would have done so. They were men of unselfish vision who, in the main, had come from some other nation to settle in that portion of our vast continent of Australia called Western Australia. How these men of yesteryear would despair at the attitude being taken today on this very issue, at the resistance being shown to the introduction of some form of standardisation and improvement in rail services for passenger, trade and defence purposes by placing the responsibility for those rail services with the main taxing authority, the national Government. That is something I will never understand. It is Uke saying that the citizens of Western Australia should be forced to meet any losses incurred by the Postmaster-General's Department because of the vast areas that have to be served in the same manner as they, the citizens of Western Australia, are being forced to do in relation to the annual losses of the railway system. 
It is an appalling situation that we in Western Australia do not have men in our State Government at this time who are as astute enough, as were their forebears, to pass on a responsibility like this to the main taxing authority- the national government. What we need in Western Australia is a State Government with business acumen which will not put its lust for petty power before State and national interests. The continued non-co-operation of the State governments in the matter of the handing over of the annual State railway liabilities is lamentable. Discussions should be continued until the best possible solution in the public interest is arrived at. Petty points have no place in the blending in of the railways in the interests of Australia's defence alone. This BUI, which makes provision for that and other matters, deserves the support of all members of this Parliament. 
If one were to draw a parallel one would look at the national highway system in relation to which, quite rightly, the Australian Government has undertaken the responsibility of ensuring the provision of a national highways grid at no cost to the annual budgets of the States. The Australian Government has in fact released the States from bearing the obligations and expenses that they had to bear before it came into power. Formerly the State governments had to come cap in hand to previous Australian Governments in Canberra to obtain funds. None of us want to see the continuance of that system in relation to the road or raU transport. We in Western Australia know the tragedy of that system. Even today we do not have a fully sealed road Unk between east and west, and we wil not have one for another 12 months. We still do not have a fully sealed road link with Darwin and will not have one for some time, although a new system has come into effect, as it will no doubt take time to overcome the years of neglect. To say that the States wish to perpetuate the present system in relation to the railways is ludicrous. 
To accentuate further the backward thinking in these days of an energy crisis and of air pollution problems in our cities I point out that a Western Australian report has contemplated the abolition of metropolitan rail services and recommended the utilisation of buses instead. One can go just so far, but that is going from an antiquity of services to ridiculous concepts. Perth is a city which has just had to obtain Australian Government assistance to buy 65 new buses to cope with the current passenger needs. Although that assistance was very welcome it should be pointed out that almost every other city in the world is now looking at new concepts of rail travel, including specialist high speed underground travel. At a time when that is happening experts in Western Australia have come up with a suggestion for the use of diesel buses, which use a diminishing, costly resource. One could have expected such a report to be brought down by oil companies or their representatives, but for such a report to be made to the Government by experts is incredible. All we can hope for is that sanity will prevail and that Western Australia will agree to negotiate under the concepts laid down in and made possible by the legislation we are discussing tonight. Had the previous Western Australian Government remained in office the negotiations which it had undertaken in its forward thinking manner would no doubt have continued to a successful conclusion. Co-operation is possible. 
When one goes to the Kewdale freight terminal one sees all types of rail wagons from all States. I ask honourable members to think of the unnecessary checking and cross-checking, book work and so on that must be associated with the despatching and final sorting of the rolling stock of the various States and to think of the unnecessary kilometres that must be covered by half loaded wagons in the final stages of a journey. Forty per cent of them are completely empty when they depart on a return journey to their respective owners. The Australian national rail will be the co-ordinating body in the main- the link between the States. Any extension in the interests of efficiency is to be commended. I recognise perhaps more than many people that States' rights are involved and that there are arguments for and against such a proposition. But I also appreciate that it is the right of every Australian taxpayer to enjoy the economy of scale that applies in large transport operations. One has only to look at the competitors in the road transport area and think about the way in which they expand into national and multinational companies to draw a parallel. How many road companies are isolated one-State companies only awaiting a national takeover, or are ownerdrivers who are subcontracting to national road companies and being jailed or fined for failure to pay heavy road maintenance taxes which are used to help make up the States' annual Budget deficits incurred in part by the State railway systems. It is a question of road subsidising rail by threat of law. Permits and other charges must be paid by the trucking companies to run a truck in areas serviced by rail. 
A more rational approach to the 2 systems is urgently needed because the taxpayer is liable for both road and rail deficiencies in the form of capital costs and annual maintenance charges. The long suffering passengers will continue to suffer the deficiencies in design and service existing in the various cities. The under-privileged sections of our community, including pensioners, will continue to suffer from the variety and lack of concessions for travel offered from State to State and some of them will not be able to utilise those concessions offering on Australian national railways because of inadequate State concessions on the systems connecting. Australian industry will continue to suffer the lack of order opportunity as the updating of the State rail systems to meet Australian national railway standards is primarily based on Australian steel in the manufacture of locomotives, carriages, stock and rail. If politics were dropped from the matter and discussions of a genuine nature took place perhaps Perth could look forward to the establishment of a standardised rail system throughout the State. It could perhaps rectify the deficiencies in the Koolyanobbing iron ore line which has caused so much fear to train crews because of the constant danger of derailments due to inadequate construction for the tonnes which it is expected to carry. No doubt, its poor structure was caused by inadequate finance available to the State at that time. No doubt this is finance which has yet to be repaid. 
These are but a few of the problems which a State faces when it tries to go it alone. No doubt the provisions contained in this Bill to relieve the States of this burden will be looked at favourably by sensible people in the future- men of similar vision to  Sir John  Forrest. Perhaps Western Australia will be fortunate enough to find a leader of his calibre in the future who will put people before power and we will have true national co-operation. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Minerals and Energy. What exploration conditions are being imposed by the Designated Authority of Western Australia in respect of the current renewal of off-shore exploration permits? What action is being taken to deal with the situation? 
-Has the attention of the Minister for the Northern Territory been drawn to reports that unemployment in Darwin is growing and has now reached 430 persons? In view of the tremendous amount of reconstruction work in Darwin and the fact that Australian Army members are still in Darwin heavily engaged in cleaning up smashed houses, why can these unemployed people not be employed in gainful work? 
-In supporting this legislation establishing a national Road Safety and Standards Authority I should like to emphasise that this will be an additional body to those which are established by the States. It can only enhance the amount of assistance that will be offered to the States and it will be a valuable centre of research for findings and theories arising in State committees and research centres. It will have the ability to fund those specialist projects of road safety and consumer research which are only dreamt of now. Thus it must be understood that this is one body in relation to which no State authority can utilise the challenge of centralisation of power for it is an additional source towards saving Australian lives. 
Most of us have a morbid, unconscious attraction to death. Headlines centred on death are used to sell newspapers, hence our tendency to buy newspapers which describe an air crash, more particularly as this type of death so rarely happens in Australia. If someone is killed in a speedway accident it is reported in headlines. It is not that someone is killed on the road during a weekend but that so many are killed which stirs us, or perhaps that the circumstances are more horrible than usual, for we have come to accept the road toll as a part of the daily scene. Yet if deaths occurred on this scale in aircraft companies' licences would be revoked and a major inquiry would be enforced in relation to each incident. In the case of speedways, if accidents with such injuries occurred with the same frequency the public would demand and obtain closure until an inquiry were held. 
An interesting thought occurs in this matter: Why does this situation not occur in relation to road users? I feel it is because many people are actually making money out of road accidents. These leeches have a vested interest in seeing spare parts sold, vehicles demolished and vehicles repaired and resold, and I do not believe that money is lost in the insurance field. I charge that road accidents in Australia are a multimillion dollar industry and that many people in the industry pay only lip service to road safety while hoping all the time that nothing will happen to affect their profits. Design rules and safety factors are not first introduced in Australia; they mainly only follow the implementation in another country and very often they are delayed because of affecting the Australian manufacturers' profit as a result of retooling for the change or some lack of agreement between the various State authorities on the desirability of their implementation and the subsequent lifesaving aspects. 
Never when a life-saving device is introduced overseas is it immediately installed in Australia. People have to continue to die while agreement is reached and finally, we hope, implemented. It is to be hoped that when this Australian Authority is established the findings of the requirements for safety improvements will be immediately implemented by the manufacturers. My regret is that this cannot be ensured by making the manufacturer liable at law for manufacturing or selling what is often a lethal weapon in the wrong hands through bad design or quality control. If there were a way for the consumer or a relative of a deceased person to take legal action for damages against a manufacturer of a vehicle involved in a fatal or serious smash when it was thought reasonably that the vehicle contributed in some way to that smash, there would be a marked improvement in safety standards of vehicles sold if damages were granted against the company. 
Never mind about always blaming the nut behind the wheel. Let the liability find its correct placing, that is, with those who manufacture substandard, so-called motor cars disposable over a period of 5 years or so. I repeat that if aircraft were involved in smashes as often as some makes or models of cars they would be grounded until the reason was found and the cause rectified. It is to our disgrace that we do not offer this protection to the Australian road user. It is to be hoped that this Road Safety and Standards Authority will offer some solution in the field of road safety. But are we as a nation to continue to accept blandly the fact that 10 people will be killed and 250 injured each day? That we knowingly allow this to continue is beyond comprehension. So I am pleased to see that no opposition is being offered to this Bill which will no doubt eventually help to diminish this senseless slaughter. In the meantime no doubt the deaths will continue, the accident damage will be repaired at a profit, cars will be replaced at a profit, cars will be insured at a profit even by the motorists' associations, and no doubt there will be happiness in that area with the accident situation. But the pain and suffering, the human loss, that unbearable gap left by the loss of a loved one, will remain. 
I often wonder as I travel Australia's roads and see the various transport authorities checking heavy vehicles for overloading or road maintenance taxes, at the cost of this second police system, and wonder how much better it would be if these energies were devoted to maintaining and policing road safety. The gaoling of some offenders against transport regulations in Western Australia seems a terrible waste. The manpower and research which must go into such matters should be channelled into the more productive areas of establishing better road safetystatistics, speed control, safety warnings and the multitude of factors which are needed to bring about a desirable situation. I often wonder when 
I see the speed traps established in my area whether they are there to control traffic or to gain revenue, particularly when I read of one motorist being gaoled because of incidents arising from his putting up a warning sign to motorists that there was a speed trap in the area. If the principle were to establish speed traps to slow down traffic, is it not reasonable to assume that his was a similar intention? 
I raise these points to help explain the deep feeling of frustration one has when looking at legislation of this nature. I fully support the establishment of the Authority but I also make the strong point that unless all States and all people connected with the car industry apply the findings of the Authority and put further problems to the Authority, and unless consumer bodies also apply themselves to their needs the desired effects will be limited. This Bill sets out to tackle the problem in a quiet and logical way. In a methodical way it sets out to provide a framework which can be used incorporating several specialised laboratories, outdoor facilities, test track, skid pan and associated road networks. Some would say that the car industry must be an appalling failure if in 1975 the Government has to invest more than $ 10m because the products of that industry are not safe to use, even though a number of companies have been making cars for more than 50 years. I would agree with that indictment, but it is also a reflection on previous governments that this situation has been allowed to continue. I am thankful that steps are finally being taken in the matter, but it will bring no consolation to those who have lost loved ones, those who are permanently confined to wheel chairs or those who suffer some other disability. It will offer no consolation to those who will suffer from crashes in the near future. This is the regrettable side which we all see. I wonder why, with a road toll which is a greater disaster and costing more each year in death and injury than the Darwin cyclone- not a once only but a recurring cost of some 2 per cent of our gross national product, estimated by some at $ 1,000m each year- we remain unmoved. Perhaps it is because of our inability to understand the magnitude of the tragedy that this authority has been established as an advisory authority only- not as an enforcing authority that would make people who have been neglecting their obligation to the human race act in a more responsible manner. 
I do not say that lightly, for newspaper reports about Darwin- as a nation we were all moved by the tragedy in Darwin- estimate that the repair costs there would equal between $800m and $ 1,000m or the equivalent of what the annual road toll is said by some to cost Australia. The death toll was said to be less than the road toll on one long weekend or on five average days. The nation quite rightly became moved and acted as one to reach a solution, yet we have a far greater annual, avoidable road catastrophe occurring daily and we remain unmoved. We have put the Darwin disaster under emergency control. We have established a code for building cyclone proof homes under rigid controls and planning. I would be far happier if we were to declare the car industry a disaster and enforce a rigid form of safety construction and code of ethics. If the automobile industry has failed in all these years -in some cases 60 years or more- it is obvious that the industry cannot be trusted to find a solution. The only solution will come from outside legislative bodies directing what will be safe, not in the distant future but immediately. If the manufacturers cannot make safe cars at an economic price they should be willing to be properly compensated for their plants by governments, and safer vehicles should be developed from those plants by public owned companies. 
Let us face facts. The community is not paying for the value of a vehicle but for a false set of values arrived at by taxes, subsidies and tariffs applied by governments of various countries. It is ridiculous for companies to say they are free of government involvement when, to survive in the market place, they insist on government assist-  iance  to purvey unsafe vehicles. If the industry of Australia were sincere in its safety efforts it would have established a testing authority such as that envisaged by this legislation. I was appalled to find that one of the South Australian manufacturers did not possess a test track but used the back roads of South Australia. Nothing will convince me that in testing the manufacturers observe the speed limits of that State or respect the rights of the other road users. If they were concerned, all companies would have pooled their resorces and research for the safety and comfort of their clients, to come forward with a basic life-saving design. They will say that this is impossible. It would affect their profits. 
But where they have failed and failed miserably, the Australian backyard hot rod enthusiasts have succeeded. They have designed cars which can be rolled, bashed and bent but the driver remains uninjured and in fact continues to race the same car the same day. It would be naive to say that, with its manufacturing resources and its advanced technology, the automobile industry could not do the same. I find it incredible that backyard amateurs can achieve what industry claims it cannot. I also find it hard to believe that amateur club committee authorities can set a standard of rules of safety and enforce them yet public licensing authorities are unable to do the same. Perhaps we should commission the backyard operators to offer guidance to both the licensing authorities and the industry. 
One aspect to which I hope this authority will give early consideration and establish guidelines is in the testing of caravans and other trailing vehicles in respect of length and weight of the vehicles which are used to tow. One can go to the vast majority of car dealers to seek advice in this area and come away with a negative reply. One can then go and hire a van, never having towed one or never having been advised how to do it. Several honourable members wish to speak on this Bill and so I will conclude by saying that if the industry cannot manufacture a car in which one can travel in safety it should admit failure, surrender its manufacturing right and make it a government responsibility to manufacture such a car. As in any other business or in politics, if you fail, get out. Over half a century of killing is far too long. I commend the Bill in the hope that it will help to bring some solution to the problem. 
-My question is directed to the Treasurer. Is the Treasurer aware of the cash liquidity shortage affecting Western Australian clothing manufacturers situated in the metropolitan area of Perth? Is he aware that the clothing industry employs 10 per cent to 12 per cent of all female workers engaged in manufacturing industry in Western Australia? Is the Treasurer aware that if the cash liquidity is not established it could lead to further retrenchments in this field? Can he give an assurance that the matter will be investigated with a view to giving assistance in order to prevent further unemployment in that industry? 
I support the Children's Commission Bill 1975 with deep personal pleasure as already I have seen the hope and enthusiasm which the proposal has given rise to within the electorate. It is a measure that has met with public acclaim and, despite efforts by opponents of the Government to suppress the knowledge of the benefits to be gained, those concerned with child care and those in public life have been able to spread the message widely. It is only by public participation and by community groups that the maximum benefits will be felt. 
I was disappointed by the tenor of the address just delivered by the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson).  I believe that he failed to notice- at least he appeared to fail to noticesome of the provisions contained in the legislation. I refer to items such as assistance to parents in connection with the care of their sick children in their own homes at a time or times of the day when the parents are engaged in employment; such matters as meeting the needs of children suffering disadvantages for social, economic, health, ethnic, locational, cultural, lingual or other reasons and encouraging diversity, flexability and innovation in the provision of services for children. I would have liked to have heard something of that nature. 
However, the funding of day child care centres in Western Australia has been restricted in one sense by the election promise of the existing State Government to commence pre-school centres. Such centres are being funded by the Australian Government mainly under a 1974 agreement. Whether these controversial centres best utilise funds I will leave to later speakers to state and to the experts who will attempt to utilise such centres to the maximum advantage. However, I doubt whether they are what the community wants. It is hoped that out of a promise made during the fervour of an election a sound and sensible State child care system will evolve. It is ironical that the very people who decry Australian Government participation have to rely in the main on the Australian Government for funds in this area of child care. Already the Interim Children's Commission has approved day care centres in areas of need. It has cooperated with shire councils and with other people who have applied. Applications have been rejected only where the evidence and planning were inadequate. It is hoped that the socioeconomic surveys will show where needs exist and that the appointment of catalysts or, in common terms, research and community child care guidance people, will produce suitable recommendations. No doubt my area already has similar welfare workers. The necessary information is already to hand and we can move immediately to provide facilities. 
An aspect of child care which alarms me is the tendency to embark on grandiose building projects without examining facilities available in the community which could be put to dual use. This situation, for that matter, applies to any area of community welfare spending. What does it matter if a house is converted for use? Perhaps this would give a more family atmosphere. Use could be made of a police and citizens welfare club which stands idle all day or of a disused community building such as a shire office, a fire station or like buildings of a semi-industrial or office nature. Such buildings are eminently suitable for conversion and they could be utilised in these areas. The State housing commissions have older-type homes. It could be possible to make them available for this purpose and so serve areas which are neglected. Let us face it, in the past the State housing commissions, particularly in Western Australia, have been prone to erect homes over large areas without providing for community welfare in the area. This would give immediate relief in the problem areas. If these measures are found to be inadequate, further action, by way of building, could take place. But it would be disastrous to expend a large proportion of the $75m which this Bill provides on bricks and mortar and little on actual care. 
One area which concerns me relates to the latch-key child- so-called for want of a better term. These children go to school early and leave late. Others are left in an empty house or flat and they have to make their own way to school. They return to an empty home or to a neighbour or friend- until, of course, their welcome wears out. This is not restricted to low income areas; it is reflected in the higher income areas where the mothers work. The formerly accepted standard that women work because they have to has gone. Today they feel that they have a right to work in order to contribute their skills and abilities to the community. This Bill recognises this aspect. It provides for pre-school and after-school care and, just as importantly, for holiday care. If we are to continue to have working families and if we are to encourage working parents to raise families, then governments must make provision for the care of these children. It is obvious, after these many years with chambers of commerce attracting women to the work force, that industry generally has failed to initiate these provisions. So it becomes a community responsibility. 
In my area at Bellmay an out of school child care group has started a pilot project. It was funded initially by a grant of $4,000 from the State community allocation. It was housed in an old, disused, demountable school structure and the adventure playground adjacent to the school was utilised. This is an ideal project which has impressed all with its success. It was a project started with minimum funds and minimum staff and equipment. It has given a lead to such centres in Western Australia. But the most pleasing aspect is that it is a place where children are going because they want to go. It is catering for children who wish to go there after school to undertake some creative hobby, thus ensuring that the children who are there because of other circumstances feel that they are not a race apart. Their special friends are not precluded from sharing time with them. I am sure that this area will receive funding, along with the day care centres; that is, those established by the private sector and those which are funded by the Government, such as the centre recently established in the Belmont Shire with which I am acquainted. But this brings about a continuing problem for those children once they leave the day care centre and enter the normal schooling stream. They are left unattended before and after school. Because they have been subject to an orderly, supervised and directed type of life, they are less able to adjust to those unsupervised hours. This is one reason why I suggest that there is an urgent need to make a continuing provision for such children. 
Another unfortunate factor also applies in relation to the holiday period. When school closes there is a period of 4 weeks when children are without supervision. They are left to their own devices. Urgent attention should be given to full day care in a holiday atmosphere. This is an area where community groups should be looking for funds. Perhaps a fee should be charged. Recently, at a public meeting dealing with these matters I was surprised to hear a sum of from $10 upwards suggested. If this were applied across the board without some subsidy for those whose parents were fully committed financially, those children would be precluded and this would defeat the purpose of the Bill. In my area there are sufficient riverside sites which are isolated enough yet close enough to residences and transport to allow such holiday functions to take place. Also there are the nearby hills areas. Again it needs town council and public participation to make such an occurrence factual. The proposals need to come from the community to ensure that this is what the community wants. 
I know that in my electorate there is a need for someone to check hospital admissions of mothers in order to see what can be done for their families. I daresay that this would apply in most areas. There is room for a community voluntary service based on outgoing home child care problems. This legislation highlights the fact that this is only the beginning of the child care area in Australia. It is an area which has been sadly neglected for many years under previous governments. It is to be hoped that in this one area true co-operation between State and Australian authorities will take place. This is not an area for petty politics. The basis of planning which has been achieved to date is a credit to the Interim Commission and to the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  I reiterate that for the legislation to be wholly successful community participation must become a significant factor. I commend the Bill. 
-Firstly, i wish to raise a grievous situation which I believe exists in relation to people who contribute to private employee superannuation funds with the employer contributing through an insurance company. In a situation of rising costs and wages it is interesting to note that people are put off work on the ground of redundancy, yet they have contributed to the firm's superannuation fund in the belief that they had security until retirement. In fact, they are put off when other people who are not contributing are retained. Many of those other people have much shorter service or are recently engaged employees. One wonders where the pressure comes from. Is it the small percentage amount contributed by the company which makes the company say that it is more economic to dismiss someone who is costing that company that little extra? Are these firms so vicious, I wonder, as to discard people in the evening of their lives? Or does the pressure come for a more sinister reason from another source, and that is the insurance companies which face a large payout in the case of death or retirement? Is the pressure on to get rid of people once they are in a high risk area? 
A case which came to my notice concerned the Australian Mutual Provident Society and a large retail establishment. This allegation was made to me by a constituent of mine. There was little real evidence until this blatant case which involved a woman of 55 years of age with 1 1 years service. She was dismissed prior to annual leave, yet younger people were retained in the same department and other people have been employed since she was dismissed. The significant factor is that the other people are not contributing to the superannuation fund, so the employer saves on the wage structure. Not only does the employer save, but the insurance company opts out of an obligation when it reaches a high risk area. Let us face it, the lady's chances of employment are next to nil and there is no chance that another employer will take over the furtherance of the policy. The insurance industry must save thousands of dollars in this underhanded manner. It is no wonder that many people with similar insurance policies fear for their jobs as they get older and become insurance risks. This is indeed a contemptible practice adopted by the insurance industry. 
If the insurance industry continues this practice of hidden pressure on employers, the unions should look closely at past redundancy and at payments made to those people by companies such as the AMP. In fact, I am sure that all members of Parliament would like to hear from people who have been so mistreated, so that we will have all the facts before us when dealing with these firms. My constituent, on the return of her contributions and her employer's contributions, plus interest at the minimal rate, received a paltry total of some $616 after 11 years. She received no other benefit from the AMP. She and her employer would have done better to have invested the money in a savings bank at compound interest. She was supposed to have a death cover during this period; but, in noting the curtailment of her services when she became a high risk, one wonders what would have happened if she had died. Would the company have tried to avoid payment? One would need to look at the fine print in the policy. Such appalling practices must cease. Let us have a superannuation system which does not become a rout. Preference of employment and protection should be given to these people. This should not be looked at as a way in which to utilise people's savings without any obligations and with little further risk. 
I now wish to continue my protest at the continual imposition of road maintenance tax by States on heavy transport. I raise this matter again, now that the national highways have been declared and the Australian Government has undertaken responsibility for national highways around most of Australia. We have the anomalous situation of State authorities charging road tax over these very roads to help maintain the State budget. I wonder about the validity of this practice under which a person is submitted an account by another person for using someone else's facility. I admit that the States receive the money to maintain these roads and act as agents in this matter. But what proportion of the revenue gained do the States remit to the Australian Government, or what proportion of the revenue do they use to maintain the actual roads used by the person billed? I venture to say: 'None or very little'. This action is gross dishonesty, if done intentionally. If it is not done intentionally, it is gross incompetence. What adds salt to the wound is that if the transport operator fails to pay the alleged charge he is fined; or, even worse, if he is unable to pay the fine he is gaoled. This is an incredible situation. In this year of 1975, to have a situation where a person can be gaoled in respect of a civil debt is archaic. But to gaol a person after a deception is practised by the administering authority is monstrous. 
I ask the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  to examine the legal aspects of the situation and to confer with the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  to see what relief the Australian Government can give to those affected. I suggest that the State authorities examine their consciences to see whether they wish to continue to be parties to such an unsavoury practice. People currently are being gaoled in Western Australia for debts owing under road maintenance tax legislation. Some debts go back 6 or 7 years. These people are the every day pioneers of Australia. They are the very backbone and the lifeline of the outback. Many of these debts allegedly incurred by the small businessmen were incurred during the development period of the north-west. What a price to pay for being part of the nation's development- gaol after this long period or pay some fantastic sum, often many thousands of dollars, to a State authority! These people have paid full income tax, taxes on fuel and vehicles, payroll tax, spare parts costs, high repair costs and tyre costs incurred through travelling over undeveloped and neglected roads in isolated areas. 
Some compassion and common sense in relation to this system of tax is needed. The cost structure in maintaining this vicious system must be hard to justify, even for those administering it. I have felt total repugnance towards the system since it was first proposed in Western Australia, and still feel it, being renewed in my opposition to it by the recent gaolings of struggling business people and people who have failed in their businesses and stand to lose all assets if they succumb to payment demands under the threat of gaol. The efforts of the authorities would be better directed towards improving safety aspects for truck and other road users. We do not have even a safety run-off ramp for heavy vehicles on Greenmount Hill, a major city entrance, or in many other dangerous areas throughout Western Australia. Let us get our priorities right but, more importantly, stop gaoling people for civil debts. 
-I wish to raise a matter of considerable concern to myself and many conservationists. I initially had the matter drawn to my attention by reading an official journal of a petroleum company. The article concerned highlighted the problems the industry faced with alkali lakes and cyanide vats which the goldmining industry utilises when mining. The petroleum industry has also apparently a problem with mud pits used in oil and gas drilling operations to contain the muds which are used for cooling, clearing and lubricating the drill. The entrapment of wildlife therein appears to be a problem. Species of waterbirds, herons, coots and ducks are affected. During the drilling of wells the cooling and cutting muds are stored in a pond, a mud pit, which normally has on its surface a thin film of water. At night high flying water birds searching for a new place on which to land and live sight the pond and come in to land. The mud quickly destroys them. The same is alleged to happen with cyanide vats and alkali lakes. Waterbirds landing on soda lakes get fast drying mud stuck on their legs and die agonising deaths from starvation as they are no longer able to walk because of the enormous mud balls on their legs. 
In the case of the drilling industry, chemical additives in the drilling mud, depending on the rock type being drilled, are sometimes toxic and thus more dangerous. In fairness to the industry, the mud pit is usually kept as small as possible and is near to the rigs where lights and noise help to keep the birds away. But during shutdown periods the problem becomes acute. The company's representative has said that the number of animals and reptiles which are killed daily on the roads must amount to thousands. By comparison the number killed by the industry would be minimal. The numbers which perish because of pastoral industry conduct is also used as a defence. It is these comparisons by the industry which alarm me. The attitude taken, 'That it is good enough for someone else so it is good enough for us', could be an interpretation put on that attitude. It is not sufficient to say that the industry is aware of the problem and thus no action is required by way of regulation. Industry generally has shown that there is a need for regulation in pollution, noise and safety or any other aspect. Why should not this principle be applied in regard to this particular aspect of conservation where there is obviously a need for general conservation control? 
It is no good saying, 'Leave it to the industry', because there will always be a firm which will ignore even the most elementary precautions. One needs control for water birds. States insist on duck shooting seasons and so on. Surely other controls in the industry area are necessary. I ask the Minister responsible for this matter to look at the problem with a view to getting agreement with State bodies on the matter. 
Another matter in this area which was highlighted by the petroleum industry's reference to the number of animals killed on the roads, and which has alarmed me, has been the West Australian State authorities' consistent refusal to install a system of warning signs for kangaroos and other indigenous animals similar to that adopted in South Australia, New South Wales and other States. The argument has been put forward that it is not possible to install them in Western Australia because it is felt that where they are not installed action could be taken against the State authorities for damage caused because the signs did not have universal appUcation; and motorists should beware. 
I have personally seen up to 13 cars at one service station on the Nullarbor waiting for repair after hitting kangaroos during the night. I think it is an appalling situation that something which has been established in other States and is working quite well cannot be installed in Western Australia. Warning signs should be adopted on a universal basis so that the motorist is regulated by the same signs in aU States. Perhaps the Minister concerned when talking to the States in relation to the petroleum companies and the regulation of wildlife could raise this matter also. 
I wish to raise what I consider to be the unfortunate, if not desperate, situation of people seeking medical goods and medicine after hours in Perth suburbs. I refer to the blackmail of desperate people who have to pay additional charges. I ask the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  to investigate the possibility of giving sympathetic consideration to the establishment of community or Governmentadministered health resource centres in Perth suburbs. The particular case to which I refer, although there are others which have been brought to my attention, relate to a constituent of mine, a  Mr Passfield  who arrived at a pharmacy at Bentleigh, a Perth suburb, at 12.2 a.m. on 7 February 1975 and saw on the door of the pharmacy a notice which stated that if he rang the bell twice and paid a surcharge of $3 after 10.45 p.m. he would be admitted and the prescription would be filled. 

 Mr Passfield rang the bell twice and the chemist came to the door and asked what he wanted. When he stated what he wanted, he was refused entry and service on the grounds that the chemist could not charge the surcharge on a prescription. He made  Mr Passfield  realise that if he purchased some other item he would have to pay the surcharge on that item and he would be able to have the prescription filled.  Mr Passfield  was left with no other alternative than to purchase another item. So he asked whether a bar of soap would be sufficient. The chemist says 'yes' and let  Mr Passfield  in. While the chemist was attending to the prescription,  Mr Passfield  asked him how this situation had come about. The chemist stated that the Whitlam Government was to blame. He also stated that when the national medical scheme was launched he and many others in his profession would not be joining it. When the prescription was completed the chemist suggested that a bag of jellybeans would not be as dear as the soap, so  Mr Passfield  bought a 6 oz. bag of jellybeans which had a base price of 30c. So the bill listed the price of the prescription at $1.25 and the price of the jellybeans at $3.30. That was for 6 oz. of jellybeans- an absolutely blackmail situation. The total trading amounted to $4.55. All this occurred between 12.2 and 12.7 a.m. It took 5 minutes for that ridiculous situation to occur. If someone called there seeking something for himself that was not essential and was told the price he would walk away. 
Honourable members might wonder why I ask the Minister for Health to give some sympathetic consideration to this problem.  Mr Passfield  has a son who had a haemorrhage on the brain soon after birth and has what is called a shunt, which is a tube which runs under the skin from behind his ear to his abdomen. The specialist has always stressed the need for any infection to be cleared up as quickly as possible as it could block the tube, which could lead to dire consequenceseven death. Therefore, when  Mr Passfield  suspected an infection he sought medical attention for his son as soon as possible and was successful in getting it, but he visited 7 chemists before he went to this place to which I have referred. When he went there he was desperate, and who would not be for the sake of one's child? I suppose that if that chemist had increased the surcharge from $3 to $6 or to any other amount  Mr Passfield  would probably have paid it. I feel that there should be some place in the Perth suburbs to which people can go without being blackmailed and without having the fear of not knowing whether they will be served. 

 Mr Passfield went to a branch of the same chemist in another suburb which was supposed to be open after hours, but it was closed. There was a notice advising people to go across to this other branch.  Mr Passfield  found this chemist only after being advised by doctors to go to that address. I dare say that the doctors would not have told him to go there if they had known the true situation. I personally have called at this pharmacy and have seen the notice. I knocked on the door and, quite frankly, the conversation which ensued showed that the chemist was not entirely sympathetic. This situation is true. Everybody is treated the same. This was not an isolated instance. I ask the Minister to look into the question of finding someone who is sympathetic and of funding an after-hours service so that this type of situation will not occur. 
-Can the Minister for Transport state what progress is being made with the sealing of the Eyre Highway in South Australia approaching the Western Australian border? Can he inform the House of the expected completion date? Are there any further steps that the Australian Government can take to expedite the completion of the work? 
I rise to draw attention to the material which I and no doubt other members of Parliament have received from the Car Consumers Association of Victoria. I understand that the Association has a branch in 
Sydney also, and I am pleased to represent it in Western Australia. This particular publication is titled  The Secret Repair Policies of Car Manufacturers.  It draws attention to a public notice that was published in the  Age  in Melbourne on Thursday, 15 May 1975 by the Association. It relates to Holden and Torana owners and says: 
Car Consumers' Association wishes to advise owners of the existence of a GMH policy relating to the extension of cover of Trimatic Transmissions from 12 months, 12 000 miles to 3 years, SO 000 miles. This policy only applies to vehicles built before June 1974 fitted with Trimatic Transmissions. If need of such a cover arises, contact your GMH dealer. 
It has been drawn to my attention that up to 500 000 consumers who have bought these vehicles over 6 years could be eligible but unaware of this policy. So I can understand why this has been termed a secret repair policy. 
I am also given to understand that these repair policies apply to other makes of vehicles. I feel that there must be some way in which to give wide publicity to this situation as in up to 60 per cent of Holdens fitted with Trimatic Transmissions faults have occurred and the usual repair cost of the Trimatic can be between $325 and $375, and perhaps more in some States. This is particularly appalling for the average working man who is faced with the cost of repair of one of these transmissions. Usually he trades his vehicle in and changes his car because he cannot meet the cost of repair. Today most repairers demand the vehicle or the cash. That is the attitude they take. I am not making an attack on General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd because, as a Volvo owner, I am aware that in some cases they want the cash or the car. They do extend credit to some people but in most cases one finds that there are no credit facilities available and the only solution is to purchase another vehicle on hire purchase. This is not really the owner's responsibility but that of the manufacturer. Perhaps one reason why the manufacturer has not made the owner aware of this policy is that he could be the second or third owner of the car. But the cost to the consumer of this secret policy- I will continue to call it a secret policy- is tremendous. I hope that the Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  will be able to develop a system whereby people are made aware of their rights in these circumstances. 
I would like to draw attention to another point which has been raised by the Car Consumers Association, lt is quite a serious matter and one which has received some publicity, but unfortunately not sufficient publicity. There could be up to half a million GMH cars on the road today with lethal steering locks. The Car Consumers Association newsletter says: 
Reports to CCA of the anti-theft steering lock in HQ model Holdens suddenly locking on unintentionally and bringing about an accident were confirmed on 6 June 1974 when a Wagga Coroner investigating the road death of a 19 year old girl said he agreed with a motor mechanic that the steering lock system on the HQ Holden was unsatisfactory. The motor mechanic had told the Coroner's Court that he considered the system unsafe and that it could be a trap for a driver not familiar with the mechanism. 
In the case of the girl 's fatality the steering lock had locked on as the driver turned off the ignition. However, in the case of 2 reports to CCA, the driver is positive that he had not touched the ignition key at the time the steering lock activated. In one of these two incidents the Holden careered uncontrollably onto a footpath while in the other the car was being driven alongside the winding Murray River at the time of the occurrence and only good luck prevented the vehicle from careering into the river. 
On 8 June 1974 a GMH official, while describing the key movement needed to select the 'lock' position, was quoted in the  Sun  as saying: 'This is clearly set out in the owner's handbook, which emphasises that the lock position should never be selected while the vehicle is moving'. The  Sun  then quoted the official as saying that 'switching off the ignition while moving could be dangerous, particularly on hilly and winding roads'. 
What a fatuous sort of statement to make about the information being published in the owners handbook! A vehicle is sold to the owner, driven by members of his family and then driven by the following buyer and the handbook is not always passed on. It is not sufficient to publish a warning in a handbook and expect that everybody will read that handbook and take cognisance of it. It is estimated that approximately 500 000 HQ Holdens and LJ Toranas which have this dangerous steering lock are still on the road today. If General Motors Holden 's has quietly taken some action to correct this problem I will be happy to hear about it. After almost  2Vi  years during which the HQ Holden was producedthat is from July 1971 to the end of 1973-the cars are still fitted with this hazard. Judging from the GMH service letter from which I quoted earlier a revised design of the steering lock providing for a more positive detent was not introduced until about the end of 1973. 
These cars are getting older, cheaper and more readily available, and no doubt they are more worn and more dangerous. I feel sure it would be a step in the right direction towards national road safety if GMH were to recall those locks or to make available to dealers and to service stations throughout Australia the facility at their cost to solve the problem. It is only a matter of time before these half a million GMH vehicles which are affected will cause more deaths, injuries and suffering unless the recall is made. It is no good saying that there are not sufficient reports of this type of accident to warrant such actions. It is not one which people would closely investigate. If somebody had switched off the ignition there is no guarantee that they would admit to it because of insurance problems and because of their fear that the insurance company would not pay out on the ground of the negligence of the driver. This is another aspect of the matter. 
If there is an inbuilt defect it is the manufacturer's responsibility, no matter how old the vehicle is. Once the defect is discovered I feel it is the manufacturer's responsibility to take some positive action to make sure that all the vehicles are modified. To emphasise the point and to show the impact and the horror of such a thing I shall describe a further accident which arose out of this type of defect. It involves a family which was travelling along a straight stretch of country road early one Sunday morning. The driver wanted something from the glove box but it was locked. Noting the straight road and as there was no other traffic he slowed to about 30 miles per hour, turned the ignition off and handed the keys to his wife. Perhaps it was wrong to do that. But how many people do that type of thing? I would like honourable members to think about this. However, they soon neared a slight curve in the road where a bridge went over an irrigation canal. The driver turned the wheel to take the curve but the steering had locked when the ignition was turned off. 
The car failed to take the slight curve, went through the bridge into the canal and began to sink. Two of the bridge railings went through the car. One went between the driver and his small son who was in the middle of the- front seat. It went on and badly gashed the head of his little girl in the back and finally lodged in the camper van which the car was towing. The other railings went through the glove box, knocked out the heater, narrowly missing the mother in the front seat and another son in the back. Fortunately, the family escaped with their lives, although 18 stitches had to be inserted in the gash in the little girl's head. The car was a write-off. The family was extremely lucky. A tow truck driver who dived into the canal to rescue some of the family belongings said that he was unable to touch the bottom. These are the sorts of things which are possibly happening every day. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I was surprised to hear the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay),  make such a point of housing when his Leader has advocated a further $20m reduction in housing finance, suggesting disaster for the building industry and proposed home owners if Australia should have the misfortune to have a Liberal Country Party government. He has clearly shown the stupidity of his Leader's proposal. I can understand his embarrassment and the difficulty under which he must have spoken in the circumstances. 
This is a Budget which one must remember has answered the demands of the media, the chambers of commerce and other industry leaders to cut government spending. Even an organisation sponsored by the Catholic bishops of Australia went to the trouble of publishing a pamphlet and a circular letter calling for government restraint. Now that that restraint has been applied, some people are saying: 'Well, I meant restraint but I did not mean that it should apply to me'. The restraints are the most equitable possible in the circumstances, and one would expect even the Opposition to agree with that assessment, if it were reasonable. The Opposition too was most vocal in calling for restraint, but it failed to indicate where it would apply that restraint It has failed all the time to indicate or to give any guidance as to where the restraint must fall. It has adopted the old adage of being wise after the event. That is not hard to understand because the economic factor of unemployment and inflation going hand in hand is a new one. The old Liberal system of creating a pool of unemployed to combat inflation will no longer work. This world problem affects most the free enterprise system economies of the world but does not affect the centrally planned economies. The truth is that the Opposition does not know the answers, as I shall indicate later. 
The Liberal Party's continued attacks on the States in this Budget debate, the continued calls to cut the Australian Government's expenditure to the States and their instrumentalities is sickening. That these continued attacks could lead to cuts in State services in the future worries me somewhat. Their very viciousness, their bloodymindedness, is appalling. Let us look at how they would affect Western Australia's present annual payments. People must realise that the Australian Government participates not only in matters that are mentioned here in general debate but also in all facets of State Government administration. Because of the shortage of time I will not be able to itemise the complete list, but I point out that the Australian Government assists in meeting debt charges and in the fields of State emergency services, universities, colleges of advanced education, technical and further education, schools, pre-schools, child migrant educational research, Medibank, public hospitals, running community health services, television control, school dental health, health education, home dialysis, blood transfusion services, health planning agencies, housekeeping services, home care services, senior citizen's assistance, assistance to deserted wives, employment grants, regional employment development schemes, social planning units, Aboriginal advancement, housing, area improvement, sewerage, local government, regional organisations, leisure and recreation tourism and, in Perth, the underground railway study and matters of that nature, going right through to the natural disaster area. The Australian Government has some say in and makes some allocation to the areas in which the States participate. 
It appals me that the Liberal Party is all the time attacking the States by calling for unrestricted cutbacks in allocations to the States. This constant attack upon States rights may continue, but I think it is about time that the people were made aware that these bloody-minded attacks are being made merely for political purposes. More irresponsible is the blatant attempt to destroy business confidence, to destroy investment drive, to destroy the jobs of those people employed by the States and by small business, and to destroy those who are self employed. Before the Opposition even had time to study the Budget- even before it was presented to this House- its spokesmen were intent on destroying public confidence and the hopes and dreams for the future. It is interesting to note that those making these attacks in an effort to destroy confidence are the employees of millionaires and multi-national companies who see the collapse of small business as presenting them with an increased opportunity to expand further and in fact as a lessening in competition. I wonder at the reasons for which they make these vicious attacks. 
I charge that the Liberal Party stands for the deliberate destruction of the small business sector of the community. During its term in office we saw the disappearance of the small business, the corner store, which gave credit to the locals. The local baker succumbed to the combines; the transport sector came under the control of the overseas-connected combines; the food production sector went to the overseas combines; sections of the rural and pastoral industries went to the overseas combines, as did the mining sector. One could go on. The record is there for all to see. It was a dream investment area for every expanding overseas national company or individual with excess funds, and in spite of the effect on the inflationary trends that overseas ownership may have had no protection was given to the Australian consumer. 
The important point is that now that the Liberal-Country Party is out of office the same effort is being attempted by the media, by mass hysteria, to convince the small business battler that he need not go on, that it is completely hopeless. The small businessman had to battle under Liberal administration too, but he is being told that there is no point in going on because the future is bleak. That is the story which he is told constantly. That has been the deliberate aim of  the Opposition since it was defeated. It concerns me greatly that those who should be inspiring business people to compete with hope for the future are, in fact, being entirely negative. I was so concerned about the situation that I took the opportunity to look at the history of the last Budgets of the dying Liberal Administration. I have here just a few comments made by a Press which was usually entirely favourable to a Liberal Government. In the main I looked to the Western Australian Press which most Western Australian people believe is orientated to the Liberals. I do not have sufficient time to go right back into the dim dark ages, but I shall refer to the  West Australian  of 20 August 1970. An article headed 'Federal budget should help to curb inflation ' reads: 
The Government is budgeting for an overall surplus of domestic receipts over expenditure of $550m, or about $50m more thanlast year. 
If one goes back even further, one can find more disasters. In fact, one can find 23 years of disasters. 
I probably would not appreciate that because I was not old enough. I do not have the opportunity that the honourable member has to remember that year. The comments as reported in the  West Australian  of 19 August 1971 were similar to the comments on the Budget right round Australia. It was condemned completely by the Melbourne  Herald,  the  Sydney Morning Herald,  the Hobart  Mercury,  the Adelaide  Advertiser,  the Melbourne Age, the Brisbane  Courier-Mail,  the Sydney Daily Telegraph and the  Australian.  All of those newspapers were critical of the inflationary situation which was established at that time. I quote from a comment in the  West Australian  newspaper of 19 August 1971 on  Mr Snedden  's first Budget: 
All he has done is to slug the small man hard- 
Statements of this nature appeared in many newspapers. 

 Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 

Prior to the suspension of the sitting for dinner I was highlighting the disastrous Budgets of the previous Liberal Administration from 1970 onwards as reported in a favourable Press. I was trying to highlight the attitude of the then Government the supporters of which are now in Opposition and are offering themselves to Australia as the alternative Government. The irresponsible attitude which the Liberal Party still has in this area was highlighted by the laughter and the interjections from the other side of the chamber. I was quoting some comments form the Australian Press about the 1971 Budget which was introduced by  Mr Snedden  of the Liberal Party. The  Australian  stated: 
Perhaps underlying and accounting for the Government's extreme amorousness about inflation is its feeling of uncertainty about the real cost of its wool assistance proposal. 
The Brisbane  Courier-Mail  stated: 
The Budget's worst impost are the Post Office charges. These increases are in some cases enormous. A budget to help curb inflation could not be popular. That is granted. But the Budget as a whole shows a retreat in Government thinking rather than a progression. 
There are comments like that from the various newspapers around Australia and they are just as unpalatable to the Liberal Party as were the comments repeated in relation the the 1972 Budget. I do this to remind people that the Opposition is the alternative Government. These are the people who are offering criticism of the excellent Budget which we have before us. I refer to the  West Australian  which can hardly be said to be a newspaper which would favour the present Government. In fact, it would do just the reverse. The editorial of 16 August 1972 stated: 
The Treasurer had 2 broad courses open to him in seeking to reduce unemployment - 
I ask honourable members to remember that this is unemployment in 1 972- he could provide massive and quick Government spending to produce jobs or he could let taxpayers keep more of their own money and hope that they would spend it. With Government spending already disproportionately high he sensibly chose to apply his economic stimulus through the individual. 
In 1972 we had a situation of high Government spending. The editorial continues: 
He is in fact taking a calculated gamble on stable economic conditions overseas- 
The editor was referring to the inflationary situation overseas- on levelling or reduction of wage demands in Australia and on a satisfactory public response to his proposals. He is also relying on carry-through of the effect of turning last year's deflationary Budget into an inflationary one earlier this year. 
Even the  West Australian  at this stage recognised that an inflationary situation had been created by the then Government. When we were elected in 1972 as the Government we had to take up that situation. This was recognised in 1972. The editorial further states: 
There is nothing in the Budget that offers a dramatic change in the employment situation and it is disappointing for that reason as well as for reasons of national interest that the Government did not grasp an opportunity for new initiatives in national development. 
Honourable members can see that when this Government came to power it was faced with a disastrous situation with which it has now firmly dealt. Let us look at what the Opposition has to say in the news media about the Budget which we are discussing here. I have limited time and therefore can refer to only a few comments. The  Australian Financial Review  states: 
There is a lot more courage and creativity in  Mr Hayden  's Budget than his deliberately unemotional speech suggested. If it works- and there is an undeniable plausibility about the economic aggregates produced by  Mr Hayden  and his bureaucratic advisers-then  Mr Hayden  will be a Treasurer of considerable significance in Australian history. 
However, there are a host of political booby-traps in the path of the Budget. 
Possibly the writer of the article is referring to the boobies on the other side of the House. The  Sydney Morning Herald  states: 
In political terms the Budget has been carefully framed to put the Opposition on its mettle. According to  Mr Hayden  the Government faced a potential deficit of about $5, 000m before it began its program of cuts. It has managed to bring that down to $2,798m and accommodated tax cuts. 
The Melbourne  Age  stated: 
The Budget brought down by  Mr Hayden  last night is a model of restraint and balance. No longer is the public sector to be the supreme spender. At last encouragement is being offered to the battered private sector and relief to the burdened taxpayer. 
The Budget is unashamedly deflationary in intent, on the unassailable logic that unless the rate of inflation is reduced, Australia 's productive capacity will run down. 
And so these comments go on as one looks at the newspapers of Australia. But having listened in the House to the debate I feel sure that honourable members opposite must be reading some other document rather than that which, generally, Australia has accepted. What appals me is the constant endeavours made by the Opposition to prevent money finding its way to local government from the central taxing authority. Any measure which gives money directly from an Australian Government department to any local authority is opposed or challenged at law. Honourable members opposite do not believe that local people should have direct access to the tax distribution machine. They are opposed to a grass roots participation. 
Let us face it, they can wheel and deal and deceive State governments of their own ilk but they would find it impossible to deceive people who are directly concerned if they had to deal directly with them at grass roots level. The Opposition is petrified that it will have to deal directly with the electorate. It is running scared. But it will have to face the long neglected people of the suburbs and put its case. The Opposition is so desperate that one wonders whether our parliamentary system is safe. When one sees the extremes of misrepresentation which take place one worries about what will happen if the scaremongers are unable to achieve their ends at the polls. 
-Unfortunately, it is no joke. What other desperate measures will the Opposition take? One hopes that it will take a lead from the Government and be satisfied to act in a responsible manner. This, of course, I doubt. By its action the Opposition is trying to bring down the system under which we operate or to bring it into disrepute. 
I was not surprised to hear a further smear against our defence forces by the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth). 
There is no doubt that these smears are designed to destroy the morale of our dedicated career Service personnel. No wonder the Minister for Defence  (Mr Morrison)  has ignored his rantings about rumours produced by the Liberal Party. However, that is enough of that nonsensical situation. I would like to refer to an appalling situation. On reading  Hansard  this morning I was surprised and then after some thought I decided that what I read was perhaps in keeping with the thoughts and suspicions that I have had over the years that the Liberal and National Country Parties are completely and utterly opposed to the sealing of the Eyre Highway. This is the reason why it has not been sealed to connect Western Australia to the east even as a defence measure. The matter was completely exposed last night by an honourable member who said - 
He said that the Eyre Highway was being sealed to serve one honourable member's travel from east to west. I accept your guidance in this matter,  Mr Speaker.  The Liberal-Country Party policy was completely and utterly exposed to us in a most unfortunate situation. 
I seek your guidance on another matter,  Mr Speaker.  I made some reference to it previously in a Grievance debate. Letters have been sent to me in relation to faults in motor cars made by General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd and these faults have received publicity in the Press. I would like to refer to a letter from a gentleman from Matraville and I will read a section of it. He said: 
I owned a 1973 LJ GTR Torana. On 1 July I was travelling from Melbourne to Sydney to start a new job. I got to Jugiong, on the Hume Highway, when my motor boiled so I turned the ignition off but it went straight into the lock position. The car veered off the side of the road before I had a chance to turn it back on. The car went up a bank and rolled. Luckily, the only injury that I received was a cut knee and a bit of hurt pride. I reported the accident to the police constable in Jugiong but he wasn't too interested in the explanation and if anything was rude and obnoxious and was only interested in obtaining a conviction. I was fined $20 for negligent driving. The car was insured- 
He named the particular insurance company- and when assessed the car was written off. On Monday, the 1 1th of August I went to the service department of GMH at Pagewood to lodge my complaint. They were pleasant but they said they had not received any other complaint about the lock and I was nicely palmed off. 
I am very disappointed in that attitude. I refer to the matter of a  Mr Roberts  who replied to me during a radio broadcast. He said: 
I think a driver has an obligation to know his vehicle. To be aware of the equipment, and to be skilled at least in the an of operating that equipment and shutting off the ignition of a car while it's in motion is just something you don 't do. After all, an aeroplane pilot doesn't do it, yet it can be done. 
I say that it is an automatic reaction of somebody if their car motor is boiling to immediately switch the motor off. If there is a car lock around that has been designed as I have charged and which has been installed from 1971 to 1973 in the LJ Torana and the HQ Holden, this could lead to the wrecking of the car. I feel that it is about time somebody did something about it. I am simply appalled by the sort of statements that are coming out from the publicity that has arisen. I refer to a newspaper article which says that the lock is not foolproof. The report says: 
GMH has twice been keel-hauled for faulty design because fewer than half a dozen drivers have got into trouble, crashed or been killed for- allegedly- turning off the ignition while driving. The steering has locked and the car has got out of control- so far as the accident investigators could determine. This kind of driver should never be licensed to pilot even a washing machine. 
So the fault goes back on to the consumer. We produce something that is potentially dangerousthat is a killer. We recognise that it is going to kill half a dozen people and will probably go on to kill a few hundred more. The manufacturers say: ' Well, it is your responsibility and no responsibility is accepted for the fact that these are on the road'. What alarms me is that statements have been made and I sincerely believe that the persons who made them must have been misreported because I do not believe that General Motors-Holden's would be so selfish as to continue with production after 1973 using exactly the same faulty lock. They have indicated in various reports- I hope that they are misreports- that these locks are in the current model vehicles. In an article that I have it is indicated that they are. I would be most upset if I were Mercedes-Benz and read the newspaper report which states: 
Even those universal trend-setters in car safety- the pinnacled makers of the Mercedes-Benz- fit a similar lock. 
I do not care whether it is a similar lock or what sort of lock it is. What I am saying is that the particular lock which we have evidence of as being faulty, of having killed people, is in the HQ Holden and the LI Torana. I think it is about time that General Motors-Holden's stood up and faced the responsibility and said: 'All right. We will replace these locks. The manufacturing costs to them of a simple thing like a car ignition lock would be minimal. No doubt with the employment problem in the car industry which they are currently screaming about it would be an ideal time to recall motor cars or to manufacture locks and provide employment to fix up mistakes which have already been made. 
With all this evidence around it is a wonder that somebody has not taken a compensation action against them.  Mr Roberts  himself said: 1 am aware of the case in Wagga that  Mr Bennett  refers to and in the review of that case which we went through several months ago it was very clearly stated that admittedly the driver did actuate the lock to the full lock mode whilst the car was in motion. 
I reiterate that there is no warning there. The only warning it is possible to find is in the driver's manual. As these cars were produced from 1971 to 1973 they probably have changed hands two or three times and, in any case, very few owners read their manuals in very great detail. 
It is up to General Motors-Holden's not only to make people aware of this fault but to rectify it. I have had a large number of letters since the date I mentioned which is only a few days ago indicating how this kind of thing, can happen. One letter is from my own area in Western Australia. This man put a car in for service. On picking the car up, he and his wife could hear a noise in the back while driving.  Mr J.  told his wife to throw the car into gear and pull out the key to see whether the noise would still be there. When  Mrs J.  did this the steering locked. These are the tilings that people do. It is no good saying that it is not going to happen. The car should not be designed in that way. If the design was approved it should not have been approved. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Minerals and Energy been drawn to a report in the  West Australian  of 28 August by  Mr Mensaros,  the Western Australian Minister for Mines and Industrial Development, criticising the operation of export controls on mineral sands? Are these comments true? 
-Firstly, I should like to commend the State committee that was appointed by the previous State Labor administration in Western Australia- the Tonkin Government- to investigate in association with Australian Government departments possible sites for a new Perth airport. However, I have been alarmed by statements made by the existing Premier of Western Australia and spokesmen associated with that Government to the effect that they would like to see the Concorde go to Western Australia and use the Perth Airport. As this Airport falls within my electorate and as I have been protesting for several years about the noise factor associated with the airport, I am alarmed to think that while an investigation is taking place the State Government would impose upon the people resident within the flight paths a further aircraft which they have not had the opportunity to assess. I am seeking some assurance that before anything of that nature takes place a referendum of at least the people within the area will take place as to whether this aircraft should be allowed to utilise Perth Airport while Perth Airport still exists. 
I shan never cease in my insistence that Perth Airport should be relocated, particularly because of the effect of night flights. In fact, I think it is about time that the State Government clearly said that a curfew should be applied to the Perth Airport. The situation is such now that the heavy utilisation of the airport from midnight to 6 a.m. by aircraft from the eastern States and from overseas is becoming quite a worry to the people living near the airport. But what really alarmed me today was a statement that I saw in the Press to the effect that the new Concorde aircraft is noisier than the prototype that visited Australia. This statement was issued by a spokesman of the Australian Conservation Foundation. He was speaking about the aircraft which the Premier of Western Australia has said he wants to see come to Western Australia. There are a number of points that alarm me. The newspaper article states: 
The senior projects officer of the ACF  (Mr Doug Hill)  said yesterday Concorde's noise was 128 EPNdB (effective perceived noise decibels) three nautical miles from brake release on 4 August. 
The Anglo-French jet recorded 125 EPNdB in a similar test on 5 August,  Mr Hill  said. 
The threshold of pain varied from about 126 to 130 EPNdB depending on the type of noise being made and a person's tolerance to it, he said. 
Concorde recorded 1 2 1 EPNdB on both 4 August - 
I want the honourable member to understand the seriousness of the situation. That is a measurement of the effective perceived noise decibels. This is something that the honourable member should remember should such an aircraft ever fly over his electorate, if he is concerned for the people in his electorate. The newspaper article continues: 
Concorde recorded 121 EPNdB on both 4 August and 5 at the standard measuring point of 3.5 miles along the take-off path,  Mr Hill  said. 
This compared with prototype Concorde readings of 1 18 EPNdB. 
So it can be seen that there is evidence that the noise factor has increased. The newspaper article continues: 

 Mr Hill said Concorde was about three times noisier at the standard measuring point after take-off than the Boeing 747-200B- one of the commonest passenger aircraft. 
My concern is that this noise will be imposed on the populous areas without' any consultation with the people living there. I would hope that before anything takes place or before any further moves are made even to invite the aircraft to Western Australia the opinion of the members of the public who are concerned is first obtained. Perth airport is a little different from Tullamarine airport in that there are homes right up to its boundary fences. Thus people are affected more by noise. Of course, some people suggested that the airport should be shifted to the area of Nedlands which is the electorate of the Premier of Western Australia. I do not wish that on the people of Nedlands. However, a very strong supporter of  Sir Charles  who lives in Melville suggested that the flight path should be shifted from over that area of Melville during the night time to over the area of Nedlands. However, that is not the solution. The real solution to all our problems is to re-allocate Perth airport in due course after proper studies have taken place and to provide a curfew in the meantime to make people want to shift the airport. While the airport is being used 24 hours a day it is an attractive economic proposition for the airlines, the Australian Government and the State Government departments to have it open all the time. 
I would like to refer to what has happened in Japan. A very interesting situation has evolved in that country. A new type of airport is being developed. It is no good saying to anyone who lives on a coastal plain that there is nowhere in which to site an airport without causing noise pollution. The Japanese have proved that this can be done. I refer to the world 's first airport on the sea which provides an answer to noise pollution. The article to which I refer reads as follows: 
A new airport surrounded by the sea was recently opened in Omura Bay near Nagasaki City, Kyushu. The airport has been built on a small island (O.S kilometer east to west and 2.5 kilometers north to south) located 1 .7 kilometers offshore from Omura City. A mountain on the islet has been leveled and land reclaimed from the surrounding waters to make the whole of the island into an airport. It is attracting attention as a new type of airport on the sea without parallel in the world. 
The airport, linked with the mainland by a long 970-meter bridge, has a 2 500-meter runway with a width of 60 meters on a 1 340 000-square-meter site. At present, Boeing 727 jets are using the airport for regular domestic flights. In the future, the runway will be lengthened to 3 000 meters to accommodate Boeing 747 jumbo jets. The airport also has aprons capable of parking three Boeing 727s and two Boeing 747s at the same time and taxiways with a length of 2 950 meters. 
So it can be seen that it is possible to find alternative sites, even near built up areas. In Japan it is extremely difficult to find proper airport sites in inland areas because of the limited availability of vast flat land and vehement complaints about aircraft noise from people who live near airports. It would appear that public participation is the way to bring about change. Perhaps we are failing in Perth because of the fact that although people do complain, they complain quietly. Several thousand people have signed petitions over the years, but perhaps not enough people who have been woken up during the night by aircraft noise have rung anyone except their Federal member. Perhaps they should have been making telephone complaints to the Department of Civil Aviation, or perhaps to the State Ministers who refuse to impose curfews. I am not wishing this inconvenience on anybody, but I do feel that the people who are affected should be making some form of protest. I sympathise with them because although I five some miles from the airport I, too, suffer the indignity of being woken up in the middle of the night by aircraft noise. So I understand the problems of people who live close to airports. 
I think the State Government needs to take a close look at suggestions that further troubles be added by expanding the airport. It is a matter which should be referred back to the people before any action is taken. There is already a committee looking into the question of the possible relocation of the international sector of the airport. I think it is premature at this point of time even to suggest that this expansion should take place. If the State Government is not willing to go to the people and seek their opinion I think it should at least explain why it is not willing to bow to public opinion. 
I raise a question which concerns a lot of Western Australians and I feel would concern the Minister for Environment  (Mr Berinson)  who is at the table. I refer to the way in which the historic Palace Hotel in Perth, which was opened on 18 March 1897, is being allowed to deteriorate. The current licensee is attempting to sell -his licence, having lost some $60,000 in his operations with a new modified tavern licence. Many thousands of people petitioned this Parliament on this matter. Their petitions were successful and stopped the immediate demolition of the Hotel and encouraged the Australian Government to buy furnishings and fittings, for which we are most thankful. The suspicion is in everybody's mind that the building is not having any money allocated for its restoration and that no effort is being made to restore the building in the hope that finally it will become so shabby and so unprofitable that perhaps it will be demolished by its owners, the Commonwealth Bank. 
We feel that it is time the State authorities took some interest and just did not leave it to the Australian Government to finally decide the hotel's fate. The Perth City Council should take a stand, be quite clear in its statements and, if need be, allocate money to restore the building. The State Government should also bear its share of responsibility. I feel, as has been put to me by people who for some years now have fought to retain the hotel as an historic monument, that some sort of management should be established within the State for the restoration of the building. It is no good saying that we will leave the matter to Canberra. It is no good saying that we will leave the decisions in the hands of people other than Western Australians. Decisions of this nature should be made by Western Australians. This building is one of the last historic hotels in 
Perth. Others have been retained, with public support. However, the campaign to save the Palace Hotel has so far been unsuccessful. The suspicion is in the minds of people- and I sincerely hope that it is unfounded- that the Hotel will be left to deteriorate to such a state that everyone will say: 'It is not much. We should allow it to be demolished and perhaps we will retain the furnishings or part of the building somewhere else in another setting as an historic monument'. This was not the intention of the people who petitioned this Parliament for the intervention which they did obtain. 
I feel the question should be kept alive. I am asking the State Government, the Perth City Council and other interested parties to stand off and take a look at what the future of the historic Hotel will be. It is quite obvious that it will not be a viable proposition under the existing licensing laws. Other uses have to be found for it, otherwise it will become just another white elephant. A decision needs to be made soon, because as time goes on and it is allowed to deteriorate further it will become too big a problem to solve. I appreciate the work and the money which the current licensee has put into the hotel. Having visited the hotel the other night I satisfied myself that the comments being made were well founded. Large sums of money have to be set aside for a program to restore the building. I make this plea on behalf of not only the people of Perth but also people right throughout the State who have shown a very keen interest in the building. I hope that it receives the support for which I ask. . The other matter I wish to raise is one that I referred to last week in a speech in the adjournment debate and previously in a speech in the grievance debate. I dealt with the steering lock on the HQ Holden and LJ Torana models. At the time I said that the company had not replied to me and that it probably had not had the opportunity to do so. I have received that reply arid I want to clarify the situation for all those people who have written to me and have shown a keen interest in whether the company will accept responsibility in this matter. The company is not going to accept responsibility and I will quote its viewpoint. To recall the circumstances, I indicated that I considered the steering lock was unsafe. The letter reads: 
The Company denies that the lock is in any way defective or unsafe, and is completely satisfied that there is no justification for recall of our vehicles on this account. I understand, moreover, that the Department of Transport agrees with this position. 
The lock is so designed that two distinct motions of the ignition key are required to reach the 'Lock' position. The key must first be rotated to the 'Off position and then pushed inward before further rotation to the 'Lock' position. 
The modification introduced to coincide with production of the 'LH' Torana series simply makes it more difficult to over-ride the stop between 'Off' and 'Lock'. 
I referred to this particular modification as having been made in 1973. In fact it was not made clear in Press reports that the modification had taken place. It appears that when the company changed the series of the car, it did, in fact, modify the lock. I should like to make it quite clear that my argument is with the models produced between 1971 and 1973. The letter goes on to state: 
The lock mechanism, with and without the modification, operates as designed and in compliance with Australian Design Rule 25. 
If this mechanism was accepted under the design rule, be that as it may, but the evidence has been produced that a number of people have been killed by accidents in that series of motor vehicle. People can turn off the ignition while the vehicle is in motion and there have been reports of this happening. I cited one case in the House recently which involved a gentleman from Matraville. He was fined $20 for his trouble in wrecking his motor vehicle by turning off the ignition because the engine boiled. I would say that that was a normal reaction. 
I have received many other letters on the subject from people right round Australia. I feel that it is a problem that has to be resolved. It may be that in the estimation of the company this steering, lock complies with Australian Design Rule 25 and that there are similar locks fitted to other motor vehicles. But the correspondence and comments I have received from other honourable members indicate to me that there are similar situations in other motor vehicles. It may well be that the design rule itself is not stringent enough. I am not saying that once a design rule is made all wisdom on the matter ceases. There can still be faults within that area. But if this situation exists, not only do I ask the industry to modify it but also to make the owners of the motor vehicles aware of the problem because of the position of innocent people who buy such motor vehicles and who are subsequently caught out. 
It is far too late to do anything about it after somebody has plunged into a river and drowned or has run over his young child on a driveway or lawn or something of this nature simply because he turned off the ignition and locked the steering. I feel that there is a responsibility with the industry, a responsibility with this firm and a responsibility with the Department of Transport. It is no good saying that accidents will not happen. Accidents have happened because of it. It is not a question of blaming anyone. It is a question of rectifying a situation which is known to exist. 
-I listened to the previous address with some interest. It seems appropriate that the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr 
Ellicott), should also speak on matters concerning Tasmania where there is a lack of Aborigines because he appears to have a real lack of concern for Aborigines. All I can do is stress the alarm of members of the Aboriginal community that they are being used as a political football for the purposes of the election or re-election of people. I am cognisant of the fact that even in this House they do not have an indigenous representative on either side elected to speak for them. It behoves us to look at that aspect. It is disappointing to see the political chicanery which is used to decry these estimates. I thought the debate would have opened on a better standard, particularly as a 30 per cent increase is proposed in these estimates. 
From what the previous  speaker  said I think that the Opposition still believes in a separatist policy for Aborigines because this appears to be what it is seeking in denying Aborigines the expertise of consultants and bureaucrats of the white community. The Opposition seems to want to separate the amounts provided for bureaucrats and the amounts provided for Aborigines in some areas. The honourable member for Wentworth went on to say that the Opposition wanted a similar division of allocations in other areas such as education so that the allocations did not overlap. This separatist policy harks back to the dim dark ages before the 1967 referendum. 
The previous  speaker  drew to my attention the matter of publications and while the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Les Johnson)  is in the chamber I would like to draw his attention to the fact that the estimates include provision for the publishing of periodicals by Aboriginal organisations. One such publication is the  Aboriginal and Islander Forum.  Some 6000 copies are printed but I understand that the publishers are having problems getting the publication endorsed by the Postmater - General's Department for the purpose of concessional postage. I would like the Minister to look at that aspect because provision for this very thing is provided in the estimates. It would be a shame to see this publication collapse because of lack of co-operation from Government departments- one of those overlapping departments referred to by the honourable member for Wentworth. This is a typical white attitude- the removal of the Aborigines' autonomy because of the cost factor. This has arisen in the past and I am really disappointed to see it arise in this situation. If the Opposition ever became the Government it would deny Aborigines their autonomy and the right to make their own decisions. 
I am only going on what Opposition spokesmen have said. I am glad that the honourable member drew attention to it. The estimates presented before this Government came to power show that there was no overlapping in other areas. For instance, there was very little reference in them to any areas of Aboriginal involvement. I will mention briefly some of the proposed items of expenditure because time does not allow me to go through the various papers and references that I have. 
I am glad, because I would like to say something else as well. Some of the major items of expenditure are: Salaries and payments in the nature of salaries; administrative expenses; other services, and this is where the greatest increase is; Aboriginal advancement or payment to the Aboriginal Advancement Trust; conferences, meetings and consultations- they were not consulted before; investigations and research; support of Aborigines on government settlements; assistance to missions- of course, the previous Government would know all about those areas of expenditure; repairs and maintenance of settlements; vocational training and adjustments; support for ecological projects; support for Aboriginal sporting activities; support for Aboriginal publication activities; the Royal Australian Institute of Architects; the housing panel contribution; Aboriginal enterprises for payment to the capital fund for Aboriginal enterprises; National Aboriginal Consultative Committee- again there was no voice for Aborigines before; salaries and allowances of members; meeting expenses; the provision of facilities for members; election expenses; incidental and other expenditure in that area; Aboriginal Loans Commission; Aboriginal enterprises for payment to the Aboriginal enterprises fund; and so I could go on. If honourable members look through the various papers they will find these references. 
The general attitude of the Opposition would take us back to the days when Aborigines were treated as they were during the war years. Perhaps honourable members opposite would like to see a return of the situation where Aborigines were locked up at Moore River Missionthe children put in Wandering Mission- the children forcibly taken from their parents under the provisions of an Act and educated somewhere other than with white children. That is the pattern of thought which seems to come through from what has been said by Opposition members. 
I notice that there is an allocation for Aboriginal housing and I draw to the Minister's attention the fact that in Western Australia- I know that the Opposition would not agree with this because a consultant has been asked to look into it- Aborigines want to establish a building company of their own in order to be in a position to utilise tradesmen who are being trained at the moment. I understand that some 10 bricklayers are being trained as the base for this company which Will seek to build homes for Aborigines within the Perth metropolitan area. I know that it is a major undertaking and that perhaps it may be over-ambitious, but I feel that again this is something which the consultants and the Department should look at and on which they should bring down a suitable recommendation. I feel that the Government, if it consults with the Aborigines, will receive the co-operation which has been very evident in the past in Western Australia. I would hate to see a situation arise where the end product was so dear that the Aborigine who is the purchaser is penalised because of some inefficient production methods. 
I do not mean my remarks to be a slur on those who are doing the work. I just make the point that perhaps in one of these overlapping areas a subsidy could be paid to those in training so that the cost would not be reflected in the housing. I realise that I am asking to have an overlap of departments with which the Opposition does not agree as is evident from the speeches of honourable members opposite during the Estimates debate. However, I feel that this is one area that should be looked at. It is an effort to do something to help those people and it is something on which I feel this Government has a proud record and which has been shown in the Estimates over the years by the foundation of these particular self-thinking areas. 
This matter has arisen from the elected personnel of the Aboriginal community itself. It was raised by a  Mr Bennell  who is the elected representative who covers some of the area which I cover. I feel that it is useless to have a situation where the Aborigines put their questions to the people concerned and who they elect. Bearing in mind that they do not have an indigenous voice here, at least we should put them in a position to enable those particular thoughts and claims to be put into effect. The purpose for which I rose to speak on these Estimates was to ask for the Aborigines to be allowed autonomy instead of our having the high handed attitude, which has been so evident in the past, of everything being on a cost basis, on an efficiency basis. We should endeavour to make them fully self-sufficient and integrated within their own community. It should be borne in mind that the white community is responsible for the situation in which the Aborigines find themselves through lack of education as a result of a lack of attention to the demands of the 1967 referendum held under the previous Government. We are trying to lift them from their neglect. I commend the Minister for the tremendous advance which has been made in this Budget, even though it is a Budget of some curtailment. 
-I direct my question to the Minister for Administrative Services. Is it a fact that negotiations took place with the Tonkin Labor Government regarding the implementation of joint electoral rolls for Western Australia? Is it a fact also that the Court Liberal-Country Party Government has refused to complete the agreement? If so, what are its reasons for this action. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Health. I note that under the Government's hospitals development program increasing emphasis is being given to the provision of hospital facilities in outer metropolitan suburban areas. Could the Minister inform me and the House of the areas currently being given priority and what steps are being taken to meet the hospital requirements of new and developing outer suburbs? Further, will the Minister indicate how these plans will be affected by the delay in Supply? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Urban and Regional Development. What impact will the delay in passing the Budget have on financial assistance given to the States under the national sewerage program to eliminate the sewerage backlog? 
