1 address a question lo the Minister for Health. Further to the assurance in his ministerial statement last week that he 'confidently looks forward to the general co-operation of medical practitioners', 1 ask the Minister: What was the basis of his confidence last week? Does he still have this confidence now that he is aware of the initial reaction by doctors to his statement? Finally, in the event that the co-operation of the medical profession is not forthcoming, is it the Minister's intention to implement recommendation IS of the report of the Nimmo Committee on Health Insurance, which allows for the exclusion of doctors from the scheme under given circumstances; and what other action is the Minister considering to cover this situation? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What was (a) the combined annual income of the health insurance funds from contributions and (b) the amount of the funds' combined reserves at the last date for which accounts of the funds are available. 
I address my question to the Minister for Health. Does he accept that spastic centres provide treatment and training that is professional and specialised and can properly be regarded as medical or  para-medical in nature? Will he undertake to consider the inclusion in the national health scheme of a category of benefit to cover these services so as to assist the day to day work of the centres in the same way as it is proposed to assist their capital expenses by means of the provisions of the Handicapped Children (Assistance) Bill? 
I ask the Minister for Immigration: Is it a fact that immigrants are encouraged to believe that naturalisation will entitle them to all the privileges of Australian citizenship? Is he aware of the concern and resentment of elderly migrants who find that, in spite of naturalisation, they are denied the age pension because they have not been in Australia for 10 years? What is the Minister's response to the complaints of the persons concerned that they are being treated as second class citizens? Will he undertake to attempt to remove the anomaly from which they suffer? 
I support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  but I think it will soon be apparent to the House that my views on the homes savings grant scheme go further than either his amendment or the amending Bill itself could accommodate. This Bill seeks to amend the Homes Savings Grant Act, and it therefore provides a welcome opportunity to review the working of the parent Act over the 6-year period of its operation. In particular it provides us with the opportunity to consider again a number of basic questions. Firstly, just what was it that the Homes Savings Grant Act was meant to achieve? Secondly, have these aims in fact been achieved? Thirdly, if they have not been achieved, will the present amending Bill do anything to improve the situation? 
The first proposal for this scheme came in  Sir Robert  Menzies' policy speech for the 1963 election. At that time the only clue he gave to the reasoning behind the grants was when he said this: 
There is a special difficulty experienced by young married people, particularly in the age group up to 35, in financing the purchase of a dwelling. 
That is all he said by way of justification. From there he went on to give details of the subsidy proposed. If one may say so. in retrospect, that seems  a  very bald and inadequate justification for a scheme which by the end of this financial year will have involved the Commonwealth in an expenditure of over $75m. But accepting that  Sir Robert  Menzies did recognise the problems of young people in financing a home, a further basic question remains: What was so serious about the problems in 1963 that was not serious in the 14 previous years in which  Sir Robert  Menzies had been Prime Minister and in which he had consistently refused to bring the Commonwealth into direct responsibility for housing finance? 
The answer to that question, of course, lies in the sudden spurt in housing costs around that period. It needs to be recognised that that increase in housing costs cannot be attributedto building costs, which by and large only increased in line with the general level of inflationary trends. It was not a problem of housing interest rates either, although in the meantime that has become a very serious problem. The real problem in 1963 lay in the sudden and uncontrolled inflationary spiral in land costs. Stripped of embellishments, this scheme was introduced to cushion the effect of inflated land prices. The measure of its success or failure therefore is to be found in its influence, if any, on that inflation. 1 would like at this stage to refer to the experience in Western Australia where we have the situation documented in an authoritative way in the so-called McCarrey report. This report was prepared by an independent committee set up by the Western Australian Liberal Government in 1967. This report documented a number of facts which are relevant to this discussion. For example, it indicates that in a suburb likeDianella, which is in the centre of my own electorate, the price of an average block of land went from $960 in 1957 to $2,160 in 1 963 and then increased further to $4,820 in 1967.I might add that this pattern of increasing prices, and of increases at an increasing rate, continued through 1968 and into the first half of 1969 and it is only in the last 6 months that there has been some levelling off from the 1969 peak level. Even so, the same block referred to in the McCarrey report as costing $4,820 in 1967 could not be bought today for less than $6,500 or $7,000. 
The McCarrey report also indicated the particular difficulties faced by the working man in this area. It pointed out that in the period from 1956 to 1967, over a period when minimum weekly wage rates rose by 40%, the cost of land rose, by 400%. In the same period the proportion that the cost of land bears to the total cost of a home went from 12% to 331/2%. Of special significance to the Bill we are now discussing is the pattern of land prices before and after the homes savings grants were introduced. In this context I wish to quote clause 2.13 of the McCarrey report, which reads as follows: 
There is evidence that the rate of increase of land prices throughout the metropolitan area, although rapid before 1963, accelerated from that year on. 
In other words, the rate of land price inflation actually increased following the introduction of the homes savings grant scheme. I do not want to draw the long bow and try to suggest that this increase in land price inflation took place because of homes savings grants, although that is the sort of convoluted logic which I have started to learn from honourable members on the Government side in recent weeks. 
However, whether or not one could have expected the position to gel worse at that time, one thing was certain, and that is that the homes savings grant scheme was not going to make the position any better. The reason for that is that the scheme tackles the problem from the ' wrong end. This scheme does not combat land price inflation; it subsidises it. Instead of tackling the problem at its source, it waits for all the damage to be done and then offers to reduce slightly the cost involved. Even then its contribution is limited to the financial aspect of the cost only. 1 want to say at least in passing that the cost to the community arising from this inflationary trend of land prices goes well beyond bare monetary considerations. The high cost of land means dearer housing and higher rents. That is obvious. But it has also led directly to increased waiting periods for low cost housing. Without, at this stage, going into the reasons why this does result directly from the land crisis, I would merely indicate how bad the situation is. Again I take Western Australia as an example. The last figures I have show that the State Housing Commission there has a waiting list of 15,183 and a waiting period which now ranges from 4 years 2 months for 2 bedroom rental homes up to 4 years 10 months for 3 bedroom purchase homes. In fact, the ramifications of the position extend even further than that and now affect the very way in which we live. The Australian accommodation pattern itself is affected. 
In a rather unctuous passage in the second reading speech when introducing this Act in 1964, the then Minister for Housing said: 
Housing is vital to the welfare and happiness of individuals and thus to our future development as a nation. Without proper housing, the process of marriage and family formation which are the very essence of Australia's future must be seriously impaired. 
Then comes the punch line: 
The Government seeks, moreover, to foster a healthy property-owning democracy of sturdy independent individuals and regards home ownership as a basic ingredient. 
Well, that may be the Government's ideal. But what have we got? What we have is a situation where houses - owner occupied and rented - are decreasing as a proportion of accommodation as a whole; and rental accommodation in flats, and in minimum area flats at that, is the growing trend. In 1958 flats represented 3.5% of all dwellings built in Western Australia. In 1968-69 they represented 21.6% of all dwellings in Western Australia, a sixfold increase over that 10-year period. 
I do not want to elaborate on all the consequences of the situation for fear of getting too far away from the Bill under consideration. It is enough to say that these trends are both dramatic and serious. By the end of this year we will have spent more than $75m on homes savings grants. Surely we are entitled to ask whether this money could have been better spent. If we recognise how basic the land prices crisis is to the problem, this question follows: Could we use these funds in some other way to solve the problem of land prices? I believe that we could. It has taken a remarkable combination of pessimism and defeatism on the part of the Government to prevent such an attempt from being made. 
I refer again to the speech made by the then Minister for Housing when he introduced the original legislation in 1964. He pretty well gave up the ghost at the beginning. His comment on this matter was: 
There is little the Commonwealth Government can do about the price of land. Basically, in a fully employed economy additional resources can only be devoted to housing if less are applied elsewhere. One cannot eat one's cake and have it. 
The same sort of negative approach was followed by the present Government when, during our discussion of land prices as a matter of urgency on 19th March this year, the Minister representing the Minister for Housing said: 
The facts of life are that, as more and more families wish to live in our capital cities and close to places of employment land prices must rise. 
That is probably true, but must land prices rise by 400% while wages are rising by 40%? Must this enormous disparity between increased land prices and increased wages, as documented in the McCarrey report, continue and be tolerated? Only the Labor Party has evolved any sort of policy for Federal action on land prices. To put it in a nutshell, we have said that the Commonwealth should be making grants to the States to purchase, develop and subdivide land and then sell it at cost. This scheme has been criticised by the Government as being too expensive, impractical and, worst of all, Socialist. 
As to its being expensive, let me say that the $75m and more that we have already spent on the homes savings grant scheme is also expensive, especially when we consider that the funds thus applied have been used to feed the problem that we were setting out to starve. As to the claim that the scheme is impractical, I can only say that no evidence to that effect has been produced. As to its being such a dreadful and terrible Socialist concept, the remarkable thing is that Labor's scheme runs very closely parallel to the scheme produced by the McCarrey Committee which,I again emphasise, was a committee set up by a Liberal government. The Committee suggested the setting up of an urban land commission whose activities would closely parallel what we suggest. I should make it clear though that the Committee's scheme differed from ours in that it did not suggest that the land thus developed should necessarily be sold at cost. 
There is one other thing that I would like to say about the criticism that our scheme is too expensive. In the long term our scheme would cost nothing. We are not suggesting that the Commonwealth should provide funds for the States to purchase, develop and sub-divide land and then give it away free. We are suggesting that the development and sub-division should precede a sale at cost. In the long term all the funds provided by the Commonwealth to the States would come back directly or indirectly as subsequent purchasers paid for their lots. 
Handouts are always popular, even if they are ineffective. The withdrawal of handouts is correspondingly unpopular. At the same time, I would hope that a Labour government would scrap the proposed scheme and apply the funds released to solving the problem at its  source  rather than subsidising it at its end point. Instead of attempting to help by paying $500 at the end point we should be looking for ways to save the home purchaser far more than that amount by attacking land prices, by attacking housing interest rates and by attacking inefficiencies in building. In that way we would achieve far more at far less cost. 
A previous  speaker  in this debate attempted to make the point that in some way the homes savings grant scheme did contribute to what he felt was a reasonable sort of housing situation. Ignoring for the moment the argument as to how reasonable the situation is, let us look at how effective or helpful the grants have been. The honourable member quoted figures showing that in covering the year ended in June 1965 to the year ending in June 1969, inclusive expenditure on homes savings grants amounted to $62m. I think it is fair to say that the suggestion was that in some positive and practical way that contributes to solving the housing problem. In that same period from 1965 to 1969 the cost of new dwellings only - and this scheme is not restricted to new dwellings - amounted to $4,812,000,000, not including the cost of the land. The proposition that $62m would help is farcical when compared . with that figure. It would not even pay for the flywire. It is less than 1% of the total, taking into consideration land costs. 
The weaknesses of this scheme do not lie only in those factors which made it necessary to introduce the. present Bill. The weaknesses do not lie only in the Bill itself, although during the Committee stage I hope to discuss some of the factors in the Bill which are inequitable, certainly from the point of view of the people of Western Australia. The weaknesses of the scheme do not even lie in the inequities which will remain after the Bill is adopted. Its essential weakness lies in the fact that it is a scheme which was introduced to help the election prospects of the Government in 1963 rather than to help the housing prospects of the people whom the Government said it was setting out to help. It was an election gimmick. It was ill considered in its inception. It has been enormously expensive, but virtually useless in its operation. It should not simply be amended now. It should be replaced. 
I also want to refer to clause 12 of the Bill, which provides that the maximum value of homes eligible for a homes savings grant will be increased from $15,000 to $17,500. There are 2 weaknesses in this clause, as there was in the section that it seeks to amend and as there will be in any clause which seeks to regulate this position by setting an arbitrary limit on the value of eligible homes. The first weakness of this approach is that it takes no account of continuing increases in housing costs. The second weakness is that it takes no account of differing conditions that apply from State to State and even from region to region in the Commonwealth. 
The continuing increase in housing costs means that the new maximum value established by clause 12 will be out of date almost as soon as it is agreed to. On figures already put to the Parliament in this debate, a house costing $16,800 or more today will cost more than the new limit of $17,500 in less than 12 months. Within 3 years - and I remind the Committee that the 2 amendments to the maximum have each taken 3 years to be introduced - the whole increase under the proposal will have been completely absorbed by inflation. To meet this situation it would require annual or even more frequent amending Bills. But that is a very cumbersome and unnecessary procedure, and I would be inclined to suggest to the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin)  that we meet this problem by allowing the Minister to amend the figure in this clause from time to time at her discretion. 
The second weakness to which I have referred is really the more serious of the 2 to which I wish to draw the attention of the Committee. This relates to the discrepancy between the benefits under the scheme to people living in the different States. In Western Australia in the year 1965-66 20.1% of all new dwellings completed attracted a homes savings grant. By 1968-69 that figure of 20.1% had dropped to 11.4%. This is a serious enough matter on its own, but I think that the real significance of the drop is to be seen when it is compared with the situation in other States. In the last year to which I referred, that is 1968-69, compared to the 11.4% of homes completed in Western Australia which attracted a grant, the average relative figure for all other States was 26.2% or more than double the figure for Western Australia. The Government has not even shown that it recognises this problem, let alone that it might be ready to act on it. I suspect that this situation has arisen in part because the Government has been prepared to treat its own information too superficially. By way of example, I should like to refer to a comment made by the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes),  representing the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin),  in the debate on land prices on 19th March 1970. In trying to make out a case that the Opposition had unnecessarily exaggerated the position in relation to increased land prices he said: 
The evidence available is that applicants for bornes savings giants - this is a pretty good group to take, because it excludes luxury sales and many of the sales at the lower end of the scale - were on average paying nearly $2,500 for a block of land in 1966-67 and $2,710 in 1968-69. 
In the first place, to take an average price of $2,700 for a block of land in 1968-69 is quite meaningless to Western Australians. They know that $2,700 far from being an average price in Western Australia, would not even be the minimum price. I would hazard the guess that the average price today in the metropolitan area of Perth would be almost double the figure quoted by the Minister. 
J ask the Minister especially to look at the basis on which he arrived at that average figure, because the basis of that figure was  the situation applying to successful applicants for a homes savings grant. He said that 'this is a pretty good group to take'. My response to that is that it is just about the worst group to take. My reasons for saying that are, first, that land to which these grants applied has, in many cases, been held for a number of years; secondly, it includes land outside the metropolitan area where the main burden of this problem lies; and, thirdly, all the land within this scheme comprises only a small proportion of the whole in Western Australia. It amounted to only 11.4% of new dwellings constructed in the year 1968-69. 
I urge the Minister and the Government to be more realistic in their approach to this problem and, at least, to recognise it even if they feel unable to meet it at this stage. I shall give one other example of the apparent failure of the Government to grasp what is happening, thereby limiting its ability to overcome these problems. I refer to a further statement by the Minister in the debate of 1.9th March that I have already mentioned and in which he informed the House that things were not too bad. He said: 
. (here are some signs of a flattening out. This is now quite obvious in Perth. 
Talk of land prices levelling off is completely meaningless unless at the same time reference is made to the plateau at which the levelling off is taking place. Three weeks ago in Perth we had our most recent release of local government land. It is true that on that occasion the price of the land released dropped from its previous levels. It not only levelled off; it dropped by something like  5i%.  But what is the help of that when the final figure which was arrived at in spite of the drop was an average price of $9,423? 
I say to the Minister and to the Government that talk of levelling off when we are not talking about the level at which that levelling off is taking place, or talk about average prices of $2,700 per block without realising that there are important areas in the country where $2,700 would not even equal half the current average price, or talk about successful applicants for the homes savings grant as being a pretty good example  to take in arriving at one's understanding of this problem is completely fallacious. They are not useful indicators. They are misleading and they hide the problem instead of enabling us to see exactly what the problem is. I think J made it clear during the course of my second reading speech that I am not exactly to be counted among the admirers of this scheme, either as it is implemented or in its very concept. At the same time, the Government has made it equally clear that it is committed to continuing this scheme. If that is the case let us at least ensure that the scheme, as it continues, works effectively and equitably. I should like to feel that the two questions that I have raised and which go to the aspects of effectiveness and equity will have the consideration of the Government. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What were the combined outstanding claims provisions of the registered health insurance funds as at 30th June 1969. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
Are audience ratings similar to those covering television available for radio stations and radio programmes. 
If so, what is the estimated audience for Parliamentary broadcasts. 
I ask the Treasurer a question related to his recent public statements that the annual rate of inflation of 4%, as indicated by the March figures, is intolerable. To enable the aims and effectiveness of the Government's economic policies to be measured will the Treasurer indicate what rate of inflation he would consider tolerable? Does he believe that a reduction to that level will be achieved by present economic policies, including the increase in bank and now hire purchase interest rates? If this is his belief, when does he expect that level to be reached? As the Treasurer's recent statements invariably link the inflationary trend with present high levels of employment, is it an aim or at least an expected consequence of present policies that levels of employment should be reduced? If so, what level of unemployment would he consider tolerable? 
Has the Minister for External Affairs noted thai the Security Council yesterday condemned the recent Israeli raid into Lebanon without reference to the guerilla activities from the Lebanese side of the border which provoked it, or the apparent disinterest of Lebanon in curbing those guerilla activities? Would the Minister agree that the Security Council resolution was neither balanced nor helpful in the present Middle East situation? If so. will he undertake to convey that view to our Commonwealth partner, Great Britain, which is not only a member of the Security Council, and voted for the resolution but also a member of the so-called Big Four' purportedly seeking a fair and just solution to the Israeli-Arab conflict? 
More than 5 weeks ago I listed a question on notice to the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  asking him to consider the setting up of a select committee to review the operations of our parliamentary system and the functions of parliamentary members. The Prime Minister has not yet found it possible, or perhaps has not considered it necessary, to reply to that question. I regret that he has not done so because on all sides I hear the Parliament denigrated as a charade, a farce, a hollow shell, a puppet show, and it is remarkably difficult in all honesty to construct a defence to this criticism. We are at a stage where most of a mem ber's constructive work is done outside the Parliament, while a great deal of his time is still spent within it. Surely the question that has to be faced is that we spend so much time here, how can we make the best use of it? 
It seems to me from my short and admittedly limited observations of the system at close quarters that an honourable member of this House can do 3 things. He can vote; he can question; he can speak. But I wonder how much reality there is in each of these functions. The way in which an honourable member votes is determined even before he steps inside this chamber and his vote is uninfluenced by anything that happens in debate thereafter. That, by and large, applies to all Parties. Question time has been traditionally regarded as a special right of the Opposition and the back bench member. But I am led by observation to doubt that as well. Like every other aspect of the system, questions are distorted and question time is manipulated, whenever it is considered necessary to serve the purposes of the Executive. The rule that a Minister may answer a question in his own way is abused by Ministers who use a question on one aspect of a subject to make a statement on another. Last Thursday, for example, I asked the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  what rate of inflation and what rate of unemployment he would consider tolerable. He answered me with a discourse on what he called the seasonal 'illiquidity' of the Australian economy. How remote can you get? Yet that answer was by no means untypical of ministerial response. 
The third role open to a back bencher in the Parliament is to speak in debate. As I have already suggested, the purpose of our debate is not to influence the decision of the Parliament. It is in the main directed at the public and with a view most often to the next election. That no doubt is a legitimate aim and exercise. Yet to serve it, is it really necessary to indulge in the extraordinary repetitiousness which characterises our discussions? With every respect to speakers on both sides of the House, was there really anything said in the speeches of the 26th, 27th and 28th speakers at the second reading stage of the National Health Bill that had not already been said amply and, indeed, several times by the time we had heard the 8th, 9th and 10th speakers in that debate? 1 know that part of the repetition is due to the desire for some publicity at home. 1 do not comment on that. But I strongly suspect that another element fostering the process is simply the lack of anything better to do and the feeling that that is the system and we may as well play out our role in it. [ find that latter attitude genuinely appalling. After all, honourable members offer themselves for election on the basis that they have something to contribute to government. That contribution must surely be something more than periodic half an bour speeches. 
Our presence here, quite apart from any other consideration, is expensive to the public. In my own case, for example, it would be costing the taxpayer, 1 would estimate, at least $30,000 a year. What sort of satisfaction can we get and what sort of value can the taxpayer get from our work within the present parliamentary framework? There is a need also to provide background training and experience for potential members of future ministries. That also is a theoretical function of the Parliament. Yet how well is that function served? The basic difficulty in this area is that the parliamentary framework was set up before and necessarily without taking account of the effect of disciplined political parties. Frankly. I do not know whether we will ever be able satisfactorily to accommodate the new facts to the old system. But we surely have to make the attempt. 
The most common suggestion advanced in this field is. of course, that the committee system be extended. But it is hard to know what we are waiting for at least to give this system a try. We should be doing so this year. We should be setting a basis for it this session. The justification for such a move is, I think, well illustrated in one paragraph of the report of the Senate Standing Orders Committee when it refers to standing committees. That report states: 
The essence of the Report is that a standing committee system is standard and essential equipment of the modern legislature. Work-load alone is a compelling reason. Equally important to Parliament in its consideration of public affairs is that the legislature may, through its committees, call upon scholarly research and advice equal in competence to that relied upon by the Government in other words, Parliament should be equipped to scrutinise the Government's programme properly rather than merely to rubber stamp it. The Senate has in fact taken the initiative on this matter and we are peculiarly slow to follow it. Over the past 2 or 3 years the Senate has set up so many select committees that rumour has it that it is running short of potential members for them. Today listed on the Senate notice paper is a motion calling for the setting up of a comprehensive standing committee system in that House. Why should we not be doing that here? This House, by contrast, has twice the membership and hence at least twice the capacity to constitute committees and yet only 1 current committee is now functioning on a policy matter, namely, aircraft noise. 
Last week we agreed to set up a second select committee which will consider the preservation of the red kangaroo. What about the preservation of the Parliament? What about the preservation of the parliamentary member in some meaningful sense? If the Government will not agree to go straight to a comprehensive system of standing committees why not at least a short-term select committee to make recommendations on the subject? Indeed that was the point of my question on notice to the Prime Minister and I hope that when he does find it possible to reply he might remember that he himself was one a backbencher and give these matters their proper due. 
In recent weeks a rare measure of agreement appears to have developed on the desirability of a comprehensive committee system to assist the better functioning of the Parliament, and one can only hope and urge that the current enthusiasm will persist until something practical is achieved. Certainly something along these lines seems to be needed. 1 should have thought that members and observers of the Parliament could hardly have doubted that, and those who do oppose such a development have to acknowledge, I believe, that what they are in fact arguing for is not only a monopoly of power for the Executive but a monopoly for the Executive of the benefit of available information and expertise as well. 
Having said that, . I suggest the need for some caution. We will not be well served by rushing into a system of committees without first considering exactly how the committees will operate and exactly what powers we intend them to have. It is too easy in this area to fall into misconceptions. I believe that has been well illustrated in recent days by the way in which the current Senate committee proposals have been widely but impractically compared with the functions of the United States Senate committees. The two are not really comparable, simply because the parliamentary frameworks in which they operate" are not comparable. Indeed, this leads me in turn to suggest that we cannot sensibly discuss what role committees might play within our political system without determining first what role the Parliament itself should perform. In that context I think we have to start at the point that it is no longer practical, if indeed it ever was, which 1 doubt, to speak of Parliament govern ng the country. The Government must govern. On every matter on which the Government has a declared or determined policy, that policy must prevail. And that applies equally to all cabinet system parliaments, whether with or without committees. Conceding that, however, is very far from conceding that the Parliament can have nothing worthwhile le left to do. In fact, it should have a useful role both in the area already covered by established government policy and in the area not so covered. I propose to look at these areas briefly in turn. 
With regard to the former, 1 have already suggested that where the government has a policy, that will, and indeed, that should prevail. That, after all, was why the Government was elected. In this area then the discussion in Parliament cannot reasonably be directed to changing the Government's policy, and yet at least 3 potentially important functions can still be served by proper parliamentary consideration of government proposals. In the first place, Parliament is the main, perhaps the last, political forum in the country which can attract regular attention, so that our discussion is one of the few ways in which the public can be informed of the current range of views on important political matters. Secondly, the Parliament provides important experience for future members of the Executive. Thirdly, the Parliament should be able to persuade the Government to accept, or at least consider, changes which go not to policy but to details. Each of these functions is better served by a well informed Parliament than by a poorly informed Parliament; and we are poorly informed. In particular, we are divorced from the knowledge, the advice and the experience of the civil service. We seem, in fact, to have little contact with the bureaucracy at all, which is itself a factor which must limit pur understanding of how the country really runs. We are also precluded in practice from assembling other expert views which should be available and which ought to be taken into account. Both of these sources of advice and information are out of our reach as individual members, but within the scope of parliamentary committees. That alone, in my view, is a sufficient reason to develop a committee system here. 
The sort of committee work 1 have been referring to - that is, related to matters on which a government policy exists - is often associated with so-called standing committees. By contrast, consideration of matters on which no government policy exists is normally associated with so-called select committees. The scope for the latter type of committee work is. of course, almost limitless and could certainly include such matters as Commonwealth-Stale relationships, migration, tariff policy, law reform, censorship, industrial relations, constitutional review, poverty, pollution, urban renewal, education policies and so on. These areas are still largely non-political. That is not to suggest that the aim of committees should necessarily be to produce bipartisan policies. It should mean, though, that investigation at this early stage would be less inhibited than could be the case once party positions become fixed. 1 am pleased to see that the Leader of the Opposition, in sponsoring the present discussion, has envisaged that both types of consideration - that is. of the standing and select committee type - should be undertaken by the same body. 1 support that approach as tending ro greater efficiency and to the better use of the expertise which committee members should be able to acquire. With due respect to the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden),  1 cannot appreciate the difficulties he sees in such a combination. If a specific matter arises which does not readily fall within the scope of such a committee there can be no objection to a further select committee for that specific purpose. I am also pleased to note that the Leader of the Opposition referred to the need for committees of the Parliament rather than committees of the House of Representatives or of the Senate.  His  suggestion is directed to the desirability of joint committees rather than separate committees of the 2 Houses. I support this as well, not only for important practical reasons, which are largely self-evident, but also on the basis of my view as to the powers and position which this House should hold relative to those held by the Senate. I will not elaborate at this stage on my reasons for believing that the Senate should be abolished. That is not relevant te this discussion and it is, in any case, a proposition which does not appear to be constitutionally feasible. But I do say this much: Firstly, the method of election of the Senate is apt to leave half of that body well behind current community views which this House alone can accurately reflect; and, secondly, the Senate already has too much power as opposed ro responsibility. This power is all the more objectionable when one realises how far the theoretical justification for it has departed from the reality. The Senate, which was supposed to be the States House and not a House of party politics, has. in fact, become the House of party politics par excellence. First or second position on the ticket of u major party ensures election and Stales' rights must come a poor second to that sort of logic. 
I believe that I am not simply expressing a party view on this matter and not even a House view, but a parliamentary view. I believe it may not be very long before every parry in this House has reason to regret and to object to the powers which the Senate already has without adding to them. Finally, I believe that such an addition to the power and standing of the Senate would almost certainly accrue if this House fa Med to assert its own position in a matter as potentially important as the current committee system propositions. I have already suggested twice in recent weeks that the establishment of a parliamentary commitee system itself warrants the consideration of a short term select committee. This 11 :u area of activity proposed for the Parliament is one in which the formalities and the mechanics cannot sensibly be considered in isolation from the principle itself. For example, just what matters should the com.mitteees consider? What call should they have on the attendance of senior civil servants? Should their reports on Bills he subject to debate? Should their proceedings be recorded in Hansard? Should their meetings be open to the non-voting participation of other members of the Parliament? These are just some of a host of questions raised by the prospect of a developing committee system. To sort them out comprehensively calls for some concentrated attention. 1 commend to the House the need for a select committee for this purpose. 
The Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  has an unusual capacity, which I think he has himself recognised, of introducing Bills with which nobody entirely disagrees but which still leave many people dissatisfied. I am afraid that the present Bill also fails into this category, and the reason for that, to put it in a nutshell1, is that the organisations in the area covered by the Bill require not only more assistance but also and especially a different kind of assistance from that proposed in the Bill. Perhaps I. should make it clear at the outset that my arguments will be based mainly on the experiences of the spastic centres but 1 suggest that these experiences are not untypical of organisations sought to bc assisted by the Bill. This is confirmed, I believe, by editorial comment in the most recent issue of 'Rehabilitation in Australia', which is the official organ of the Australian Council for Rehabilitation of the Disabled. 
When we consider the position of such organisations as spastic centres one finds that their main problem lies not in finding funds for capital projects but in meeting the running costs of their day to day activities lt is therefore disappointing to see that the Bill provides capital assistance only. It is significant that in lengthy and closely reasoned submissions to the Commonwealth inquiry into health insurance and the Senate Select Committee on Medical and Hospital Costs the Australian Association of Organisations for the Cerebral Palsied (Spastics) did not mention the need for capital assistance at all. Moreover, in its submissions to the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  in December last the association's request for capital assistance came fourth after three more basic requests aimed at securing recognition and support for its medical and paramedical day to day activities. i submit that the order of priorities established by the centres themselves - that is. to put maintenance assistance before capital assistance is clearly right. In the first place the organisations already have physical facilities and, while these are far from ideal, they are not grossly inadequate, as are their maintenance funds. In the second place, as 1 think will be confirmed by anyone who has had experience in voluntary fund raising, one finds that it is always easier in any case to raise voluntary funds for capital projects - for building projects - than for maintenance work. So that if there were to be I aspect of the work which had to be left to private philanthropy it should be that involving capital projects. Thirdly, and I think this is a matter for caution, the provision of capital subsidies can often lead to a tendency to encourage capital projects to develop ahead of the capacity of organisations to maintain them. Finally, and most importantly, I believe that the centres are right in their order of priorities, because what matters even more than optimum accommodation is early and especially adequate treatment. I quote the Ministers comments in his second reading speech:  lt is vital that help bc given to these handicapped people early in life ... the essential thing is to start remedial action while they are still young. To delay treatment has the triple effect of leaving them helpless for longer, of consuming greater resources in their rehabilitation and of militating against the effectiveness of the cure. 
In spastic centres, for example, the adequate early treatment, which the Minister himself recognises as essential, requires intensive therapy under medical supervision by physiotherapists and occupational and speech therapists among others. This intensive treatment involves heavy costs and the problems of these costs are now being aggravated both by the improving status of the professions concerned and. more recently, by the trend towards equal pay for the female members of these professions who hold a large proportion of the appointments in these treatment centres. 
The Minister has suggested that the proposed capital subsidy will free other funds for maintenance work. I do not doubt that it is his view that this will happen, and T am sure he would like it to be the case. 1 could also concede that this is, in fact, the likely effect for those organisations whose building programmes are at very early stage. But if 1 can revert to the position of the spastic centres again, and use the example of the Western Australian centre specifically, the position is this: On the one hand the centre has no major building project in view so that there is no question of the subsidy freeing other available funds. On the other hand the centre is now in the position where it is forced to consider reducing its professional staff in spite of increased enrolments. The latter situation surely indicates where the real need lies. Looking at the position in terms of it's effect on the children, it will be clear that the aim which the Minister himself has set will not be achieved by the present Bill - certainly not for the organisations that 1 have mentioned and, if one takes note of the Minister's further comments in his second reading speech, probably not for more than half of the organisations caring for handicapped children. 
The spastic centres have been seeking Commonwealth maintenance finance since 1949 and it is depressing and frustrating reading to see the regular response by the Commonwealth to those requests. The response invariably has been: 'This is a question of State responsibility; ask them'. I congratulate the Minister on at least breaking away from this approach to the extent of providing Commonwealth capital grants. But why stop there? Having made the break why does he, in his second reading speech, continue to put these proposals on the basis of helping the State contribution in the field as though to remind us that the Commonwealth still denies that there is an independent Commonwealth responsibility? Of course there is. The children we are concerned about are not just Western Australian, Victorian or Tasmanian children; they are also Australian children, and the Commonwealth's reluctance to accept and operate on the basis of that simple fact is at the very heart of the problem which these organisations have faced in their efforts to attract Commonwealth support. As it happens, the contribution of the State governments to this work does at least bear some relationship to its worth; at least in the context of State finances. 
Again using the figures of the Western Australian spactic centre, the position is that in the last financial year the Western Australian State Government met 44.4% of operational costs. The Minister has pointed out that there is already indirect Commonwealth assistance to these bodies by way of social service and health scheme benefits, but all these incidental Commonwealth benefits combined still amounted last year to only 7.1% of operational costs, and that appallingly low percentage contribution will not be increased by so much as a single decimal point as a result of the present legislation. 
I want to quote a statement by  Mr J.  T. Michell, who is the Executive Director of the Western Australian spastic centre and the National Secretary of the Federal body. The statement, I believe, summarises the basis of their claims and the basis of their concern. These extracts come from his submissions to the Commonwealth committee of inquiry into health insurance and read as follows: 
As great as these two total sources of funds are- 
He was referring at that stage to. assistance from government and voluntary welfare agencies -  nevertheless the spastic organisations throughout Australia, in the main, do not have enough income to adequately carry out their total responsibilities to the cerebral palsied, and this inadequacy lies mainly in the medical treatment/ medical training/nursing field- 
I interpolate here to emphasise not the accommodation field -  where the cerebral palsied appear to fall to  a  large extent between opposing forms of legislative enactments or lack of enactments. 
At a later stage he says: 
Therapy given at medical direction when the medical management of the patient's case is under  a  registered medical practitioner is a vital part of the whole field of medicine, the professional standards and ethics of graduate registered therapists are extremely high, and therapy is recognised throughout the world as being an extremely important medical service, just the same as nursing is an important medical service. All hospitals of importance throughout the world employ therapists, and we earnestly seek the inclusion of therapeutic remedial treatments within the scope of the National Health Act provisions. 
It may be suggested, as  Mr Michell  himself indicates in that extract, that the appropriate source of support for the maintenance of such centres should be the Department of Health rather than the Department of Social Services. But an argument as to which is the appropriate department in this matter would be as barren as that related to State versus Commonwealth responsibility. We are dealing with children and with the families of children who suffer enough because of their handicaps without having an additional financial burden with which to contend, or the addi tional concern that the children are receiving something less than the best attention possible. We are dealing with organisations which have done magnificent work in rallying public support, but whose efforts are simply inadequate to meet the need. Every argument of social conscience demands that the needs of handicapped children should not have to depend on the vagaries of beauty competitions, telethons and raffle tickets. These efforts should supplement not substitute for government action. I urge the Government to recognise that the present proposals, welcome as they are, are not the answer to the problem. Their scope now or later must be widened to cover the daytoday work - that is to say, the real work - of those engaged in the treatment and training of handicapped children. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What was the total of deductions claimed by taxpayers on account of (a) contributions to health insurance funds, (b) medical expenses other than those covered by (a) and (c) donations to charities and appeals qualifying for tax deductions, for the last year for which figures are available. 
What was the estimated cost to revenue of each of these items. 
Last Tuesday morning I delivered to the Parliament petitions bearing the signatures of 1,000 Western Australians who wanted to register their protest at current Government policies of increasing interest rates. Today I was informed that another 5,500 to 6,000 signatures are already available for presentation next week. I want to stress the spontaniety of the protest which has taken this form and may do so by indicating that the body which has collected these signatures, the Housing Loans Reform Movement, only came into existence a fortnight ago, and it came into existence without any organisational background or backing at all. Today thousands of Australians are being advised by the building societies that existing loans on home mortgages are subject to an automatic and compulsory increase in interest rates. I know that there is a point of view which holds that building societies should be prevented from imposing an increase in interest during the term of a mortgage, but I think that to be practical one cannot support that view, nor does it indicate where the real source of the problem lies. 
If we are to limit building societies to lending on long term only and at fixed rates only we will concurrently be restricting them to borrowing at long term and at a fixed rate only and the result can only be a diminution of their capacity to lend for houses. As I will indicate as I proceed, that is a policy that we can hardly afford to adopt at this stage. Throughout the present session of the Parliament 2 consistent themes have been advanced by the Government on increased housing interest rates. Firstly, the Government has insisted that there is no question of a direct attack on housing or the housing industry as such and that the present difficulties in this area are merely a by-product, so to speak, of overall economic policies. Secondly, the Government has said that in any case, although it might hurt a little in the meantime, it is in our own long term interests to grin and bear it because current measures are necessary to control inflationary trends. We have heard these propositions advanced time and again by the Treasurer  (Mr Bury).  The question is how well do they relate to reality. As to the Treasurer's first comment, it is surely reasonable to point out that whether or not the present economic policy is aimed at housing, that is where it is hitting hardest. It is hitting buyers and it is hitting builders, and there are serious consequences for both. I understand that my colleague the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Bennett)  will be discussing the position as it affects builders. At this stage I want to look at the buyers' position. 
In a debate as recently as 15th April the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  complained of the effect of increased interest rates on home purchasers. He complained that between 1964 and 1969 permanent building society rates increased from 5i% to 7%. He went on to insist that a rate of 7% was too high. I am sure, at the same time, that today he would be happy to have back that 7% rate because in the last couple of weeks the rate has again jumped, this time to a minimum of 81%. The largest building society in Western Australia, the Perth Building Society, is now charging 8i%, having increased to that figure from 7%. I understand that other smaller building societies are in fact charging more. 1 ask the House to look at the position of home purchasers as a result. On a $12,000 loan over 25 years the home purchaser was liable to pay in 1964 interest of $10,105; in April this year he was liable to pay $13,445; and today he is liable to pay no less than $16,385. There has been an increase in interest alone over the 6 year period of $6,280 - more than 50% of the original amount borrowed. Monthly repayments have gone from $73.68 to $84.82 and now to $94.62. In those 6 years there has been an increase in repayments of almost $21 per month. 
The Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin)  last, week was reported as making the incredible statement that the monthly increase should not be of any real concern because in the last year average weekly earnings had increased by $6. The mind boggles at that sort of oversimplification, especially coming as it does from one holding ministerial responsibility. I wonder why the Minister thinks wages went up. What does she imagine is left once earlier increases in the cost of living are absorbed, not to mention the new tax account to which the extra $6 gives rise. There is only one source out of which home purchasers can pay these increases and that is out of their standard of living. It is intolerable that they should be expected to do so. 
There is another aspect of this problem of equal concern. The position is bad enough for those who are already in a home and who are trying to pay it off. It is even worse for those who have not a home yet and who are looking forward to buying one in the near future. They find that credit has been turned off like a tap. Their hopes for a home in the future have been deferred indefinitely. This is especially serious in a State such as Western Australia. The  Chairman  of the Housing Industry Association of Australia reported last week that building approvals were down 25% on average throughout Australia compared with the same period of last year. But please note this: They were down by 45% in Western Australia. For builders and building tradesmen in Western Australia the position is very serious indeed: for potential home purchasers it is disastrous. I have had occasion already this session to refer to the serious house shortage in the West. Our State Housing Commission has a backlog of over 15,000 homes and a wailing period of up to 4 years and 10 months for State Housing Commission purchase homes. 
Only yesterday, the Minister for Housing who, by an ironical coincidence, currently is acting also as Minister for Immigration, was good enough to send to me a circular advising - to use her own words 'with pleasure' - that Australia was set this year to exceed the migrant intake target of 175,000. She might have noted also that Western Australia consistently is absorbing far more than its proportionate share of migrants. For example, Western Australia in the past 4 years has had an average 7.5% of the Australian population but an average migrant intake of 13.18.% In this situation, already strained for accommodation and already subject to the heavy disproportionate migrant intake, comes this crunch on the activity of the building industry in Western Australia and a drop in construction of approvals of 45.% 
Something has to be done. If it was good enough to make special provision for rural interest rates at the beginning of the current credit squeeze it should be good enough to make some special provision in this field as well. The problem is not a technical one. It is a matter of policy. The current policy is hitting too hard and in the wrong place. The Treasurer has over-reacted to whatever problems of pressure there were in the building industry earlier this year. In the discussion on housing interest rates, which was raised for debate as a matter of public importance on 12th March, the Treasurer said that the building rate in the last December quarter was 12% above the figure for the same quarter in 1968 and that was too much. Even if that was so - and it is open to argument - a cut back of 25% overall and of 45% in Western Australia is just too much, lt is another case of the cure being worse than the complaint. 
With respect, the value anyway of these measures as a brake on inflation is doubtful. The Perth Building Society has assets of $100m. Most of these assets are out on long term loans. Borrowers have been offered an increase in the repayment period rather than an increase in current amounts of repayment. What will be the effect of this? The effect will be that there will be no alteration to the level of liquidity or the levels of demand for other materials and services about which the Treasurer has indicated he is concerned. In other words, over this whole important major area no effect occurs in relation to inflation but a serious effect results for home purchases. I am not an economist, but I cannot believe that our economic measures must be so crude. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Ishe able to say how many doctors are members of the (a) Australian Medical Association and (b) Society of General Practitioners. 
If so, can he say how many members of the Australian Medical Association are (a) specialists and (b) general practitioners. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What was the salary range applicable to pharmacists employed by his Department in each year since 1958. 
What was the dispensing fee for ready prepared prescriptions under the National Health Scheme for those same years. (3 Is he able to say what was the average annual salary of manager-pharmacists in retail pharmacies, for each of those years. 
asked the Treasurer, upon  notice: 
Is it a fact that zone allowances for workers north of the 26th parallel are not available to off-shore drillers north of that line. 
If so, (a) why are those allowances not available to these drillers and (b) will consideration be given to removing this apparent anomaly. 
I ask the Prime Minister whether he has had the opportunity to consider the reported statement by  Mr Justice  Nimmo to ihe effect that the inquiry into health insurance over which he presided produced evidence of 'appalling social and economic distress in this affluent country'? In view of this evidence arising from a Commonwealth inquiry which was not seeking it, will the Prime Minister give an undertaking to now consider the appointment of a committee of inquiry into poverty in Australia so that the fullest information and advice on this subject can be collated as a basis for further action? 
The first comment I would like to make is that it has been a matter of some interest to hear over the last 2 days the matters under discussion described as matters of parliamentary reform. I draw attention to the fact that we have not scratched the surface of that question. All we are dealing with are matters of mechanics and convenience, and I think we' should be realistic enough to know that those are the limitations within which we are operating at the moment. I draw attention to that point for the particular purpose of reminding the House that there are other matters in the Standing Orders Committee report which I hope will not be overlooked but which I feel might be. In particular my remarks relate to clause 5 of the report which deals with the possibility of committees. 
To stick to the item immediately under discussion though, I think that it is fair to say that only 2 reasons have been advanced against the proposition. The first one I think it would be fair to say that this summarises what the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  was putting to the House - is that the higher number of the quorum the better the attendance in the chamber. The second reason advanced against the proposition, which I think was probably summarised by the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes),  was that the higher number in the quorum would prevent legislation being passed by an unconscionably low number of members. I think that both of these arguments are wrong. I think they are both fallacious. I am afraid that both engage in selfdeception. It should not be part of our job to deceive ourselves. 
Now look at this question as to whether a higher requirement for a quorum will increase the attendance in the chamber. I deny that proposition. So far as I can see the only result of a. smaller quorum will not be lower attendance but fewer quorum calls. I would regard that as entirely desirable. The honourble member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  made the point a moment ago, which has been made by others, that it really does not matter what the numbers are because when the quorum bells ring honourable members have to come into the chamber, anyway. This ignores the fact that the quorum bells will ring less often when the numbers required for the quorum are lower. 
It is no good saying that changing the number required for a quorum will not make a difference. It will make a difference. 1 took the opportunity to take a count before I stood to speak just now, and it would make a difference right now. If I were to draw attention to the state of the House now, the bells would ring. If we passed this proposition and the same number of members were present in the chamber and if I were to draw attention to the state of the House, the bells would not ring. In other words, we are now at a stage where the number of members in the House is lower than 43, or whatever the number is, and higher than 25. So it does make a difference. 1 will go on in a few moments to try to indicate why I. think, that a change is desirable. But before I do that, let me draw attention also to the argument raised by the honourable member for Mallee in opposing the present proposition. In support of his argument he said: 'This is the most important place in Australia'. 
He said that when the House is sitting this chamber is the most important place in Australia. 
If Chifley said that it would certainly be true. But what I want to add to that is that while this chamber is indeed the most important place in the nation, that is for only some of the time, not for all of the time. 1 will not speak about the importance of other members' contributions to discussion in this chamber. 1 will speak about my own contribution. 1 cannot bring myself to believe that the fact that I am speaking in this chamber now or on the other matters in which I have taken an interest in the short time I have been here has made this chamber the most important place in the nation at the times at which I have spoken, demanding the presence of all members. Of course, that would be absurd. There are times when it is the most important place in the nation. When we are passing important Bills or when we are listening to important statements, particularly from the Government and from Opposition leaders, it is the most important place in the nation. But to be honest, at many other times it is not the most important place in the nation because what is being produced by way of debate is a repetition of what has been said previously. 
At that time the most important place for individual members is the place where they can be doing the most valuable work, and that is not necessarily inside this chamber. I think I should spend a moment dealing with the argument raised by the honourable member for Corio. He said that a lower quorum would result in legislation being passed by a disgracefully low number of members. To that I want to say that in practice it does not happen. The fact that he was able to bring forward one example of legislation being passed by only 51 members is itself an indication of how few examples there are, because he would most certainly have produced many more examples than that if they were available. But even if it were typical, I think that arguments of this nature deny the realities of the way in which this chamber operates. The truth of the matter is that whatever is going to be passed in this chamber on matters of Government policy will be passed because it is Government policy, and it will be passed whether the total attendance in the House at that time is 101 or 51 or I . It will be passed because the Government has decided it will be passed, and only those members on the Government side who know that they have been paired will refrain from attending. That argument, like the first argument, raises fallacies which we should not allow to distract us. 
So this brings us to the question: If there is no disadvantage in changing the numbers, is there an advantage? I think that there is. I can only agree with the speakers who have gone before me. I say this as an Opposition member who well recognises that quorums are almost exclusively called by the Opposition. The role of quorums in this chamber is not to secure a larger attendance in the chamber, as some speakers have attempted to suggest. As we well know the common experience is that as soon as an honourable member has arrived in the House during a debate which he does not intend to listen to and has made up the quorum number he then disappears again. Therefore, the justification for calling a quorum is not to increase the numbers listening to the debate. The calling of a quorum is very often largely a matter of mere harassment, as it has been called, and of parliamentary tactics, of annoying the Government by bringing Ministers out of their offices on relatively unimportant occasions without any great profit, so far as I. have been able to discern, either to the business of the Government or to the business of the Parliament. 
We have heard of the numbers of committees which operate within both Government and Opposition parties. I have been at a number of meetings when quorums have been called. I have also been at meetings with Ministers making representations on behalf of my constituents and at times we have got up 3 times in the course of 10 minutes because that happened to be the day when someone decided to call quorums. Quite frankly, I have never been able to see the value of such a practice. If the Opposition is fed up with the way in which it is being treated by the Government and wishes to make its protest perhaps by taking up the time of the House, this can be done by adopting other procedures. I think one does not have to be here all that long to realise that other procedures are available. In short, I think it can be realistically said that throughout this debate there have been only 2 arguments raised against the change in the quorum. Neither stands proper examination and neither in any way answers the arguments which have gone the other way. I hope the House will support the proposition. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Will he consider the setting up of an all-party committee of the House to review the operation of the Parliamentary system and to propose ways in which the role of Parliament in national life might be enhanced and the work of Members made more meaningful. 
It is true that a Budget is primarily an instrument of economic policy but it is also our most important instrument of social policy and it is on the latter level that the present Budget has failed most conspicuously. The effects of its failure, of course, will not be felt uniformly. Some sections of the community have, in fact, done very well. I suppose that there must be at least 1.21% of taxpayers who are perfectly happy, they being the group with the double good fortune of earning between $10,000 and $20,000 on the one hand and of receiving maximum tax reduction benefits on the other. There must be others again who will be counting themselves lucky to have had a further year's reprieve from the inevitable introduction of measures such as capital gains tax and graduated company tax. 
But compare the position of these groups with the position of pensioners and other low fixed income recipients, with low income families and with large families, at almost any wage level. In other words, compare their position with (he position of those groups which are most vulnerable to present economic conditions and most in need of assistance. What is the Government doing for them? What is it doing for pensioners? On the basis of the statements of the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  as to past and anticipated rates of inflation, the Government is acting so as to provide that by this time next year pensioners will be at least 75c worse off in terms of purchasing power compared with their position this time last year. That, moreover, is without even taking into account the effects of the Budget's indirect imposts. What is the Government doing to help low income families? lt is doing one thing only; it is providing a 10% reduction in income tax. Big deal! Look at what that means in practice. 
In Western Australia the minimum weekly wage is something under $47 a week. Even ignoring the question of deductions, which makes the position even worse, the proposed tax savings for  a  worker on that wage will be $28 a year. This compares with a tax saving on a taxable income of $16,000 per annum of $500. This is unconscionable. To say so is not to deny that those on the higher income bear an extremely heavy tax load. What it is to say is that having neglected to reform the tax scale for so long it is now necessary to approach its reform with a proper sense of priorities. To the taxpayer on $16,000 a year the extra $10 a week will be very welcome, but it can hardly be said to be likely to make a significant difference to his way of life. He will either save the difference, or, if he spends it, be will spend it on some additional luxury. His basic needs were already well met under the old tax scale which left him with over $9,000 a year net. Not so the taxpayer on the minimum wage. Unless he is in State housing accommodation his rent alone will mean that he cannot support his family on anything approaching a decent standard. That is where the greatest need is; that is where the least assistance has been given. 1 make only one other comment on the adjustments to income tax. In his Budget Speech the Treasurer said: 
There  is a  clear case for ensuring that most of  the  relief will go to lower and middle income earners. 
He then proceeded to give details of relief for incomes up to $30,000 a year. I believe that under present conditions no case for tax relief exists above the $10,000 a year level. The Treasurer's statistics accompanying the Budget show that only 2.54% of taxpayers earn more than $10,000 a year. In the Australian context that must surely mean that incomes above that level are high incomes, not medium incomes and certainly not low incomes, in which case the Government's own professed aims would appear to be better met by a cut-off at that point than at $30,000 above which, for completeness, it might be noted that only 6 in 10,000 of the taxpayer population need apply. I restrict myself to these brief comments on these very important matters in deference to the comprehensive analysis of the Budget by the Leader of The Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and later commented on by other Labor colleagues. 
I turn now to a different matter which, while not relevant to what the Government has done in the Budget, is, I believe, relevant to what it might have done. In my brief experience in the Parliament I have found myself continuously impressed at the proportion of the Parliament's time and concern which is devoted to matters of specific rural interest. This occupation with rural problems is very marked, even considered in isolation, but it becomes quite remarkable when contrasted against the virtual absence of any Commonwealth Interest in specifically urban matters. If one looks at the summary of our business during the autumn session this year one finds that the following Bills were dealt with: The Loan (Australian Wheat Board) Bill, the Canned Fruits Export Marketing Bill, a group of 5 Bills related to the dairying industry headed by the Dairying Industry Bill, the Wheat Industry Stabilisation Bill, the Wool Industry Bill, the Marginal Dairy Farms Agreements Bill, the Processed Milk Products Bounty Bill and the Queensland Grant (Bundaberg Irrigation Works) Bill. Now look for 1 single Bill devoted to specific city interests and you will not find it. lt is not my present concern to argue against rural assistance but I believe that the least one is entitled, and even obliged, to do is to ask the Parliament to pause and consider the rationale of our rural assistance policies with a view to judging whether the present imbalance of concern as between city and rural problems is justified. One of the curious features of rural debates in this House is that the justification for existing or proposed measures of rural aid almost invariably begin with an economic argument but end with an abstract claim for the inherent virtues of country life. This approach is well exemplified, I think, by an address which the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  delivered to Melbourne Rotary Club on 8th July this year. At one point he put the economic argument in this way: 
I  believe the farmer and the things he produces are important to this nation. His contribution to our capacity to earn foreign exchange has been in past years of vital importance, and today is still of very great, though diminished, importance. Wool is still our biggest single export earner. This capacity is of significance to every Australian. 
That, if I may say so, is a view which demands respect and consideration, but I find it significant that later in his speech after some passing and unsubstantiated references to decentralisation the Minister virtually ended his argument for consideration to the rural sector in this very interesting way: 
I  might mention that last week in New Guinea it was a striking fact that the further one got away from the towns, the happier were the smiles and the waves along the road. Perhaps there is  a  lesson there for all of us. 
Indeed there is because I believe that in that small aside the Minister crystallises many of the expressed and unexpressed views on which the supporters of our rural policy have actually acted, that is, that there is something inherently good in country life which should be preserved and safeguarded for its own sake. 
You may well be correct, yet might not one be entitled to ask whether the preservation of this desirable way of life should be at the expense of those unable to share it, namely, the 80% of Australians who live in the cities? I pursue that question no further at this stage except to say that we have to recognise that the economic and social reasons for rural aid are not necessarily 2 parts of the same argument. They are 2 separate arguments, and much though we may wish it to be otherwise, they are often incompatible. 
If our rural policies were based on grounds of economic justification we would expect a great deal of assistance to be given to our most vital rural industry - wool - and very little assistance to that rural industry which is least economically justifiable - dairying. The actual position, of course, is the reverse of that. The only conclusion to be drawn from that fact is that social considerations still rank high, in fact are predominant, in our approach to rural problems. Again, it is not my present purpose to argue against that. What I do argue for, however, is some evidence of a similar concern at the Commonwealth level for the style of life of our city population. None has been shown yet so far as I am aware. 
Even in the purely quantitative areas, such as the number of houses, the price of land and the availability of services, the Government has refused to accept that it has any independent responsibility. We are forever being referred to the powers of the States as a reason for Commonwealth inaction in every aspect of urban life. The strange thing is that this sensitivity to State rights does not appear to hinder us in our contributions to the rural community, very many of which are provided in areas of exclusive State powers. Why do not we plead State rights when we pass $25m through the States for marginal dairy farms or when we pass $ 12.8m through the States for irrigation works in Queensland? Why do we have this double standard? We should be looking, and be anxious, to play a part in the development of urban life instead of seeking ways to avoid it. Nor should we be content with the merely quantitative aspects of this problem. There are questions of quality as well. 
Let me give a simple example. In Perth the railway runs through the centre of the city. On the one hand, it is an eyesore and, on the other hand, it chokes off the proper development of the central city area. There has been a longstanding proposal to sink this railway. That would concurrently overcome both problems as well as affording a magnificent and unrivalled opportunity to provide the city with 374- acres of land for a city square and other public purposes. From the time the proposal was first seriously considered it is estimated that the cost has risen from $2m to $10m, and it will continue to rise as we delay further. 
In response to a question in the State Parliament the Minister for Railways in Western Australia has indicated that he has not sought any financial assistance from the Commonwealth for this project. On the Government's record he was undoubtedly right in believing that any such approach would have been a waste of time. It would not be a waste of time to a government which cared about the quality of urban life. The development of which I have referred would be used and enjoyed by more people every week than are engaged in the whole Australian dairying industry. It could be achieved for less than onequarter of the amount of this year's butter subsidy alone. If we can find the funds for one, we can and should find the funds for the other. It is not a question of financial capacity; it is a question of interest and will. In this area the Government has demonstrated - indeed it has claimed - that it has neither. 
Let me cite another example. During the recess I had the opportunity to look at a very small town planning scheme which is being implemented by the Perth City Council. The scheme involves only the reorganisation of an area within 3 parallel roads yet within that narrow scope 8 crossroads have been eliminated and with attendant safety advantages, and 1 walkway has been provided which was not available before. The scheme is a very modest one. It costs practically nothing but it achieves a great deal. The point is, however, that it would not have been instituted - in all probability it would not have been thought of - except for the fact that the Perth City Council is one of the few local councils to engage professional town planners on its staff. How many local government bodies have scope for this kind of development? There must be very many. How many of them are actually engaged in it? Very few. How much of the difference lies in the sheer financial inability of local government to think beyond next year's allocation for footpaths, let alone provide for town planning in its wider aspects? No-one but the Commonwealth has the financial capacity to make local government work better. The Commonwealth must enter the field. Our towns and cities will never realise their potential until we do. 
Time will noi permit me to deal in detail with the many other matters relevant to this question. We should be looking at the part we can play in the town planning of new suburbs, in urban renewal as related both to slum clearance and to the proper use of other older inner city areas, in pollution, in the abatement of noise, in overcoming the sociological problems associated with modern large scale flat development and in overcoming the enormous difficulties in providing cheap efficient public transport in the metropolitan areas. I know very well that we cannot do all of these things at once but we cannot ignore them all either. Most Australians live in the cities. Even allowing for the gerrymandering of federal electorates, most of us in this House represent Australians who live in the cities, lt is time that we represented them better. 
Would the Prime Minister agree that it is desirable to again hold elections of the Senate and the House of Representatives simultaneously? If so, and with a view to producing this result, would he consider holding a referendum in association with the forthcoming Senate elections to seek to change the term for senators from the present fixed 6-year term to a period equivalent to the term of 2 parliaments? 
I take the opportunity of this debate on the estimates for the Department of Health to raise a mater which is, admittedly, of minor importance when considered against the health scheme as a whole but which at the same time is of great significance to those directly affected, as well as in other areas, which 1 might be able to indicate in passing. I refer to the question of dispensing fees under the pharmaceutical benefits scheme, a matter which has to some extent already been referred to by the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron). 
On 18th August the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  issued a Press statement indicating that the Government had granted an increase of 2c per prescription in dispensing fees, at an annual cost to the Commonwealth of $1.4m. This figure must be seen in its proper context, lt has been put to me that $1.4m is a lot of money - and so it is. On the other hand it represents the dispensing of 70 million prescriptions in a year, and that is a lot of prescriptions; involving many millions of man-hours of professional service to fill. I think that this point needs to be made at the outset because it is too easy to be carried away with the sheer scale of costs in this field and to ignore the obvious fact that the cost of any decision bears no necessary relationship to its fairness or appropriateness. 
The last increase in dispensing fees was from 50c to 55c for extemporaneously prepared prescriptions and from 27.5c to 30c for ready prepared prescriptions. That was in March 1961, and there was no further increase for 9i years despite the clear pattern of increasing costs in the meantime. In particular, and of special significance considering that dispensing is such a highly labour intensive activity, pharmacists' salaries increased very substantially over the relevant period. In June of this year the Minister- informed me of the pattern of pharmacists' salaries in the Commonwealth Public Service in recent years. I believe it is reasonable- (0 assume that this pattern would have been mirrored by salaried movements 'in the private sector. The Minister's figures show that from 1961 to 1970 pharmacists' salaries roughly doubled. Thus the minimum salary for grade 1 pharmacists increased from $2,140 to $4,355 per annum. In grade 2 the salaries increased from $2,580 to $5,247 per annum and in grade 3 from $2,800 to $5,498 per annum. 
Given this evidence of 100 per cent increase in costs over the period I believe that the Parliament" and the profession were entitled to a more comprehensive explanation from the Minister as to why no increase at all had been warranted over the previous 9 year period and how an increase now of something under 7 per cent had been arrived at. I should make it clear at this point that  1  am not in a position to argue that the recent 2c increase is too little although my inclination is to believe that that is in fact the case. However, for all I am aware it may be too much. Frankly,  1  simply do not know because no detailed information is available on which to base a judgment. My essential complaint, indeed, is that this should be so. The absence of such material is all the more unfortunate considering the lengthy negotiations between the Department and the Pharmacy Guild which have proceeded over more than 7 years and which involved among other things a very, comprehensive survey of dispensing practice in 1964-65. 
If I understand the position correctly, no agreement has been reached between the Government and the Guild on this matter, so that, after all this time and negotiation the Government has simply determined the issue by unilateral declaration. I suspect that the significance of this approach will not be lost on the other and more powerful bodies in the health scheme, so that the manner in which the Government has disposed of the present problem may well encourage far more difficult and intransigent problems in the future. One of the apparent reasons for the delay in the dispensing fees decision has been the problem struck by the negotiators in agreeing on the significance of the figures produced by their joint survey. In this respect it is only fair to the Minister for Health and his Department to say that whatever responsibility there is for the delay must be shared by the Pharmacy Guild itself. On the basis of the transcript of the Senate Select Committee on Medical and Hospital Costs it appears to me that both parties attempted to make such a detailed examination of dispensing costs that the result was bound to be failure or absurdity. 
If we see a man counting out 100 capsules or mixing up 4 oz of ointment there is not much point in trying to find out how much of the end cost of the product should be ascribed to rent, the window cleaner, telephone, wrapping paper and so on. Apart from any other consideration these measurable factors do nol give any indication of the value of most important though intangible factors such as professional skill, professional training and professional responsibility. It seems to me that some sort of businesslike rule of thumb has to be applied and one happens to bc readily available within the scheme already, due to the method adopted from the outset for Commonwealth prescription pricing. In addition to the dispensing fee, the price of a prescription includes an ingredient cost arrived at by adding  33b  per cent to the wholesale charge. It seems to me that all of what may be regarded as the 'trading' component in dispensing, that is the cost of acquiring, ordering and holding stock, wastage, deliveries, wages of non-professional staff, rent, telephone, light, licences and so on can properly be regarded as required to be met out of the mark-up on the ingredients supplied. This is what I would refer to as the trading component of the dispensing transaction. 
This leaves only 2 items to be balanced, namely the cost of dispensing staff on the one hand and the dispensing fee on the other. The question is: How do they compare? The answer, unfortunately, is that your guess is as good as mine in the present state of public information, but my guess would be based on the following approach. The working week is 40 hours and a reasonable salary for a manager pharmacist, taking such factors as holiday pay into account, would be of the order of $120 a week. That makes an hourly salary of $3. The number of prescriptions which can be dispensed in an hour will obviously depend on many factors. Before the Senate Select Committee, Guild representatives debated as to whether the number would be 4 or 6. However, given the present proportion of ready prepared preparations in the scheme and providing for full time work on dispensing alone I would personally be prepared to suggest that 10 prescriptions an hour would not be impractical. Even so, the cost to the pharmacy for dispensing salary alone is 30c per prescription or virtually the same as the Commonwealth actually pays. On that basis the pharmacy can make no profit on its dispensing activity and it will almost certainly lose, even when its dispensers are working at full capacity. I deliberately leave out of account the position of pharmacies working at less than full capacity as the over supply of pharmacies proportionate to poulation can hardly be subsidised by the Commonwealth. 
I make only 2 other comments at this stage. Firstly, in view of the previous difficulty as to the manning of the pharmacy survey figures, it is somewhat surprising to see the confidence with which the 
Minister puts forward his own interpretation of them. He is not only able to make a rough stab at the position but is actually able to say within 100th of lc what the situation is. Thus he informed us on 18th August that for the year 1969-70 there was a surplus of 0.53c per prescription after allowing for all costs. He also indicated that the position from the pharmacists' point of view could be expected to deteriorate by 2c per prescription in the coming year. Now, there is nothing which will happen next year by way of inflation that has not happened to one extent or another in every year since 1961. Accordingly an increase of 2c in the coming year could be said to indicate that an increase of between lc and 2c has occurred in each of the past 9 years. If that is so only 2 possibilities emerge. The first is that the dispensing fee today is too low, or alternatively that the dispensing fee in 1961 was far too high, by something of the order of 100 per cent. The Minister should tell us which is in fact his understanding of the position or, if these alternatives do not exhaust the possibilities, what other alternatives exist. The second comment T offer is this: We are in an area where figures can be made to mean almost anything. Accordingly great care is called for to ensure that we use them fairly. By way of example, let me quote a comment which the Minister for Health supplied as background to his statement on 18th August. The Minister said: 
More relevant for consideration however is the fact that due to a considerable increase in the number of National Health prescriptions, the amount- 
The word 'amount' is underlined - of remuneration paid to chemists by the Commonwealth per annum has increased steadily from $29.2 millions in 1961-62 to $50.4 millions in 1969-70, an increase of 72 per cent over the period. Even after allowing for the increased number of pharmacies this still represents an average increase in remuneration of 45 per cent per chemist. 
Firstly I point out that when the Minister talks of an increase in remuneration of 45 per cent per chemist he really means per pharmacy. Because of the increase over the period in the number of pharmacies employing more than 1 chemist the actual increase per chemist, literally taken, could be significantly less. More important is the fact that the number of prescriptions dispensed under the scheme increased from 31.217,000 in 1961-62 to 65,575,000 in 1969-70. In other words, even if the Minister was right in saying that remuneration increased by 72 per cent over the period, this has to be measured against an increase in the work load of over 1 1 0 per cent in the same time. 
A dispensing fee is a fee for service. Because it arises in such a vital area of community welfare a number of competing interests come into play. On the one hand there is the desirability of keeping public health service economical. As opposed to that there is the need to ensure that services being rendered to the Commonwealth should be remunerated by a fair fee and not one which varies in proportion lo the bargaining strength of those providing the service. 
Finally, I welcome the Government's decision to appoint a select committee on pharmaceutical benefits, though it is not clear to me that ils charter includes the exhaustive review of pharmacy which would be required to resolve the specific question I have raised. The growth of the scheme has been phenomenal. I see from the report of the Auditor-General that the total expenditure on pharmaceutical benefits since the scheme was first introduced in 1948. amounted, to June 1970, to $1,161,783,000. Fortunately the average cost per prescription has been held fairly static, increasing only 7c from $2.01 to $2.08 per prescription since 1962. otherwise one could only fear that the scheme as a whole would have collapsed. However there are more than enough questions to warrant the attention of this select committee and I think we shall all look forward with interest to its recommendations. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the Public Service Board has adopted a scale of salaries for pharmacists which differentiates between graduates of universities and of colleges of advanced education. 
Can he say whether it is  a  fact that no differentiation exists between such graduates in any other instance, including the registration requirements of all the States and those other nations with which Australia has reciprocal recognition arrangements. 
If so, will he have this apparently anomalous decision by the Board reviewed. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
Can he say how many perchlorethylene dry cleaning machines have been manufactured in Australia in each of the past5 years. 
If so, what was the capacity of these machines. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
What is the cost per hour to (a) commercial and (b) Australian Broadcasting Commission television of hiring the television link between (i) Adelaide and Perth, (ii) Melbourne and Perth, (iii) Melbourne and Adelaide and (iv) Melbourne and Sydney. 
Are there any technical restrictions applying to the use of these links. 
What has been the average weekly use of these television links since the respective facilities became available. 
I direct a question to  the Postmaster-General. Is it a fact that all telephone accounts normally distributed in September were held back until October in anticipation of an increase in rental charges? If so, will the Postmaster-General say why this was done? Is it the Government's view that the procedure adopted was in accord with proper commercial practice? 
Yesterday 1 put a matter to the Postmaster-General  (Mr Hulme)  at question time. I now raise it again because 1 believe that his reply indicated that either the question was misunderstood or that he was misinformed. The question I asked was: ls it a fact that al) telephone accounts normally distributed in September were held back until October in anticipation of an increase in rental charges? If so, will the Postmaster-General say why this was done? Is it the Government's view that the procedure adopted was in accord with proper commercial practice? 
The reply of the Postmaster-General, in part, was: 
If the honourable member's question applied to rental charges, I can assure him that the problems, if any, which the Post Officer has relate to the installation of new equipment. I have had some complaints that there has been delay in meeting the new demand because of the increased rental applying from 1st October, f can assure the honourable member that increased charges were not the reason for the delay. 
The Postmaster-General went on to say: 1 can assure the House that nothing was done within the Post Office in an attempt to take any advantage whatever of the new charges. Work went on as usual, other than for some industrial difficulty which did cause a postponement in certain cases. 
In other words, if I correctly understand his reply, the Postmaster-General was saying that technical arrangements and not policy would account for any delays. This cannot be right because I have in front of me an account which indicates what actually happened. On it is printed 'Payable within 14 days of 24.9.70.' It was received in early October by a telephone subscriber who always receives his account in September. In fact, the date '24th September' has been overstamped by the date '2nd October'. This account is by no means an isolated example. Before coming to Canberra on Monday I took the opportunity of checking the position with the accounts section of the Perth General Post Office. I was informed that the Postmaster-General's Department had deliberately withheld for delivery until early in October all accounts normally posted in September. It was put to me that the reason for this was that had the accounts gone out at the normal time when, as it was put to me, they were ready and available the Department could have charged only $20 instead of $23.50 because the amending legislation was not assented to until 1st October. 
This may be so. This is a point to which I will now come. This is what 1 was suggesting by way of implication in. my question yesterday. I am not suggesting that it was an illegal practice, but I think it was a bad practice. 1 believe that the Post Office would have objected if any of its own suppliers were to attempt to adopt the same procedure. I believe that if this sort of procedure were adopted in the commercial field it would be resisted by many people in the community. I am unable to believe that the Western Australian section of the Post Office adopted this procedure of its own accord, alone and without authority. I therefore ask the Postmaster-General to clarify the position again by answering the following questions: Was the deliberate delay in the delivery of Western Australian telephone accounts authorised? If so, will the Postmaster-General give the Department's justification for adopting this procedure? Will he also indicate whether the procedure was adopted in all States? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
How many direct Melbourne-Perth flights have been scheduled by (a) Trans-Australia Air- lines and (b) Ansett Airlines in each of the past three months on (i) Thursday nights, (ii) Friday nights and (iii) Sunday nights. 
How manyflights in each of these categories landed at Adelaide. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil  Aviation, upon  notice: 
How many movements of jet aircraft took place into and Out of Perth Airport in each of the last five years. 
Of these movements, how many were between 11 p.m. and 6 a.m. 
What are the projected movements of jet aircraft at the Perth Airport for each of the next five years. 
1 direct a question to the Minister for Health. Has the Minister had his attention drawn to the fact that as from next Monday the minimum weekly wage for West Austraiian adult males will be $49? Is it a fact that, under the present provisions of the National Health Act, all West Australian workers on the minimum wage will then lose their present rights to have their contributions to medical benefit funds waived or reduced? If SO, will the Minister immediately exercise his powers under the Act to prescribe amended minimum income levels so that any discrimination against West Australian workers on minimum or near minimum rates can be avoided? 
The estimates for the Department of Works show that there is a significant relationship between the activities of the Department of Works and the Department of Civil Aviation. The civil works programme indicates that over $20m will be spent on Melbourne Airport alone in the coming year so that it will be clear that errors of judgment by the Department of Civil Aviation will obviously be reflected in unnecessary and wasteful expenditure by the Department of Works. In no area of judgment is such waste more likely to arise than in the inappropriate siting of airports. I take this opportunity to raise the question of the siting of Perth Airport in particular. In the West Australian' of 13th October the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  indicated that the Commonwealth Government has decided that the Perth Airport will remain on its present site. According to his interview, as reported in the 'West Australian' of that date, the decision by the Government in this respect is irrevocable. 
I want to say 2 things about the decision. In the first place, I regret it. Although I can, admittedly, speak only as a layman I find it inconceivable that no suitable alternative can be found within a reasonable distance of Perth. Part of the problem, of course, is to determine what a reasonable distance is and I suspect in this regard that the Department is not thinking in terms of distance far enough away from Perth because it is not thinking far enough ahead. I know that is easy to do. I remember that not so long ago the area in which I live was known as the Mt Lawley bush. Children used to go for hikes there on Sunday afternoons. That is not a long time ago. It was in the post-war period. Looking back at it I find the fact incredible because I live only 3or 4 miles from the Perth General Post Office. I remember that a suburb like Gosnells, which is only 10 or 12 miles from the city, was then invariably referred to as 'the country'. It was in one of the gerrymandered State electorates, naturally with a Country Party member. 
If 20 years ago an area as far from the city as Gosnells had been suggested as the site for Perth Airport people would have risen up in horror to say: 'That is too far'. But now we have to think in terms of 30, 40 and 50 miles from the city. It is true that the Minister for Civil Aviation in the report to which I have already referred said that he had looked into various proposals and alternative sites within 55 miles of the city but he had found none of them suitable. I believe that he meant not that he was unable to find a site which was suitable but that he was unable to find a site which was as suitable as the present site. I think it would be true that it would be hard to duplicate all the advantages of an airport within 5 miles of the city at an airport 55 miles from the city. 
Other considerations, however, should be given their proper place. I again turn to the report from which I have already quoted. The Minister said: 
The existing airport was not only capable of expansion but ideally located. It is better, in fact, than any other airport in Australia as a vital link in the planned future integration of road, rail, sea and air freight services. 
In other words, he was saying that the present site is good for rail services, road services and air freght services, lt may be good for all of those and for many other reasons. On the other hand, it is not good for the people who live around Perth Airport. Unfortunately, this is one aspect on which the Minister did not feel called upon to comment. In spite of what I have said to this stage and in spite of the reservations 1 have on the decision to retain the airport at its present site, 1 suppose that if this decision has been made irrevocably by the Government one has to be practical and accept it on that basis. After all, the Government will possibly be in office for another 2 years, and in a sphere like this every year that passes counts. 
In 2 years we will have spent a great deal more money on Perth Airport and we will feel the loss that much more if we decide to vacate it. In 2 years time the areas now suitable for alternative sites will have shrunk with the ordinary expansion of the metropolitan area. To that extent I suppose we are stuck with the decision that the Government has apparently made. That being so, I want to raise a second point, and that is that a major effort should be made now to minimise the difficulties and discomfort to the residents of surrounding areas. It may be true that in the past the air traffic at Perth Airport was not such as to give rise to serious concern about airport noise. The noise problem was certainly not comparable with that at airports in some of the other States. But the noise problem is increasing and it is bound to increase further in quite a dramatic fashion. Only this morning I had supplied to me in response to my earlier question some statistics from the Minister for Civil Aviation. These statistics show that in the 5 years to 1969 total movements of jet aircraft alone in and out of Perth have risen from 2,571 to 6,173 annually, an increase of 240 per cent. Compared with what is going to come, that is nothing. On the projections of the Department as provided to me this morning, the present annual total movements of 6,173 will increase to 27,000 - and this is given as the minimum figure - by 1975. This is a further increase of 430 per cent in the next 5 years. That is one serious matter. 
The other serious matter relates to the times of operation of Perth Airport. Frankly, I was astonished to find that over half of all jet movements into and out of 
Perth Airport take place in the hours between 1  1  p.m. and 6 a.m. Over 3,200 jet aircraft movements occurred last year during those night hours in which not one movement is allowed in any airport in any other capital city. Flights between these hours are not allowed as a regular course at Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney or Brisbane Airports. Perth has the remarkable distinction of having 3,200 movements annually now. Carrying that figure forward on the basis of the projections of future movements, we can anticipate between 13,000 and 14,000 night aircraft movements annually by 1975. This is intolerable. I do not know how we ever came to be loaded with this remarkable distinction by which night flights are allowed into and out of Perth airport but not in any other capital city airport. I must confess that I do not know the background of the decision that allowed that sort of development. But we must look for some changes now. We cannot sit back and wait until the stage when we have 13,000 night flights into and out of Perth airport and then start to worry whether people's sleep is being disturbed. 
In one respect, the position in Perth concerning remedial action is better than in other capitals. According to the noise exposure forecasts map of the Department of Civil Aviation, the areas of maximum noise around Perth airport are still relatively sparsely settled. Therefore, the Department of Civil Aviation should consider large scale resumption at generous compensation in these areas in the very near future. The cost could largely be met by the re-zoning of acquired residential areas for industrial purposes. Even if the net cost was between $5m to $10m, this would be a small amount compared with the total cost of the airport and the least that the Commonwealth can do to minimise the difficulties to which its plans will inevitably lead. 
Finally, I urge the Government to expedite the resumption of open space in Newburn, the re-zoning of which has been frozen already for 10 years and more from re-zoning and development in anticipation of a departmental decision. The ramifications of the airport siting decisions go very far. Perth fortunately is not in the relatively absurd position as are airports in other cities such as Melbourne where one feels one can lean out of the aircraft and knock on a neighbour's back door. For those who are affected, however, the position is bad enough. The responsibility is on the Government to meet their needs. 
asked the Minister for 
Health, upon notice: 
How many (a) pharmacists, (b) pharmacists (inspection) are now employed by the Commonwealth in each of the grades now operative. 
How many arc employed at the minimum salary rate in each of these grades. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What will be the total benefit to taxpayers arising from the reduction in income tax rates in the current Budget. 
How much of this will be received by taxpayers earning (a) up to $2,500 per annum, (b) between $2,500-85,000 per annum, (c) between $5,000-$10,000 per annum and (d) above $10,000. 
How many taxpayers are there in each of those categories. 
asked the Treasurer, upon  notice: 
What would be the cost of increasing child endowment by $1 for each child. 
What is the present cost to revenue of income tax deductions allowed on account of (a) family allowances and (b) that part of the family allowance attributable to children. 
1 ask the Prime Minister a question  related to his 9th February statement on doctors' fees in which he indicated that the Government regarded me proposed increases as unreasonable and that, failing agreement or arbitration between the Government and the Australian Medical Association, the Government would 'take all measures open to it to combat the proposed rise'. I ask, firstly: What percentage increase would the Government have regarded as reasonable? Secondly, when threatening to take all measures open to it, what measures does the Government believe to be available, other than the possibility of instituting a participating doctors scheme. 
The honourable, member for Cowper  (Mr Robinson)  has thrown out a challenge to the Opposition in which he invites us to say what we would do about the inflationary position if we were in government. If 1 wanted to get over this one lightly the obvious answer would be that if we were in government the inflationary problem would not have arisen to the extent that it has. But I am not going to evade the issue like that. I will say something quite honestly and perhaps unpoliticianlike. If 1 were asked what 1 would do about the inflationary position today and 1 had the responsibility my answer would be that 1 do not know. I want to add to that that I cannot be expected to know and the reason I cannot be expected to know is that the expertise available to the Government is not available to me; the power available to the Government is not available to me; and the facts available to the Government are not available to me. When the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Lynch)  authorises a cost benefit analysis of immigration as it affects the economy the facts arising from that investigation are not available to me. When a report is sought on tariffs, that is not available to me. When the Treasury makes a submission to Cabinet that, of course, is not available to me. I suppose it need not be avialable to me. Who am I? The merest backbencher. But it is not available either to (he shadow Ministry and it is not available to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  lt is not available to our shadow Treasurer. So honourable members opposite should not start throwing out this sort of empty challenge. Give us the responsibility and they will see that we will meet it. 
The very things 1 have been putting to the House now are in fact the basis of the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition and I think it is worth referring to its terms, lt reads: 
This House has no confidence in the Government because of its failure to report to the House on the details and purposes of its monetary, fiscal, constitutional and industrial policies for curbing inflation.  [ believe that the terms of that amendment are worth stressing because they make perfectly clear what it is the Opposition is not saying in this debate. For example, we are not saying that the Government's measures so far as they go are necessarily to be condemned. Neither are we proposing alternative measures for immediate action in any dogmatic way. What we are saying is that on the one hand the Government asserts that Australia is faced with a serious inflationary situation. On the other hand it has been doing nothing to indicate what its understanding is of the causes and nature of that inflation or even of the degree of inflation which it would consider tolerable. Accordingly, we have neither known what we are supposed to be fighting against nor what we are aiming for. In these circumstances how on earth are we to make a proper evaluation of the Government's anti-inflation programme? The truth appears lo be after all the discussion today that we do not even know what the prevailing inflationary trend is. 
The Treasury's 'Information Bulletin' No. 61 confirms that prices increased in the last December quarter by 1.9 per cent, that is, at an annual rate of 7.6 per cent. On the other hand the Bulletin also indicates that taking calendar year 1970 as a whole the increase in the consumer price index was 4.9 per cent. For a start, which of these 2 figures is closest to the position applying now? Again, what is the economic effect in practice of the 6 per cent increase in the national wage case? How much or how little of that increase has been absorbed in preexisting over-award payments? How much or how little of the increase in prices since that award were really necessary to meet increased wages bills, lt is important to know what is happening in these areas or, at the very least, to know what the Government believes is happening. But until today we have had nothing but the vaguest generalities, and even today there has been little more than that, and that had to be dragged out of the Government by our moving a no confidence motion. 1 think that everything we have learned from the Government today can be summarised in 2 points which the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  made. The first of his points was that there is nothing a government can do to defeat inflation where wages advance faster than production; that there is the problem of wages going up too fast. All right, let us accept that this is a problem. As it happens, we do not accept that that is the complete problem, but for argument's sake, let us accept that it is. Even accepting that, how will the Government's measures help? What does the Prime Minister's whole argument amount to on this score but an attack on the operation of the arbitration system? Even that would be all right if he was offering us an alternative, but he does not do so. 
The Prime Minister's second point was that what we need is greater productivity, but again be gave no indication of how we might arrive at that. In other words, we are being told that the Government has 2 problems neither of which, according to the Government's view, is soluble. Tt is a philosophy of despair, and that is reflected in the measures which the Government has adopted and which we are discussing in this debate. This brings up for consideration the question of the effectiveness of the Government's measures, ignoring for the moment the premises on which they are based. lt seems to me the situation is that either the current inflationary trend is serious or it is not. If it is serious then it demands serious measures to combat it. If it is not serious, then minor measures will do. What we seem to have, however, is a curious and impossible com- bination of the two; that is, the Government declares the position to be very serious indeed but then proceeds to tackle it with a series of measures of comic opera character. 
Canberra's grass is to be cut less often. Floodlights on public buildings are out. The reading hours at the National Library have been cut, and so has the operation of the water spout on Lake Burley Griffin. I understand that a rumour is about that in future public servants will have to lick their own stamps in order to save the water m the office sponges. 1 believe that rumour, lt is just the sort of thing which the Government would do to be consistent with the empty sort of measures that it has been adopting until now. Even the more substatistical cuts seem to fail to meet the situation at which they are directed. Would someone please explain how a reduction of $3. 8m in our expenditure in Papua and New Guinea will help to dampen inflation in Australia? What sort of inflation is it that responds to measures like that? At the same lime could we perhaps have some clarification of other matters that have arisen in. the course of the discussion on inflation? 
In particular, references to the size and rate of growth of the bureaucracy obviously are incomplete. In his statement on Tuesday night the Prime Minister made these 3 points: Firstly, the Public Service was to have grown by 10,534 in the current year; secondly, this figure has now been, trimmed down by 2,735; and, thirdly, and most significantly, I suggest, the Public Service Board has advised that the 'restraint on establishment increases could benefit the health and soundness of administration in the Commonwealth Service'. If that is so - if a recruitment of 7,800 public servants can be expected to produce a Commonwealth Service that is actually healthier and sounder than one increased by 10,500 officers - how is it that the recruitment of the larger number was ever contemplated? Moreover, as the original contemplated increase this year was in line with proportionate increases in previous years, what inferences are we being invited to draw as to the efficiency, health and soundness of our vast administrative complex. I do not want to be side tracked into a discussion of that question at this point, but obviously it is one to which the Parliament will have to return. 
I revert then to the $75m reduction in Commonwealth expenditure. Some of it, such as the decrease in expenditure on external aid, may in fact be irrelevant to the local inflationary process. The benefit of other measures as well could well turn, out to be illusive. Take, for example, the decision to suspend the transfer of Public Service families from Melbourne to Canberra and the consequent postponement of the construction of 50 Commonwealth homes here. The net effect of that exercise would seem to me to be that 50 fewer homes will be built this year in Canberra and 50 more homes will have to be built in Melbourne to accommodate the families who would otherwise have taken over the homes of the transferred public servants. How, I wonder, will that reduce inflation? 
To try another tack, let us assume for purposes of discussion that the whole $75m reduction will in fact go directly to reduce demand. Even given this unwarranted assumption, the conclusion seems inevitable that the measure simply will not help. It does not go far enough given the major part which this one device has been given in the Government's programme. That Commonwealth expenditure is to be decreased by $75m may seem impressive in isolation. But when one looks at the reduction in perspective one realises that this amount has to be seen against an annual Commonwealth expenditure of $8,000m; that is, it represents a reduction of less than 1 per cent in the Budget - a Budget, moreover, which has swollen by 11 per cent over the Budget income and expenditure of last year. To put it another way in round figures, the Government is saying that its expenditure this year will be only 10 per cent, instead of 11 per cent, greater than it was last year. That is not really as dramatic a situation as the Government has been attempting to pretend it is. Why then has the Government bothered to make the pretence? 
The Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr McMahon)  gave us the reason perfectly clearly in his speech this afternoon. He pointed out that the whole exercise is to be seen as a psychological attack on the inflationary mentality afflicting the Australian community. Put less pretentiously, what this amounts to is an admission that the Government is trying to bluff the nation out of inflation, and I would not mind that if I could only believe that it might work, but it cannot work. Within the short time I have been in this Parliament 1 have already seen the Government try to bluff the union movement into payment of fines imposed under the penal clauses. I have seen the Government try to bluff the postal workers out of strike action by appealing to the special principles supposed to govern the Public Service. I have seen the Government try to bluff the professional engineers out of militant action by calls for respect for impartial arbitration. As each bluff has been called the Government has retreated. Surely we can take it for granted that if the Government cannot bluff the postal workers and the engineers, certainly it will not bluff the BHP, General Motors and hire purchase companies. It will not bluff the public, either. That this is so is evident on all sides. 
With all the talk of inflation and these drastic Government counter measures one would have thought that at least public spending would have faltered, but it has not. Again the Minister for Foreign Affairs confirmed that this afternoon. The reason it has not faltered is that people have lost respect for the value of money. Everyone with cash in hand today seems to be trying to advance rather than to postpone his expenditure for fear - and it is a well justified fear - that if he does not spend today the price will have gone up by tomorrow. That is the situation of people with money in hand. It only serves to emphasise the special problem and difficulty of those who do not have cash in hand. Their position, as exemplified by the pensioners but certainly not restricted to them, shows their position to be particularly precarious, and irrespective of all its inflation counters, the Government should not be ignoring these people as it has been doing and indeed as the Prime Minister insisted this week - not stated but insisted - it will continue to do. 
This debate has thrown up a number of areas which demand at least consideration and, in some cases, early action, lt has shown the need for Commonwealth powers to regulate the fringe banking institutions. It has shown the need for Commonwealth power on prices. The extent to which prices are controlled is a matter for future consideration by governments as problems arise but, in general principle, the power has to be found. It has shown the need, in the context of inflation, for fuller study of our tariff system, our immigration programme, our powers in respect of restrictive trade practices and of our taxation structure. Where the Government is not studying these matters, it should be. Where it is studying them it should take the Parliament and the people more into its confidence and not wait for a want of confidence motion to pry out of the Government its attitude and some of the facts at its disposal. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Health, arises from his statement last week that doctors' incomes had risen by 20 per cent since the inception of the new health scheme. Firstly, in view of Press reports that doctors' incomes in Western Australia have actually decreased over the relevant period, can the Minister clarify the position which is now applying in that State? Secondly, where the rises have occurred, can the Minister give some indication of why this position should have arisen, considering that the most common fee was intended to reflect the fees already being charged by the profession when the new scheme was implemented? Finally, in this context, can the Minister yet say whether the health scheme is operating within its budget and, if not, what the apparent variation is? 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
ls if a fact that discounts for pre-sorted bulk mail do not apply on Thursday and Friday of each week, in the week prior to Easter, and during the J weeks before Christmas. 
Is it a fact that these are the busiest periods and the periods during which the Post Office would be most assisted by pre-sorting. 
If so, will be review the regulations with a view to allowing discounts for pre-sorted bulk mail at all times. 
asked the Minister for the Army, upon notice: 
What is the circulation of the Australian Army Summary and who receives it. 
What is the approximate cost of preparation and distribution of each issue. 
When was the publication first published and how many issues are printed each year. 
asked the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
What is the estimated cost of extending the availability of the age pension to all naturalised Australians, who otherwise qualify by age and means, without reference to their period of residence in Australia. 
I ask the PostmasterGeneral: Is it a fact that the single Western Australian telephone directory is to be replaced this year by 6 directories, one for the capital city and 5 for country districts? Is it also a fact that the cost of a single column  i  inch advertisement in the pink pages, taken on a Statewide basis, will thereupon be increased from $18 to$91 and that an advertisement in the metropolitan directory alone will cost 55 per cent more than a Statewide advertisement cost last year? Have these extraordinary increases been approved by the Minister or his Department? If so, will he review them in line with the Government's consistent calls for restraint in wage and price increases? If the advertising charges are not subject to formal departmental approval will the Minister nevertheless use this influence to have them modified? 
This Bill seeks to increase pensions by 50c a week as from 1st April 1971. lt should not be necessary to make such an obvious statement as that, but it is made necessary by the extraordinary performance of the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  prior to the suspension of the sitting and in view of the remarks of every other Government supporter who has participated in the debate so far. Apparently their remarks were aimed at converting the debate into a discussion of what the age pension should have been under the Chifley Government in 1949. lt seems to be believed by the Government supporters that if they can show that the Chifley pension was no good then theirs must be all right. This is such a grotesquely illogical proposition that I wonder how grown men could put it forward, but it has been put forward during this debate. Let me answer it. 
I am prepared to accept the Government's calculation that on 1970 prices the purchasing power of the Chifley pension would represent only $10.75. My simple response to that historical fact, however, is that the Chifley pension was too low. Even allowing for post-war difficulties, it would not meet present-day standards. But a future Labor government certainly would meet current standards and not those pertaining in 1949. Let me add two further points about the Chifley social welfare programme. Firstly, its pensions may not have been high enough, but they were certainly higher than any that had gone before. The standard cost of living table which the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  incorporated in Hansard first on 3rd September last year and again at the beginning of this debate only starts at the year 1947 and compares the Chifley period with what has come after. I invite the House also to compare it with what went before. For this purpose, with the concurrence of honourable members, I incorporate in Hansard a table on the rate and real value of pensions between 1911 and 1964, which was compiled by T. H. Kewley in Social Security in Australia'. 

<graphic href="071131197104015_78_26.jpg"></graphic>

If one looks at this table one will find that in 1949 when the Chifley Government went out of office the index was at only 177 points compared to 243 points in 1964. But compare that figure of 177 with the position which applied in 1940, which was the year before the Australian Labor Party came into office. It was only 126 then. In other words, an increase was achieved on the index from 126 to 177. Moreover, this increase was achieved during the war years. Therefore, before being too critical about what the standard was in those days, one should keep in mind what it replaced. 
It should be remembered also that the pension was not the only concern of the Chifley Government. In the midst of the difficulties of the same wartime period it also succeeded in introducing the widows' pensions in 1942; maternity benefits for Aboriginal mothers in 1942; reciprocity with New Zealand in age and invalid pensions in 1943; funeral benefits in 1943; a second form of maternity benefit in 1943; unemployment and sickness benefits in 1944; pharmaceutical benefits in 1944; hospital benefits in 1945; tuberculosis benefits in 1945; and the Commonwealth Employment Service in 1945. If these matters are taken into account together with the increase which was made in the age pension over this extraordinarily difficult period in Australia's history we may in the future hear less about what the present Government has achieved compared to what the last Labor government achieved. 
I will now revert to the provisions of the Bill. Let me say that in one sense the Bill provides nothing to talk about. The Government supports a pension increase of 50c a week because it obviously believes that that is enough. The Australian Labor Party supports a 50c a week increase on the different ground that anything is better than nothing. In short, irrespective of the preliminary manoeuvrings, the proposed 50c a week increase will be supported by all honourable members in this House. The Bill will certainly go through this chamber unamended. That being so, one might be tempted to say: 'Let it go through. What is the point in talking about it?' In the immediate and strictly practical sense there is none. On the other hand, we must talk about it because the contents of this Bill, and especially the way in which the Bill was foreshadowed, raise fundamental questions as to what our attitudes should be on not only pensions but also the whole social welfare system in Australia. For example, what do we believe that the age pension is supposed to do? What is it supposed to be? Is it meant to supplement other income or sources of support or is it meant to be enough on its own to support life at a tolerable standard? Is it properly regarded as a right or a charity?Is it a measure for the good of the recipients or for the good of politicians who are short of something to say at election time or, on more recent precedent, during motions of no confidence? 
What is the pension supposed to be? That is the fundamental question. Until we answer it we cannot hope to establish the end point at which social services should be aimed nor, obviously, can we judge how near or far away we are from that point at any given time. Surprisingly enough, however, this is the subject which is most rarely discussed in the whole avalanche of words which invariably descends on this Parliament whenever social service benefits are under consideration. The major failure to define aims has consistently been on the Government side and that is simply because . it is basically the Government's responsibility to do it. Yet to be fair one must also admit it is a failure which has appeared in the past in the Opposition as well. Instead of discussing the social welfare aims appropriate in an affluent democracy and instead of discussing need, all of us too often have been content to deal in statistics, averages, percentages, tables, indices and summaries and having exhausted all these things, in reciprocal abuse. We are mesmerised by figures and. because there are so many figures available and . because they look so impressive when seen in isolation, our debates here have become highly predictable. 
For example, we of the Opposition will almost invariably demonstrate that pensions have decreased as a percentage of the gross national product. The Government will respond by saying that pensions have increased in terms of purchasing power. We will come back to insist that they have fallen as a proportion of average weekly earnings. The Government will then say: Yes, but they are still more than they were in Chifley's time,' and so on. In the meantime I suspect that the pensioner who is waiting on the sideline while this game is being played is wishing a plague on both our houses. He cannot be expected to care whether he can buy 30 per cent, 3 per cent or 300 per cent more food than could the pensioner in 1947. What he cares about and what we should care about is whether he can buy enough food, enough shelter, enough clothing, enough enjoyment of life and, in the case of invalid, widow and deserted wives' pensions and unemployment benefits, whether it is possible for the children of the family to expect a decent education. 
The sad thing is that in the vast reams of statistics and statements on these matters one can find no attempt by the Gov-' ernment to determine what is really enough', what a 'decent standard' is - that is, what minimum enjoyment of life every Australian should be able to expect, given the resources of the country. Any view on these matters involves a combination of technical inquiry and political judgment and it is the technical demands involved which mean that only the Government can do it. Others, even those professional in their own fields, are left to arbitrary judgments which make their final conclusions unsatisfactory. For example, I note that the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the Australian Commonwealth Pensioners Federation have combined to call for pensions to be set at a sum equal to 30 per cent of average weekly earnings. How are we to know that that is not too much? On the other hand, my colleague the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  recently delivered an important address on national superannuation in which he suggested a pension level set at 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. This is in line with the commitment of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  at the time of the 1969 elections. Yet, how are we to know that that is not too little? 
It goes without saying that I respect the people who have made both of the suggestions I have referred to but the simple fact is that their views cannot be evaluated in the absence of criteria as to the basic standards which the Australian community expects and can afford. To establish these criteria must be one of the urgent objects of government and regrettably there is no indication at all that it is or that it might become so. I posed questions earlier as to whether the pension should be regarded as a right or as a charity, as a supplement to other income or as an amount sufficient on its own to support a reasonable standard of living. These are very old questions which go back to the inception of pension systems but they are still important questions because the answers to them go a long way towards determining what the level of pensions should be and who should receive them. 
In this country we seem to have gone through 3 distinct periods although the gradations from one to the other are not always clear. In the first place it is certain that the pension was regarded as a charity and no more - a simple philanthropy; an outdoor substitute for the poor house. This is well illustrated, for example, by the restrictions placed on pension eligibility in the first age pensions legislation in this country, namely, the New South Wales Act of 1900. To be eligible for a pension under that Act one must have lived in New South Wales for 25 years, have not been in gaol for more than 5 years or 4 times, have not failed to maintain one's wife or family, have not deserted one's wife and, to crunch it all, have been 'of good moral character and have led for 5 years immediately preceding the application a sober and reputable life'. After all that one got $1 a week. That was the period often referred to as the 'deserving destitute' period. At least we can say we have come a fair distance from that. By the time of Prime Minister Holt we were already being told that the Government regarded the pension as a supplement to other income. Of course, that means that we have moved from the deserving destitute stage since a person with other income or assets is not what we would normally regard as destitute. 
Last year or perhaps 18 months ago we came even further. It was at that time that the then Prime Minister,  Mr Gorton,  said that a pension should be enough to allow pensioners to live in what he called frugal comfort. That may have been an unfortunate choice of phrase and  Mr Gorton  certainly collected his fair share of raspberries because of it. But the fact is that his statement on that occasion was an important one and certainly the first occasion of which I am aware when the Government came round to recognising that the pension should have a certain status, that status being to support a certain standard of life. That leaves open for argument what that standard of life is and how much it would cost. But in its own way this was a great advance. It would be comforting if we could at least have an assurance from the present Government that this is still its understanding of the proper role of the age pension in our society. 
As we have had that change away from the charity outlook so too has developed the view that the pension should be regarded not as a favour but as a right. The end point of that process, however, is that the means test has to go because if it is a right it cannot be a right based on poverty; it must be a right based on some such concept as a return for a lifetime of work and effort within the community. The means test has to go. The Government has been peculiarly reluctant to let it go. The Labor Party is committed to its abolition and, in the terms of its present amendment, wants to stress that that remains its position. One other important matter is connection with the pension is that above all we have to take the question of regular reviews out of the political arena. The Australian political parties have been notorious for the way they have forced pensioners to look anxiously for election year because, and I say this quite impartially as it applies to all parties in Australia, that is the time when pensioners may expect some increase in their pensions. However, we must have reached the highest peak of cynicism in the way that this Bill was foreshadowed. The announcement of an increase came only one month after we had been assured by the Minister for Social Services in the course of an urgency debate on social services that further increases in pensions were not necessary. That was said on 22nd February this year and less than a month later another 50c was offered. 
It is not just a coincidence that that offer was made in an unprecedented way in the middle of a no confidence motion and during a reply by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  to that motion who in effect said: 'You can have confidence in me. Ignore all the things that have happened before. Ignore the fact that my Cabinet has exactly the same personnel as the previous Cabinet in which the Parliament had no confidence. Ignore all that. You can have confidence in me because I will give the pensioners 50c'. The aim of that exercise was recognised by all, including Government supporters, as having the cynical object of diverting attention in the media away from the debate in this House on a motion of no confidence. It worked. Every major newspaper in this country carried a headline the following day relating not to the motion of no confidence, not to the proceedings in the House which in theory at least could have brought down the Government, but to the announcement of the 50c increase. That is an appalling state of affairs, lt is an utterly cynical attitude towards the pension and we must overcome that attitude. There is only one way that we can do this, that is, by linking the pension to some sort of reliable index. 
Our policy has been to link the age pension to average weekly earnings. On the other hand, the Minister is always talking about the cost of living index. 1 should like to say to him quite frankly that if he is prepared to tie the pension to the cost of living index 1 shall be perfectly happy. But there is one proviso to that, namely, that the base point should be put at a realistic level because what we have been doing in our comparisons of cost of living indices has been to base them on periods pre-war or even in the Chifley period at a level which, if f may put it this way, has been at an intermediate point between charity and a livable wage. That is the approach we have been making to social services. If we could update our base figure in the cost of living index so as to take out of it the element of charity on which it was originally based, then the cost of living index would do. But let us link it to something so that regular increases do not. have to be at the mercy of political and electoral considerations. 
Summarising what I have said, in my belief our approach to this question of social services should be, firstly, to establish a standard which we regard as a proper minimum standard of life in this country: to link that with some sort of appropriate index to take the increments out of our political activities; to reduce the use of the means test to a more restricted scope than now applies, because 1 think one has to add the qualification when speaking of the abolition of the means test that probably it can never go completely - there will always be areas of unusual need or instances such as the concessional medical fees applying to pensioner consultations which will continue to need the means test, but to restrict the application of the means test as far as possible; to look into and to organise a national superannuation scheme: to recognise all the difficulties involved in the first five propositions that I have put to the House and to recognise them in a practical way by setting up an all party select committee which will look into the question and, with the advice of departmental experts and others, be able to bring down suggestions for policies which might have some prospect of mutual acceptance. 
Our social services, as has been said already many times in this debate, were once the pride of the Australian community. lt is time to make them so again. We can never achieve that unless we break from the methods of the past. I believe that the amendment to the Bill proposed by the Labor Party provides a way in which we might achieve that break. I have pleasure in supporting it on those grounds. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
What purpose is served by the breakdown of Federal electoral divisions into subdivisions. 
Are there sufficient reasons against the preparation of a single alphabetical roll in each division, in lien of the existing separate alphabetical lists for each subdivision. 
Will he consider an amendment of the Commonwealth Electoral Act to allow electors to cast an ordinary vole in any booth in their electorate rather than in their own subdivision. 
asked the Postmaster-Gen eral, upon notice: 
Will Western Australia telephone subscribers be charged for directories other than the one covering a subscriber's own telephone district. 
If so, what charge will be made. 
asked the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
In regard to the increase in social service pensions payable in April, what proportion of age pensioners will receive (a) the full' SOc increase (b) part of that increase (c) no increase. 
I ask the Minister for the Army: What stage has been reached in the joint Army-Defence examination announced last year of the feasibility of establishing an Army base in Western Australia? Has the Minister's attention been drawn to speculation in recent months that the project has been abandoned or deferred indefinitely? What is the present factual position of this matter? 
I understand that this sitting is scheduled to go on till 2.30 or 3 o'clock in the morning and I do not have any wish to protract it unduly with a lengthy speech. In fact, even if I wanted to do so I understand that I would not have the opportunity since the Whips have been able to rake up only 5 minutes for me which, if I may say so, is hardly appropriate for a matter as important as this and touching so many people so closely. Let me say firstly that it seems to be characteristic of housing debates in this Parliament that the scope of Government legislation is always very restricted and the scope of subsequent Opposition amendments is always very wide. I do not think that that is coincidental. This situation is an accurate mirror of the importance which the respective parties place on housing and the recognition by the respective parties of the role which the Commonwealth should play in this field. 
Earlier today we were reminded of the reluctance of the Commonwealth Government to accept early claims upon it for support for education. At first in the 1950s Prime Minister Menzies insisted that since education was not the direct constitutional responsibility of the Commonwealth, the Commonwealth should not enter into the field of education finance. But over the years the needs, the pressures and the demands of the community became too great. As a result the position has now been reached after several intermediate stages where, inadequate as it still is, Commonwealth financial assistance to education runs into hundreds of millions of dollars. In the field of housing the Commonwealth is still at an early stage of participation. I think the Commonwealth's contribution is limited and inadequate and at least in some respects - I have in mind the home savings grants scheme - misdirected. The truth is that just as the States could not continue and could not possibly cope alone with the needs of education, so are they unable to meet their responsibilities in housing. 
A table already incorporated in this debate by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  the Opposition's shadow minister for housing, shows that the proportion of low cost State housing has consistently diminished as the population has increased at record rates. At the same time as that has been happening, that is to say, at the same time as a greater and greater proportion of the community is forced into private, higher priced housing, people have been forced to build on higher priced land. What has happened to land prices in the last decade is too notorious to need elaboration here. But what has the Commonwealth done to combat this? It has done nothing. It has not even produced an idea on the subject. Only the Australian Labor Party has suggested a possible solution. We said at the 1969 election, and have continued to maintain, that States should be financed by the Commonwealth to enable them to acquire land to develop and sub divide and then sell it at cost. That proposition was a possible one; it is a practical one, but only given Commonwealth financial support. 
I would like to give one example of where this proposition could be realistically and reasonably applied. At the moment we have a discussion in Perth related to rezoning proposals by the Metropolitan Regional Planning Authority. This involves the re-zoning and development of a number of urban corridors and there is some controversy about this proposal in an area to the north of the city. The Planning Authority has opposed re-zoning in the socalled northern corridor but the new Labor Minister for Town Planning  has  made statements which obviously show him to be sympathetic to it. I have no doubt that he would like to encourage as much urban land as possible in a developed state on to the market in order to place a damper on land costs in the Perth metropolitan area. However, there can hardly be any doubt that the best solution, and the one most in the public interest in this area, would be for the State to purchase the land in the northern corridor while it is still zoned rural that is to say, while it is still priced at rural land rates. The State should purchase the land before zoning and before the inevitable inflation in price which follows rezoning. 
I have previously quoted in this chamber examples of rural land selling in one year at $1,000 an acre. After rezoning took place, the price went within 3 years to $12,000 an acre. I have no doubt that despite the very best intentions of the present State Government, a similar situation will develop in the northern corridor if rezoning is permitted. I also have no doubt that a State Labor Government would be more than interested in the proposition we have consistently presented, that is, it would be interested in resuming, developing, subdividing and then selling the land at cost. Whatever hopes may have rested on the development of the area in regard to the dampening down of land prices, nothing is more certain than that the most effective way it could operate would be under government management and disposition. But the Western Australian Government, as with the governments in each State, could not prudently consider a proposition of this type in view of present financial considerations. Only the Commonwealth can properly assist this development to take place. 
I want to stress that I am not dealing only with a question of cheaper land. The question of the complete urban environment is also involved. Only a government with large tracts of land at its disposal can create an environment as pleasant as has been developed at Canberra. Only the Commonwealth Government can be relied on &lt;to incorporate adequate open space, recreation facilities and safety features in urban developments because only the Government has enough finance. The Government Whip is looking at me rather severely, but I have 12 seconds left. In that time I want to add a thought to that presented by the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun).  He asked the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  some questions relating to the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation. I support the general trend of his thoughts, although perhaps not his vehemence in totality. I hope that the Minister will answer those questions. 
I wish to add a question. The honourable member for Kingston pointed to the extraordinary percentage of revenue which goes in operating expenditure, particularly on salaries. He also pointed to the low proportion of claims. The Minister was asked whether expenditure might be reduced. In answering that question perhaps he could also indicate whether he would consider lowering the premiums. It is clear from the very small number of claims made on the Corporation that even if no premiums were charged the income on accumulated assets would be sufficient to meet any reasonable claims in the future. There would be nothing wrong with very low premiums being charged by the Corporation. The insurers have good security. They are not insuring something which will go out of fashion next year. Housing does not go out of fashion and its value will not drop. I hope that the Minister will see fit to comment on the points raised by the honourable member for Kingston, and in indicating whether operating expenditure can be reduced perhaps he would also say whether he would be prepared to look at the prospects of reducing the present level of premiums. 
In the days before television there was a British Broadcasting Corporation radio comedy series called Take It From Here*. As I sit in this chamber listening to debates, especially those concerned with the disbursement of enormous amounts of public funds, I often find myself recalling a sketch from that series in which Dick Bentley played the part of a big time American gambler. On the first night this gambler went into a casino and won 48,000. Everybody was staggered, but he just sneered: Peanuts'. On the second night he went into the casino and won 50,000. Again everybody was staggered, but he just said: Peanuts'. On the third night he went into the casino and won 100,000 and everybody, body was staggered. But once again, as cool as you like, he just said: 'Peanuts'. Finally, on the fourth night he went into the casino and said: 'Does anyone want to buy 198,000 peanuts?' 
That story comes to mind, I suspect, because the cavalier way in which we deal, with public funds is such that an observer could well believe that v/e are not dealing with public money at all but that we are dealing only with peanuts. We are not dealing with peanuts; we are dealing with real money, good Australian dollars. Under these Bills there are 1,532 million of them. I can say quite honestly that I have been on committees where greater scrutiny has been given to a petty cash voucher for $15.32 than we are giving tonight to the expenditure of a sum 100 million times as great. It appears to me that there are 2 main reasons for our skimpy and superficial performances in debates such as this debate on supply and analogous debates on the Budget and Appropriation Bills. In the first place, the practice has developed of allowing discussion on any subject at all during these debates. So there is a very great temptation to concentrate on one's own special interests rather than on any scrutiny of the details of expenditure in question. 
For example, in the debate on the Appropriation Bills earlier this week we had successive speakers ranging over topics as far apart from each other and from any scrutiny of expenditure as cigarette advertising, the East Pakistan cyclone, Anzac Day, gold mining subsidies and the Trade Practices Act. Please do not misunderstand me. I am not attempting to say that any of those matters was unimportant and not worthy of discussion. What I am saying is that if we are to have a debate covering all those topics we certainly will not be able to deal with any one of them in sufficient detail and we certainly, will not be doing the job we should be doing in the scrutiny of expenditure. 
The second reason for our odd treatment of these public funds is that it is really not practical under the present forms of the House to pursue financial inquiries in any detail. For example, in the Supply Bill (No. 1) there are something over 100 provisions under the heading 'Salaries and Payments in the Nature of Salaries'. If I asked in each case for the increases which these sums represent over the amounts provided under equivalent headings last year and for an indication of how much of the increases is due to increased salaries and how much to increased staff, I simply would not get an answer. That would not be a frivolous question. I want to emphasise that. Among other things, the answer would show whether the Government's restraint on Public Service recruitment in this calendar year is intended to be carried over into the next financial year. But there is no point in asking that question because I would never get the answer. 
In the same Supply Bill there are over 100 appropriations under this delightfully vague heading 'Administrative Expenses'. They are not small sums involved under that heading. Under the heading 'Administrative Expenses', for example, the Department of the Interior is seeking an appropriation of over $4m and the Bureau of Census and Statistics alone over $Sm. All told, we will be spending hundreds of millions of dollars under this heading. To tell us that those hundreds of millions are for administrative expenses is just the same as telling us nothing at all. If I were to make a simple and reasonable request to have extracted from each heading the amount represented by telephone charges I would not get an answer. If I did, it would certainly not be in time for me to pursue the matter in this debate if I felt that course to be appropriate. Let me emphasise that this would not be a frivolous question. Indeed, the 126th report of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts almost invites that question with its discussion and obvious concern for possible Public Service abuse of the STD services. 
Let me give one more example of matters, which should clearly be pursued but which certainly will not be pursued under the present system. I draw the attention of honourable members to page 34 of the Supply Bill (No. 1). Can anyone say that we should not seek further detail about the fascinating and intriguing item: Taxes and fines - remission under special circumstances. The amount involved is $1,550,000. We should be making such an inquiry. This should be the time to make it. We will not make that inquiry because we know quite well that if we did we would get no meaningful reply. These are examples of specific items in the Supply Bill which properly should be pursued. 
I want to make one more general comment on the nature of supplementary appropriations such as those we dealt with earlier this week, and on our inadequate and even improper treatment of them. If I understand the position correctly, these supplementary appropriations are meant to cover expenditure which could not have been anticipated when the Budget was framed and brought down. Obvious examples under that heading would be the increase in salaries due to the 6 per cent wage increase last December. On looking through those Appropriation Bills one will find hundreds of items in relation to which it is not at all clear that the expenditure in question could not have been anticipated What on earth was the Bureau of Meteorology doing that required an additional appropriation of $200,000 this month to cover telephone, postage and telegram expenses for the period since August? What was the bureau doing that required an enormous sum like that for such a limited purpose and which could not have been anticipated as recently as last August? 
Again, one can readily understand that the Department of Foreign Affairs could not have anticipated its disaster relief contribution of  $130,000  or its special aid to Cambodia of  $900,000.  But why would it not be able to anticipate that it would be liable for an additional  $713,000  for rent between last August and February this year? These are the questions which we should be asking in appropriation debates. But we realise that there is no practical point in asking them. Clearly we will get nowhere trying to clarify these matters and trying to do the job we should be doing in relation to money Bills while we are restricted to the present forms of the House. New forms are needed. As it happens, we do not even have to exercise our imagination to think what they might be. 
The Senate Estimates Committees which were formed last year are a very good indication of how a practical job can be done. When one reads the Hansard report of the Senate Estimates Committees one gets the impression that they are still feeling their way to find the best and most appropriate procedure. But it is already quite clear that in these very important and basic matters the Senate is leaving this House for dead. Honourable members spent  6  to  7  hours debating Appropriation Bills Nos.  3  and 4 - all of it on second reading generalisations. By contrast, the Senate Committees will spend something like  50  hours in detailed probing of expenditure. They will have the Ministers and senior officers of each department before them. When the senators ask a question they can pursue it. If they do not get a reply they like they can ask the question again or ask another one or do whatever they like to elicit the information that they are after. 
We cannot do that under our present forms. We should be aiming to do it under new forms similar to those of the Senate. Not least of the benefits which have flowed from these Senate estimates committees is the fact that they have forced departments to produce supplementary memoranda to the Estimates. For example, whereas in the Appropriation Bill available to members in this House the estimates of the Department of Trade and Industry occupied  2  pages, the elaboration available to the Senate estimates committees went to  50  pages. I want to say something about this derived from the comments of the honourable member for Cook  (Mr Dobie),  the  Chairman  of our Joint Standing Committee on Public Accounts, whose opinion on these matters I think should be respected. In a debate on the Appropriation Bill (No.  3)  he said  3  things that I want to quote. In the first place he said this:   it is disturbing to find that the second reading speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden),  though it described in general terms the reason for the total appropriation . . . does not contain sufficient supporting material to explain why approval for certain amounts is being sought from this House. 
The second statement was this: 
I hope that when the Bill reaches the Committee stage there will be adequate material made available to honourable members to ensure meaningful debate within the time allotted for this purpose. 
That was a rather forlorn hope because not only did we not get additional information at the Committee stage, but we did not get the Committee stage itself. We were gagged at the second reading stage of that Bill and we had no opportunity for Committee discussion. The third statement, with which he concluded his comments on this debate was: 
So I would repeat to the point of nausea, but it must be repeated, that the Parliament must have the figures. 
The honourable member for Cook at that time spoke of the need for the figures and spoke in terms indicating that they were not available. In fact, as it happens, they are available. There is a complete breakdown and elaboration of the appropriations for every department made available by those departments to the Senate estimates committees.  1  have them here, and they are interesting reading. 
Perhaps,  Mr Speaker,  you will be interested to know that the standing of this House has now so depreciated that members of this House are not entitled to copies of these explanatory memoranda as of right. When I read in Tuesday's Senate Hansard of reference to documents of this nature I went to the House of Representatives Bills and Papers Office and asked for them. I was informed that that Office did not have any copies. I went to the Senate Papers Office and I was there informed that it had some copies but that it would not give them to the likes of me, that is to say, the likes of a member of the House of Representatives. I am not blaming the officers of the Senate for that. They were acting under ministerial instructions, and in fact they were good enough to suggest to me that if I liked I could go to each Minister separately, cap in hand, and ask him whether he would be good enough to provide me with a copy of these documents. That will be the day. 
I am here, in common with all other members, to represent about 60,000 electors and a population of over 100,000. Not the least of the matters on which we are here to represent our constitutents in the distribution of the very heavy taxation levies which are imposed on them. In that duty we are entitled to every assistance and not the obstruction which these ministerial instructions represent. I know there is a habit in this House to ask questions in debate and never have them answered. But I ask the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Fairbairn)  to listen to this question and please forward it to the appropriate Minister: Will the Government ensure that in future all copies of these memoranda are made available to members of this House or at least made available to them on request? I can see no reason why that procedure should not be adopted, and I believe that this House would be entitled to resent any further refusal to prevent us having the benefit of the memoranda to which I have referred. 
Whatever reason there might have been in the past for Executive reluctance to agree to an effective committee system - I personally have never seen such a reason - there can be no reason for preventing a House system of estimates committees being established at once, and certainly in time for the Budget debate. The Government has nothing to lose from such a move. Our committees would not frustrate or delay its programme as it might have feared. We have the example of the Senate committees which make no move to cause and indeed have no power to indulge in that sort of frustration. A refusal to institute a committee system would not even enable the Government to continue to hide the facts, if that is what it wants to do, although quite honestly I do not say that I believe that is the intention. 
There can be no hiding of the facts because if we want to know something all that we need to do is simply approach our Senate colleagues and ask them to put the questions on our behalf. If anyone wants to reduce the House to contempt and complete ineffectualness, it seems to me that that would be the way to do it. I hope that none of us will acquiesce in the continued refusal of the Government to set up a suitable system for the proper scrutiny of its accounts. I do not want to digress too far from my main point concerning the estimates committees, but I should like to say one word on the whole question of parliamentary committees. We had a flurry of activity on this subject last year. There were inter-party committees of back benchers; a report was prepared and circulated by you,  Mr Speaker;  there was an urgency motion, at which time the Government did not sound really unenthusiastic about the proposal; but since then - quite predictably, I suppose - nothing has happened. A motion on this subject in the name of the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  has been on the notice paper for 8 months, but the Government hasnever made time available, for the discussion of that motion. It is quite clear now that it never will make time available for that purpose. 
The Executive attitude on this matter is bad and it is wrong. Our acquiescence in that attitude is also bad and wrong, but most especially it is stupid. The only effect of our continued failure to engage in a committee system of a type which the Senate even now is showing to be effective is to prevent us from doing our work as representatives as well as we otherwise might. This is a matter going very close to our own self respect, not to mention the interests of our constituents. I suggest that both we and they should insist on no less than that on all these matters, but especially on those matters affecting their burden of taxation, we should proceed to a system which would allow us to give them proper representation. 
I oppose the motion for the third reading on the ground that the Bill still has not been justified although it has gone through its first reading, second reading and Committee stages. Up until now only one Government member  -  the Prime Minister  (Mr 
McMahon) himself - has attempted to justify the changes in the existing Act. While he gave 3 purported reasons for the change, he did not give a justification. I think that even at this stage, as no other member of the Government parties has been prepared to say a word in favour of this proposition, we should look at it again and oppose it. When the Prime Minister presented the Bill on 29th April he gave 3 supposed reasons in favour of the change. The first reason was to free senior Ministers from other important matters - that is. matters which were important but peripheral or irrelevant to the Minister's primary responsibilities. The second reason was to gain the administrative advantage which he saw in grouping together the matters which he proposed to group under the responsibilities of the twenty-seventh Minister.  His  third reason was to free the Prime Minister to perform his most important functions more effectively. 
If one looks at those 3 reasons one finds that the first and third are the same and that the second is merely an unsupported assertion without any indication of what the advantages of that grouping might be. Indeed, in looking at the matters, it is difficult to see how grouping together the Historic Memorials Committee and the Commonwealth Stores Supply and Tender Board will be a matter of any great administrative convenience at all. There are 2 main considerations in opposing the Bill. The first is that, although the Prime Minister stressed and drew our attention to the need to assist Ministers, who would in future be freed from some of the responsibilities he listed, he devoted no time at all to the effectiveness of the attention which would in future be given to the matters now to be grouped together.  Most  important of those would be the attention to be given to Aboriginal welfare. There are others in this Parliament, certainly in my own Party, who are better qualified than I am to speak on Aboriginal welfare. 
asked the Postmaster- 
General, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that a.-inch single column advertisement in the pink pages of the Western Australian telephone directory taken on a Statewide basis, cost $18 last year but will cost $91.20 this year. 
If so, what is the reason for this 500 per cent increase. 
Will be review the proposed charges with a view, in particular, to allowing concessional rates where advertisers take space in more than one of the new district directories. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Did he state on 16th February that the incomes of doctors had increased by approximately 20 per cent since the inception of the new health scheme. 
If so, will he supply details of the percentage increase in income for (a) general practitioners, (b) all specialists, (c) specialists other than surgeons, (d) surgeons and pathologists. 
I understand that the guillotine will be applied soon to this debate. Perhaps I could make a preliminary point and, with a bit of luck, carry on during the Committee stage. The first point I put to the House is that I think that some caution or reservation with respect to this Bill is in order. In particular, I think we may be expecting too much of it in terms of the benefits which may accrue to the public purchasing power. Put another way, I do not believe that it will reduce prices as much as some might think it will. In this respect I refer to 2 comments made by the Attorney-General  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  during the course of his second reading speech. He said: 

 Mr Speaker, there is no need for me to remind the House that our economy is at present subject  to  strong inflationary pressures. To meet these pressures the Government is taking action in several areas. 
Presumably this was one of them. His second comment was:   the practice works against the objectives ot efficiency which are so important if our efforts to resist the present inflationary pressures are to succeed. 
The emphasis there, as honourable members will see, is not on the anti-inflation effects of this legislation. The truth is that its effect in reducing prices is uncertain. This was well summarised, I think, in a comment in the 'Australian Financial Review' of 22nd March 1971. lt referred to the analogous British legislation in this way: 
In general terms the removal of retail price maintenance undoubtedly influenced the development of discount houses in Britain. 
It has added a certain amount of competition to an area which might have proceeded virtually unaffected by retailing developments in other parts of Europe. 
The difficult .question to answer is whether it actually pulled prices down. 
Two years after the legislation was introduced the British pound was devalued, complicating any long-term review of price movements. 
But in general the effect of the legislation is not discernible in retail price indices kept by the Department of Employment. 
These continued to move up under inflationary pressures and as a result of the Labor Government's firm measures to reverse a particularly unhealthy balance-of-payments position. 
Whether the margin of increase would have been greater if the legislation had been rejected by Parliament is a question that must remain a matter of conjecture. 
I believe that there are 3 reasons why this uncertainty and these doubts as to the effectiveness of the legislation in reducing prices should exist. The first is that many of the goods and services that are now purchased are either already not subject to resale price maintenance or will remain unaffected by this Bill. To illustrate that statement, with the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate in Hansard an index showing personal consumption expenditure for 1968-69, the last year for which figures are available. The figures are drawn from the Australian National Accounts. 
asked the Treasurer, upon  notice: 
What appeals for overseas relief have been accorded tax deductible status in the last 5 years. 
What was the (a) value of donations made to these appeals and (b) cost to revenue. 
Is he able to state the estimated value of all overseas relief raised by donation in the last f years. 
If so, what would have been the approximate cost to revenue if all these donations had been tax deductible. 
Will the Government consider granting tax deductible status to a' wider range of overseas relief donations, particularly those raised under the auspices of United Nations agencies. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
How many (a) partly and (b) fully subsidised health fund contributions were there in each State on (i) 1st September 1970, (ii) 1st December 1970 and (iii) 1st February 1971. 
asked the Minister repre senting the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What purposewas intended to be served by the introduction of notice of referral to a specialist forms. 
Is the purpose being achieved; if so, with what public benefit. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has the Australian Drug Evaluation Committee yet approved of the marketing in Australia; of L-Dopa. 
If so, has it been approved or is it under consideration for listing as a pharmaceutical benefits item. 
If the marketing of the drug has not yet been approved, when is it expected that a report from the Drug Evaluation Committee will be available. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What appeals for overseas relief have been accorded tax deductible status in the last 5 years. 
What was the (a) value of donations made to these appeals and (b) cost to revenue. 
ls he able to state the estimated value of all overseas relief raised by donation in the last 5 years. 
If so, what would have been the approximate cost to revenue if all these donations had been tax deductible. 
Will the Government consider granting tax deductible status to a wider range of overseas relief donations, particularly those raised under the auspices of United Nations agencies. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
What will bc the charge for a half-inch single column advertisement in the pink pages of each telephone directory to be issued in 1971? 
What will be the approximate number of subscribers in each directory? 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
Which firm has been granted pink page advertising rights for the Western Australia telephone directory in each of the last 5 years? 
What benefit accrues to the Post Office from this advertising? 
What criteria are applied in determining whether approval should be given to proposed advertising rates? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Has action been taken within the last 6 months to reduce the number of night flights into and out of Perth Airport? 
If not, what action is contemplated in the future? 
I ask a question of the Minister for Social Services. Can the Minister confirm Press reports quoting him as indicating that a national superannuation Bill has already been drafted although not yet accepted by the Government for implementation? If such a draft does exist will the Minister, in recognition of the special complexity of this matter, agree to make it available for public consideration and comment? 
asked the Minister for the 
Interior, upon notice: 
What is the floor space and estimated value of the former Taxation Department offices at the corner of Murray and Barrack Streets, Perth. 
Has this building been unoccupied for some time; if so, why and for what period has it been unoccupied. 
What use is planned for the building, and when will these plans be implemented. 
1 support the amendment moved by the Australian Labor Party's shadow Minister for Social Services, the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden).  In the first place I think that it might be worth noting that this amendment has been moved in almost precisely identical terms to the amendment which was moved when a social services Bill was last up for discussion in Parliament on 31st March this year. The duplication, of course, is not a matter of coincidence; it is not through any lack of drafting ingenuity. It is quite deliberate. It is meant to demonstrate, admittedly in just a small way, that we are concerned and that we protest at the fact that in spite of all of the Government's hints, suggestions, promises and implications to the contrary, the Government has still produced no basic rethinking or restructuring of the Australian social welfare system. Everything now is precisely the same as it was before, except that a few decimal points have been moved. It is business as usual in an area which calls, on the Government's own admission, for radical new initiatives. . 
On 22nd February this year the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth),  when speaking on the Social Services Bill, said: 
It will not be long before the Government resumes its 20 years of continuous progress in increasing the standard of living of pensioners. This will not involve simply the question  of  raising renton rates, although I have no doubt that this will be partly involved. However, there are other things as well which are of even greater importance to pensioners. The Government has these things fully in its sight and is at present making the appropriate plans for their implementation. 
On 15th March this year the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  said: 
We will follow this immediate increase in pension rates with a fundamental review- 
A fundamental review, I stress - of social services and related pensions and also of methods of adjusting such benefits. This review, which has already been commenced will be under consideration in the near future with the object of bringing emerging decisions into effect for the year 1971-72. 
On 30th March 1971 the Minister for Social Services, in his second reading speech of the Social Services Bill 1971, said: 1 hope before long to be able to bring before Cabinet the results of the review to which the Prime Minister has referred. 
Then, during the winter recess the Minister indicated that a national superannuation scheme was as good as just around the corner. After this buildup, which was directed specifically at positive and fundamental action in 1971-72, were we not entitled to expect - and more importantly were not pensioners entitled to expect - that all or at least some of the measures in the Opposition's amendment would be implemented? Were they not entitled to expect a really significant pension increase or a system at last of automatic pension adjustment in line with advancing community standards, or a national superannuation scheme at least in outline, or a move towards the abolition of the means test? What sort of fundamental review is it that produced a $1.25 increase when an increase of $1 was virtually automatic? 
I have said in earlier debates that one of our greatest difficulties and frustrations in trying to get to grips with the social welfare system as it exists, and as it appears likely to develop, is the lack of definition and purpose. We are never told what we are aiming at. We never know what we are aiming for. In his second reading speech on the Social Services Bill (No. 2) the Minister for Social Services said something potentially significant. He said this: 
In recent years, each budget has laid special emphasis upon one aspect, in accordance with an overall plan. 
I repeat what I believe to be the most significant statement of his whole speech -   . in accordance with an overall plan. 
Of course, the Minister has the right of reply in this debate and I urge him to use that opportunity to explain just what this overall plan is. Such a plan should exist if we are not to waste our resources and multiply the anomalies of the system indefinitely. I have to confess, however, that I have never heard of it before. 
If it does exist I say quite seriously to the Minister that it is important that he should enunciate it. If nothing else it would at least clarify the social welfare differences between the Government and the Opposition and enable the public to judge our relative positions more sensibly than they are now able to do. There would be other important advantages. Whichever plan - whether it be the plan of the Government or ours - becomes the Australian pattern, it will cost a great deal more money and will require a greater proportion of the national wealth than we are now devoting to this area. This raises in turn serious questions of funding. In his recent speech on the Budget the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Bury)  pointed out realistically in my view that there have to be limits to the extent that revenue from exising forms of taxation can be increased. He pointed to the possible alternative of a retail turnover tax. Personally I am not greatly attracted to that proposition as an alternative but we may have to consider it. We should be looking also at the possibility of a capital gains tax and a graduated company tax. But above all, and least palatably from the public point of view, we may have to look at a restructuring of the income tax system which not only goes to restructure the income tax rates but goes also to a radical change in our attitudes to tax concessions. With the concurrence of honourable members 1 incorporate in Hansard a table showing the estimated cost to revenue of allowing deductions in respect of the 1967- 68 income year - the last year for which these figures are available - on account of spouses and equivalents, children under 16 years of age, student children, net medical expenses, life insurance and superannuation payments, education expenses and gifts. 

<graphic href="073131197109095_34_0.jpg"></graphic>

The table was provided on 15th September 1970 by the then Treasurer in reply to a question on notice. It shows, for example, that the cost to revenue in the year in question was, in round figures, $126m for allowances for spouses and equivalents; $164m for children's allowances; $ 106m for medical expenses allowances; $191m for life insurance and superannuation pay ments allowances; $70m for education expenses allowances; and $12m for gifts allowances. I believe that it can be realistically said that each one of these concessions meets, or is designed to meet, some social welfare aim. But obviously social welfare aims which are met on this basis will be met haphazardly at best and perhaps not at all.  ti addition, there is the inherent difficulty and incompatibility between a tax system structured to work progressively, that is, those who can afford more pay more, and a rebate system which operates  regressively, t  that is, those who need least receive most. If we were clear in our own minds as to what our social welfare aims are and confident enough that they were right, we might just pluck up enough courage to say to the electorate something like this- 'Look, we know how much you love a tax deduction.' I love a tax deduction, too. 'We know how you will 

<graphic href="073131197109095_35_1.jpg"></graphic>

As will be seen from the totals column in this table, over 60 per cent of taxpayers who qualify for education deductions earn less than $2,800 per year. To put it bluntly, tax rates for family taxpayers are so low at that point that the individual tax saving is negligible. resist and resent any attempt to reduce or eliminate a tax deduction, but please try to put your attention to the facts.* What are the facts? Firstly, the taxation deduction system as a welfare instrument is regressive and totally haphazard. Secondly, for the great majority of people it simply provides no assistance at all. To illustrate this latter point, again with the concurrence of honourable members, I incorporate in Hansard page 107 of the latest Taxation Statistics, that is, those for 1969-70, showing taxable income and deductions on account of education expenses. 
I ask honourable members again to consider the cost to revenue table which I have already incorporated in Hansard. It will be seen from this table that in 1967- 68, the total cost to revenue of the deductions listed was $893m. The comparable figure for the previous year, 1966-67, was 

<graphic href="073131197109095_35_1.jpg"></graphic>

$785m. In other words, over that year there was an increase of about SI 08m in cost to revenue. On that progression it would probably be modest to estimate that the cost to revenue this year will be approximately $l,400m, or $200m more than the cost of our entire social welfare programme because, as the Minister for Social Services indicated in his second reading speech, our entire programme for the forthcoming year is estimated to cost only $l,187m. In other words, we could double the funding of our social welfare programme by re-allocating the sums now foregone in what can roughly be regarded as social welfare tax concessions. However, if we are going to be realistic - and I mean realistic in the political sense - we will not be able to do any of that without a massive public education programme, and that in turn requires that we must be able to say in advance what the aim is, what the overall plan is. Only then will the community be able to judge whether it is worth paying for. I return then to what was really my original, basic and only point, if you like, and that is to urge the Minister to look at the possibility of enunciating what the long term programme is, rather than continuing the past tradition of adopting ad hoc plugging measures. 
There are at least 5 other matters related to social services which raise themselves in my mind as a result of this Bill, but obviously it is not possible to deal with them all here. I want to mention them, though, and I hope that at a later stage of the Budget session it might be possible to deal with them more adequately. The first is the question of the married wife's allowance. I once had occasion to look at the second reading speech of the Minister who introduced the first measure providing for the married wife's allowance in 1943, and when I read what he had to say I could not help thinking how old fashioned and anachronistic it all seemed because in those days of the original legislation in 1943, the only wives eligible for the wife's allowance were wives of invalid pensioners or of totally and permanently incapacitated age pensioners. The reason that appeared to me to be so anachronistic was that although the Minister at that time did not explicitly make the point, it was fairly obvious that the assumption of the original legislation was that if the wife of an age pensioner was not positively tied to the house by reason of her husband's incapacity, then she should go out and work. That appeared to me to be a very old fashioned and anachronistic sort of attitude, and it is not just distressing, it is absolutely appalling to find that that is still the situation today, except for pensioners with children in the family. That is an appalling state of affairs. It is one which has slipped by our notice, I can only believe, and one to which we will have to give proper attention. 
There are other matters also raised by this Bill. There is the question of earning limits, which seems to have fallen behind general community standards of income. There is the question of child care for working mothers and working widows, which was a feature of the Government's platform in the last Senate election campaign but which has been let slip since. There is the special role of accommodation in any consideration of a social welfare system. All of these matters are too long, too difficult and perhaps too complicated to attempt to deal with at this stage. However, as I have a few moments left, I shall say something about the fifth point which has been raised in my mind by the current legislation. It concerns the continued inability of pensioners to receive their pensions if they choose to spend their retirement years abroad. I say at the outset of my comments on this aspect that I believe that a respectable argument for a change in this restriction can be advanced even on economic grounds. One could argue, for example, that it would be beneficial from the Australian viewpoint to have accommodation released by departing pensioners for use by members of the community who are still productive. Again, the movement of aged persons abroad could be expected to lessen the pressure and cost of medical and hospital services at home to an extent outweighing whatever disadvantages might be feared to follow from the transfer of the significant pension funds abroad. 
But, of course, the main argument for portability of pensions abroad rests not on economic factors but on simple human considerations. If people have lived and worked in Australia long enough to qualify for the age pension - that means at least 10 years - and if thereafter they prefer to return to their original homeland or to settle in some other country whether to rejoin their children who may have migrated or for some other reason, why should we prevent them from doing so? 
1 am coming to that. I am pleased that the honourable member has raised this matter and I will reply to him in some detail in a moment. It is of no use to say that these pensioners are free to leave. In theory they are but for those who are wholly dependent on the pension that is the equivalent of saying that they are free to starve. We effectively prevent these people leaving as surely as if we had our own iron curtain. We should not stand in their way. Economically it is unnecessary and morally it is absurd. We might well take a lesson in this respect from other countries which allow age pensions to be transferred abroad. Many of these countries are less developed and less affluent than we are. The following list is not exhaustive but it includes at least some of the countries which pay all pensions for persons living outside their original country of residence. They include Austria, Bolivia, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Cyprus, Ecuador, Greece, Iran, Italy, Ivory Coast, Malta, Mexico, the Netherlands, Nicaragua, Peru and Turkey. 
We come into a different category. The category into which we come in this respect includes countries which pay pensions abroad under reciprocal arrangements. In this category we have Costa Rica, Czechoslovakia, France, Iraq, Jamaica, Luxembourg, the Philippines, Poland, the United Kingdom, the United States of America and others. All these countries, like Australia, operate the external payment of pensions only on a reciprocal basis. I ask honourable members to look in this respect at the sort of reciprocity which applies. For example, the United Kingdom has reciprocal arrangements with Australia, Belgium, Bermuda, Canada, Cyprus, Denmark, the Federal Republic of Germany, Finland, France, the Irish Republic, Israel, Italy, Jersey and Guernsey, Luxembourg, Malta, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, United States of America and Yugoslavia. Let me tell the house the countries with which we have a reciprocal arrangement, and there is no need to hold one's breath because they are New Zealand and the United Kingdom. That is all. This position is absurd. 
I have already said that there is no justification for this outmoded approach. Perhaps it could once have been justified on economic grounds but certainly not now. Perhaps at other times its real basis was that persistent anti-foreigner feeling which lasted in this country beyond the Second World War but surely we have outgrown that as well. Frankly I believe we have this absurd restriction just because it is there, lt is an example of inertia in the absence of effective pressure group activity against it and it is time that it went. Our social services system is one of the most important and one of the most expensive areas of Commonwealth responsibility. We have to get used to the idea that it will come to cost much more. The question is whether it will become better. 1 believe that the Opposition's amendment &lt;s a serious suggestion as to how it might. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Labour and National Service relating to the continued inactivity by the Government on its undertaking given during the Senate election campaign to establish or assist child minding centres. Is this inactivity still based on the temporary reasons of economy indicated by the Minister on 4th May or has the Government now repudiated the proposal as a matter of principle? If it is the former, how much is the Commonwealth saving by this particular austerity measure and when might some action be expected? If it is the latter, is the Government considering any alternative forms of assistance to working mothers, particularly those who must now work as a matter of necessity? 
I shall take only a few moments in this debate because all I really want to do is to put 3 questions to the Minister assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Peacock).  The first question is: Has the Government considered making automatic adjustments to superannuation payments and, if so what are its views? It seems inconceivable, given the number of representations which I and, I am sure, other honourable members receive, that this proposal should not have come to the attention of the Government. It is a pity then that, when dealing with this matter the Government gave no indication of its views. It is important to know whether the Government has so far neglected to act, whether it has deferred action on automatic adjustments for some reason, or whether it has rejected automatic adjustments as a matter of principle. 
As has already been indicated in this debate, many thousands of people are affected by the superannuation scheme. I think it would be reasonable to ask the Government to make a statement setting out its views on the proposal for automaticity. In particular this question is raised by the developments in the economy over recent years. The last adjustments to the superannuation scheme were made in 
October 1963 and November 1967, and another adjustment is proposed now. What happened over that period is that we have had an increasing rate of inflation. Between October 1963 and November 1967, the 4-year period before the last review, the rate of inflation as measured by increases in the cost of living index was 9.8 per cent whereas in the last 4-year period, measured by the same index, the increase was of the order of 12.1 per cent. So what has happened over the last 4-year period is that the real value of superannuation pensions has declined at an increasing rate. 
I think it is important, given these circumstances which are unlikely to be peculiar to the past period, that the Government should give consideration to automatic adjustments. This might be done in a number of ways. The period between adjustments could be shortened from 4 years to perhaps 2 years or one year; or alternatively, the rate of inflation which had occurred since the previous adjustment could be used as a measure of the next adjustment. It would not be unreasonable, for example, to institute an automatic adjustment scheme which applied whenever the real value of the pension declined, say by 5 per cent. These are just suggestions. I am sure that, as I have already said, the Government must have had them under consideration. It would be of interest and importance to hear what the Government's real views are. 
The second question that I put to the Minister representing the Treasurer is this: Will he clarify the position of employees of Government instrumentalities, for example, those covered by the Commonwealth Bank superannuation scheme? These require the Treasurer's approval, I understand, before they can provide an adjustment of former rates. I also understand that such approval was given in 1967 following the last adjustment of Commonwealth superannuation rates. But so far as I am aware, at least until about 10 days ago the Treasurer had not given his approval this year to a request that he allow Commonwealth Bank superannuation payments to be adjusted. I notice that in the second reading speech there is an obscure reference to this matter but it is not really helpful in terms of the question that I am raising. In his second reading speech the Treasurer simply said: 
In the case of pensions paid to former employees of Commonwealth authorities outside the Budget each authority meets the employer's share from its own resources. 
In other words he was indicating how government instrumentalities meet the adjustment without saying whether they would adjust this year. I therefore ask the Treasurer whether he will give his approval to these subsidiary schemes and indicate that any future adjustment of schemes, such as that of the Commonwealth Bank, will be approved whenever the main Commonwealth superannuation scheme is varied. 
My next question relates to the comments of the honourable member for Ryan  (Mr Drury).  Non-contributory . pensions were introduced in 1968 and they have applied since 1969. The reason' for the introduction of this scheme is succinctly set out in the 47th report of the Superannuation Board, which reads: 
The Government's intention was to provide some relief for contributors who were faced with difficulties in meeting the cost of additional units occurring in later stages of their career. 
There is no doubt that the difficulties referred to in that report were quite real and without doubt those same difficulties were met by Commonwealth employees who retired prior to 1969 just as they applied to those employees who retired after that date. I ask the Government: Has it given any consideration to the possibility of providing retrospective non-contributory provisions for former employees who retired before the current scheme was instituted? I suppose this is a matter which affects a lesser number of former Government employees but it is still a matter of importance to them. In financial terms I would not imagine that it would be expensive. It would also be self-limiting in the sense that the people concerned would already be at an advanced age. But at the same time it appears to be a matter which warrants some further attention on which the conclusions of the Government should be publicly stated. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that Commonwealth Superannuation Pensions have not been adjusted since November 1967. 
If so, has the real value of these pensions, as measured against movements in the consumer price index, declined in the meantime by 11 per cent. 
Will he take steps to have the previous practice of 4-yearly adjustments to these pensions followed this year, by ensuring that an increase is provided in the 1971 Budget. 
Will he also undertake to consider the reduction of the time lag between reviews so as to minimise the difficulties which are otherwise suffered by retired public servants in periods of inflation. 
asked the Minister for 
Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
What is the estimated annual saving as a result of the continued deferment of Commonwealth assistance for child-care centres. 
Is the Government of the view that this saving represents a proper order of priorities. 
If so, will he consider the introduction at an early date of a modified scheme to at least provide child-care assistance in the case of children of single-parent families. 
I present the follow ing petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth 
That the sales tax on all forms of contraceptive devices is 27 percent. (Sales Tax Exemptions and Classifications Act 1935-1967). Also that there is customs duty of up to 47 per cent on some contraceptive devices. 
And that thisis an unfair imposition on the human rights of all people who wish to prevent unwanted pregnancies. And furthermore that this imposition discriminates particularly against people on low incomes. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the sales tax on all forms of contraceptive devices be removed, so as to bring theseitems into line with other necessities such as food, upon which there is no sales tax. Also that customs duties be removed, and that all contraceptive devices be placed on the nationalhealth scheme pharmaceutical benefits list. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I direct a question to the Prime Minister arising from his announcement this week of a welcome increase in nursing home subsidies. I ask the Prime Minister whether, in the course of considering this measure, consideration was also given to increasing the Commonwealth contribution to public hospitals especially in respect of public hospital treatment of pensioners. Is it a fact that the Commonwealth contribution of $5 a day on account of pensioners has remained unaltered for almost 5 years? Is it also a fact that, taking Western Australia as an example, this contribution now represents only onequarter of the public ward charges and about one-eighth of actual public ward costs in public hospitals? Has the Prime Minister's attention been drawn to statements by the Western Australian Minister for Health to the effect that from a position where the Commonwealth provided free hospitalisation for pensioners the stage has now been reached where free hospitalisation is provided by the State with merely a small Commonwealth subsidy? In view of the primary responsibility of the Commonwealth for pensioner welfare and the severely strained resources of the States, will the Prime Minister undertake to consider remedial action at an early date? 
I oppose these clauses which give effect to the Government's decision .to increase the patients' contribution with respect to pharmaceutical benefit prescriptions to $1. Apart from the principle involved in this proposal, the Bill as a whole is open to 2 serious objections in relation to the timing of its discussion. In the first place, the revised Bill that we now have before us was introduced only yesterday, so that we have had far too little time to give considered study to the new clauses in it. The only excuse for the rush that I have heard advanced is that the need for increased nursing home benefits is now urgent. However, as the homes and their patients have now gone for 2i years without an increase in the intensive care benefit and  Si  years without an increase in the ordinary benefit, it is hard to take that sort of explanation seriously. 
The second instance of bad timing relates directly to the increased prescription charge. This increase comes after the appointment of a select committee which is now in the process of considering all aspects of the pharmaceutical benefits scheme including the prescription charge itself. I know that there are differing views in this place on the subject of committees. Some honourable members are for them and some are against them. But I am quite sure that the worst possible compromise on the question of committees is that We should have committees but just ignore or by-pass them when they are in operation. That is exactly what we seem to be doing in this case. 
Now why should we double the prescription charge and, indeed, why should we have a prescription charge at all? There are 2 possible justifications. Firstly and simply, we could have a charge to minimise Government expenditure in this area. Secondly, we could have a charge to act as a possible deterrent on excessive and unnecessary - that is, by definition, undesirable - drug taking. It is disappointing in this respect to see that the Government has looked at the increased charge solely in revenue raising terms. This financial year, so we are told, the charge of $1 will save the Commonwealth $16m. In a full year it will save the Commonwealth $24. 6m. If, as is to be clearly inferred by the Minister's speech in introducing this Bill, the Government's only interest is to find $24m, there is hardly a worse way of doing it than by this charge on illness. 
Moreover, the extent of the increased charge is not justified even by the Minister's own figures. As he points out, the relationship of patient contributions to the total cost of the scheme has fallen from 23.1 per cent in 1960-61 to 21.7 per cent this year. Even on his estimate of the average prescription cost for next year, however, the new $1 charge will not merely restore the position of the 1960-61 .figure of 23.1 per cent but will increase that figure to 38 per cent. Why? What justification can there be for an increase, for any increase, and certainly for an increase of this magnitude? The Government does not explain anything by constant reference to the increased cost of the scheme as a whole. Of course its costs have increased over the years. But so has its scope, . so has its usefulness and so has its contribution to economies in other sections of our national health scheme. 
Where the costs have increased, the increases are both explicable and justifiable. For example, the Minister indicated that the cost of the scheme increased by $24m last year. The annual report of the DirectorGeneral for Health for 1970-71 clearly indicates how this situation arises. Referring to page 35 of the Director-General's report, we find that $13. 6m of the increase was due to the relaxation in restrictions on drugs already listed and that $5.9m was attributable to items recently added to the list of benefits. In other words, of the whole increase of $24m, we find that $19. 5m was added as the result of new or relaxed benefits. That leaves less than S5m, and a large proportion of that amount can be attributed simply to increased population. The remaining amount, if the Government wished to meet it in this way, could be met amply by an increase of the prescription fee from 50c to 55c or 60c as a maximum. Certainly nothing of the order of $1 is warranted. 
On the other hand, to discuss an aspect of this question which has been entirely neglected by the Government, I believe that it is conceivable that an argument could be raised for some sort of prescription fee and even an increased prescription fee on the basis of the need to deter unnecessary drug taking. It was quite clear that this was the view of the Department of Health as it was presented to the House of Representatives Select Committee on Pharmaceutical Benefits. I do not say that their view was substantiated but the Department did produce some figures and propositions which at least deserve consideration. For example, the Department pointed out that the average consumption of national health scheme drugs by non-pensioners is 4.5 per year and by pensioners approximately 18 per year. The Department was able to refer the Committee to the British experience where on 3 occasions when drug charges have been either introduced or increased drug usage has fallen by approximately 9 per cent to 12 per cent, at least in the short term. I am well aware that those figures on their own prove nothing. I am very well aware of the fact that there are many other factors which one has to take into consideration before arriving at some conclusion as to what those figures mean. But at least they are worthy of consideration and one would have expected the Government to consider and to comment on them when making such a radical change in the prescription charge position, as it has now done. For the moment I am prepared to say that in the absence of concrete, let alone conclusive, evidence to the contrary, I prefer the attitude of the Labor Party suggesting that there should be no prescription charge to that of the Government which says that the prescription charge should be doubled without making an attempt to justify the increase. la the very short time at my disposal 1 will say only 2 other things very briefly. These relate firstly to the inflationary effect of the proposed prescription charge. I. also want to make a brief comment on the 50c concession which is being offered to 'those eligible to receive assistance under the subsidised health benefits scheme. Firstly, I want to deal with the inflationary effect to which I have referred. An increase from 50c to $1 has the effect that all items at present on the list under a total cost of $1 - and it has been estimated in the absence of a concrete aswer from the Department that there will be up to 800 of those items - will come off the list for non-pensioners. They must then be obtained as private prescriptions at private rates of profit margin and dispensing fee. In round figures I have estimated that a prescription now costing $1, including the 50c patient payment, will then cost approximately $1.40, which is an increase of 40 per cent. A prescription now costing 70c will cost $1.05, which is also an increase of over 40 per cent. The difference does not arise because pharmacists suddenly become rapacious or altruistic as prescriptions come off and on the scheme. The fact is that the total cost of prescriptions under the scheme is lower for 2 reasons: Firstly, because it is . practical and inevitable to charge less to a bulk customer, which the Commonwealth is; secondly, because the Government presumably working on the basis that it should deal hardest with its weakest opponents, has kept pharmacists' dispensing fees to a rise of only 2c, or 6 per cent, over a 10-year period when dispensers' salaries alone have increased by more than 50 per cent. Whatever the reason, the overall effect on the community will be inflationary in the sort of area in which inflation should not be permitted, let alone created by Government action. 
Finally, in the one minute left to me, let me say something about this 50c concession which applies to people eligible to receive assistance under the subsidised medical scheme. The submission regarding prescription fees which the Pharmacy Guild put to the House of Representatives Select Committee on Pharmaceutical Benefits was to the effect that people under the subsidised scheme shoud get their pharmaceutical benefit prescriptions for nothing. One sees the strength of that proposition when one considers who is eligible to receive subsidised assistance. They include people on sickness and unemployment benefits of $10 a week and whole families whose income is $49 a week or less. How can people on that level of income be expected to spend lc, let alone $1 or even . 50c - this magnificent concessionon prescriptions? The should obviously be placed on the same basis as full rate pensioners and receive their . prescriptions free. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Hallett)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the sales tax on all forms of contraceptive devices is 271 per cent. (Sales Tax Exemptions and Classifications Act 1935-1967). Also that there is customs duty of up to 471 per cent on some contraceptive devices. 
And that this is an unfair imposition on the human rights of all people who wish to prevent unwanted pregnancies. And furthermore that this imposition discriminates particularly against people on low incomes. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the sales tax on all forms of contraceptive devices be removed, so as to bring these items into line with other necessities such as food, upon which there is no sales tax. Also that customs duties be removed, and that all contraceptive devices be placed on the National Health Scheme Pharmaceutical Benefits List. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Sales Tax on all forms of Contraceptive Devices is 271/2 per cent (Sales Tax Exemptions and Classifications Act 1935-1967). Also that there is Customs Duty of up to 471/2 per cent on some Contraceptive Devices. 
And that this is an unfair imposition on the human rights of all people who wish to prevent unwanted pregnancies. And furthermore that this imposition discriminates particularly against people on low incomes. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Sales Tax on all forms of Contraceptive Devices be removed, so as to bring these items into line with other necessities such as food, upon which there is no Sales Tax. Also that Customs Duties be removed, and that all Contraceptive Devices be placed on the National Health Scheme Pharmaceutical Benefits List. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is directed to the Acting Prime Minister. I ask: In view of assurances by the Government that it has ample room to manoeuvre against current unemployment trends, will the Minister indicate the point at which the Government is likely to exercise the freedom of action which it believes it has? Put in another way, what is the limit beyond which a further increase in unemployment would not be tolerated by the Government? If no such limit exists, why not? 
We have departed a long way in this chamber from the traditional purpose of estimates debates. As I understand it, the' original intention was to provide a means for scrutinising departmental accounts in detail, and yet I know that one lakes the risk of being regarded as an eccentric if one uses debates such as this for just that purpose. Nonetheless, I take that risk for the particular purpose of directing the attention of the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  to the costly neglect of a valuable property which is under his control. I refer to the former Taxation Branch offices in Perth. On 6th September the Minister for the Interior provided an answer to question No. 3813 on the notice paper, which was in the following terms: 
What is the floor space and estimated value of the former Taxation Department offices at the corner of Murray and Barrack streets, Perth? 
Has this building been unoccupied for some time; if so, why and for what period has it been unoccupied? 
What use is planned for the building, and when will these plans be implemented? 
I received the following answer from the Minister for the Interior: 
The estimated valuation of the site and building of approximately 54,000 square feet of floor space is $475,000. 
Yes. The building, originally a warehouse, was vacated by the Taxation Branch in July 1970 after being occupied by it for some 30 years. It cannot be converted economically for further long term use by the Commonwealth. 
The site is centrally located and because of its potential for future redevelopment by the Commonwealth is to be retained. In the meantime consideration is being given to alternative use of the building. 
The point I wish to raise is: If the building was vacated in July 1970 the move must have been expected a year earlier at the very least. It has remained unoccupied now for 17 months. That means it is about 24 years since it was known that it would become vacant. If the Government has no immediate use for the building itself the question which arises is: Why has the Government forgone the very considerable income which could have been obtained from even a short term lease? I do not raise for comparison the office rents of $4 to $6 a square foot per annum which are applicable within only 2 blocks distance of the site in question. Admittedly this building is old and is not to be looked at on that basis. But, as the Minister's reply itself indicates, the building is central - indeed, it is in the very heart of the city - and it is inconceivable that its commercial and warehouse facilities and potential should have no value at all. Conservatively speaking, even granting the limitations imposed by a reluctance to grant a lengthy lease, it would very likely be worth S2 a square foot or over 5100,000 per annum. But even if it is worth only $1 a square foot - it certainly would not be less than that - it would be capable of producing $50,000 per annum or almost $70,000 in the period during which it has been vacant. 
Can anyone visualise a site of this kind and location being left unproductive for such a period if it were owned by anyone other than a government? As it happens, the apparent neglect of this property is irresponsible in a civic sense, because it stultifies development and depresses activity in an important and central area of Perth. It would be wrong for that reason alone. But from the Commonwealth's own viewpoint it gives every appearance of poor and lax management at a time when every other section of the community is being exhorted to greater efficiency and productivity. It is an example, it seems, of don't do as I do, but do as I say'. 
If this were an isolated instance one might let it pass, but my impression is that it is far from atypical. The problem, perhaps, is that when one measures possible savings or apparent extravagances in public administration it is too easy to compare them with a total budget of about $9,000m and conclude that the proportion of the whole is so small as to be hardly worth pursuing. The degeneration in terms in our method of dealing with the Estimates encourages just such a process. Yet why should we allow so many things to go unquestioned where economy in public expenditure is involved? Why should the $50,000 or $100,000 potential rent from the building to which I have referred be forgone? When we have the annual report of the Director-General of Social Services before us, why do we not seek the reason for the fact that over a period when social services payments increased 6 times, social services administrative costs have increased 84 times? There may be a perfectly good reason for that disparity, but on the .other hand there may not. 
J invite honourable members to consider the report relating to the distribution and pricing of parliamentary publications. At page 7 of the report we are told that a new printing machine costing $755,000 would save its own cost in 2 years and in every 2 years thereafter. The daily Hansard alone would cost 52.4 per cent less. What are we waiting for? Would any private printing firm hesitate for a moment if funds were available to it? On what basis could it do so, and on what possible rational basis do we hesitate? At page 12 of the report we find that the Journals of the Senate and the Votes and Proceedings of the House of Representatives cost about $8,000 per annum and are of such great value, interest and worth that of the 700 daily copies all except 21 have to be distributed free. Frankly, the only thing that intrigues me in this situation is that there are as many as 21 subscribers who consider them worth paying "for. How long is it since we have paused to consider whether these traditional publications are worth printing at all? What real purpose do they serve? 
This laxity, this thoughtlessness for economy in government management, seems to me to permeate the whole system. Examples can be multiplied. I have given already in a few moments one example involving a potential saving of $350,000 per annum, another example of a potential income of $50,000 to $100,000 per annum forgone, and another example of potential saving of $8,000 per annum available without any detriment to the workings of the Parliament. This sort of thing goes right down through the system to a very basic level which I risk having criticised as petty. We know that correspondence from Ministers comes in 2 copies. There are good reasons for that. But have we ever stopped to wonder why correspondence from the Postmaster-General's Department comes in 4 copies? What possible reason can there be for having 4 copies of correspondence from that Department? 
These, as I have said, are examples taken helter skelter from the Estimates. Admittedly they are not only in relation io the Department at present under review, but, as I have said, they are examples which can be multiplied. However, I do not want to digress further from the specific question that 1 have put to the Minister related to the specific building to which I have referred. I conclude by expressing the hope that he will provide a specific answer to it. It is important to remember that every instance of waste or neglected economy is reflected directly in unnecessarily high taxation or in desirable expenditure being forgone. We should be wary at all points to ensure that this sort of situation does not needlessly arise and certainly that it is not needlessly permitted to continue. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Sales Tax on all forms of contraceptive devices is 27i per cent. (Sales Tax Exemptions and Classifications Act 1935-1967). Also that there is Customs Duty of up to 471 per cent on some contraceptive devices. 
And that this is an unfair imposition on the human rights of all people who wish to prevent unwanted pregnancies. And furthermore that this imposition discriminates particularly against people on low incomes. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Sales Tax on all forms of Contraceptive Devices be removed, so as to bring these items into line with other necessities such as food, upon which there is no Sales Tax. Also that Customs Duties be removed, and that all contraceptive devices be placed on the National Health Scheme Pharmaceutical Benefits List. 
And your Petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I direct a question to the Acting Prime Minister related to the offer of Cockburn Sound naval base facilities, among others, to the United States of America. Would the use of Cockburn Sound by the United States Navy necessarily involve nuclear armed units of that Navy with a resultant increase in the attractiveness of the area as a target for nuclear attack itself? What consideration has been given in this respect to the loca tion of this particular base at the centre of an intensively developed residential and industrial section of the Perth metropolitan area? 
I claim to have been misrepresented in 2 respects by the Acting Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony). 
Yes. Firstly, the Acting Prime Minister suggested that I was linked with some assumed move to make the Australian-United States alliance inoperable. I am not. That was not the purpose of my question, nor is it, as I understand it, the policy of my Party. My question was related to the specific problems concerning the particular base at Cockburn Sound. I was stressing the particular difficulties of the particular location of this particular base, and that was all. The second respect in which 1 was misrepresented arose from the fact that the Acting Prime Minister sought to equate my question with a complaint against mere visits by nuclear armed units of other navies. In this respect all that one needs to say is that the difference between visits and the use of a naval base is so obvious as to hardly need elaboration. 
 I take the opportunity of this Estimates debate to raise a number of matters concerning the operation of the Aged Persons Homes Act. Some of the comments I intend to make will have to be critical and, so that I will not be misunderstood and in order to keep my criticism in proper perspective, 1 should make 2 preliminary comments. In the first place, 1 acknowledge that the present scheme resulted from a genuine and original initiative by the present Government parties. It was a good initiative. To the end of June 1971 the scheme has cost $125m and this has been money well spent. If, as 1 intend to do, I suggest that in part these funds could have been better spent or, even without any additional cost at all, the administration of the Act might have been improved, this is not intended to qualify the general approval of the scheme which I have already indicated. Secondly, I intend, time permitting, to comment on some administrative aspects of the homes. I should add here that I fully appreciate the time, energy and devotion of the many voluntary members of the respective management bodies. Indeed, I should think that the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  would agree that without their assistance the scheme might not have worked at all; certainly it could not have operated as economically as it has done. 
There are 4 topics on which I hope to be able to comment: Firstly, the restrictions of Commonwealth assistance under the Act to capital expenditure only; secondly, the tendency of the scheme to give least assistance to those most in need as a result of the system of donationlinked entry which has developed; thirdly, the virtual absence of Commonwealth interest in the homes made possible by the Act once building has been completed; fourthly, the unfortunate reluctance by some management bodies to take residents into their confidence and to encourage their participation in the management work and decision making. The Aged Persons Homes Act commenced in 1954 on the basis of a 1 for 1 subsidy and was amended in 1957 to provide a 2 for 1 subsidy. From its inception, however, the subsidy has been limited to capital costs only and it is not at all clear that this limitation is either warranted or desirable. Indeed, to interpolate problems from other areas, the very common tendency of the Government to support capital but not maintenance costs is questionable, to say the least. For example, why should we grant tax deductibility for donations to build independent schools but not for donations towards teachers' salaries at the same institutions? Why do we subsidise buildings for handicapped children but not the costs of providing physiotherapists, speech therapists, doctors or nurses within them? Similar questions can be asked in relation to aged persons homes. 
I have heard it said by social workers and geriatricians that our past tendency to favour large aged persons homes and in some cases such as in the Menora subdivision of my electorate, aged persons villages, is misdirected. The suggestion is that a much larger number of smaller developments in the original communities of the aged persons concerned would be preferable. There appear to be some very sound arguments in favour of this proposition. However, having developed in a different direction we should at least take the maximum advantage of what we have and the Commonwealth could very properly assist in this respect. Contributions towards maintenance costs, recreation facilities and occupational therapists would all be logical extensions of the present scheme which could be achieved at relatively small cost and the Government's continued emphasis on capita] contributions should surely be relaxed to accommodate them. 
A more serious problem of the scheme, however, has risen from the development of donation linked entry. The theory is simple and attractive. An aged person donates one-third of the cost of his accommodation, the Commonwealth grants twothird of the cost of his accommodation, and the result is that the home can be built at no cost at all to the sponsoring organisation itself. At least until 1969 the situation was that on the death of the first occupant the process could be repeated a second time and so on ad infinitum. The result was that only aged persons with relatively substantial means could afford accommodation in these homes and low income pensioners, that is, those able to go into units on a minimum rental basis only, were effectively excluded. The annual report of the Director-General of Social Services for 1969-70 indicated official recognition of the problem and an attempt to tackle it. At page 42, under the heading Donations by residents', the DirectorGeneral said: 
A new form of legal agreement with organisations receiving capital grants has been introduced. This agreement requires organisations to apply donations received by or on behalf of intending residents only towards the establishment of new accommodation. A long-term effect of this provision should be a gradual increase in the number and percentage of units allocated to non-donor residents. 
However,. I am not at all sure that the new agreement will necessarily achieve its stated aims. The appropriate parts of clause 3 of the current agreement read as follows: 
The Organisation shall not . . . use donations of money or other valuable consideration given to the Organisation by, or on behalf of, or in  respect  of, aged persons who are occupants or prospective occupants of an approved home, for any purpose other than purposes in connection with the purchase, construction or furnishing of the approved home or other approved homes. In particular, such donations of money or other valuable consideration shall not be used in connection with the day-to-day running costs or the maintenance costs of an approved home. 
The relevant parts of clause 4 (2) state: 
When accommodation in an approved home is vacated by the aged person who occupied that accommodation on the first occasion ... the Organisation shall allocate that accommodation in accordance with the object of reaching, as early as practicable, the position where at least half of the total number of aged persons accommodated in the home is made up of aged persons by whom ... a donation has not been made to the Organisation. 
Putting these clauses together it means that an organisation, once it has reached the stage where half of its units are rented outright, can continue to sell the other half indefinitely while it is engaged in improving its existing buildings and furnishings or while building other units elsewhere. Moreover, the last section of clause 3 is simply incapable of. regulation, at least where donations are made by the families of residents rather than by the residents themselves. 
In addition, the thousands of units built prior to the 1969 formula are not subject to the current limitations at all and in theory at least can continue to be sold in perpetuity. Can we then claim to be gaining maximum value out of the scheme while these real and potential barriers exist to the entry of low income pensioners? I am sure all honourable members will share my own observations as to the importance of the role of low cost accommodation to social service recipients. This does not apply only to aged pensioners; it applies to invalid pensioners and to working mothers who are widowed or single or separated. How often do we find that the difference between a reasonable and an unreasonable living standard is constituted by the availability of reasonable and genuinely low cost housing? I believe we should tackle this head-on by amending the agreement to allow any unit to be 'sold' no more than once, as a general rule, and no more than twice where the second payment is to be devoted to hostel or hospital facilities for aged residents in independent units who lose the capacity to care for themselves. Moreover, uniformity should be brought to the scheme by persuading pre- 1969 homes to accept the same conditions as apply to developments under later agreements. In most cases I am confident this would be accepted willingly and voluntarily but if necessary, as a last resort, it should be legislated. 
The third problem which I refer to concerns the lack of continuing Commonwealth interest in the buildings once they are established. I believe that it should be continued for 3 reasons: Firstly, out of concern for the residents; secondly, out of concern to safeguard the very large Commonwealth investment in the scheme; and, thirdly, to assist the residents to safeguard, their own interests. It must be remembered that at the Government's insistence aged donors can receive no contractual or other legal rights to their accommodation. Without even suggesting possible impropriety by managements - I have seen no instance of this at all - the need for some different, form of protection for these elderly people can nonetheless be visualised. 
Let me take the example of charges for rental accommodation. In my own electorate - and we are dealing purely with rental accommodation - rental charges range from $3 a week in the best instance to an instance which I have in my hand, in circular form, of $11 a week for the rental of a unit subsidised by this scheme. At $11 a week we are virtually operating at commercial rental rates. I also have correspondence here showing that these homes are not required to pay shire rates or water rates and in most cases in Western Australia they are exempt from land tax as well. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Scholes)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
As no other honourable member has risen- I will take my second . period now. As I have already stated, with rented accommodation costing $11 a week we are reaching the stage where we are operating virtually on a commercial basis in an area which was surely intended to be anything but commercial. The question which arises is: Was any such possibility envisaged by the Government when the scheme was introduced? Surely it was not. Yet the only check which the Government has retained is to be found in clause 11 (2) of the current agreement which reads: 
Hie Organisation shall furnish to the DirectorGeneral, at his request- 
I stress the words 'at his request' for reasons which I will indicate shortly -  all records, books  of  account and documents relating to the approved home or homes, in the possession  or  under the control of the Organisation and afford all requisite assistance to enable  the  Director-General or bis agents to ascertain the  true  financial position of that home. 
All that happens is that the organisation may be obliged, on request, to supply this financial information. My understanding is that no such request for information has ever been made in my own State. I do not know whether it has been made in any other State either, but I am also informed that even if this information were demanded it would not be made available, for example, to members of Parliament or even, strange as it may sound, to the residents of the homes who may be interested in the financial standing of the institution which they themselves occupy. 
This last point is linked to the fourth matter which I indicated that I wanted to raise, and that is the lack of information and the lack of communication which appears to arise at least in some cases between the residents of homes and their managements. I think this is unfortunate. I have never been able to discern for myself any good reason why the financial position of a home should be kept confidential from the residents, that is, from the people who in some cases pay substantial sums to go into the home and who in other cases are paying maintenance and/or rental charges. I think it would be a highly desirable development for the Commonwealth, in expansion of its current interest in the further welfare of these homes, not simply to require that the financial position of the homes should be made available on demand to the Director-General, but that it should be made available annually as a matter of course to the Director-General, and also that any information appearing therein should automatically be available to the residents of the homes themselves. 
I want to say and emphasise, as I did at the outset, that there is nothing in what I have said to suggest or to imply in any v/ay that I believe that there is any impropriety in the conduct of these homes. That is far from the position. But we are dealing with elderly people, people who need some understanding and need to feel that their opinions do count in the spheres in which they are operating. I put it to the Minister that the matters which I have raised in relation to the Government's actions and to the way in which the relationship between management and residents of these homes might be improved should be given due consideration. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members ot the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That a migrant who has been a member of the Australian workforce for many years, has pa-id taxes and acquired Australian citizenship, and seeks to live the last years of his life in his native land or, if an invalid, wishes to see his relatives, is denied pension transferability. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray 
That the House of Representatives, in Parliament assembled, seek to have Australia adopt the principle followed by Britain, Italy, Greece, Malta, The Netherlands, France, Germany, Turkey, Canada and the United States of America, who already transfer the social entitlement of their citizens wherever they may choose to live. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
The honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  has already raised some questions tonight relating to telephone tapping by private individuals and State bodies. My purpose in entering the debate on these estimates at this point is to put to the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  who represents the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Greenwood)  in this place some additional questions concerning telephone tapping, this time by the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation - that is, by a body operating under the authority of the Commonwealth. To clear the decks, let me make it clear at the outset that I am not one of those who believe that an organisation such as ASIO has no place at all in the Australian context. I tend to believe it has. Nor do I share the view expressed by some that there are absolutely no circumstances which can justify the serious intrusion into individual privacy which telephone tapping constitutes. I believe there are. 
In summary ] put it to the Minister, and I expect him to accept, that the matter I am about to raise is not advanced with any view to obstructing or harrassing ASIO but only to ensure that a proper balance is maintained between the duties and functions of the organisation on the one hand and individual rights on the other. To maintain such a balance is in fact the purpose, as I understand it, of the Telephonic Communications (Interception) Act of 1960. It is worth our while to spend a moment to recall just what the provisions of this Act are. Essentially the legislation establishes that ASIO may tap telephone conversations only upon a warrant of authority from the Attorney-General himself and that the Attorney-General must previously have been satisfied by the Director-General of Security that the issue of such a warrant was justified on the grounds of national security. 
There can hardly be a doubt that political control in this sphere as provided by the Act is the only form of control which is tolerable. Moreover, at the risk of accusations of being naive, I would add my own belief that the 3 Ministers whom 1 have seen acting as Attorney-General - and indeed any other member of the Parliament who might occupy this position - would act properly and conscientiously in accordance with the obvious intentions of the Act. Having said that by way of preamble, the obvious remaining question is: What is left to worry about? It is this: While the theory and philosophy of the legislation may be unexceptionable the Act is worth nothing if its provisions cannot be properly and adequately supervised, and 1 am concerned that such supervision may not now be possible due to the mechanics of the tapping system which ASIO recently adopted. 
There are 2 methods available for monitoring telephone subscriber calls and conversations. The first method, which would be familiar to anyone who watches a television detective series, involves a telephone technician identifying the line of the subscriber in question and then physically connecting that line to an observation facility. Monitoring can then continue by any authorised person. This system, as you will appreciate,  Mr Chairman,  involves at least 2 people, and in practice more often more than 2 people knowing that interception is taking place. But at this most basic level at least some check is possible on abuse that might be occurring. The second method of interception, however, eliminates this. The alternative system can be explained by reference to a very common set of circumstances. No doubt,  Mr Chairman,  you will have shared my own experience from time to time of attempting to ring a number which seems to be continually engaged. One telephones complaints and says that such and such a number seems to be continually engaged and asks for a check to be made to see whether it is in order. The telephonist says: 'Hold the line a moment and I will check.' Sure enough, just a moment later she is back to say that the telephone is out of order and she will report it, or, alternatively, the line is not out of order but is in fact engaged. 
The reason that this information is available so quickly and accurately is that the Post Office has a centralised observation facility whereby any subscriber in the metropolitan area can be monitored undetected simply by dialling that subscriber's number. Access can be gained to all metropolitan subscribers without restriction; there is no record other than that which may be kept by the person dialling the number to be observed, and once the original connection of this facility has been completed no third party need be involved in particular telephone tappings. The possibility of a check at the point of the tapping operation itself accordingly disappears. It is this latter method of tapping which recently has been installed by ASIO in Western Australia, and given the likelihood of uniformity in the Department it would appear reasonable to assume that a similar system has been adopted as well in all other States. The threat of this system to legitimate individual privacy on the one hand and ministerial authority on the other must be obvious. 
Frankly, it is regrettable that even the Post Office itself should be able to dial into our private conversations at will. That, however, is probably part of the price we have to pay for a telephone system that works, but at least the Post Office employee does not have the same vested interest in random sampling of selected persons' conversations which an over-zealous or over-officious member of the Security Organisation might have. The temptations are not of the same order and neither are the potential consequences of abuse. It is no use trying to delude ourselves that abuse will not occur where the way is open to it. One has only to refer to the 126th report of the Public Accounts Committee with its expressed concern at possible Public Service abuse of the subscriber trunk dialling telephone service to know that the reverse is true. 
In any event, Parliament itself has declared that telephone tapping must not be left to this discretion or responsibility of the Public Service but should be under the direct control of the Attorney-General himself. It is surely important to the confidence of the public in the 
Attorney-General and in the Post Office and, indeed, in the Security Organisation itself, that we should have not merely an assurance but an absolute guarantee from the Attorney-General that the new mechanics of telephone tapping adopted by ASIO will not operate to subvert the authority reposed in him by the Telephonic Communications (Interceptions) Act. I ask the Minister representing the Attorney-General: What internal checks and safeguards have been established by him to ensure that his authority in this area is absolutely maintained? 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What was the cost of the building recently purchased in Saigon for use as an Australian Embassy. 
What is the estimated cost of completion and furnishing. 
What area of floor space is contained in the building. 
How many staff members are expected to require accommodation in it. 
What was the cost of the Australian Embassies or High Commissions in Indonesia, Singapore, Malaysia, Thailand and Cambodia. 
What is the (a) area of floor space and (b) number of staff accommodated in each of these buildings. 
I believe that international contact at any time and at all levels is good, and accordingly it follows that I believe that the recent tour made by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  was in principle perfectly acceptable. 1 do not even qualify that view by reference to some of the criticisms of lbc tour which have been made by others - for example, the fact that it was made during parliamentary sitting time and that some believe that it might just as conveniently have been made at some other time, or the fact that it served to highlight the administrative fiasco of the Cambodian instructors or even the fact that it served to denigrate Australia's own flag line, Qantas Airways Ltd, by international reference to the fact that the Prime Minister found the aircraft of competitors of that airline more comfortable than our own. Of course some of these were gaffs and Prime Ministers are not supposed to make them. But when all is said and done they are hardly the sort of stuff to go into the history books. We will soon forget them and, to be honest and to maintain some sort of perspective, so we should. 
Indeed, if the Prime Minister had simply said: T think it is desirable to have some contact with international leaders to exchange Views with them, simply to get to know them', hardly any more need have been said. But the tour, of course, has not been approached by the Government on this basis. On the contrary, both before and since the tour there has been a conscious effort to create about it an aura of significance and achievement which is simply not there and which is important only to the expectations which it disappoints. If there were to be any special significance for this tour it could arise only from some reference to matters themselves significant in Australia today. This means in turn that any evaluation of the tour must have as its starting point these national problems currently of greater concern and urgency. What are they? As it happens, and in spite of the Prime Minister's heavy emphasis tonight, defence is not one of them. That is not just a matter of observation or conviction on the Opposition's part. We also have the word of the previous Prime Minister and Minister for Defence for it.  His  expressed view that Australia can look forward to a minimum period of 10 years physical and military security has not been challenged by any member of the present Government, not even the most punctilious of them, 
What is the real problem or problems then? How can it or they be best tackled by the Prime Minister's tour or anything said about it? The truth seems to me to be that the most pressing and immediate difficulties facing the Australian community today are all in one sense or another economic. Unemployment, inflation, rural recession and uncertainty, industrial relations - these are Australia's immediate problems. Yet only one of them, the rural crisis, had even a passing reference in tonight's report by the Prime Minister and none of them was actually assisted by his tour. 
Let us take unemployment. How nas the Prime Minister's tour helped that? How could it possibly have helped it? How was it intended to help it? Yet what w.i &lt;-.f national life, defence included, is in such obvious need of help today? So far on this question there is only one assurance to be had from everyone in the Government, from the Prime Minister down, and that is that they are keeping a close eye on :he situation and that they will not let it get out of hand. They said that when unemployment was at 30,000. They said it a fortnight ago when unemployment was over 63,000. They will no doubt still be saying it when, as seems certain on the Government's own admission, unemployment reaches 100,000 or even 120,000 or 140,000 in the new year. It reminds me of nothing more than a captain of a ship which has been holed reporting back to port: 'I now have 4 feet of water in the hold. I am not actually doing anything about it but I am keeping a very close eye on it.'  His  next report is: 'Six feet of water in the hold at the moment. Still not doing anything about it but observing it very carefully.' The next report is: Twelve feet in the hold' with the same follow up and the next report simply: 'Gurgle, gurgle*. That is about the sort of approach we have. 
There has to be a limit to unemployment but there is none in sight nor is there any possible discernible effort to contain it. Meanwhile those who are unemployed may take some solace from the fact that the Prime Minister has a clear impression that the 'United States Administration is very favourably disposed towards us' or that even  Senator Fulbright  believes that 'ANZUS is different'. They will have no solace from any likely improvement in the employment situation. For all the talk of friendship, frankness and favourable frameworks, there is not a single dollar in assured export trade to keep a single Australian worker in employment for an additional single minute. In that lies, in my opinion, the true test of the success or failure of the Prime Minister's tour abroad. 
By the way, I think I should correct myself. 1 think I said earlier that the Government was doing only one thing about unemployment. That is not strictly true. As well as saying that it is keeping a close eye on the situation it is also taking steps to assure us at every opportunity that the only other necessary remedial action is an increase in public confidence. One Minister - I forget who - was even so hackneyed as to quote Roosevelt's depression exhortation that there is nothing to fear but fear itself. That is not true for Australians. We do have something else to fear - our national leadership. Roosevelt was not speaking in a vacuum when he said: 'There is nothing to fear but fear itself. He meant that in the context of the policies and actions which he was proposing. In Australia today, on the other hand, we are being asked to be confident on the basis of Government inaction, which is an entirely different proposition. Why should we and how can we be more confident? Basically that means to spend more of our savings in the absence of government initiative to assure us that we can do so safely. 
Words alone are useless. Every Minister of the Government can stand on his head from today until tomorrow exhorting us to be confident and collectively they will still not counterbalance the one minute that it took the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd yesterday to announce that an extra 200 men will be stood down. That, bluntly, is the nature of things; and the Government ignores it at the peril of us all. Even our anachronistic unemployment benefit is relevant in this area because how can one conscientiously spend one's savings without some more reasonable emergency support than we now have? The current unemployment benefit is anachronistic for 2 reasons. In the first place at its basic $10 a week, it does not provide enough for a flea to live on reasonably. In the second place it is wrong in principle because it is based on the philosophy that in a full employment economy the only people out of work are either loafers or people who are just spending a couple of days in between voluntarily changing jobs. The loafer argument should, by agreement- - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! I suggest to the honourable member that the matters he is debating are not within the scope of the statement that is being debated by the House. The honourable member is rather wide of the statement and I ask him to keep his remarks relevant to the general framework of the Prime Minister's statement. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I simply point out to you that in the first place I believe one is entitled to make some comment as to omissions from the Prime Minister's speech. Secondly. both he and subsequent speakers from the Government side have been at pains to indicate how important the Prime Minister's tour was to an improvement in the country's economy with, one can only imagine, resulting improvement in the employment situation. That is the basis of the comments that I have been making and 1 put it to you that these are, in the truest sense, relevant. However, I have only a few moments to spend on this point and if you will bear with me I will complete the comments I seek to make. On this question 1 want to add that the 2 reasons for (he anachronism of the unemployment benefit are demonstrated by the numbers. The loafer argument obviously is irrelevant when we reach the numbers that we have. For the purpose of showing that the. second point is irrelevant I seek- leave to incorporate in Hansard a table which appears at page 4 of the 'Treasury InformationBulletin' No. 64. 

<graphic href="075131197111235_78_3.jpg"></graphic>

By reference to this table, particularly to the Western Australian figures, one will see very readily that the position over the last 3 years has Changed dramatically. In 1969, in round figures, there were 2 unfilled vacancies for every person registered for employment, in 1970 the 2 categories were roughly on a par. This year we are in the position where registered unemployed are more than double the number of unfilled vacancies. In 2 years, therefore, we have gone from a position of twice as many jobs as available workers to a position today where there are only half as many jobs as there are registered unemployed. 
Compounding the many other difficulties in our economic position is the Government's lack of flexibility. I do not want to be parochial about this but an example from the Western Australian experience again is appropriate. The last census shows that over the last 5 years Western Australia's population increased more than twice as fast as the population of any other State. That created numerous stresses in many areas - housing, education and so on. 
Although I must say that I do not agree with your ruling,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I will abide by it in the few minutes remaining to me and co mplete my remarks. In general, the matter 1 have tried to put to the House is that the essential and immediate problem which is facing the Australian community is one which has been recognised by the Prime Minister but which was not met in any way by his tour or by his report on it. He sought to build up a public expectation - he was supported in this by members of his Government - that what he was doing was significant for the welfare of Australian's, but it was nol. I conclude as 1 commenced by saying that I think his tour was a good idea. I do not begrudge it to him. I wish him good health to have many more such tours, preferably in sone sort of Opposition capacity, but I do not want the impression to be left that anything he did on this tour in a practical sense in terms of positive results other than high expectations on his part and lofty words on the part of others has any relevance to the real problems which are facing the Australian community today. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr  Giles) adjourned. 
Hume adjourned at lt. 8  p.m. 
I present the follow ing petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of electors of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the United Nations General Assembly Resolution 2603 XXIV A (December 1969) declares that the Geneva Protocol of 1925, which Australia has ratified, prohibitsthe use in international armed conflict of any chemical agents of warfare - chemical substances whether gaseous, liquid or solid - employed for their direct toxic effects on man, animals or plants; 
That the World Health Organisation Report (January 1970) confirms the above definition of chemical agents of warfare; 
That the Australian Government does not accept this definition, but holds that the Geneva Protocol does not prevent the use in war of certain toxic chemical substances in the form of herbicides, defoliants and 'riotcontrol' agents. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray: 
That the Parliament take note of the consensus of international political, scientific and humanitarian opinion; and 
That Honourable Members urge upon the Government the desirability of revising its interpretation of the Geneva Protocol, and declaring that it regards all chemical substances employed for their toxic effects on man, animals or plants as being included in the prohibitions laid down by that Protocol. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
[  present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That there is a crisis in Aboriginal welfare in the South West Land Division of Western Australia resulting from a population explosion, poor housing and hygiene and unemployment and unemployability. 
That there is a need to phase out Native Reserves in the South West Land Division of Western Australia over the next three years. 
That town housing must be provided for all Aboriginal families where the bread winner has permanent employment or an age or invalid pension entitlement. 
That such housing must be supported by the appointment of permanent 'homemaker' assistance in the ratio of one home-maker to every eight houses or part thereof. 
That incentives of housing, 'home-maker' services and training facilities must be created in centres of potential employment for those who are currently unemployed or unemployable. 
That insufficient State or Federal assistance has been made available to meet these requirements. 
That adequate finance to meet these requirements can only be provided by the Commonwealth Government. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will give earnest consideration to this most vital matter. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
When was the decision taken for the Taxation Office to vacate in July 1970 its offices at the corner of Barrack and Murray Streets, Perth. 
When was  a  survey conducted  to  determine the minimum repairs or renovations necessary to put the building into a condition suitable for leasing. 
What was the estimated cost of the repairs or renovations. 
Have plans fora replacement building been completed or commissioned. 
What is the further minimum period during which the site can be expected to remain vacant. ;  Mr Hunt  - The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The decision that the Taxation Office should vacate its offices at the corner of Barrack and Murray Streets, Perth was part of the proposal to erect new Commonwealth Offices in St. George's Terrace, Perth. The proposal was agreed to by the Parliament on 9th December 196S. 
The Commonwealth Department of Works submitted a report on the repairs and renovations necessary to bring the building to a suitable condition for long-term occupancy by the Commonwealth on 7th December 1970. 
$1,140,000. 
No. 
It is anticipated that the building will remain vacant until a decision is taken as to the future use of the building. Consideration is being given to this at present and a decision can be expected shortly. 
Embassies or Legations in Taipei (Question No.  4688) 
asked the Minister for the Inferior, upon notice:  lt preliminary census figures for State populations are confirmed, what resultant alterations will be necesary in the number of Commonwealth electoral divisions in each State. 
asked the Minister-in-Charge of Tourist Activities, upon notice: 
How many cruise passengers are estimated to have visited (a) Australia and (b) other countries from Australia in each' year since 1966. 
-I present the following' petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the community of the University of Western Australia respectfully sheweth: that the increase in tertiary education fees for 1972 will cause increased hardship for a significant proportion of tertiary students. 
 That tertiary fees and concomitant living costs are a formidable barrier preventing significant numbers of students entering tertiary education who nevertheless have the ability to doso. 
That the increase in tertiary fees for 1972 is immoral, in that Universities and Colleges of Advanced Education are being further restricted to that minimal section of the Australian population who can afford to send their sons and daughters onto higher education. 
That all education should be free including tertian education. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Federal Government take immediate action to introduce in order of priority: 
Universal Commonwealth Scholarships 
Commonwealth Scholarships on the basis of need rather than academic ability 
Abolition of tertiary fees 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
asked the Minister for the Navy, upon notice: 
Has a study been made of the likely long term environmental effects of the development of the base at Cockburn Sound?. 
If so, what conclusions were reached? 
If not will he ensure that a study is instituted in view of the highly developed and populated area in whichthe base is being constructed? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice. 
What is the basis of compilation and calculation of the average weekly earnings index. 
What(a) number and (b) percentage of earners at or above the average level. 
Can he state both the value and shortcom ings of the index as a reflection of movements in Australian living standards. 
1 wish to make a personal explanation. 
I will take only a few moments. Essentially I want to use the opportunity to put a couple of questions to the Minister for Supply  (Mr Garland),-  understanding full well that the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  is away at the moment but hoping that we might get some elaboration from him later. I think it has already been pointed out that the basic problem here is really one of jurisdiction in the enforcement of these laws. May I say, though this may put me into dispute with some members on my own side, that personally I have no objection to controls in this area being centralised in the Commonwealth Authority. In many respects 1 can see advantage in the Commonwealth having control of drug laws on a uniform basis, including the international problems associated with the drug question, rather than the fragmented control that otherwise arises when all the State police departments have to be brought in. 
The basic problem is this: Are we to have the Department of Customs and Excise enforce these laws or are we to be forever referring problems to the police departments of the States for prosecution? This gives rise in my mind to 2 questions. These are the ones to which I would like the Minister for Customs and Excise to give some thought and advice on at a later stage if that is the only way in which we can have his opinion. The first is: Why does the Government not make use of the powers available to it arising from its ratification of the International Single Convention of Narcotic Drugs. The Narcotic Drugs Act includes reference to the fact that the Commonwealth has ratified this Single Convention, and one of the clauses of that Convention - clause 30, from memory - provides for total control of all the drugs listed in schedule 1 of that Convention. In turn schedule 1 includes a very wide range of drugs, most of which are parallel to the drugs in the present Bill. It includes, for example, cannabis, although questions have been raised as to whether that is really a narcotic, and includes all the obvious narcotics, heroin in particular. Virtually the only drugs which the schedule in the Single Convention does not include and which are to be found in the present Bill are the psychotropic drugs such as LSD. 
The foreign affairs power of the Commonwealth allows conventions to be ratified and acted upon and in that way to expand the power of the Commonwealth. Has the Government considered using that widened power at least for the list of drugs which come into the Single Convention? if it were to do this - admittedly this may raise the need for 2 Bills rather than one - we could get away from this legalistic and formalistic problem arising from the need to drag the supervision of these drugs within the Commonwealth authority. In other words, we would not have to worry whether they were imported or not. It would be sufficient to show possession without lawful excuse. This would seem to be a very straightforward way of overcoming some problems which would otherwise arise in establishing full Commonwealth powers to act. I repeat the question: Has the Government considered using this widened power? If it has not. will it? If it has considered using the power and decided not to, could wes please have some indication as to why it should have arrived at that conclusion? 
The second question which 1 wish to put to the Minister arises from a reference in his second reading speech to the fact that where problems are found in establishing importation - in other words, where it is found that Commonwealth authority does not reach - prosecutions have had to be referred to the State police authorities. It is true that the Minister goes on from there to say that that is bad because it gives rise to unnecessary duplication. It is a wasteful use of resources, an example of divided jurisdiction and fragmentation and all sorts of undesirable things. I can appreciate what he is trying to say there. But when I try to tie it down into actual detriment to the enforcement processes, I cannot see that very much is at stake, provided 2 things apply: Firstly, that the Stale departments are prepared to give a proper degree of co-operation to the Commonwealth in these matters; and secondly, that there are equivalent standards in regard to penalties under State legislation. So, in this respect, the questions that I want to ask are: Has the Commonwealth been receiving the sort of co-operation that it regards as necessary from the States? If it has not been receiving that co-operation, could we please have some sort of indication as to the manner and extent to which there has been a short fall in that co-operation? 
We have already indicated this afternoon, that the standard which the Minister is suggesting for drug pushers is at least generally acceptable in this Parliament. Secondly if the penalties existing under State legislation are inadequate by our standards why has not greater progress been made in Commonwealth-State joint discussions on this problem and on the desirability of uniformity of approach? I think that these are 2 important problems and that a suitable answer would largely resolve the doubts one might have as to the real nature of the difficulty arising from any lack of Commonwealth jurisdiction. 1 hope that, as the Minister has been unable to be with us this evening, the questions will be conveyed to him, and that we will receive a considered reply from him on these matters at a later stage. 
When I was reading the report of the Privileges Committee one phrase caught my eye. It occurs on page 9 of the report and deals with proceedings of the House of Commons in 1953. After finding that a certain set of circumstances did constitute a breach of privilege of the Parliament, the Committee of that House went on to say: 
But ... it is not every such breach of privilege which is worthy of occupying the time of the House. 
In my view that sentiment is appropriate here and should be adopted in order to maintain a reasonable perspective. According to the record, we had 9 grown men attending umpteen meetings and spending hundreds of man-hours of labour producing  a  report 1 inch thick and 205 pages long. And what about? It was about a statement by a journalist that a number of Australian Labor Party members walked out during a quorum when the accepted fact is that they did not. We have spent time enough on this both in the Committee and in the Parliament and. we would be taking action enough if we were to take the action suggested to us by the Leader of . the House  (Mr Swartz).  I say that with the. greatest respect to those . of . my colleagues who think otherwise. 
I take into account the views of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  who asked why, if that is so, we agreed in the first place to refer this 'matter to the Committee. I would have thought that the answer to that is simply that the matter was raised, that prima facie it did indicate a misrepresentation of facts and that it was reasonable in those circumstances to have some investigation made to. see what action, if any, should be taken. The whole colour .of the situation could have been changed, for example, had it been demonstrated that there was some element of deliberateness. or malice. . So far as I am aware the Committee, including those in favour of its full recommendation, has not been prepared to make any statement indicating that either element existed, lt .is agreed that the Press report was wrong or mistaken or false, depending .on .how much malice one wants to attribute to it. But where do we go from there? At one point in the report the following passage appears: 
The Presiding Officer or the  members  have been held up M hatred, ridicule and contempt. The Presiding Officer or the member* have been disparaged and (he institution has been damaged. 
Again 1 say with the greatest respect to the author of that statement that, I am sorry but I do not accept it. If any damage was done to the institution by the incident in question the damage was done by the collapse of the House and not by the statement that honourable members deliberately walked out to cause it. Neither do I have evidence to show that individual members have been prejudiced by the report. 
One of our problems in this House is that we tend to take our own procedures too seriously in the sense that we believe that the eyes of the world are glued upon us and that people are ascribing the same significance to our individual acts that we sometimes tend to ascribe to them ourselves. Divisions are just one example of that attitude. We go through periods when we feel that a great number of divisions will impress people with the seriousness of our attitude to some proposal whereas in fact people who are listening on the radio are simply irked by the silence and those who are reading Hansard simply flip over the pages. Again, we know that we should in theory in divisions have a margin of 7. We sometimes tend to believe that if we can only reduce that to 6 we will have gained a victory and that if we relax it to 8 or 9 people will say we have slipped. I think that most of that is unrealistic and is to be attributed to the fact that this place tends to divorce us from reality too much. 
If the public understood our proceedings at all,I believe that at worst it would think that even had we gone out - there is no question about the fact that we did not - we were not after the collapse of the House, as the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  has been trying to suggest, but that we were after some added inconvenience to members on the Government side, and Ministers in particular. Given the scarce resources at the disposal of the Opposition to harass the Government when harassment seems in order, I would even go so far as to say that harassment of Ministers in this way, depending on other circumstances, wouldnot be unreasonable or something of which we might be ashamed. 
To summarise what seems to have occurred, in the first place an incident was said to have taken place which did not take place. Secondly, I accept that, as the Committee suggests, the statement made in the newspaper did constitute a breach of the privilege of the Parliament. I do not even qualify that by extending reference to the fact that to establish that we have to go back to some reference of the House of Commons of 1699. Finally, having agreed with those 2 facts, one has to come to some judgment of the seriousness of the position. In spite of the tirade of the Minister for Social Services, who all but talked me out of my resolve, I have to come to the conclusion on my own judgment that the matter was simply not so serious as to merit being laboured by both the Committee and this House to the extent that it has, and no more serious than would have been amply met by the motion moved by the Leader of the House. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What effect can be anticipated on the next quarterly cost of living index as a result of increased (a) charges on pharmaceutical benefit prescriptions, (b) telephone charges and (c) postal charges. 
What is the estimated effect on the weekly cost of living as a result of each .of these increases. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Social Services. What progress has so far been made in the Minister's announced discussions with other countries directed to obtaining reciprocal payment of social services to pensioners living abroad? Which countries have so far accepted the Australian proposals? Which, if any, have rejected them? If any country has rejected them, why has it done so? When can enabling legislation be expected? 
asked the Minister repre senting the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What is the estimated cost of the proposal to allow persons qualifying under the subsidised medical services scheme to continue to receive National Health Scheme prescriptions for SO cents. 
What would be the additional cost of allowing these persons to receive prescriptions on the same basis as full rate pensioners. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What savings are expected to accrue (a) to the Commonwealth, (b) to the medical benefits funds and (c) in total from the reduction in pathology item 1276 from $15 to $5. 
How many claims under item 1276 were paid in the past 12 months. 
How many of these services are estimated to have involved the automated process which the Minister indicated on 29th October 1971 had justified the decrease in benefit. 
asked the Minister for the Navy, upon notice: 
What is the- 
total area, and 
length of coastline of Garden Island. Western Australia. 
What proportion of this area and coastline will actually be occupied by the buildings and other facilities proposed to be erected for the Naval Base. 
asked the Minister for the 
Navy, upon notice: 
What requests have been received for access to Garden Island, Western Australia, for commercial purposes unrelated to construction work on the proposed naval facility. 
Which requests (a) have been approved.(b) have been rejected and (c) are still under consideration. 
asked the Minister for the 
Navy, upon notice: 
What public access for recreation purposes is it proposed to allow when construction of the second stage of the Garden Island, W.A., naval facility has been (a) commenced and (b) completed? 
I presentthe following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Sales Tax on all forms of contraceptive devices is 27 per cent (Sales Tax Exemptions and Classifications Act 1935-1967). Also that there is a Customs Duty of up to 47 per cent on some contraceptive devices. 
And that this is an unfair imposition on the human rights of all people who wish to prevent unwanted pregnancies. And furthermore that this imposition discriminates particularly against people on low incomes. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the sales tax on all forms of contraceptive devices be removed, so as to bring these items into line with other necessities such as food, upon which there is no sales tax. Also that customs duties be removed, and that all contraceptive devices be placed on the national health scheme pharmaceutical benefits list. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I address to the Prime Minister a question related to that part of a statement reported to have been made by his Party colleague,  Senator Sim,  on 8th March to the effect that Australian foreign policy should not be left 'in the hands of 2 Manchester Jews'. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition yesterday reminded the House that on 9th March the Foreign Minister at question time - and, I should add, the Minister for the Navy when speaking on the motion to adjourn the House - urged that further comment on this matter should be withheld pending the opportunity to check the accuracy of Press reports. I now ask the Prime Minister whether he has taken advantage of the intervening fortnight to make such a check, and if so with what result. In particular, has his attention been drawn to a published letter by  Senator Sim  in which the senator neither denied nor apologised for his 'Manchester Jews' sneer but seemed to suggest that it simply should not be regarded as anti-Semitic? Since the statement is not denied and since it cannot be understood as other than anti-Semitic I ask the Prime Minister whether he will now clearly repudiate the statement, its offensive connotations and its author? 
-! seek leave to make a short personal statement. 
I will speak for just one moment to say that I support this motion, as I did the previous motion. I appreciate the attitude which has been taken by Government members in this matter. I can only regret that an attitude was taken- towards my original question which was not inherent in the question and which has led to this subsequent discussion. Perhaps after all, though, something beneficial may have arisen from what may have been a misunderstanding in the very clear-cut terms of both motions which we appear to be in the process of adopting. 
asked the Minister for the Army, upon notice: 
When was the Army-Defence examination of the feasibility of establishing an Army base in Western Australia commenced. 
What stage has now been reached in this examination and when can its conclusions be expected. 
To what extent has the proposed base been affected by recently announced plans for army reorganisation. 
One day last year I was called on to speak at 18 minutes past 6 in the morning. As if that were not bad enough, my speech was then guillotined at 20 minutes past 6, so that my contribution after being in the House for something like 20 hours added up to 2 minutes. I think it is enough just to recite that incident to indicate that I am no advocate of absurdly long hours. But at the same time I want to say. that I am inclined to the view that the House should not support the amendment of the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  for 3 reasons, which I will indicate very briefly. The first of them arises from the fact that last year we reverted from the 4-day sitting week to a 3-day sitting week, and in this shorter sitting period I do not believe that the extra hour a day involved beyond what is envisaged in the amendment is so strenuous as to impose any intolerable burden on us. 
My second reason for opposing the amendment is this: On average the business of the House proceeds until 11 o'clock each night and the debate on the motion for the adjournment of the House then proceeds to about midnight. I would suggest that the total effect of the change now proposed would not be to reduce our sitting hours each day by an hour but simply to increase our adjournment debates by an hour. I have the very strong suspicion that the end result would be that instead of knocking off at 11 p.m. and having an adjournment debate for one hour to midnight we would knock off at 10 o'clock and have a 2-hour adjournment debate to midnight. My reason for suggesting this is that I have the impression that in Parliament we have a situation which could best be described by the people who enunciate doctrines such as Parkinson's law and the Peter principles. In their style of words it might be said that in Parliament, when there is any time for speeches that time is bound to be occupied by speakers. I am convinced that that would be the end result of the proposed change and frankly I would rather have an extra hour devoted to the proper business of this House than to the relatively peripheral matters that are produced on the adjournment. 
Finally I want to offer this suggestion: We have to legislate some time. On Tuesdays and Wednesdays in this House we start at 2.30 p.m. and, as I have said, knock off, on average, at about 11 p.m. That means that we are operating on an 8i-hour day. From that we subtract 2 hours for dinner time, which brings us down to  6i  hours. From that, since we have a matter of public importance or the equivalent almost every day, we have to knock off a further 2 hours, reducing potential legislative time to 4i hours a day. Question time and petitions take another hour each day on average. Even ignoring matters such as ministerial statements and discussions on those statements, after that process we are down to a maximum of 3 or  3i  hours a day in which to deal with legislation. I think that is very far from being too much of a good thing. 
So when we are talking about reducing the day by one hour it is not just one hour of a day that is involved but it is one hour of only 3 hours devoted to legislation. If we look at it in that context, if we keep in mind the fact that we are operating now again - and regrettably in my opinion - on the short 3-day week, and if we look also at the use likely to be made of any saving of an hour by adopting the proposal that the adjustment be moved at 10 o'clock, I think we should, as a matter of practice and even in principle, arrive at the conclusion that we should stay with the hours as they are now and insist, as has been done, even in this session, that they should be reasonably adhered to. 
asked the Minister for the Army, upon notice: 
Which specialist courses, open to National Service trainees, have been discontinued since the period of service was reduced to 18 months. 
Can he estimate the number and proportion of trainees who would normally have participated in these specialist courses. 
What new specialist courses have been introduced in this period. 
MrKatter - The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Specialist courses are not provided specifically for national servicemen; they receive training appropriate to their particular employment allocation in the same way as do voluntarily enlisted personnel. Accordingly, the reduction in the period of national service obligation has not caused the discontinuance of any particular specialist courses at Army schools or training establishments. 
Many factors are taken into account in selecting national servicemen for specialist courses. These include the requirements of the Army at the time to fill particular employment categories, trade or specialist qualifications already held by the national serviceman and the extent of residual service which would be available after the completion of his training. Although the proportion of national servicemen attending certain classes of specialist training courses might fall as a result of the reduction in the period of national service, it is not feasible to estimate the extent of this due to the variability of the factors mentioned above. It is believed however that any overall reduction in specialist course attendances by national servicemen would be minimal. 
Specialist courses are continually being revised to meet the changing needs of the Army and some new courses have been introduced during the period mentioned by the honourable member. However, as indicated in the answer to question (1), none of these were specifically designed for national servicemen. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
In respect of each State, what approximate sum would equal the total of 3 months contribution income in the case of large funds, and 6 months contribution income in the case of small funds, as referred to in the Minister's answer to question No. 4586 (Hansard, 9th December 1971, page 4601). 
Has the Prime Minister noted statements by spokesmen, including the shadow Minister in this Parliament responsible for industrial affairs the honourable member for Hindmarsh, and the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, that it is impossible for a family of a man, wife and 2 children to live at a decent level on the new Federal minimum wage of $51.10? Is the Prime Minister's reported pleasure at the new minimum wage level to be taken as indicating that he disagrees with this view and that he believes that a decent standard of life can be sustained on that income? If so, will he suggest how? 
asked the Minister for the 
Interior, upon notice: 
What are the expiry dates of current leases of the Commonwealth property known as Padbury Buildings, Forrest Place, Perth. 
What is the estimated value of the site, and what use is proposed for it after current leases have expired. 
Has his attention been drawn to the announced intention of the Western Australian Government to sink or remove the Perth Central Railway Station, adjacent to Forrest Place, and develop a civic centre and/or public open space on the site. 
Has any approach been received from the Western Australian Government seeking a transfer of the Padbury Building site, on favourable terms, for incorporation into a proposed Perth Civic Square; if so, what has been the response of the Commonwealth. 
If no request has yet been received, will he nevertheless undertake to consider the possibility of such a Commonwealth contribution to the civic development of the central Perth City area. 
It is remarkable how much of the Government's argument in this debate has avoided the merits or demerits of the Bill before the House and has concentrated on the Bill introduced by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  about 2 months ago. If it will help to clear the decks and return this debate to its proper subject matter let me say that I, for one, am happy to state that this Bill is better than the earlier Opposition Bill in at least one respect. I refer to the absence in the present Bill of the need for naturalisation. Indeed, I go further than that and acknowledge that the Bill presently before the House, even unamended, represents an important advance in our social welfare thinking. However, the Bill has 2 major weaknesses. Criticisms on the score of these weaknesses have not been replied to effectively by Government speakers. The purpose of the Opposition is to try to overcome them. Accordingly, our amendment relates, firstly, to the possibility of reducing the residential qualification for overseas payment of the age pension from 20 years to 10 years and, secondly, to the desirability of avoiding the requirement of reciprocity. 
As will readily be appreciated, 1 think, both of these matters depend in the last resort on our conception of the nature of the pension system itself. The truth is that after many years during which our social services were regarded as so many forms of charity there  is  at last some generalised agreement that social services are not a charity at all but a right - a right based, most often, on one's contribution to the Australian community but, in special circumstances, on  simple  membership of it. Let me take the age pension first. If that is a right based on one's residence in Australia and one's contribution during that time to the nation's prosperity and advancement, at what point of time should we say that that right has accrued? We could say after 5, 10 or 20 years resident. The choice is essentially arbitrary and is at our discretion. But what we cannot say, either in fairness or in logic, is that such a right accrues at one point of time for one person and at a different time for another. Either the right has accrued or it has not. Accordingly, it is impossible to discern any rational explanation for the proposition that an Australian age pension should be payable in Australia after only 10 years residence but not payable abroad until 20 years residence has been established. 
The second reading speech of the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  was entirely unconvincing on this point. Condensing his words, his attempt at justification came down to this: 
We do not want the position where a person can come here for a short time, qualify for an Australian pension, and take it back home with him without having really contributed to the prosperity and progress of Australia ... It is for this reason that ... we have prescribed a qualifying period of 20 years - which is more generous, for example, than what is done in Canada, where the qualifying period is 25 years for portability of the old age security pension. 
This boils down to suggesting that 20 years is appropriate here because we would then be more generous than Canada, or that a 10~year residential requirement would not be enough to deter migrants who were interested in coming to Australia for no other reason than to qualify for the age pension. The first of these propositions is irrelevant and the second is inconsistent with our established principles of eligibility for pension payments in this country. 
As long ago as 1962 we reduced the residential qualification for the age pension to 10 years. Surely that involved a twofold recognition - firstly that a 10-year period was enough to establish a right, and secondly that it was also sufficient to deter improper advantage being taken of the system. So far as 1 am aware it has never been suggested since, that the 1962 legislation was mistaken in either of its assumptions. Yet it is only such a mistake that could justify the return to a 20-year residential period in the present Bill. Much the same considerations apply to the argument against the need for reciprocity. I can appreciate the Minister's view in this matter but I am sure that he is wrong. Again condensing his words, he said in his second reading speech: 
. we wanted to ensure in negotiation the greatest possible reciprocal benefits for migrants from other countries who live in Australia. In some cases, their original countries of residence allow them to bring their pensions with them, but this is far from true in all cases. If we simply grant portability of Australian pensions overseas, without getting anything for our settlers in return  . . then we throw these settlers to the wolves. 
To that I would say 2 things. We would not be throwing these settlers to the wolves; we would in fact be leaving them in no worse position than they are in now. But worse than that, our failure to achieve acceptable reciprocity with certain countries would mean that we were throwing our own presently qualified pensioners to the wolves if they needed or wished to live in such countries. All this with no improvement at all in the position of those settlers for whom the Minister has expressed his concern. The Government has accepted the principle of international portability of Australian pensions. That is a good and welcome principle, and the less we encumber it with unnecessary, irrelevant and unfair qualifications, the better it will operate in practice. 
Finally, I want to take the opportunity to ask the Minister to clarify 4 matters which remain uncertain from the Bill and from his second reading speech. Will the Minister elaborate on the answer he provided on the 10th of this month to the following question asked by the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman): 
With reference to the proposed legislation to enable the payment of certain Australian pensions overseas, who are the relevant diplomatic representatives in Canberra with whom he has made contact and from which countries have encouraging replies been received in regard to negotiations for reciprocal arrangements? 
The Minister replied: 
Contact has been made with the diplomatic representatives in Canberra of the countries of Austria, Denmark, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Malta, Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, Turkey and Yugoslavia. 
Encouraging replies have been received in regard to negotiations from the representatives of Germany, Greece, Italy, Malta, Portugal and Spain. Representatives of other countries are awaiting instructions from the home Governments. 
In other words, contact has been established with only 13 countries, so that even if all eventually reply favourably, very great sections of our migrant population could be omitted, even allowing for the fact that reciprocity already exists with the United Kingdom and New Zealand. 
For example, countries not on the Minister's list, which have provided Australia with  5,000  or more permanent or long term arrivals since  1945  include Belgium,  7,000;  Czechoslovakia,  5,000;  Finland,  13,000;  Hungary,  14,000;  Poland,  22,000;  Sweden,  8.000;  Switzerland,  16,000;  Fiji,  12,000;  Egypt,  30.000:  South Africa,  21,000;  Canada,  46,000;  United States of America,  109,000;  Ceylon,  11,000;  Cyprus,  16,000;  Hong Kong,  25,000;  India,  34,000;  Malaysia,  49.000;  Singapore,  21,000;  China,  17,000;  Indonesia,  12,000;  Israel.  9.000:  Japan,  11,000;  Lebanon,  30,000  and the Philippines,  6,000.  All the figures I have quoted have been taken to the nearest thousand and are derived from the consolidated statistics of the Department of Immigration for  1971. 
What is being done for all these people? It is obvious that many of them come from countries which would never agree to reciprocity. Others come from countries where the social service systems would not meet our standards. Others come from countries that would not be interested in taking the initiative in the matter; that initiative will be left to us, if it is to be taken at all, and surely it is our responsibility to pursue it. It is already clear from representations made in my own electorate that this is a matter of very great concern to many migrants from other than our major migration sources, and  1.  ask the Minister to indicate what action is being taken or is intended to be taken on their behalf. 
Secondly, will the Minister amplify what proposed section  83ab (2.)  is meant to convey. It reads as follows: 
In negotiating an agreement under the last preceding sub-section on behalf of the Commonwealth, the Minister or any other person having the conduct of the negotiations shall have regard to the kinds of pension paid, or to be paid, by the other country to persons who have left that country and are residing in Australia and, in particular, shall have regard to whether those, pensions correspond to the pensions paid, or to be paid, by the Commonwealth to persons who have left Australia and are residing in that other country. 
What exactly does that proposed section mean? Does it mean that we will not enter into reciprocal agreements with countries that do not have the equivalent of our widow's pension, for example, or whose equivalent benefits, where they do exist, are less in money value than our own? In other words, what significance is intended to be attached to phrases like 'shall have regard to' and 'whether those pensions correspond'? It is apparent that this whole Bill will operate effectively only on a broad enough exercise of discretion and flexibility by the Government. Even accepting that - and I do accept it - some indication of the Government's present approach to these matters would help us to evaluate better the potential value of the Bill itself. 
Thirdly, I direct the Minister's attention also to the wording of proposed section  83ac (3),  which does not appear to convey the Government's own apparent intention in all cases. If I understand the proposal correctly, the Government is intending to say that where, for example, the wife of a pensioner herself reaches pension age while abroad, she should be entitled to transfer to the full rate pension without any special formalities. There is no problem in that. However, if one takes the case where an invalid pensioner dies abroad, leaving a widow and children, the position is rather more obscure. In Australia, subject to means, the widow would then go on to the widow's pension. However, proposed section  83ac (3.)  (b) provides that where the circumstances set out in one of the paragraphs of the last preceding subsection are applicable in relation to that other pension, the first-mentioned pension may be cancelled, and that other pension may be granted and paid as if he were residing in Australia. 
The relevant paragraph in the preceding sub-section is proposed section  83ac (2.)  (c), which states 'the position is a widow's pension payable by reason of the death of the husband of the pensioner, and that death occurred when both the pensioner and her husband were permanently resident in Australia'. In other words, to deem the wife to have been residing in Australia would appear to be not enough; it would seem to be necessary in addition to deem the husband to have been residing in Australia at the time of his death, and even given the assistance of the Acts Interpretation Act that does not appear to be covered. I suppose I should apologise for the complexity of that question, and I will apologise also in advance if I have misunderstood the section. However, if there are any doubts on this matter, I am sure the Minister would prefer to clarify them now rather than to wait for a hardship case to present them. 
Finally, 1 raise the position of pensioners already abroad who would be entitled to a pension if still residing in Australia. The Bill, as presented, still denies these people any benefit at all unless they go through the formality of returning to Australia to establish their entitlement here. They would then, of course, be free to return again to their present homes overseas. A formality of this kind is expensive, grossly wasteful and, in the case of very elderly persons, perhaps impossible to comply with. Thus, an entirely new set of anomalies could be created, all of them avoidable at very modest cost since the numbers involved, one expects, would be relatively small. I hope that the Minister will accept that these questions are worth attention and an answer. 
As I would no doubt have diverted attention from my basic theme, let me summarise it again in conclusion. Firstly, this Bill is good as far as it goes but, secondly, the amendment, in reducing the residential period to 10 years for an age pension and eliminating the need for reciprocity would make it much better. I commend the amendment to the House. 
I ask a question of the Minister for Labour and National Service on the same topic as that raised by the honourble member for Moore. What discussions, if any, were held between the Department of Labour and National Service and General Motors-Holden's Ltd prior to yesterday's announcement by the company that it intended to close its Western Australian assembly plant? If such discussions did take place, what was their purpose and what attitude did the Government take to the proposed closure? If no such discussions took place, does the Government accept that decisions of this nature should be taken without consultation either with governments or with the trade unions concerned? Finally, in view of the fact that Western Australia already has the highest rate of unemployment in Australia, what are the prospects of finding alternative work for the displaced GMH workforce? 
asked the Minister for 
Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
How many persons have had proceedings instituted against them with the consent of successive Ministers under section 51a(4) of the National Service Act since 1968. 
Against how many persons are current warrants in force. 
What are the names of persons referred to in part (2) and on what dates were their respective warrants issued. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
How many general and pensioner prescriptions were dispensed under the National Health Scheme in each of the first 3 months after the prescription contribution was increased from 50 cents to$1. 
What were the comparable figures for each of the 3 previous years? 
How many prescriptions were dispensed each month at the 50 cent concessional rate since 1st November 1971? 
asked the Minister repre senting the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
How many general practitioner services subject to National Health Scheme rebate were on account of (a) surgery consultations and (b) home visits in (i) die Commonwealth and (ii) each State and Territory in the latest 12 months for which figures are available. 
Taking up the Minister's invitation with pleasure, I direct a question to the Prime Minister. Is it a fact that Western Australia has now had a higher rate of unemployment than any other mainland State for over a. year? Is it also a fact that, unlike most other States, Western Australia's unemployment is concentrated in the metropolitan area where no assistance at all is received from the Commonwealth's only emergency employment measure, the rural unemployment grant? Has the Commonwealth ignored or rejected at least 3 requests from the Western Australian Government for unemployment relief directed specifically to the metropolitan area? If so, why? 
In the current unemployment crisis Western Australia is suffering more and is being assisted by the Commonwealth Government less than is any other State. As at the end of July the rate of unemployment in Western Australia was the highest in Australia and had been the highest of all the mainland States for over 12 months. At the same time our cost of living also was increasing faster than anywhere else, and if that were not enough we shared with South Australia a special problem of metropolitan unemployment which was steadily growing worse. People are naturally asking: 'Who is to blame?' And I ask that question myself. 
Those who prefer a glib answer to an accurate one, those of our opponents who prefer some personal or Party advantage to the welfare of the people they represent, have come up with quite a simple explanation. It goes like this: Firstly, the trouble with Western Australia is that it has a rotten State Government; secondly, the State Government is so bad because it is a Labor Government; and thirdly, the solution to all our problems is therefore never again to elect a Labor Government, either State of Federal. This superficial, cynical and blatantly dishonest argument is now heard so often - most recently only 2 days ago from the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  himself - that it calls for examination. 
In the first place, at least part of the problem that Western Australia now faces is the result of international conditions over which Australia as a whole, and certainly Western Australia alone, could have had no control. Even the Minister this week admitted that much. But this still leaves another and the greater part of our difficulties to be explained, and here responsibility can and must be fixed on Federal Government action. Last year's Federal Budget triggered the whole process. That Budget attempted to slow down the economy and deliberately to increase unemployment, and in both respects it was a disastrous success. 
When the brakes were applied it was only to be expected that Western Australia, the State with the greatest pace of development at the time, should experience the greatest slowdown, and this in fact occurred. As a 'West Australian' article aptly put it last month: 
When you're running at top speed it hurts more to run into a wall than if you're jogging I 
As a matter of fact - to be more accurate - the position at the time of the last Budget was that the Western Australia economy was already moving down from top speed so that the added Federal restraint at that time exacerbated a position that was already potentially serious. This qualification is worth stressing because it gives the lie to the charge that the growth of Western Australia unemployment can be linked directly to the election of a State Labor Government. 
The new State Government was elected in February of 1971 and its first Parliament was not convened until July 1971. In both the March and June quarters, however - that is well before the aftermath of the outgoing Liberal Government could have worn off - the unemployment position had already gone bad. In March 1971 the Western Australia rate of unemployment was already 25 per cent above the national average, and by June 1971 it was the highest of all the mainland States. The position is clearly illustrated in a short table which I seek leave to have incorporated in Hansard. 
The Minister for Supply  (Mr Garland)  who has just completed his speech, comes, as I do, from Western Australia - the State with the highest rate of unemployment, the highest rate of metropolitan unemployment, and the highest rate of inflation. I had hoped that in the circumstances he would join me in some expression of concern about that combination of facts. Instead he contented himself with satisfaction with what he called our enviable standards. I can only regret that that was so. 
This Budget, like all Budgets, is partly an economic, partly a political, and partly a social instrument. It deals with 13 million people and $ 10,000m; it takes 10 Budget Papers and 1,000 printed pages of elaboration; it affects us from before we are born till after we are dead; and we, knowing all that and representing the people upon whom all this impinges, allow ourselves 20 minutes each to discuss it. This is not a plea for longer speaking time. What I am suggesting, though, is that, as applied to a measure as wide ranging as the Budget, our standard forms of debate are practically useless and little more than long winded gestures of habit. In a sense our real debate on the Budget is not what we are engaged on now at all but what occupies us all year round, In any event, I for one approach it on that basis and accordingly attempt at this time to cover no more than a very small part of the field which the Budget opens up for discussion. 
The question I would have preferred to discuss in this context is this: Considering the sharp increase in the social services allocation and the heavy emphasis on this aspect in the Budget Speech, might it now be possible to discern at last something that we could regard as a Liberal Party plan, scheme or philosophy of social welfare? That is, might the Liberal Party at last have moved away from ad hocism as the basis of its social welfare programme? I believe that to be an important question to which the answer would still be no, but my reasons for that conclusion must await another time. 
For the purposes of this debate I feel obliged to concentrate on a question which is much more narrow but also more urgent. 
My question is this: What will this Budget do and what does it omit to do for unemployment, particularly in the special circumstances in Western Australia? The Parliament has been back for only a week and this is already the third time that 1 have raised the problem of unemployment in Western Australia. I know that this must seem highly parochial but I make no apology for it. I will no doubt be accused of repetition. 1 make no apology for that either. If there is one assurance I can give the House it is that I will continue to be parochial and will continue to be repetitious until the Government does something about this matter or is replaced by a government that will. The problem essentially is that in the present unemployment crisis, Western Australia is suffering more and is being assisted by the Commonwealth less than is any other State. That it is suffering more is clearly shown by the July unemployment figures of the Department of Labour and National Service. These indicate that, with 2.99 per cent unemployed, the Western Australian rate is now more than double that of Queensland, 80 per cent above that of New South Wales and Victoria and 50 per cent above the Australian average. 
That Western Australia is being assisted least of all the States is equally true and follows from the combination of 2 facts: Firstly, unlike most other States Western Australia has the bulk of its unemployment in the metropolitan area and, secondly, all Commonwealth funds for emergency employment projects must be spent outside the metropolitan area. If these 2 facts are put together a third fact emerges quite clearly, namely, that for the great majority of Western Australian unemployed no help at all by way of increased work opportunity is available from the Federal Government. The extent of the disadvantage and, indeed, discrimination to which this gives rise is illustrated by a table extracted from the statistics of the Department of Labour and National Service. I seek leave to incorporate it in Hansard. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Orudis leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 


<graphic href="079131197208221_73_5.jpg"></graphic>

Includes Australian Capital Territory as 'Non-metropolitan'. (b) includes Northern Territory as Non-metropolitan'. (c) As from July 1971, Medina Employment District became 'Non-metropolitan'. For the purposes of this table, Medina has been retained in 'Metropolitan' in the Western Australia figures but included in 'Non-metropolitan' in the Australian total, from September 1971 onwards. 
<para pgwide="yes"> Note: Percentages from December 1971 onwards are affected by the introduction of the Commonwealth Rural Unemployment Relief Scheme. 
As will be seen, the proportion of metropolitan unemployment in Wes'.ern Australia is over double that of Queensland and substantially above .the level in every other State. In the absolute figures of the Department's July employment survey, Perth's unemployment was shown to be 250 per cent greater than that of Brisbane though its population is actually 20 per cent less. 
Requests for urgent action have been put to the Commonwealth time and again. A request from the Premier of Western Australia was sent to the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  on 12th May this- year. It was rejected. There was a special application to the Premiers' Conference in June. That was rejected. A letter was sent from the Premier on 18th July which repeated the request for unemployment . relief specifically directed to the metropolitan area. Five weeks later that letter has not even been replied to. It is not as though a reply is unavailable because when I put an identical question to the Prime Minister last Tuesday I was given the answer immediately. Replying then on behalf of the Prime Minister, the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  put it as bluntly as it could be put when he said: 
Specifically the answer to any question of special grants is no. 
He was referring to special metropolitan unemployment grants. Is it not remarkable that a government which expresses itself to be so concerned for the rights of the States, so anxious to accommodate State sensitivities and so determined to maintain proper Commonwealth-State relationships should not only arrive at this miserable decision but also should convey it in such an improper and offensive way? I am not so much concerned about the form of the rejection as at the fact of it. Why should a State's request, at once so modest, reasonable, practical and necessary, be rejected? 
I have said before and I repeat: Western Australia not only needs better; it deserves better and it deserves better on the basis of its performance - its contribution to Australia's growth and development. Proportionate to population Western Australia has contributed far more than its share to the nation's welfare and this can be illustrated in all basic areas. To take migration as an example, in his Budget Speech the Treasurer said: 
Our economic development and growth as a nation for 25 years has owed very much to our success in attracting migrants. 
I do not argue with that general proposition. But perhaps the Treasurer would agree with the further proposition that whereas the economic benefits of migration accrue to the country as a whole the strains from the programme arise at the points of most concentrated settlement With this in mind, consider the Western Australian role in our overall migration programme. From 1965 to 1971 the population of Western Australia as a percentage of total Australian population grew from 7.29 per cent to 8.12 per cent. By contrast the proportion of overseas migrants settling in the State over the same period grew from 7.78 per cent in 1965 - that is, roughly proportionate to the existing population - to 12.69 per cent in 1971, which is over 50 per cent above a proportional intake. In the peak year of 1968 Western Australia actually received almost double the number of migrants who settled in other States on a proportionate basis. The position over the period is summarised in 2 tables compiled by the Parliamentary Library. I seek leave to incorporate them in Hansard. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
How many general practitioner services subject to National Health Scheme rebate were on account of (a) surgery consultations and (b) home visits in (i) the Commonwealth and (ii) each State and Territory, in the latest 12 months for which figures are available. 
Yesterday morning, responding I am sure to the general and heartfelt sentiment of the Australian people, this House adopted a resolution on the incidents at the Munich Olympic Games. It was in the following terms: 
That this House expresses its horror and shock at the violence which was perpetrated upon competitors and officials at Munich and which threatened to destroy the spirit of the 1972 Olympic Games. The House extends its deepest sympathies to the families and relatives of the deceased, and calls upon all countries which participated in the Games to preserve this unique institution from attacks on its competitors and iti ideals. 
The solemnity of the events to which the motion referred and the goodwill which prompted its presentation to the Parliament made it inappropriate yesterday to question its terms. I intend to do so now. 
The motion, as can be seen, involved 3 propositions: Firstly, horror at the violence; secondly, sympathy to the relatives; thirdly, a call for the protection of future competitors and of the Olympic ideals. Each of these propositions is unarguable, but the question I am left with is this: Where are the fourth and fifth propositions? That is, where are the logical extensions to the 3 propositions expressed? Is it really enough to deplore violence without identifying and condemning its source? Is it enough to urge the avoidance of such acts without suggesting how that might be achieved? 
How is it that, in reference to a tragedy in which 11 Israeli athletes were murdered by Arab terrorists at the Olympic Games in Munich, we could construct a motion which mentions 'Munich* and 'Olympic Games' but neither Israeli' nor 'Arab'. Can we really believe that such excessive sensitivity is helpful, that impartiality conquers all, that the best contribution we can make to resolving the Middle East crisis is to shut not one but both eyes to it? I would have thought the opposite. I would have thought that the Munich terror could not be understood except in reference to the Middle East conflict and to the factors, especially terrorism, which now go to complicate, extend and prolong it. 
Israel came into existence in 1948 by decision and with the acceptance of the United Nations. In a sense it was created by the United Nations. But it has never been protected by the United Nations and had its survival depended on that body it would not have survived at all. That was left to Israel's own resolve and sacrifice, a fact ignored by those many people, of undoubted good intention, who counsel Israeli restraint to whatever provocation and its reliance on international protection. From Israel's point of view, theirs is r counsel of destruction. The State was not more than 24 hours old before that lesson was learnt. On the very first day of its existence Israel was invaded by the armies of 6 Arab states and - while the United Nations stood by paralysed  -  7,000 of its citizens died in its defence. From that day to this not a month and scarcely a single week has passed without further Israeli losses. Sometimes it was outright war, as in 1948, 1956 and 1967. For most of the rest it has been clandestine terror; on the borders, in the buses and airlines, in homes, hospitals, synagogues and schools - and now at the Munich Olympics. 
In some ways the Munich murders were just another chapter in the story of the past 24 years, but in another way they were special and specially terrible. Here, horror was piled upon horror. The victims were innocent civilians. They were murdered when the Middle East, if not at peace, was at least in a state of cease fire. They were murdered on neutral soil. They were murdered while under the protection of a flag which, from time immemorial, has been a flag of truce. They were helpless, bound hand and foot and gagged, and they were murdered. And we are too sensitive to say who did it! 
We have expressed our sympathy to the families of the victims, as decent men should. But if our words are not to be hollow we must spare a thought for the potential victims as well, those inevitable victims of the future if this barbarism is permitted to continue. We seem to accept too readily that Arab terrorism is somehow too elusive and intangible to combat and overcome. That is simply not true and the fact that it is untrue has been proved by the Kingdom of Jordan, an Arab State itself. Jordan crushed and dispersed its terrorists and if Syria and Lebanon would do the same, not only would the problem of terror be virtually overcome but also the prospects of a Middle East settlement would be immeasurably improved. 
This is the point at which international pressure must be applied and Australia's influence should be exerted in the same direction. Those who are genuine in their concern at the Munich murders, those who are concerned, as I am, at the subsequent innocent deaths in the retaliatory raids on guerrilla bases, must also work towards this end or remain piously impotent. This, I believe, was the point of the United States veto in the Security Council this week, and it was right. It has to be more than coincidence that Jordan, the only State to have rejected the terrorists, is now generally seen as closest to a peace agreement with Israel. 
I make only one further comment. We should not allow to go unchallenged those comments by Arab spokesman, in Australia as elsewhere, that the terrorists are a legitimate nationalist movement deserving sympathy and support rather than censure. The terrorist programme itself refutes this because, unlike even the Arab States themselves, the terrorists do not demand an Israeli return to the 1967 borders or indeed to any other borders. On the contrary, they seek nothing less than the entire dissolution of Israel and its replacement with an Arab dominated State from which the great majority of Jewish Israelis would be expelled. To accept such a programme as legitimate is to invite international anarchy. Indeed, the very irrationality of the aim goes far to explain the irrationality and immorality of the methods adopted in its pursuit. 
There are many problems in the Middle East but none is insoluble, including and especially the great human problem of the Arab refugees. Of course, most of the refugees will never be able to return to Israel any more than the hundreds of thousands of Israelis who fled from the Arab nations could realistically return to their former homes. But the refugees can and must be settled and rehabilitated and, indeed, this is the only long term and permanent solution to Arab terrorism as well as the overall Middle East crisis. The suppression of terror, however, must come first. Without that, tension and suspicion will remain at levels which are incompatible with real negotiation. Last Sunday night a Munich Memorial Rally was held in Perth. At short notice, without formal invitations and in atrocious weather conditions about 2,000 persons attended, of all faiths and from every walk of life. The meeting adopted a resolution which I believe I should bring to the attention of the House. It was in the following terms: 
This meeting of citizens of Western Australia expresses its sorrow and abhorrence at the brutal murder, by Arab terrorists, of11 Israeli athletes at the Olympic Games. 
Such senseless barbarism is a crime against humanity and a blow to that striving for world peace which the Olympic ideal represents. 
Australia should not only condemn the terrorists involved but also those nations which, by harbouring, maintaining and supporting them, condone and indeed participate in their crimes. 
Recognising that international efforts to impose a Middle East solution must fail and that efforts to impose a solution by terror must not be allowed to succeed, we urge direct negotiations between those Middle East nations which are now in conflict. 
Australia must make ever effort to encourage such negotiations in the hope that the tragedy and brutality of the Munich Olympics will never be permitted to recur. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. House adjourned at 11.50 p.m. 
By general agreement, the Aged Persons Homes Bill and the Aged Persons Hostels Bill which were introduced this morning will be put through all stages today. This will ensure that increased benefits will become payable earlier than might otherwise have been possible, and the procedure is acceptable on that basis. However it carries with it the serious disadvantage that there has been no chance to consider either the detail of the Bills or the supporting speeches of the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  except in the most superficial way. As a general principle, I think it ought to be said that this is highly undesirable. In the nature of things this same procedure is likely to be proposed regularly, at least on social service matters. Rather than allow that to happen I believe it would be preferable to draft appropriate legislation so as to provide benefits from the date of introduction rather than from the date of enaction and to allow an ordinary and more considered debate to follow. 
In the present circumstances I propose to make only 2 brief comments. .The first is related to the Bills presented and the second is related to more general aspects of the workings of the aged persons homes scheme. By way of introduction I make the general comment that the aged persons homes scheme, whatever its deficiencies, is a good scheme. It represents one of the best initiatives that the Government has taken in the field of social services and these Bills will improve it further. Not the least important of the features of this legislation is that it provides for an increase in hostel accommodation and for an enforced departure from the earlier and present emphasis on donation-linked entry. This is highly desirable in relation to the hostel type accommodation provided, and it is only to be regretted that this same change has not been introduced in relation to ordinary unit accommodation. I have spoken on the question of income-linked entry before in this House, and I urge the Minister to continue to consider ways in which this linkage can be reduced. 
One area that has still been left unsatisfactory by these Bills is the continued ineligibility of State institutions for Commonwealth subsidy. In his second reading speech the Minister said: 
The fifth reason for the unbalanced growth of nursing homes is the attitude of the States. Both nursing homes and home care services have traditionally been regarded as State responsibilities, but the States seem almost to have abrogated their responsibilities in the nursing home field . . . 
The limitation of State contributions to the provision of nursing home beds extends also to their lack of provision of hostel and self-contained accommodation for the aged. For example, in Western Australia until this year no State housing accommodation at all was available for single male aged pensioners, and for both male and female single age pensioners there is now a waiting list of five or six years. Why is there this poverty of State assistance in such an important field? 
The Minister asked a question to which he provided the answer himself later on in his speech when he said: 
In accordance with the principle  established  in the Aged Persons Homes Act existing hemes which were established wholly with funds provided by State governments will not be eligible for approval as qualifying homes. 
Frankly, I cannot see and have never been able to see what principle governs this limitation. It precludes the States from the $2 for $1 capital subsidy on accommodation. It also precludes them from the personal care subsidy for hostel residents over 80 years of age, which is being increased by this Bill to $10 a week. The exclusion of the States is a curious anomaly and a serious disincentive and it must contribute to the Minister's own estimate of 50,000 pensioners still living under unsatisfactory conditions. Again 1 urge that this is an area requiring obvious and simple amendment. I cannot imagine why these amendments have not been introduced before. I can see no reason for their being delayed further. 
May I put a further question to the Minister? In his speech he states:   . . the primary intention of the Bill is to stimulate the building of additional hostel accommodation in order to reduce admissions to nursing accommodation of people who ' have no real medical need for nursing care. In order to preserve this intention the agreement into which organisations receiving grants 'under this Bill will be required to enter will provide that Commonwealth nursing home benefits shall not at any time be sought for any beds in the .hostels established under this special legislation ... 
If I understand this provision correctly, it says that for all practical purposes the new hostel beds are not to be changed to nursing bed accommodation at any time in the future. I question whether this is really wise. After all further on in his speech the Minister lists one of the criteria that qualify entrants in this way: 
Age of applicant. Priority to be given to those in the upper age groups, that is over 75 years of age; 
In other words, we are dealing with people who potentially at least will require nursing home accommodation and assistance within a few years. In these circumstances why should we be shutting out all our options so completely? The Minister will know well enought the problems of those organisations which have residential accommodation only or residential and hostel accommodation only and find elderly residents requiring nursing home care. The result is often a virtual eviction either to a private nursing home or to another centre, often accompanied by great personal distress. If an organisation is prepared to plan its hostel well enough to allow a later changeover to nursing home accommodation, why preclude it from such a change for all time? Why be so inflexible about it? 
I am not suggesting that we move from this stage to an open slather. There may be the possibility of some sort of improper advantage being taken of the proposal I put to the Minister, although frankly I have to say that I cannot really envisage what form that could take, given that we are dealing exclusively in this area with non-profit organisations. I therefore put to the Minister that nothing would be lost by qualifying the proposed absolute prohibition either by setting a period of years beyond which the limitation would no longer apply, or alternatively and probably preferably, by vesting the Director-General of the Department with discretion to allow a changeover if the circumstances justified it. Again 1 see no reason why such an amendment should not be made. I put it to the Minister seriously for his consideration. 
The only other matters to which T want to refer now relate more generally to the operation of the aged persons homes scheme as a whole. In particular, I think it is most undesirable that the Commonwealth, after making such an enormous contribution in the field - it is now in excess of SI 50m for capital works - should withdraw completely from any responsibility or control of any sort of all over the operations of the homes once they are established. It is also most unfortunate that the Commonwealth in drawing up the agreement with approved organisations has not reserved some sort of right of participation for the residents of these homes. Even the financial accounts of the homes are not available to the residents. In my contact with residents I have not come across one aspect of administration of the scheme which has produced so much antagonism, frustration and unhappiness. 
I see no reason for the secrecy and no reason for the Commonwealth to have refrained in the past and to continue to refrain from requiring resident participation and the presentation of financial accounts as a matter of course, to both the Commonwealth and the residents. The only check that the Government has reserved for itself is to be found in clause 1 1 (2) of the current agreement. It reads: 
The organisation shall furnish to the DirectorGeneral at his request all records, books of account and documents relating to the approved home or homes in the possession or under the control of the organisation, and afford all requisite assistance to enable the Director-General or his agents to ascertain the true financial position of that home. 
In other words, all that is required is that the home, on request of the DirectorGeneral - and only on request - is obliged to make this information available. So far as I have been able to ascertain, no request has ever been made by the Director-General to any home in Western Australia for a statement of its financial accounts. I have previously complained in appropriate debates that not only has that not been done but also it has been pointed out to me that a member of Parliament inquiring on behalf of his constituents is not entitled to make such a request. 
I am also informed that if the DirectorGeneral did make such a request for financial accounts and received them as required by the agreement, he would not be in a position to make that statement available either to members or to the residents concerned. I think that is an absurd situation. We are dealing with enormous sums of public money - totalling over $150m. Every year millions of dollars must be paid by residents as rentals, maintenance contributions or ingoing. Further enormous sums are contributed in this way and there is no conceivable reason why secrecy of the sort that has been established should be allowed to continue. 1 again make it clear, as I always do when I raise this subject, that there is not the slightest question of improper practice by the voluntary organisations running these homes. They are doing a magnificent job; the whole scheme could never have got under way without their assistance. To have loaded the Commonwealth with the administrative burden probably would have aborted the scheme from the start. There is no question of improper practice by the organisations, but why they, and why the Commonwealth going along with their views, should insist on the retention of what amounts to a secrecy provision is really, so far as I can see, unsupportable. I add that to my list of suggestions to the Minister and again put it forward seriously. Only a simple alteration would be required and it would provide benefits in terms of the satisfaction of the residents out of all proportion to any minor administrative difficulties that might be involved for either the Department or the organisations. 
The matter I have just raised in relation to the financial accounts of the homes is related directly to the question of rentals. Among the aged persons homes in my electorate there is at least one that has been in the practice of charging up to $11 a week rent for a single pensioner resident. I have also pointed out on earlier occasions that that is better than or equivalent to commercial rent, bearing in mind that the aged persons homes are free of ordinary rating requirements such as water rates and council rates, are exempt from land tax and that two-thirds of their capital funds have come to them from the Government. 
I am quite sure that they would be better investments than commercial buildings, if one wants to look at it that way, when $11 a week is received; but even apart from that extravagant example, a highly undesirable situation has developed. I believe that it must be related to the lack of resident participation to which I have already referred. Very modest rents are still generally paid, and the example I have in mind concerns a home at which the rental has gone up to $3.80, which we would regard as modest enough except when related to the previous rental of $2 a week. In that case it is a shock to the system and we have to appreciate the feelings of the people on whom an increase of almost 100 per cent is landed overnight. 
In at least one other home a move has been made not only to increase rent quite substantially in percentage terms but also to adopt a procedure whereby rent in future will go up automatically with each pension increase. In the case I have in mind a decision has been made that the cost of single pensioner accommodation will in future be 20 per cent of the single weekly pension. This has absolutely no relevance. It is completely unrelated to any questions concerning the cost of running homes of this sort. I believe it is wrong in principle and it is also inconsistent with the general policy that has governed the operation of this scheme. I refer to the recent budget when pensions rose by $1.75 and rents were due to increase by about 40c accordingly. This is not justified on increased costs or any basis other than that the pension had risen. I think it is an undesirable trend and inconsistent with the nature of the scheme. It is related directly to the forfeiture by the Government in earlier days of any right to have a continuing role in the running of the homes. It also goes without saying that it is linked to the inability of the residents to have the right to participate. I think these are all serious matters. The people are elderly and sensitive and in many cases have financial difficulty in meeting even the modest rents. I think the time is long overdue to take these residents into the confidence of the Government and of the management committees and to give them a say in their own affairs. 
I am sorry to have taken as much time as I have. I conclude on the note on which I started: The scheme is a good one. I welcome the improvements that are made to it by the provisions of this Bill. I think we all appreciate the efforts of the voluntary workers who have done so much to keep this scheme advancing so well. I would like to add one word of appreciation for the way in which the Department has administered the scheme. It has been flexible. I think it has realised that it is dealing with voluntary workers and voluntary administrators - I was. about to say 'amateurs' but I do not mean that in a disparaging way - who were not always up to the position of dotting their i's and crossing their fs as far as applications are concerned and who sometimes disqualify themselves from assistance in the strictly formal terms. I find that in its administration of this scheme the Department has been very understanding, very flexible and consistent in emphasising the intention rather than always the letter of the legislation. 
I address a question to the Prime Minister. Has his attention been drawn to a letter seeking support for his Government and addressed to Western Australian doctors by the Liberal Party of Australia (Western Australian Division)? In particular, has he noted the improper and professionally offensive request in that letter that doctors should engage in active public condemnation of the Labor Party health platform in their consulting rooms? Did the Prime Minister authorise this approach, or alternatively does he approve of it? If he does not approve of it, will he dissociate himself from the contents of the letter and use his influence within the Liberal Party to have it withdrawn. 
Mc Speaker,  1  wish to make a personal explanation. 
The honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon)  was good enough to be almost sad about attacking me a few moments ago for a matter which I raised in the House yesterday concerning a letter from the Western Australian division of the Australian Liberal Party to doctors in Western Australia. The honourable member for Denison suggests, to use his words, that one can have no objection to anyone writing to any member of any profession in any way, and that there could be nothing objectionable about the letter which I had tabled in the House yesterday. I do not want to rehash this matter at length now because I have other matters that I want to discuss, but I think the least one can do is to read into the record the actual sentence to which I did raise an objection and in which the Liberal Party said to doctors: 
We now seek your support in active public condemnation of the Labor Party health platform in your consulting rooms . . . 
I have said here and elsewhere that that is objectionable because it is inviting doctors to abuse a special position of trust, confidence and privilege which has always been recognised as existing in the consulting room between the doctor and his patient. It is an invitation to do something improper and professionally offensive, and I find that objectionable. The honourable member for Denison does not find it objectionable. But I find myself in good company on this occasion or, at least, in company which I would expect the honourable member for Denison to think was good, namely, the  President  of the Australian Medical Association,  Dr Johnson,  who said on television last night and is recorded in almost all newspapers this morning as having said: 
I dont think a doctor's professional rooms or his professional relationship wilh people should be used for political or electoral purposes. 

 Dr Johnson finds it improper.  Dr John  Stokes,  President  of the Western Australian branch of the Australian Medical Association, has also repudiated this approach. He finds it improper. I prefer on this occasion to keep the company of the gentlemen to whom I have referred rather than that of the honourable member for Denison who still professes to find nothing objectionable in something which, by its very nature, obviously is highly objectionable. 
I move from that matter and take the opportunity, considering that the circumstances of this session make it unlikely that the report of the Select Committee on Pharmaceutical Benefits will be discussed in the House, to raise at least one or two matters arising from that report. The pharmaceutical industry was shown by the inquiry of the Select Committee to have some peculiar internal contradictions. On the one hand, it seems to be an efficient industry, given the system within which it has traditionally operated. On the other hand, it is clearly overcrowded, excessively fragmented and as a result, from the com munity point of view, uneconomic. This applies at all levels of the industry - manufacturing, wholesaling and retailing alike - though my own comments, given the limitation of time in this debate, will be restricted in the main to the retail sector. 
To talk in the one breath of an industry being both efficient and uneconomic calls for some explanation, and in the pharmaceutical industry I believe this is to be found in the very highly protected framework within which the industry has traditionally operated. At the retail level, the first and major source of protection has been the monopoly which the industry has enjoyed in the distribution of prescription drugs. This monopoly will, no doubt, continue and is justifiable on the grounds that the public interest itself requires that there should be professional control of the highly potent substances handled. However, important as prescriptions have been, Australian pharmacy would not and could not have developed in the way it has without the benefit of 2 further protective devices, namely, fixed retail prices and the development of chemist-only products. 
The first of these was abolished by the Trade Practices Act 1971, and the second also started to crumble with the announcement in May this year that Reckitt and Colman Pty Ltd, a major chemist-only manufacturer, intended to market its products through supermarkets. It might be noted in passing that while Reckitt and Colman attributed its change of policy to the restrictive Trade Practices Act and the subsequent Mikasa case which was based on it, it is difficult to find any legal necessity for the company to have made the decision it did, especially in view of the fact that most of its products were already being price cut even within its restricted outlets. It would accordingly seem far more likely that the company's change to open selling was based on a purely commercial judgment, and it also seems more than likely that this judgment will be followed by other major chemist-only manufacturers. Should this eventuate the retail prop to pharmacy dispensing could eventually be lost for all but the very best situated outlets and if that occurred, retail pharmacy, as at present organised, could survive only on the basis of a massive and unjustifiable increase in national health scheme reimbursement rates. 
The only alternative would be for a change in the current organisation of pharmacy with fewer pharmacies doing more prescriptions, and many doing very little else. Honourable members may have noted that one of the Committee recommendations is for a system to be devised between the Government and the Pharmacy Guild of Australia to limit future dispensing approvals for national health service purposes. That, in practice, would automatically limit future pharmacy openings as well. It appears to me that that is a good proposal calling for urgent attention. At the same time one has to face the fact that it has been largely overtaken by events in retail trading which have occurred since the Committee was formed. Frankly, it is doubtful whether this recommendation now goes far enough because, as well as looking to limitations on future approvals, it is probably timely already to consider ways of also reducing existing approvals. The problem, of course, is how to do that equitably, and this is more a matter for consideration and action within the Guild than by the Government. 
My own guess, for what it is worth, is that over the next 10 years or so something like a quarter, or even more, of all existing pharmacies will close or will remain open only on the basis that they have owner-managers who are prepared to accept a level of profit below ordinary award wages. For the 1,000 or 1,500 chemists who are unable to survive the squeeze, the experience will naturally be very painful, all the more as it will be due to processes not of their own making, and entirely beyond their own control. However, for the community as well there is the potential loss of a large pool of professional training, skills and experience, and perhaps a government sponsored scheme of retraining into related fields might well be justified in order to minimise the wastage that would otherwise occur. 
The public interest also requires that the closing of pharmacies should be as orderly as possible to avoid any unnecessary disruption to the dispensing services available to patients. In this respect, the British experience is highly relevant. I read from a short article contained in 'Federal Guild Contact' of 1st July this year. Headed Crisis at the Chemist's' it reads as follows: 
Britain is heading for a crisis over her chemists' shops. Soon you may have to queue or travel considerable distances to get medicines prescribed by your doctor. 
This is because so many chemists have closed down. In the past IS years 3,000 chemists' shops have closed . . . about a fifth of the total number in Britain. 
And the rate is accelerating rapidly. In 1966 the number of shops closed was 256, but by 1969 the number had shot up to 478. 
I interpose at this point only to comment that the year 1966 is highly relevant because that was the year in which retail price maintenance was abolished in the United Kingdom. The article concludes: 
In one part of Stockport, in Cheshire, there are no chemists' shops for at least a mile in any direction. Yet there are four doctors. 
While presenting the House with some caution about the possible disruption to dispensing services available to the public, I think it is also relevant to recall the evidence given before the Select Committee to the effect that enrolments into pharmacy courses have dropped dramatically in recent years and that there also has been a sharp change to female rather than male enrolment. The experience of the industry has been that female pharmacists do not spend many years actively in the profession and this, together with the likely closure of pharmacies, presents us with a potential problem regarding the future ready availability of dispensing services to the public. 
In the long term it seems unarguable that a reduction in the number of pharmacy outlets, firstly, is inevitable; secondly, would allow economies of scale that would assist to keep the cost of national health service prescriptions within reasonable bounds and, thirdly, would not be to the public detriment in terms of adequacy of service only if it were properly organised rather than done in a haphazard manner. It is in everyone's interests that the realities of this position be recognised and acted upon sensibly, preferably in such a way as to minimise the disruption of public dispensing services and the lives and livelihoods of pharmacists. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Corbett)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Forrest Place, Perth, will be known by many members of this place who have spoken at the distinctive lunch hour open air meetings which are held there during every election campaign. Along the entire eastern boundary of Forrest Place is Padbury Building, a structure built on Commonwealth land in 1925 under a 50-year land lease which expires in less than 3 years - on 6th May 1975, to be exact. It was most disturbing to read Press reports in March this year to the effect that Padbury Building was to be demolished and its site redeveloped for the Postmaster-General's Department. Those reports were subsequently confirmed by the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  on 16th May in reply to my question on notice No. 5605, though I regret to say that a request to the PostmasterGeneral  (Sir Alan Hulme)  3 months ago for some detail on the matter has still not produced a substantive reply. Given that delay, I think the least I am entitled to suggest is that whatever use the Postmaster-General envisages for this area can hardly be an urgent one. 
There is no doubt that Padbury Building should be demolished. It is old, undistinguished architecturally, and both uneconomic and inappropriate for the central site it occupies. The question, therefore is not whether the building should go but what should replace it. I urge on the Parliament the view that it should be replaced by nothing in a structural sense, that is, that it should be made available for public open space. As the Minister is aware, there is a long standing proposal to sink Perth railway station, which constitutes the northern boundary of Forrest Place, and to devote most of the land released by that project to a reserve for parks and gardens. After years of delay by previous governments, the present Western Australian Government is now proceeding with plans for that railway sinking and has sought the assistance of the Commonwealth to finance the project. In the overall plan of the area, however, it has always been envisaged that Padbury Building would be demolished and its land incorporated into Forrest Place to provide a plaza and assembly place for public purposes. This, in turn would blend with and create an outstanding frontage to the cultural centre which is also being developed in this area, but cut off from the city for the time being by the railway. 
To demolish Padbury Building and replace it with another building would be to lose a unique opportunity for civic development. I believe the Commonwealth should avoid that course by making the site available to the State of Western Australia for incorporation into Forrest Place. The effect would be to increase Forrest Place from an area of approximately 3,900 square yards overall to about 6,400 square yards or something a little under half the size of Martin Place, Sydney. Given the respective sizes of the 2 cities, that area for a Perth square would appear to be reasonable. I should point out that the cost to Commonwealth revenue would be negligible as land rental amounts to only $12,520 per annum, and the asset foregone, even if the site were to be gifted to the State, would be only Sl.lm on the Minister's own valuation. At very least the Commonwealth should offer to sell the site to Western Australia. I have no doubt that such an offer would be readily accepted. But given the proposed use of the area and the relatively small sum involved, a grant would obviously be preferable and more appropriate. 
It is inconceivable that any real detriment to the Postmaster-General's Department could result from such a gesture. If a building is essential in close proximity to the General Post Office in Perth, the Commonwealth should be looking at the property it already owns adjacent to the GPO rather than to Padbury Building, which is opposite. In any event the proposed sinking of the railway and the subsequent spread of the city northward would open up more land for commercial development than could conceivably be used by the year 2000. 
Words like 'environment', 'ecology', 'conservation' and 'quality of life' are all inwords today. No-one is against the concepts they involve, but too few of us are prepared to face up to their cost. In this respect the present Western Australian Government has set a good, example which is to its credit and which could well be followed by the Commonwealth. Very early in its term of office the Western Australian Government established an environmental protection authority, and the Government has consistently acted on the basis of its recommendations even where, as in the postponement of the Pacminex refinery project, they were in conflict with other basic Government aims. -But in environmental matters, as in all areas where costs are heavy, we will not get anywhere without Commonwealth involvement and commitment. To grant the Padbury Building site for a Perth City square .would be no more than a very small gesture 'of intention to act in this field. I urge it on the Minister and on the Parliament, however, as a gesture well worth making and one whose benefits in terms of urban aesthetics and public enjoyment would be out of all proportion to the modest cost involved. 
 I want to raise briefly 3 matters which come under the jurisdiction of the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme).  The first relates to continued complaints from the electorate of overcharging on telephone accounts. The honourable member for Scullin  , Dr Jenkins)  has already raised this question to some extent. I support what he has said and say that 1 share the experience which he outlined. I am certain that this experience must be shared by many other honourable members as well. I have found a steady stream of constituents coming to me alleging excessive telephone charges and producing facts which, by all canons of common sense, would support the claims they are making. I stress that these complaints were coming in before the recent publicity which has been given to this question as well as since that time, and there is a very regular pattern attached to them. When we have a complaint we approach the local post office supervisor and very courteous attention is given to cur request for a review. I accept that checks are carried out to the best of the ability of the Post Office, given their methods and equipment, but the results are almost uniform. Invariably our submissions are rejected and no amendment is allowed to the telephone charge which has been brought into question. 
To cite just one example of the situation te which I am referring, one constituent to present this problem is a widow who can produce accounts to show that over the past 7 years, a period during which she has had 14 telephone accounts, she has never been called on to pay in excess of $70. However, her second last account was for $193 and a few cents and her last account, by some coincidence, was also for $193 and a few cents. Let me draw attention to a number of special and important factors related to these 2 accounts. Firstly, 1 already have made the point that these accounts were almost 3 times her standard account over the previous 7 years. Secondly, for 6 weeks during one 6-month period her house was vacant while she was absent in the eastern States. No-one else had access to the home and the telephone could not have been used for this large proportion of that 6-month period. Thirdly, after the shock of receiving the first account for $193 the telephone subscriber took special care to monitor her own calls, particularly the subscriber trunk dialling calls, and she points out that over the last 6-month period she made no more than 12 STD calls, all from Perth to Sydney and all were strictly timed to be not in excess of 3 minutes. Irrespective of the meters and the checks, this constituent will never be satisfied that these 2 accounts fairly and accurately reflect her usage of the telephone service. I am bound to say, having looked at this matter closely and accepting the facts that this subscriber has presented to me, that I could not accept these charges either. Whatever the meter says, these charges cannot be right. 
The most frustrating aspect of these cases of alleged overcharging is the inability of telephone subscribers to obtain a detailed account. STD and local calls are jumbled together, and charges attributable to each cannot be isolated under the present procedures adopted by the telephone section. I am without the technical knowledge to put the following matter any more than tentatively but I submit to the Postmaster-General that, as I understand the position, other countries which have installed the STD service provide in their metering equipment for the ability to give detailed accounts for STD calls. I also understand that there is no serious bar to the introduction of that service here, that is, there is no serious technical bar and no excessive cost involved. Accordingly, because I can see no other way out of the problems of dissatisfaction to which this question gives rise, I put a series of questions to the PostmasterGeneral hoping that he will have the facts available now but that if he has not, he will provide them later. Firstly, is it a fact that separate details of STD usage are available in other countries which have installed the STD service? Secondly, what would be the cost of introducing changes to our service to make that detailed advice possible? Thirdly, what reasons other than cost exist to support the refusal of the Australian Post Office to install this service? Finally, will the Minister give the House an assurance that this matter will be looked at again with a view to installing the necessary equipment? 
The telephone service is a monopoly but that is no reason to operate it on a take it or leave it basis - 'Accept our readings and charges because you have no alternative. Take it or do without a telephone service'. If anything, a monopoly situation makes even greater the responsibility of the Department to ensure fair treatment of telephone subscribers. I am sure that subscribers, whether they are treated fairly or not, will never be satisfied that they are being treated fairly until detailed accounts of the sort I have indicated are made available to them in accordance with ordinary commercial practice. I know of very few commercial situations where large accounts are given and no opportunity provided to the customer to have the details of the accounts made available. 
I must confess that I have not come across this point. Even so, such a service should be available without charge. I move from that question in the few minutes I have available to deal with a charging practice of television commercial stations in Western Australia which has come to my notice and which I think is improper. This concerns the advertising rates now imposed by those stations on political advertisements. In accordance with ordinary commercial advertising practice, television stations have a casual rate for the isolated advertisement or two and a package rate if a given number of advertisements are taken over a restricted period. The difference between the 2 charges can be considerable. It has come to my notice that both commercial stations in Perth have now advised that they are not prepared to accept political advertisements on a package deal basis and that advertisements, no matter how many and in what short period they are to be shown, will be charged for at the casual rate. An example of the effect of this is that in one time slot the cost has now risen from $85 to $133 for a 20-second advertisement, an increase of almost $50, while in another time slot the cost of a 20-second advertisement has risen from $64 to $95. 
As 1 understand it, the only reason given for this change in practice is that pressure of political advertisements is too heavy to accommodate with comfort and, to overcome that difficulty, what amounts to something like a 50 per cent surcharge has been imposed. However, I would point out that it is only political advertisements which are subject to this surcharge. Ordinary commercial advertisements, even though they are within this crowded period, still are available at the package rate. This raises an important question of principle. The democratic process requires that we be given the opportunity of the maximum possible presentation of political policies to the electorate. What we have here, in effect, is a decision by commercial stations to censor and restrict the ability of political parties - this applies to all political parties - to put 'their policies to the electorate. In doing this it appears to me that the stations are reversing the proper order of priorities. They are restricting political advertising but allowing advertisements for cornflakes, soap, cigarettes and baked beans to go on as often and as unrestricted as they like. That is a reversal of proper priorities and I urge the Postmaster-General to look at this matter. If necessary, regulations or legislation should be introduced to ensure the ready availability of television time to political parties at election time. I raise just one other question related to the change in television station practice. It refers to the question of collusion. It cannot be a coincidence that both commercial stations have adopted a surcharge procedure together. I urge the PostmasterGeneral to look at this matter closely. 
I should like to add a brief tribute to those already paid to the late  Mr T.  P. Burke. Tom Burke held the seat of Perth for the Australian Labor Parry from 1943 to 1955 and when he lost that seat it took the Labor Party 14 years and a major redistribution of boundaries to regain it. He must have served his constituents very well because even after all this time I find that I am never introduced as the member for Perth to a group of people within the inner city area without someone making the comment: Yes, that was Tom Burke's seat, was it not? and just as inevitably comes the further comment: 'He was a good man'. 
I did not know Tom Burke when he was a member of this Parliament but men who did tell me that his view was respected in the Parliament and within the Parliamentary Labor Party. It has been said also that had the Labor Government been returned in 1949  Mr Chifley  would have wanted him in that Labor Cabinet. But that was not to be. The 
Labor Party lost government in 1949. Tom Burke lost his own seat in 1955 and then followed a rather peculiar period in which he found himself outside the Labor Party councils altogether. Looking back, that situation occurred through a strange and perhaps unique set of circumstances. On one hand Tom Burke always insisted that he had never resigned from the Labor Party and on the other hand the Labor Party maintained, just as insistently, that he had not been expelled. Nonetheless he was outside the Labor Party and he remained so for some years. I look back with some sense of personal satisfaction to the fact that 1 was able to play some small role in events both at State conference and the State Executive of the Labor Party in Western Australia which enabled him eventually to rejoin us. 
By coincidence some years later Tom Burke and 1 were opposed to each other in the pre-selection ballot for the seat of Perth for the 1969 elections. I won the pre-selection and he lost, and he was very keenly disappointed by that loss. At the same time, in the best traditions of the Labor movement, as well as in keeping with his own personal standards of conduct, he never permitted that disappointment to interfere with the assistance which he gave to me in an unstinted and unreserved way towards my own election in 1969. A couple of months ago I had association with him again when I wrote to him to express my thanks for his work in organising a polling booth and for his assistance in many other ways in the election of last December. 
Tom Burke had the satisfaction of seeing his own record of public service carried on by his son,  Mr Terry  Burke, M.L.A., who is one of the youngest members to be elected to the Western Australian State Parliament. Apart from Tom Burke's political work he was active in many fields of community welfare and, in particular, played a major part in, and for many years was the guiding light of the slow learning children's group of Western Australia. He will be sadly missed there as well as in many other areas. As always the main loss from his death falls upon his widow and his family. I am sure that I speak for many residents of Perth when I express my own respects and sympathy to his family. 
Is the Minister for Minerals and Energy able to quantify the losses of Western Australian mining companies which have arisen from recent revaluations of the Australian dollar? What, if any, is the anticipated loss to Western Australia in terms of postponed or cancelled developmental projects? Does the Government's stated policy of control over mineral exports include the possibility of intervention in the performance of existing contracts so as to preclude the supply of Australian resources at unreasonably low prices? 

Before calling the honourable member for Petrie I remind the House that this will be his maiden speech. 
A friend of mine who I would have thought was a Liberal supporter but who tells me that this time he voted Labor also tells me that he is glad he did and the thing that has pleased him most about the Labor victory is that it has demonstrated to him that a change of the Party in government can actually make a difference. For the first time in his adult life he has come to feel that politics and elections do involve a real choice of policies and administration and not - as he had thought before - simply a choice between different sets of ministerial personalities. I think that many Australians are now expressing the same view with every justification. We have already had some substantive changes in policy and attitude and it is clear there are many more to come. We have seen changes in some of the most basic assumptions of previous governments and we will have to try to understand the nature of these changes if we are to be able reasonably to evaluate the new Government's legislation. We have to understand, for example, that we have a new basic assumption in relation to constitutional matters which is that the outer limits of Federal power should be explored and not merely the safe inner core. Similarly, in foreign affairs, that self-interest and an assertive independence are not necessarily incompatible but can in fact be complementary. In the same way - to come more directly to the present Bill - we have to understand that in social welfare we now have an altogether different starting point on which to base our judgment of future programs. 
In the past: - as any review of Hansard will confirm - our social welfare debates dealt very fully with all manner of things but very little with social welfare. Look at the record of the past 23 years and try to extract what the then Government saw as its social welfare philosophy - its long term aims. You need a microscope and a vivid imagination to discern them. The Liberal Government never talked about poverty, disadvantage, inadequacy, insecurity, loneliness, handicaps or frustration, What it talked about was money. Indeed, if any social welfare aim at all could be found in the Liberal Government it was the aim to keep social welfare spending to a minimum. In lieu of a generous pension we had a generous play with words. In lieu of any discusion of need there were discussions instead of statistics, percentages and indices. Now to tell the truth, the arguments of the Labor Party in opposition followed much the same unsatisfactory lines, but there was a very good reason for that. It is all very well to agree - as most people probably now do - that money payments alone are not the beginning and end of a decent welfare program. That is true enough. But if they are not the beginning and end they are, most certainly, at least the beginning and until money payments reach a reasonable livable level arguments on other requirements of a decent system are largely academic. 
It is precisely for this reason that the present Bill is important not only for what it provides, but for what it represents - the first step towards a long term commitment to reasonable money payments for welfare. What amounts are 'reasonable' will depend on how much is required to provide pensions arid social security, payments which, firstly, are livable at a level of dignity which mirrors contemporary Australian standards and, secondly, are maintained, at that level automatically, that is, without the need for political gestures, much less charity. In future, pensioners will not have to wait for a pre-election budget, an election platform or - as occurred in that celebrated case 2 years ago - a motion of no confidence in the then Prime Minister before they gain some pension increase. Increases will come automatically and in line with clearly established and declared goals. To a considerable extent the Labor Government is foregoing important political advantages by committing itself to this course and by committing itself so far ahead. More than that, it is inviting increased expectations and pressures which it may well find hard to satisfy. Nonetheless .the Government's program is right and it is long overdue. 
The present Bill includes, among others, the following provisions. In the first place, anomalies between various groups of beneficiaries are replaced by largely uniform payment rates. The most dramatic increase occurs in the case of unemployment benefits and how belated this is can be illustrated by a table comparing annual unemployment benefits and age pensions, the latter themselves so clearly inadequate in the past years. I seek leave to incorporate this table. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 

<graphic href="082131197303072_30_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="082131197303072_30_2.jpg"></graphic>

As will be' seen, in 1966 the married couple unemployment benefit was $14.25. At the same time it was acknowledged by the married persons age pension that a couple could not possibly . live on less than $23.50. In 1970 the unemployment benefit was $17 while the married couple age pension was $29.50. Predictably enough, anguished voices have already been raised against the fact that, at the new unemployment benefit rates, a man with a wife and 3 children will . receive a sum equal, in some cases, to the minimum wage. Is that not the real meaning of the euphemism in part (b) of the Opposition's amendment which says in vague and, I suppose honourable members opposite think, subtle terms: 
The adjustments to the rate of and basis of entitlement for unemployment benefit will disturb economically desirable employment  patterns in our society. 
That is what honourable members opposite are talking about in that amendment. That is what the honourable member for Indi  (Mr Holten)  was talking about a few minutes ago. To those people who are concerned that the new rates will bring unemployment benefits so close to minimum wage levels I would respond simply by saying that that shows just how low the minimum wage is. It hardly demonstrates that the proposed unemployment benefits are too high. 
Secondly, the Bill increases the base rate pension by $1.50 a week and, thirdly, and in many respects most significantly, the commitment is accepted to repeat this increase twice a year until the base rate reaches 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. It will then be maintained at at least that level by automatic annual adjustments. How this future level will compare with the past situation is illustrated by a table comparing single age pension benefits with average weekly earnings in Australia on an annual basis. I seek leave to incorporate that table. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 

<graphic href="082131197303072_31_3.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="082131197303072_31_4.jpg"></graphic>

The policy as stated has to be seen as a minimum commitment and as flexible in 2 important respects. It may well turn out, for example, that a figure of 25 per cent of average weekly earnings is too low for the purpose we have set it. It has to be acknowledged that that figure has been arrived at in a completely arbitrary way. The same thing can be said about the so-called poverty line around which so much social welfare discussion has centred in the last 5 or 6 years. There is no call to apologise for this lack of exactness, however, because, in the absence of earlier government action in collating data, nothing better has been possible. So we guess as well as we can, it being universally understood that the resulting figures are highly conservative and certainly not generous. 
It is also possible, as the honourable member for Indi sought to suggest a few moments ago that he had just discovered but as had been pointed out clearly by the Minister for 
Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  in his second reading speech, that depending on the rate of increase in average weekly earnings, annual adjustments of $3 to the pension may well prove inadequate. In that case we have - the further commitment from the Minister that they will be increased further to allow the 25 per cent target to be reached within a reasonable period. That further undertaking is to be welcomed. With the progressive meeting of these clear commitments, the basic money payments problem will largely have been met. The opportunity and indeed the challenge will then be faced of tackling questions of greater complexity, such as how to integrate cash benefits with community welfare services and health services, housing policies and education programs, to mention just a few. A discussion of these matters is beyond the scope of the present Bill but one other matter is certainly relevant to it and, I believe, should not be avoided. It is the question of cost. 
Whenever people ask me who will pay for ali these programs I have no hesitation in telling them: 'You are'. There is nothing original in pointing out that nothing is free, whatever it is called. Free medicine like free travel, free education or pensions free of means test mean 'free' only in the sense of free to the recipient. They are far from free to the community as a whole. Certainly some of the additional cost will be found from the normal growth of Commonwealth revenue and more, hopefully, from savings in other areas. In other  respects,  a re-allocation of existing welfare expenditure could well be helpful - for example, from tax deductibility for dependent children to increased, child endowment, or from the current housing component of pension requirements to an accelerated program of pensioner housing construction. I hope to discuss these matters at some other time as well. But after all these possibilities have been recognised I frankly still believe that the consumer - the recipient - will have to pay more for these new services than he now pays. What does this mean? Does it mean that we will not be able to honour the pledge of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  not to increase taxation, or that other urgent priorities will have to be sacrificed to meet those of social security? I believe it means neither of those things. What it will probably mean is the introduction in Australia of specific social welfare contributions to finance the social welfare system. It is well within our capacity to do this. That some might doubt it is due to a misunderstanding of what is meant by the commonly heard but inaccurate assertion that Australians are the most highly taxed people in the world. That is far from the truth. 
To illustrate my further comments in this respect I seek leave to incorporate a table comparing direct and indirect tax, and social security contributions expressed as percentages of gross domestic product in selected countries for 1969, those being the lastest figures available. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 

<graphic href="082131197303072_32_5.jpg"></graphic>

I should point out in the first place that the countries with which Australia is compared in this table are those with which we normally compare ourselves. They are the United Kingdom, the United States of America, Canada, France, Germany, The Netherlands and Sweden. As will be seen from this table, even in relation to direct and indirect taxes Australia is well below the highest taxed of these countries and only marginally above the lowest of them. But this really tells only part of the story because it fails to acknowledge the important contrast between the important role of social security contributions elsewhere as against their total absence here. This is well summarised in the table which shows a social security contribution of nil for Australia as against 5 per cent for the United Kingdom, 5.8 per cent for the United States of America and rising as high as 10.8 per cent for Germany, 14.5 per cent for The Netherlands and 14.6 per cent for France. The sum of taxation plus social security contributions leaves Australia far behind all the rest. In Australia's case the figure is 24.7 per cent of gross national product as against 30.2 per cent for the United States of America which is the next lowest on the list, 37.1 per cent for the United Kingdom, 37.3 per cent for France, and 31.1 per cent for Canada. The difference in these figures reflects the extent to which our own social security system has been allowed to fall behind progressive world standards. 
Within the Australian Labor Party in recent years we have been in the habit of declaring that our achievement of a pension level of 25 per cent of average weekly earnings plus provision for automatic adjustments to maintain that proportion would enable pensions to be taken out of politics. Frankly, I now see that as more of a hope than a possibility. We will no doubt be attacked for achieving our goals too slowly. After all, if the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  the former Minister for Social Services, can list a motion calling for the means test to be abolished this year when his own Government did not do it for 23 years, anything is possible. 
Again, it is inevitable that, even before we reach our 25 per cent goal - itself so far ahead of past achievements - we will be hearing demands for an increase to 27i per cent, 30 per cent or 35 per cent or some other higher proportion. Finally, and simultaneously, we will be told by others that what we are doing is costing too much and in any case is being abused by people who are undeserving in one sense or another. I for one will not be ignoring these criticisms if only because all of them will be at least partly true. But they must not be allowed to obscure what will be far more generally true, namely that the social welfare program which this Bill sets in motion will be regarded by Australians of the future as needed as much for our self-respect as for our comfort, as long overdue and certainly as irreversible. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Have representations been received for Commonwealth financial assistance towards the establishment of a Chair in the Science of Peace at the Murdoch University of Western Australia or any other Australian tertiary institution. 
If so, what are the Government's intentions in this matter. 
I do not propose to extend unduly the second reading debate. In fact, I cannot help expressing some interest in the length of time which has been devoted to the Bill already, considering that support for it appears to be unanimous. However, as we are not to have a debate in the Committee stage, I take- this opportunity to put one question to the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly).  It relates to the mechanics of the change, especially in Western Australia. In his second reading speech the Minister said: 
Efforts will be made with the respective joint roll States to fix a common date from which the lower franchise age will operate for Commonwealth and State purposes. 
I am concerned because Western Australia does not yet have a joint roll with the Commonwealth, although this should have been achieved long ago. After a recent visit to Perth the Minister issued a statement which seemed to indicate that agreement in principle had been reached with the Western Australian Government on this matter. I ask him: What stage have the negotiations to which he referred at that time reached? When can we expect a joint roll to be established?  If  there are any barriers in the way of an early implementation, will he try to remove them quickly in order to expedite this change? Tens of thousands of dollars are spent unnecessarily on this duplication of rolls, lt gives rise also to unnecessary and continued confusion in the electorate. I hope that he will be able to clarify the position or to indicate what he can do to expedite this highly desirable change. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
How many persons were employed in each Commonwealth Government Department at the latest date for which figures are available. 
I address a question to the Minister for Housing. In view of current concern at rapid increases in home building costs, can the Minister indicate whether, in addition to any other measures, any research or inquiry is being undertaken or sponsored by the Government into alternative and cheaper building materials or methods? If not, will the Minister consider some initiative in this direction? 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What was the cost of conducting the House of Representatives Select Committee on Pharmaceutical Benefits and reporting the conclusions. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
In general, I can see no objection to any serious suggestion being considered by a committee; and that must apply all the more where, as in the case of the Joint Statutory Committee on the Broadcasting of Parliamentary Proceedings, the committee has relatively little to do. But I want to make it clear, while I support the amendment on this limited basis, that, perhaps in contrast to earlier speakers, 1 will vote for the proposition only in the terms in which it is presented - that is, inviting an inquiry by a committee and certainly nothing more. Indeed, the committee would have to come up with some altogether unexpected findings to persuade me to change my present view, which is that we should oppose the televising of proceedings, apart from on the most exceptional and merely formal occasions. 
Frankly, the prospect that we should provide yet another platform for grandstanding in the House does not attract me. It seems to me that we have enough such opportunities already. We have our proximity to the Press. We have the Hansard report, with its free copies of speeches for distribution. Above all, we have the radio broadcasts, with all the jockeying for position that they encourage. Just compare the eagerness of honourable members to speak on Tuesdays and Thursdays, when the proceedings of the House normally are broadcast, with the position on Wednesdays, when normally we are off the air and the Senate has its turn; or consider the time-tabling of ministerial statements for the presumed prime times of 5 p.m. and 8 p.m. each day. 
Just imagine how the attention gaining exercise would be magnified when, as even the motion of the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  realistically accepts, television at most could cover only part of our proceedings. Let us say we had a threequarters of an hour to one hour daily program of parliamentary excerpts. Now, let us try to anticipate the sort of material which a reasonable television producer would have to include. The formal opening, I would think, would continue to be one such example. I agree with the honourable member for Bradfield that the Budget Speech and the Leader of the Opposition's reply probably would be 2 others. A statement on which some special public interest or expectation had developed would be yet another. We have had an example of that this week in the statement of the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  on terrorist groups. For the rest, the limited time remaining almost certainly would be devoted to extracts from question time each day in the House of Representatives and the Senate. I think I would have the agreement of the honourable members for Bradfield, Franklin  (Mr Sherry)  and Ryan  (Mr Drury)  on that. 
But what emerges from this combination of content? Firstly, a predominance in exposure of Government over Opposition and, secondly, a predominance in exposure of front bench members over back bench members. This is not to suspect some inevitable editorial bias. What it does suggest, though, is that the producer of any television extract hoping to attract an audience would have to compress the limited number of events of the day which are both important and interesting and these, including question time, are almost exclusively the preserve of Ministers - despite popular fallacies to the contrary. Backbenchers might be seen fleetingly as they ask their occasional question; for the rest they would be invisible or at the most part of the chorus, unless they deliberately set out to make themselves obstructive or objectionable. Arguments about real communication and bringing Parliament to the people, showing what we are really like, are unreal to this extent. We cannot show the people what Parliament is really like by condensing the hourandahalf when 100 or more honourable members are present in the chamber. We have to give at least proportionate time to the 8 hours a day when as few as 10 or 12 honourable members are present. But then, to be fair, the cameras would have to follow us where we went outside the chamber - to the Caucus room, committee rooms, our offices, the library, the bar and the coffee room as well. I do not believe that that will be seriously considered. It has been suggested by some honourable members that televising .vill increase attendance in the chamber but so far as I am aware no argument has been produced as to why that will necessarily be an improvement. The question is: Why would we then attend in larger numbers? Would it be because attendance at all times is intrinsically valuable and instructive or because, it might look bad on television if we were out of the House during screening times? Surely we have to face the fact that where we have, as we do, a tightly disciplined Party system, our attendance at Party policy-making meetings, is at least as important and sometimes more important than our attendance in the chamber when, even though we are impressed by an Opposition argument, we are constitutionally incapable of being converted by it. The exception, of course, is on the occasional free vote question that it is significant that attendance at these times is always large and participation always keen even where the issue itself is quite minor. 
Honourable members will have gathered that I am not altogether an enthusiast of the prospect of televised Parliamentary proceedings but I do not want to be. uncharacteristically negative in my approach and I therefore make a suggestion to the committee which will be considering the motion. On overseas precedents it seems quite likely that the committee will be tempted to suggest a trial series, perhaps limited to our own private viewing, of daily television excerpts. That, apart from any other consideration, will be a very expensive proposition. I therefore ask the committee to consider, if it is so tempted, making readily available a much more economic trial of the daily condensed version of the present radio broadcasts. 
As honourable members will be aware, existing procedures provide that on days when the House of Representatives and Senate respectively are not broadcast, their question times, to the extent of three-quarters of an hour to one hour, are broadcast during our dinner recess. This works especially well in Western Australia as the time differential makes re-broadcasts coincide with after-work traffic and I am told that they are widely regarded as light relief from the tensions of peak-hour travel. Accordingly my suggestion is that as a preliminary to any television proposition, and in any event to improve the standard of existing radio cover, the evening period now spent on a straightforward repeat of question time be devoted to an edited summary of the day's events, preferably with comment added. The high ratings of the A.M.' and 'P.M.' shows on the Australian Broadcasting Commission indicate that there could be a large and regular audience for a Parliamentary summary imaginatively presented. I hope that the committee will consider this possibility, which is of course within its overall charter, irrespective of the present motion. In any event, and with all my expressed reservations, I will be looking forward to the report of the committee with great interest. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Which of the 43 recommendations of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Pharmaceutical Benefits (a) have been accepted, (b) have been rejected and (c) are still under active consideration. 
I support this Bill and welcome the promptness with which the Government has found a place for this measure in its busy and crowded legislative program. The Bill should not be looked at in isolation nor should it be seen just as providing one further expansion of benefit to any particular group. Its real significance appears to me to be twofold. Firstly, it represents a further step in establishing that distinctive Australian Labor Party attitude to pensioners, namely, that pensions are available as of right and not of favour and if they are available as of right they are not to be withdrawn on geographical grounds. Secondly, it is a further development in our review of the migration system and of the official attitude to migrants. We are trying to bring more understanding, flexibility and co-operation to this area and this Bill will be seen as a significant contribution towards that effort. 
In leading for the Opposition the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  foreshadowed that some amendments would be moved in the Committee stage but that the Opposition would not oppose the second reading. In terms of the formalities of the House, that means that for all practical purposes the Opposition is not opposing the Bill and the acceptance of the Bill by it is therefore a further interesting continuation of a process we have seen operating throughout this session. 
In the last Parliament Labor's proposals were greeted time and again by the then Government with cries of 'Where is the money coming from?', or 'That is easy to say in Opposition but wait till you have the responsibility of implementing it in government', or You do not realise the complications which would arise from doing what you suggest'. It is worth pointing out in this context that the Government's legislative program not only stands on its merits but also as vindication of the proposals it put when in opposition. The acceptance of so much of our program by the Liberal Pary and the Country Party confirms this belief and goes to the extent of making it hard for us to remember now all the agonising they appeared to go through on such questions as votes for 18-year-olds, the removal of excise tax on wine, the Commonwealth Employees Compensation Bill or, to come back to the Bill before the House, unqualified portability of pensions. All these were seen previously by the Opposition when it was in Government as too costly, too complicated or too soon. Now that the initiative has been taken by the present Government we find acquiescence in those points by the Opposition with hardly a murmur or reservation. That is the case as we shall shortly see as we proceed to the vote on the second reading of this Bill. 
Portability of Australian pensions, apart from the special arrangements we formerly had with the United Kingdom and New Zealand, was provided for the first time in a Bill presented to the Parliament in April last year. The present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  could certainly claim part of the credit for this measure as his own earlier private members Bill on the same subject obviously gave considerable impetus to the movement in that direction. I noticed, whether from nostalgia or some other reason, that the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  was still intent tonight on dwelling on the alleged defects and amateurism of the private members Bill. That is totally irrelevant now. I have acknowledged before that the Bill introduced by the previous Government last year was better than the private members Bill which preceded it. However, the importance of the private members Bill lay in the impetus which it gave to government legislation and to the. further legislation which is now improving on that. It is important that it be seen in that context and recognised for the major contribution it made to the portability of pensions. 
In any event, whatever the cause of the previous Government's Bill in April last year, it did at that time represent an important advance on earlier thinking. I think I acknowledged that at the time and acknowledged also the contribution which the honourable member for Mackellar, who was then Minister for Social Services, had made. I notice from Hansard that I went on to make 4 points in criticism of the Bill at that time, the now existing legislation. I suggested firstly that we should reduce the residential qualification for the age pension from 20 years, as was then provided, to 10 years which is the period for qualification existing in Australia itself. I suggested secondly that we should do without the need for reciprocity. My reason at that time which still remains valid, and the acceptance of this proposition negates much of what the honourable member for Mackellar has said tonight, was that both these propositions - that is, firstly, that we should not have a different eligibility period outside Australia and within it and, secondly, that it is not our concern to have reciprocity before we advance - depend in the last resort on our concept of the nature of the pension system. If our pensions arise as of right then they must arise at some particular time irrespective of where the right is exercised. 1 am pleased to see that principle recognised in the present Bill. 
The third criticism I made of last year's Bill at the time was that it should be possible while abroad for a qualified pensioner to change from one category of pension to another should the status of that pensioner change while abroad: for example, changing from the status of the wife of an invalid pensioner to a widow pensioner following the death of the invalid pensioner. The fact is that on the basis of last year's Act that position was not covered but it is covered now by this Bill. I welcome that as well. The fourth criticism I made last year was that I thought it then to be a shame that persons living abroad who would be eligible to obtain a pension if they returned to Australia and to take it with them if they then returned abroad were to be precluded from the scheme altogether. I recognise that this position is still not covered as fully as I would have liked though it is partly covered in the case of people returning for a minimum period of 12 months. I console myself with the thought that three out of four propositions being accepted within 12 months of the argument being put is not bad for starters and I suspect from the benign way that the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  is looking at the moment that he will not be averse to further arguments being put on the fourth proposition. 
The need for a new Bill, especially one removing the necessity for reciprocal arrangements, can be readily demonstrated. The original portability Act was introduced, as I have already pointed out, in April last year and passed in May last year. By December only 4 countries had finalised the reciprocal arrangements with Australia that were called for by the Act. These countries were Greece, Italy, Malta and Turkey. The table incorporated in Hansard during the course of the Minister's second reading speech indicates how difficult and lengthy the process of obtaining further extensions is likely to be. I want to put to the House the unfortunate and unfair distinction which would have arisen had we not moved to delete the need for reciprocity. Under the reciprocal arrangements made with the 4 countries I have mentioned, a considerable number of migrants are already covered. I notice from the most recent consolidated statistics of the Department of Immigration that for the period 1945 to 1972 inclusive the numbers of migrants regarded as permanent  and long term arrivals, by country of last residence, are as follows: Greece  210,000,  Italy  404,000.  Malta  75,000  and Turkey  14,000.  Those figures are all taken to the nearest thousand. As will be seen, the reciprocal arrangements cover in general terms - I know that this is not a strictly accurate representation of the cover available -  703,000  migrants. In other words, reciprocal arrangements with those  4  countries - in themselves occupying over  6  months of endeavour - did cover  703,000.  But this leaves an enormous number of migrants uncovered in the event that they wish to return to their original countries of residence. 
In the same table in the Department's consolidated statistics covering the same period, that is  1945  to  1972  inclusive, we find the following numbers of migrants regarded as permanent and long term arrivals, by country of last residence: The United Arab Republic  32,000,  South Africa  24,000,  Canada  53,000,  United States of America  124,000,  Ceylon  12,000,  Cyprus  17,000,  Hong Kong  26,000,  India,  37.000,  Malaysia  54,000,  Singapore  24,000.  China  17,000,  Indonesia  12,000,  Japan  12,000,  Lebanon  33,000.  Austria  91,000- 
They refer to the long term and permanent arrivals from the countries mentioned over the period  1945  to  1972,  who are not covered by existing reciprocal arrangements in the event that they wish to return to their countries of origin. I remind the House that I am comparing them with the number of  703,000  migrants who would be covered under existing reciprocal arrangements if they returned to their countries of origin.  1  do not want to delay the House, but I think that for the sake of completeness it would be worthwhile to put into the record a list of the numbers of migrants from some other countries. I have omitted those countries with fewer than  10,000  migrants in the period I have mentioned. We are dealing with substantial migrant groups. 
I keep that well in mind. I continue quoting from the same table: Belgium  7,000,  Denmark  12,000,  Finland  13,000,  France  31,000,  Germany  27,200,  Hungary  14,000,  The Netherlands  154,000, 
Poland  23,000,  Spain  21,000,  Switzerland  17,000,  Yugoslavia  95,000  and Fiji  13,000.  I have not, I confess, added all those up. but they come to well over one million migrants coming from countries with which we have no reciprocal agreement and in respect of which the possibility of reaching a reciprocal agreement in some cases is nebulous and in other cases non-existent. If the migrants wished to return to their countries of origin or indeed to any other country other than the  4  with which we already have agreements, they would be left out in the cold. I can see no reason in principle for that sort of distinction being maintained and I am pleased to see, as yet another of the benefits in this Bill, that that position will be precluded. The cost of the new measure has been raised today in a number of forms. 
Sitting suspended from 6.15 to 8 p.m. 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting I was referring to the fact that Opposition speakers earlier in this debate had complained about the cost of the new pro.posals. In respect of one area only is complaint justified, namely in respect to Australian pensioners who go to live in Britain. The honourable member for Mackellar rightly pointed out that in some circumstances these pensioners could in the future get  2  pensions whereas now they are eligible for only one. The short answer to that is that the possibility of double pension exists even now under his own original reciprocal agreements, for example, with Italy. Certainly in the future this arrangement will exist for restricted numbers of people in many parts of the world. It is hard to perceive the principle on which we could reasonably say that one might have a double pension in any part of the globe but the United Kingdom. As for the rest, the cost of covering all pensioners wherever they may go and irrespective of reciprocal arrangements will be negligible. 
In fact, it is not difficult to argue that the cost of maintaining payments to pensioners abroad actually will be less than maintaining them here. That can be shown in purely economic terms by reference, for example, to the absence of fringe benefits and particularly medical benefits that beneficiaries would have received if they had not gone abroad. Some vague reference was also made to other potential increases in costs. If anyone is concerned at the drain on overseas reserves which  might be produced at some future time when our overseas balances are not as healthy as they are at present, I can assure him with a clear conscience that he need not worry about that either. In spite of the considerable interest in migrant groups, organisations and journals when reciprocal portability was achieved last year for Greece, Italy, Turkey and Malta, I find on inquiry that as of today only 153 persons are actually receiving benefits abroad under last year's legislation. The relevant numbers are 49 in Greece, 73 in Italy, 2 in Turkey and 29 in Malta. The type of pension received by these 153 persons is broken up as follows: Age pension 53; invalid pension 51; wives' pension 22; class A widow 10; and class B widow 17. Of course, this number will grow but one can confidently predict that the growth will be modest. 
The United States of America's experience in this respect is instructive. I quote from an article headed 'Benefits Paid Abroad Under OASDHI' which is a publication of the United States Department of Health, Education and Welfare. The title 'OASDHI' refers to that section of the United States Social Security Act governing payment of old age, survivors and disability insurance. The experience to which this article refers is as follows: 
At the end of 1940, the year that monthly benefits first became payable, there were about 100 beneficiaries living abroad who were receiving a total of about $1,000 in monthly benefits. At the end of February 1968 there were 194,453 beneficiaries abroad receiving a total of about $15m in monthly benefits. 
This amount taken in isolation might be frightening until one considers the further comment which states: 
The increase in the number and amount of benefits paid abroad under the OASDHI programme between 1940 and 1968 might seem phenomenal unless compared to the growth of the entire OASDHI cash benefit programme ... the total number of monthly beneficiaries grew from about 220,000 at the end of 1940 to nearly 24 million at the close of 1967. During the same period, the monthly amount of benefits in current-payment status grew from about $4m to over $2 billion. 
Seen in that context the $15m being remitted abroad is modest indeed. But this matter is being looked at in economic terms and I believe it is wrong to consider it on that basis alone. I borrow again from the words of the United States-- 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
<para pgwide="yes">What proportion of the Gross National Product was represented by the revenue, other than by inter-government transfers, of- 
Federal, 
State, and 
local governments in each of the years ended 30 June 1950, 1955, 1960, 1965. 1970 and 1972. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
In what respects have the regulations and administrative directions relating to the availability of unemployment benefits been altered since 2nd December 1972. 
Order! The debate will proceed through the Chair and not across the table. The honourable member for Indi will control himself, please. 
I do not want to give the impression that the Government is content with the things that it has done. It is expending a considerable amount of money but it feels that there is a long way yet to go before it gives effect to all the things it would like to see attended to in this field. It does not have to be a secret that I have stood on the other side of this House for years and have contended that the war service homes legislation is actuarially sound, that it is of high principle and it is of such merit that we ought to extend it, as we are extending it, in its application to members of the forces. But it ought to be extended even beyond that. The principle of  3i  per cent money is a good one. In the long term we stand to establish a revolving fund so that we can go on to extend eligibility under this kind of legislation. 
Bonnett) as responsible and useful. I greatly appreciate the sentiments that he expressed. He said: 'I have no quarrel whatsoever with the principle behind the Bill' and he went on to commend to the Parliament generally that it should expedite the passage of this legislation. He knows that, because of the interruptions that have occurred in the parliamentary procedure here, this legislation has been delayed unduly. It was not the intention of the Government that it should wait as long as it has waited. This matter was one of the first to receive attention from the new Cabinet. It was one of the very early pieces of legislation brought into this Parliament. It is no making of mine or the Government's that honourable members opposite have initiated all kinds of processes which have caused this legislation to be delayed. I will be frank. I have been inundated with expressions of concern from all over the country. The Returned Services League likes this legislation. I am receiving letters from the sub-branches, as are many of my colleagues, telling me of their favour for this legislation and that they want it to be given effect to. I am unhappy that it has taken so long for any effect to be given to it. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Berinson)Order! There is no point of order involved. 
One of the matters about which I was interested was that the honourable member for Herbert was contending that this legislation is good. I think he mentioned that 33,000 persons have been assisted under the legislation to become home owners. I suppose, in a general sense, there is a unity ticket about the War Service Homes Act as it has been known. Parliamentarians and the people of the nation generally uphold it and approve of it. 

 Mr Martin -  I take a point of order. My point of order is that the honourable member for Indi is breaching the Standing Orders by firstly constantly interjecting and secondly not sitting in his proper seal. 
We have had in this debate and one of the debates which took place yesterday a contention by honourable members opposite - and I think it is a contention which has a lot of merit - that we have to watch very carefully the extent to which we flood the market with money for housing purposes because of the pressure on the building industry. I think the responsible attitude for the Government to take in this situation is that ex-servicemen should get a fair crack of the whip. I do not think anyone would deny they are getting a fair crack of the whip. To extend eligibility to members of the CMF at the present time would put a strain on our resources which would indeed have inflationary trends having regard to the shortage of tradesmen and so on. 
I have had regard to the complaints made by honourable members opposite that we are pouring money into this in a reckless way. It may be. that they agree with the attitude that the Government is taking in making a number of reforms but consider that to take all of them in one go might be irrational and not quite the sensible thing to do at this point of time. A complaint has also been made by the honourable member for Herbert, I think, or in any case by other honourable members, that this is a sort of a bribe. I do not think the honourable member for Herbert said this but other honourable members did say it with respect to this idea of giving eligibility after 3 years service. It was also contended that people would lake their war service homes loan after 3 years of service and go. As the honourable member for Indi knows - I know that he got these figures from my Department - there are about 65,500 members of the permanent forces and of that number 27,500 already have qualifying service but they have not left the forces. Doubtless many of them could have done so. Their period of engagement could have expired by this time, but they have not left. I think that this is some substantiation of the fact that permanent members of the forces require the benefits of war service homes loans as they have been called even while they are members of the permanent forces and many, in fact, do take advantage of that eligibility. We are told that the number of members of the permanent forces who would qualify under this Bill is estimated to be 38,000 and that this would probably cost about $17m a year. 
As honourable members know, many other matters have been contended but let me say because my time in this debate is almost concluded that so far as the honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Fulton)  is concerned I have had regard for what he said about eligibility for those members of the forces who come from Thursday Island and also the Torres Strait islanders. I have made a study of this. I have a fair understanding of the situation. It is my intention to do what I can to contrive ways and means to make these provisions apply to those Torres Strait islanders who are eligible. I have heard the points that have been made. I am prepared to go to Torres Strait, if I am to be received on the islands, to discuss the matter with the Queensland authorities and generally to make an honest endeavour to make those people eligible. 
I am unable to accept the amendment moved by the honourable member for Herbert to the motion that the Bill be, read a second time but I intimate to him that so far as another matter is concerned which he has foreshadowed we might be more accommodating in the committee stages of the legislation. I thank everybody for the contributions they have made in the debate. 

Order! We will proceed with the debate. 
How is that now to be possible with the provisions in this Bill relating to putting officials and unions above the law in respect of torts? Perhaps the Minister has had a change of mind in that regard. 
How are these agreements to be made to be honoured? I read elsewhere in this interesting document the answer to that question. I repeat the Minister's statement: 
It is fundamental to a successful system of collective bargaining that voluntary agreements, freely negotiated, be honoured by the parties thereto. 
I hope that the Minister can work out a system to ensure that this happens. The most frequent complaint I receive from my constituents who are businessmen or who are running businesses is that when they negotiate with the unions, they reach an agreement today and it is broken tomorrow.  So how are we  to ensure that these agreements are to be honoured which, as the Minister says, is fundamental to the further development which he foresees for this sector. Here we have the answer in the following passage from the ALP platform: 
It is fundamental . . . that voluntary agreement, freely negotiated, be honoured by the parties thereto. The ACTU has never repudiated an agreement, and has always ensured the observance of agreements made under its auspices and has publicly stated its intention to adhere to such a policy. Given the kind of industrial law reform proposed by Labor- 
I am aware of some of the longer-term proposals implicit in this Bill which will bear on this issue -  the existing machinery of the ACTU and the various Labor Councils (with variations if necessary) would be adequate to ensure observance of all agreements made under the auspices of the ACTU and/or the respective Labor Councils concerned. 
Perhaps a solution lies along those lines, but I doubt it. If the Minister were to tell that to the people of ICI, who recently were coping with a severe strike, probably they would say that he should go and tell it to the birds. The Bill proposes to encourage the development of voluntary negotiation with a consequent downgrading of the established machinery of the arbitration tribunals. During the Minister's absence from the chamber I pointed out that it involves a downgrading of the significance of the national wage case. We of the Opposition maintain that if there is to be a province of law and order, the law can be meaningful only if it is enforceable and it can be enforceable only if it contains sanctions. 
I do not necessarily advocate the sanctions in their existing form. I concede that a key problem of the present sanctions is that they cannot be said to have expressed any clear policy or principle, in particular as to which strikes should merit and which should not merit the imposition of penalties. I think it is reasonable to suggest that had that sort of provision been made the system may well have worked better and would not have fallen into the difficulties it has encountered in the last couple of years. There can be little doubt that the question of whether strikes should be prohibited in an industry is up to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and the practice generally has been to treat all strikes as equally serious. That is not appropriate. It is true that the concern of the Commonwealth Industrial Court has been simply to determine whether an award has been breached and not to judge the industrial merits of cases. It is true that the final decision to press for penalties is up to individual employers acting in accord with their own best interests. The public interest at that point has not necessarily been given sufficient weight. 
The Government has not been involved, by and large, until the time has come to collect the fines. That situation has been unsatisfactory in many ways, not least of all to the Government. Nevertheless, it is the opinion of the Opposition that where the public interest is truly and seriously threatened the penalty against strikes should be retained somewhat in its present form. In other cases, a method of bringing to bear the force of the law to ensure that agreements entered into shall be observed during their currency is necessary. As the Minister has said, this is fundamental to an effective operation of the system. That method should be and can be devised. This Bill, which throws all such matters to the four winds, is totally unacceptable. 
Has the Minister for Health received further complaints about influenza vaccine supplies, as reported in today's 'Australian'? If so, can he indicate the present supply position and whether he regards it as satisfactory? Will he comment on suggestions that the shortage to this stage has been contributed to by a serious incidence of batch failures in the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories and also by a change of distribution arrangements by the Laboratories? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Housing. Is it a fact that legal and other overhead charges on housing loans by building societies are often $200 or more above the charges on identical loans by banks? If so, what is the justification for the higher charges by the building societies? If there is no adequate justification for their level, will the Minister, if necessary in cooperation with the States, seek to have them reduced? 
Order! No point of order is involved. 
Let me answer the honourable member for Curtin who made some allegations about how this Parliament is being conducted. I just want to put it on the record for all to see. The honourable member said that the House should sit longer, but the other day he was one of those who voted against an extension of the sitting times by an hour in the morning and by taking a little time off the dinner break. The very gentleman who said that we should sit longer was one of those who voted with all those who sit opposite against extending by an hour or so a week the sitting time of this Parliament. Since this Parliament opened for this current session it has not sat after 11 o'clock at night. Every night there is an adjournment debate, which was not possible under the previous Government. Every General Business day has taken place, which is contrary to what was done by honourable members opposite when they were in office, and a vote has been taken on every General Business day. In addition, we have had at least 45 minutes for question time every day. In every way we have given to private members of this Parliament opportunities which they were denied for 20 years. As a private member in Opposition I introduced on one occasion an Electoral Bill. I introduced it but it disappeared following the dissolution of the Parliament about 2 years later because the then Government would not debate it. The situation is that no members of an opposition have had more time than those who are now opposite to put their points of view to a government. 
It was said that Bills are not getting sufficient time for debate. The honourable member for Curtin said that we were not giving sufficient time to debate Bills. The Hansard of 4th May 1971 at page 2504 shows a list of 17 Bills which went through this Parliament in 21 hours. As I mentioned yesterday, half of them were given 5 minutes. For example, for all stages of the Loan (Farmers' Debt Adjustment) Bill 1971 the time was 5 minutes. The cockies did not get much consideration that day, did they? The Anglo-Australian Telescope Agreement Bill 1971 was telescoped through in 5 minutes. Seventeen Bills were put through in 21 hours. Do honourable members know who voted for those Bills, The honourable member for Curtin is listed among those who put 17 Bills through this Parliament in 21 hours. What humbug it is to talk about this kind of thing when that sort of thing was done by those opposite when they were in office. The honourable member for Curtin said that he wants more time allotted for the sitting of the Parliament. There will be adequate time for him to get over that as time goes on because we intend to see that the Bills are debated. 

Order! What is the point of order? 

Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 

<graphic href="084131197305223_42_0.jpg"></graphic>

I address a question to the Minister for Labour arising from his statement last week that most metropolitan employment grants will be phased out after 30 June this year. In view of the fact that Western Australia's unemployment rates, while much reduced, are. still well above the national average and above the rates in all other mainland States, and in view of the special structural difficulties of Western Australia's unemployment resulting in a much higher proportion of unemployment in the metropolitan areas than applies elsewhere, will the Minister review the exceptions to the phase out which he indicated last week, with a view to giving some greater continuing assistance in the Perth metropolitan area? 
I have had a complaint from a migrant family which I believe should be conveyed to the House in order to draw attention to a highly undesirable practice. The complaint is based on an advertisement which appeared in the 'Situation Vacant' column of a local newspaper which sought a man of specified age to do what was called 'supervisory work' and whose qualifications were to include a European language in addition to English. The response to the advertisement was to be directed to a post office number. Sure enough, this turned out to be a small variation on an old theme and two of my constituents - husband and wife - .ended up at a group meeting of a pyramid selling organisation. What happened next is best described in the wife's own words. She stated: 
He started telling us (until my head was spinning) how we could start making part time $50 to $100  a  month to begin with and rise to $4,000 a month. 
Apparently this latter figure is the amount that would be received on becoming what is called a 'general', because she goes on to say: 
Of course, you could not just rise to be a general. After you went higher and higher, to become  a  general you gave them $2,500 and in return they gave you $4,000 worth of goods. Not only were you making $1,500 profit right away, you made 60 per cent profit on all the goods sold. He went on and on and then they showed us a 10-minute film of the 3 men in the United States who started it all and even had ex-Vice President Humphrey on screen going mad about their product. 
I refrain at this stage from using the name either of the product or of the group involved because further inquiries are necessary. However, 2 things are clear enough to warrant some public cautioning even at this early stage. Firstly, the impression was obviously given and intended to be given that an employment opportunity existed when in fact no employment opportunity existed. Secondly, the reference to a European language was obviously intended to attract migrants to the scheme and it achieved its purpose because, as well as my own constituents, two other foreign language speaking migrant couples were present at the meeting. 
The hard sell associated with pyramid selling is bad enough at any time. It is all the worse when directed against migrants who may not be so proficient in English as to understand the implications of the scheme they are being invited to join or who may not be as aware as the population generally of the previous warnings which have been given against this form of selling. I hope that these comments, brief as they are, can be brought in particular to the attention of the foreign language Press and migrant groups and that they in turn will be prepared to bring them to the urgent attention of their readers and members. I think I should add that I have taken the opportunity of contacting the Perth migrant task force recently set up by the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  so that this matter can be listed for their consideration and for their assistance in due course in bringing appropriate warnings to the attention of migrant groups in my State. 1 am quite sure, however, that ours is not an isolated case. I invite the attention of honourable members to it in the hope that they will raise this matter in similar avenues in their own areas. I should perhaps add that the constituents I mentioned at the beginning of my speech did not get involved in the scheme that they are complaining of and to that extent they are impartial observers and have no axe to grind. Their concern is for the position of others who have been dragged in, to use their term, and I believe that concern should be shared by all of us. 
Finally, while I want to focus attention on the specific migrant implications of this scheme I hope that no one will be left with the impression that the other improper aspect of it - that is the advertising of non-existent job opportunities - is any less serious. Only today I received a complaint of an unsolicited visit to a private home by a canvasser who, in the absence of the parents, questioned a 14- year old daughter of the family on her parents' work and income. This was again followed by what appeared to be a job offer and the appearance of this employment opportunity was bolstered by the very name of the organisation offering it, namely, Poins and Associates, employment consultants. When I rang this organisation this afternoon to check whether it was in fact an employment agency I was told that it was not exactly an employment agency but it was involved in what it called employment survey and staff planning. I suspect that what that adds up to is another system of eventually appointing generals. 
I have had a third case, again only in recent weeks and following the same line, of a woman dragged into a scheme while looking for work following a nervous breakdown during which time she was on an invalid pension for over 6 months.  Her  condition must have been known to the people she was dealing with at the time she was enrolled. Again I refrain from mentioning the firm and the persons involved in this case because there are very serious implications and I do not want to prejudice the manner in which I intend to pursue her position. I believe, that these matters are serious for all sorts of reasons, but not the least because they are directed against people who are least able or least equipped to defend themselves against the blandishments offered. I hope that by raising this matter in the House and outside of it, which I intend to do at every appropriate opportunity, I will be at least adding to the warnings which have already been given against these schemes in so many ways and in so many forums, but still apparently without success in providing the cover which we should be giving. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Social Security been drawn to the reported allegation by the General Manager of the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia that figures released this week showing a large increase in hospital insurance reserves had been 'deliberately distorted' - I am using the General Manager's words-to put the funds in a bad light? Have the figures been distorted deliberately or otherwise? Have they in fact been prepared on any different basis from that used in previous annual reports? If not, would it be fair to say that, whatever one's view of the correct amount of resources, at least the indicated movement of reserves, that is, upwards, must be correct? 
The question now is that the words proposed to be omitted stand part of the question. 
asked the Minister for Immi gration, upon notice: 
Is it the intention of the Government to honour approvals for migration which were granted by the previous Government prior to 2 December 1972. 
If so, how many such approvals are still valid but not yet acted upon for each country of origin. 
My question, which I direct to the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, is related to his recent agreement with the Western Australian Government to assist, among other projects, the development of the proposed new city of Salvado. Has the attention of the Minister been drawn to the reported statement of the Western Australian Division of the Urban Development Institute of Australia that an urban leasehold scheme would inflict personal and economic disasters on Western Australia? To what extent is the Commonwealth and State agreement dependent on leasehold rather than freehold arrangements? To what extent is the Institute's fear of an urban leasehold scheme realistic? 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
<para pgwide="yes">What amount in reserves was held by hospital and medical benefit funds in each of the last 5 years, and what percentage increase or decrease was indicated in each year. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
<para pgwide="yes">What sum was contributed to hospital and medical benefit funds in each of the last 5 years, and what percentage increase in each year did this sum represent. 
The Minister for Education will be aware that the Karmel Committee has indicated that it will consider categorisation appeals by schools on technical and restructuring grounds. Is the Minister aware that Jewish schools propose to appeal on the wider ground that their inclusion in the general group of non-government non-systematic schools obscures their distinctive characteristics and results in the categorisation formula operating to their particular disadvantage? Will the Minister ensure that appeals on such grounds will, in fact, be considered either by the interim committee or by the commission, when constituted, in time for a decision to be available for the 1974 school year? 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
What has been the cost of alterations and additions to Parliament House in each of the last ten years? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What was the estimated cost of hospital and medical services in Australia during each of the last 5 years, and what percentage of the Gross National Product did this represent in each of those years. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. The motion is for the suspension of Standing Orders. Is the motion seconded? 
Has the Treasurer's attention heen drawn to an editorial in today's 'Sydney Morning Herald' which criticises the decision to make pensions taxable concurrent with the abolition of the means test and which asserts that the Treasurer's description of the age allowance as anomalous was without any supporting argument? Can the Treasurer elaborate on the reasons for abolition of the age allowance? Will he also comment on the statement by the 'Sydney Morning Herald' that the result of measures announced in the Budget will be that many aged persons will pay what it says is a good deal more tax against which the new tax rebate of $156 will be inadequate compensation? Can the Treasurer make available a factual summary of the anticipated result of the combined Budget measures on these matters? 
This Bill is important not only for what it provides directly but also for the further indication which it gives of the general social security principles on which this Government is operating. In his second reading speech, the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  listed no fewer than 16 major provisions which are included in the Bill. Without meaning in any way to be argumentative but simply putting it as a fact as I see it, I think it is true to say that the last Government would have divided the provisions contained in this single Bill into at least six or seven separate Bills so as to squeeze out the last drop of public approval and political advantage to which social welfare measures lend themselves. That is not the style of the present Minister and it is not the style of the present Government. I believe that that is a fact significant in itself. 
As well as the specific provisions contained in this legislation at least 4 general features of the Bill are worth noting. In the first place the Bill confirms the Government's intention to honour its election commitment to increase the standard rate pension twice a year by at least $1.50 a week on each occasion until a pension level equal to 25 per cent of the average weekly male earnings is achieved. Secondly, and again in fulfilment of an electoral commitment, it takes the first positive step towards the abolition of the means test. Thirdly, and this time not through any electoral obligation but simply because of the Government's view that this is a proper course of action, the equality of various social security benefits is maintained. Fourthly, it is recognised that a responsible welfare system cannot be based on some simple view that more of everything for everybody will solve all. Accordingly, some hard and inevitably unpopular decisions have been indicated as well. I refer, of course, to the abolition of the age allowance, the introduction of qualified liability to taxation of age pension payments and future limits to the extension of fringe benefits eligibility. 
For a start we should consider the assured biannual increase in the pension rate. It is strange how such a progressive commitment - one in such marked contrast to the process it replaced - can so quickly come to be taken for granted. More than that, the Opposition now has the nerve to argue that the provisions do not go far enough. To illustrate what I wish to say on that point I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard a table showing the rate, date of introduction and percentage increase in age and invalid pensions since 1948 together with the relevant pensions as a proportion of average weekly earnings. 
Order! Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 

<graphic href="085131197309130_80_2.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="085131197309130_81_3.jpg"></graphic>

I thank the House. As will be seen from the record of our Liberal Party-Country Party predecessors as illustrated in this table, far from providing pension increments twice a year there were 7 occasions on which for 2 years at a time they withheld any increase. It took from October 1961 to October 1964, a period in which average weekly earnings increased by over 16 per cent, for one of those governments to increase pensions by the same amount of $1.50 a week as we are now adding as a minimum every 6 months. Now the Opposition is saying that what we are doing is not enough. To see that as a short memory is putting it mildly. It is more in the nature, I suggest, of total amnesia. 
The Opposition also has been putting an alternative argument forward in recent months. The Opposition is saying that we promised 6-monthly increases of $1.50 a week until the pension rate reached 25 per cent of average weekly earnings: but, given the present rate of inflation, that target would never be reached. That is what the Opposition is saying and it keeps on saying it as though it is making some sort of great discovery. 1 have in my hand, to illustrate that it is no dis covery at all, a paper presented to the very first meeting of the Health and Social Welfare Committee of the Labor Caucus held after the last election. It shows clearly enough that should average weekly earnings increase at any greater rate than 8 per cent a year, a 25 per cent average weekly earning pension will never be reached on the basis of $3 per annum increases. We know from the Budget Speech itself that this year we are in fact expecting a 13 per cent increase in average weekly earnings. That, undeniably, leaves our 25 per cent target in considerable short term difficulties. To that, however, 2 things should be added at once. Firstly, as "the Minister has repeatedly said, if $3 per annum increases will not do the job we have set them within a reasonable period, the increments will have to be increased; and this Government will do that. 
What would the Opposition do? That remains the great unknown, for with all its criticism and indignation at the rate at which we might reach our own 25 per cent target it still has no target. It has no commitment at all. On the other hand, the record of the Opposition shows what its target would be likely to be if it were game to specify it. It will be seen from the table that has been incorporated that in 23 years of government the Liberal and Country parties, far from achieving a pension level of 25 per cent of the average weekly male earnings, never once reached a level so high as 22i per cent and in their last 6 years in office could never even manage a 20 per cent level. The reluctance of the Opposition to adopt our stand on pension levels stands in marked contrast to its adoption of our means test abolition policy. Let me be quite blunt about this. In my view a proper order of social welfare priorities should give greater emphasis to pension levels than to means test abolition. Whilst I naturally support my Party's program, I therefore cannot help feeling that, rather than committing ourselves to means test abolition within 3 years and to a 25 per cent average weekly male earnings level as soon as possible, the emphasis could perhaps have been better put the other way around. 
The Opposition parties have had no such problems of priorities because whilst they have adopted our definite time-table for means test abolition they have produced no target at all, not even vaguely, for the pension level itself. Their approach, in merely criticising us, can therefore be seen in its true nature as an entirely negative one. As I understand this debate will conclude in a few minutes I refer briefly to the inevitably less popular measures which will come to be associated with the advances in this Bill, namely the qualified taxation liability of pensions and the abolition of age allowance. No government enjoys withdrawing any benefit or concession to any group, no matter how small. Naturally, a government will be all the more reluctant in this case where some tens of thousands of people will find themselves either liable to some taxation, or some greater taxation than applied under previous arrangements. The change, however, is inevitable if we are to retain a balance of equality as between groups of pensioners themselves on the one hand and between pensioners and non-pensioners at the lower income levels. More than that, it is an inevitable part of the desirable process of moving pensions out of the area of philanthropy and into the concept of earned entitlement. 
To achieve a fair and reasonable changeover is not without its complications, especially where it has to be implemented partly in advance of the complete abolition of the means test and before the pension itself has reached the level that we would like. The Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  has assured us, however, that by means of the procedures to be adopted at least 80 per cent of pensioners - those wholly or largely dependent on their entitlement - will remain unaffected. They will not have to pay income tax nor will they be required to lodge returns. Of course, the converse of that proposition is that some pensioners will have to pay more. But with all due respect to their position - and I do appreciate their position - before we get as angry about that as have the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  and the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  I believe we should not ignore the position of younger families in similar financial circumstances. 
Earlier this year, but for different purposes, I took out comparative figures. They are now slightly out of date but they are close enough to tell the story, and this is what they tell. A single pensioner on $47.20 a week, including pension at the time of the calculation, paid $54 tax, whereas a single worker earning S47.20 a week paid $248 tax or almost 5 times as much. Not only that but the pensioner in question received fringe benefits while the worker did not. In the case of married pensioners receiving $82 a week, including the wife's allowance, the combined taxation was $135 whereas a married worker with a dependent wife paid $581 per annum in taxation. Even the married worker with a wife and 2 dependent children paid $359 in tax, a sum almost 3 times as great as that paid by the married pensioners. And in this case as well the married pensioner couple on exactly equivalent income but paying much less taxation received fringe benefits while the married worker did not. 
In the light of experience, and having said all that, I 'still believe that further modifications in this area might prove to be desirable. I have no doubt that both the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  and the Minister for Social Security will have an open mind on the subject - though I hope that it will not be so open as to embrace the solution offered by the honourable member for Mackellar, namely that all pensions should be fully taxable but that we should retain the age allowance. On a later occasion I will perhaps have the time to indicate my reasons for disagreeing with that approach. In the meantime let me simply say that this Bill is to be welcomed as a further step in the direction of a decent and comprehensive welfare system. The Government is entitled to feel satisfied that it is not only meeting its electoral pledges in this area but that in many important respects it is already moving well in advance of them. 
Is it the  wish  of the House to have a general debate  covering the  3 measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Urban and Regional Development been drawn to a report in the 'West 
Australian" this week to the effect that Commonwealth allocations for sewerage works in Western Australia are insufficient to meet either the Prime Minister's target for making up the. backlog or the 10-year target which the Western Australian Water Board has been suggesting might be more realistic? Has any detailed time table been drawn up for sewerage works and allocations in Western Australia? Can completion of the program be reasonably expected within one or other of the suggested target dates? 
Order! The level of conversation, not to mention interjections, is far too high. I ask honourable members to come to order. 
Order! The honourable ' member's time has expired. 
No. 
Question put - 
That the Bill be considered an urgent Bill. 
This is a cognate debate on 3 social security Bills. I intend to restrict my comments, in much the same way as did the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson),  to one of the Bills - the Aged Persons Homes Bill. In strictly mechanical terms this Bill accounts for only 2 small differences to the existing scheme. It makes allowance for an increase in the personal care subsidy from $10 to $12 per week. In the second place it eliminates the age of 80 as a sole criterion for eligibility for that subsidy and extends it to those who require and actually receive personal care irrespective of their age. That second extension of the scheme strikes me as being logical and sensible. Not only that, it also strikes me as being a good example which we should be carefully considering for the purpose of extensions in other areas as well. If I could give just one example of that proposal 1 would refer to the domiciliary nursing care subsidy. 
This is a new scheme. It was implemented from the beginning of this year and we have had limited experience of it. But we will presumably continue it and if it is to continue it seems to me to be hard to find any justification for restricting its availability to persons caring for aged relatives. The requirements of eligibility for personal care subsidy as they are summarised in the recent annual report of the Department of Social Security are simply put this way: 
To be eligible for the benefit the patient must - 
be aged 65 years or more; 
have been issued with a certificate (on the authorised form) by a medical practitioner that by reason of infirmity or illness, disease, incapacity or disability he has a continuing need for nursing care by a registered nurse;' 
have been issued with a certificate (on the authorised form) by a registered nurse that the patient is receiving nursing care involving at least two visits each week by the registered nurse. 
If one considers those criteria for eligibility one will see that with the sole exception of this age limit - that the patient has to be at least 65 years of age - there is really nothing in the criteria that would prevent the benefit applying in reason or in logic or in fairness to a person who is under 65, such as a young paraplegic, to take one example. To take that case, there would be an opening for exactly the same sorts of arguments for staying at home, perhaps even greater arguments-- 
I take the point of the honourable member for Murray. I think it is a valid extension of the argument I am putting. We find exactly the same arguments available to us as apply to the aged people; that is, if it is desirable in the interest of the aged person to remain within a home environment rather than an institutional environment, or if one wants to be a bit more callous about it and simply look at the economic argument that even from the public point of view it is cheaper to keep a patient in those circumstances out of hospital rather than in hospital, I cannot for the life of me see how either of those arguments can apply to the person who reaches 65 years of age but not to one who has not reached that age. I am aware that the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  is conscious of this problem. I hope that something will come of it. I give it just as one example of our tendency to pluck at some quite arbitrary dividing line and to make benefits available above the line and not below it. 
As a matter of fact, in the same Aged Persons Homes Bill is another example of a requirement that a person has to be 65 if male or 60 if female to be eligible to be resident in a home covered by the Aged Persons Homes Act. Again, one wonders what there is in particular about the ages of 60 and 65 that make this facility so highly desirable - I accept that it is highly desirable that people in these categories should have the homes available to them - to be provided for persons above those ages and not to people below those ages, such as in the case of a person who is permanently reduced to the invalid pension. I give both of those examples in the hope that this first extension of the scheme cutting through one arbitrary age barrier might he extended into other areas as well. 
I turn away from the details of the Bill to discuss some aspects of it in more general terms. Like other social security legislation that has been introduced by the Government, the Bill appears to me to be important not only for what it does, but also for what the 
Minister said when introducing it. I am sure that the Minister will not mind if I say that one of the reasons I liked what he said was that it reminded me so much of what I have said in previous debates on the same subject. 
He had a very good base to work from. The Leader of the House would know that as well as anyone present. I particularly welcome the view of the Minister for Social Security that residents of aged persons homes should have the right to elect representatives on management committees. I know that 'participation' is one of the current 'in' words. I suppose 'open government' are another two. But I want to say very earnestly to honourable members that it is not on that sort of ephemeral or abstract basis that I am advancing the proposition that residents of aged persons homes should have a voice in the management of their homes. I am not arguing for any abstract democratic principle; I am saying that this sort of development is highly desirable because tensions and misunderstandings in the environment of aged persons homes will inevitably arise otherwise to the discomfort and the unhappiness of the residents and also to the discomfort and concern of management committees. 
Representation on those committees would automatically meet another course for which I have been arguing for some time, namely, that residents should have the right of access to detailed financial accounts of homes in which they live. I will not argue again - I think I have it in Hansard on 2 or 3 other occasions - about the insurmountable problems which presently exist when attempts are made by anyone other than the Director-General of Social Security to secure detailed financial statements of aged persons homes. Whether expressed or not my own experience has been that in the absence of this shared confidence, increases in rents or maintenance payments are almost invariably accompanied by feelings of resentment or at least suspicion by residents. I believe that to be unnecessary and so easily avoidable. Frankly, given the universal acceptance that no improper motives or activities by management committees could possibly be involved - on the contrary that they have earned the highest respect and gratitude of residents, their families and the Government alike - I have never been able to understand the general reticence of management committees on this question of taking residents into their confidence. 
Recently 1 have had 2 welcome signs in my own electorate of a new approach to this question. Organisations have indicated voluntarily - because the Government has not reserved any rights to demand this co-operation - that they will offer this information. I hope that that is an example which will be followed not only by other homes in my own area but also generally wherever aged persons homes have been established. I also draw attention to and welcome the Minister's stated objectives of keeping rentals within the limits that pensioner residents can afford. I would tend to modify that statement just a little to say that they should be limited to the demonstrable costs of the home, although, given the special advantages of these homes, namely, the absence of interest payments and their exemption from such costs as land tax and water and municipal rates, in most cases the two should amount to the same thing. 
I certainly see nothing in either of those approaches which would justify one unfortunate incident that occurred - again in my electorate - of a management committee seeking to establish a system whereby 20 per cent of each pension increase automatically goes to the home by way of rent or a maintenance payment. I think it is self evident that a formula of that sort bears no relationship either to capacity to pay or to actual costs involved. I think it was an indefensible stand to take. In the last resort, in the face of a lot of resident resentment, the organisation changed its mind. I make a distinction between paying as much as one can and paying as much as the place actually costs to run. 
With due respect to the Minister, I think he did tend to sound rather more moralising than he probably intended when he said during the course of his second reading speech that he would like to see the administration of this program considerably strengthened by requiring organisations to demonstrate their charitable and benevolent motives by keeping rentals and other charges within the limits that pensioner residents can afford. I regard the organisational and administrative responsibilities accepted by these committees as being a most important contribution that they make to the scheme and to the welfare of the aged people who are residents under it. I do  nol  believe that the scheme could have got off the ground without the sort of voluntary assistance that has been made available. There are some cases where the organisations pay the total costs, but I would say that if it had not been for the preparedness of these sponsoring organisations to come forward with their time and work this scheme would not have got ofl the ground. Had it got off the ground it certainly would not have been able to operate successfully on the scale it has, namely, of already housing 50,000 residents with many more continuing to come. 
I would relate this - with some qualification also - to another comment by the Minister about donation-linked entry, although I go along with him completely on the general principle which he is arguing. The Minister did suggest that he was looking to the situation where homes could be allocated strictly on a needs basis. I presume that that is a reference to the suggestion that they should be available for allocation without reference to donation. In order to look at this proposition I think we have to go into the background to the scheme. If we were to do so we would find in the first place that in the original scheme - which was set up in a very sloppy way, if I might say so, with far too few restrictions - there was no limit on the number of times a unit could be sold'; I am referring to donation-linked entry. Since the new standard form agreement of 1970 that has been changed to some extent - to a major extent - in that under the new form of agreement only half the units in any given home can continue to be resold. 
If I understand the Minister's comments correctly he is possibly suggesting that we should be in a position to prevent any sale at all. Again with due respect, I would suggest to him that at this stage anyway that might be going a bit too far and if we want the scheme to continue at anything like its widespread present scope we will realistically have to accept the position that all units should be permitted to be sold' at least on the first occasion but on no more than one occasion. So far as I can see there is no justification - I would be interested in hearing from anyone who knows one - for the provision that even as many as half of them should be permitted to be continued to be resold. By allowing that we are putting up positive barriers in the way of quick expansion of the availability of these homes on a rental basis, which in general terms will be on the basis of availability to the most needy persons first. 
In his second reading speech the Minister referred to the disappointing response to the Aged Persons Homes Act by local government bodies and invited suggestions on how to stimulate it. I am wondering whether one form of encouragement might be provided by a relaxation of the rule against the use of borrowed funds and mortgages of aged persons homes in the case - I emphasise these words - only of homes sponsored by local government bodies. The proviso about not accepting loans and not entering into mortgages is, in any event, easily set aside by a device whereby a local government body sets up a formal separate aged persons homes organisation to which it makes donations - not loans - on the basis of money which the local government body itself has in fact borrowed. This has led me to wonder in turn whether the estimate by the Minister that only 500 places have been made available by local government action might be partly due to the fact that further units have been formally made available under a device whereby in reality the local government body provides the assistance but it comes through some intermediate voluntary organisation. 
Again I am not raising this matter on a theoretical basis. We have had a very good example of it in my electorate with the Shire of Bayswater, which has entered into a first class development which is admirable in many respects. Before it was able to do so it had to set up what is called the Shire of Bayswater Aged Persons Homes Incorporated. The existence of this whole body is only to avoid the one mechanical problem that the Shire itself would not have been permitted directly to use loan funds for the project. It is in fact using loan funds indirectly. But who would argue that that is in any way improper, whether done directly or indirectly? Having mentioned the Shire of Bayswater scheme, I wish to pay a tribute to the Shire for having in many respects created a pattern which other homes should follow. From the outset the Shire has agreed that residents should be represented on the management body. From the outset it has agreed to the annual financial accounts being published and made available not only to residents of the homes but also to ratepayers in the district. I think that is quite proper. 
It has, by the way, raised a further problem. This has been alluded to this evening by the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson).  I refer to the fact that the maximum subsidy is now leaving too great a gap, given the inflation of building costs. In order to demonstrate the problem, I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard a table showing the maximum subsidies under the scheme over the years. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 

<graphic href="086131197310163_51_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="086131197310163_51_2.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="086131197310163_51_1.jpg"></graphic>

At this stage I want to make some assessments of these figures. They are based on production figures and are extremely revealing of the depth of overseas control in the Australian mining industry. A few of the figures for overseas control are: Bauxite, 100 per cent; copper, 83.6 per cent; ilmenite, 64 per cent; iron ore, 49 per cent; lead, 74.7 per cent - and believe it or not the one mineral on the entire list that has total Australian equity is manganese - rutile, 85 per cent; tin 75 per cent; zinc, 71.59 per cent; zircon, 78.5 per cent. The figure for black coal for New South Wales fortunately is 23.8 per cent. But in the Country Party State of Queensland the figure for coal is 88.2 per cent. If after 23 years the Liberal Party considers that to be a national achievement, the people of this country and the Government consider it to be a national scandal and a national sell-out. The figures quoted are on the basis of a company being defined as foreign controlled if at least 50 per cent of its shares are owned by a foreign owned company. To compare these figures with those for total overseas control as derived by Treasury it is necessary to determine the value of each mineral. This has not been possible as the 1971-72 mineral prices are not available at present. As a check of the validity of the Treasury figures as a measure of foreign control, the production figures for the period 1968 to 1972 were collected. These figures are included in table IV. I seek leave to have that table incorporated in Hansard. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 

<graphic href="086131197310163_52_3.jpg"></graphic>

Table III shows that about three-quarters, of the metal mining industry is dominated by overseas controlled companies. Of the Australian subsidiaries, only some have Australian participation. This is so, for example, of Conzinc Riotinto of Australia Limited, which is the Australian subsidiary of the parent Rio Tinto Zinc Corporation. The parent company is based in England and it holds 80 per cent of the shares with the remaining 20 per cent being issued in Australia. Under existing conditions, no matter what proportion of the Australian shares issue of the subsidiary the Corporation obtains, control will still remain in the hands of the multi-national parent company. One ought to compare the measures that have been taken throughout the world to control multi-national corporations. 
Since the start of the Second World War governments around the world have become aware of the degree of exploitation of their country's resources by foreign owned and controlled companies, and especially the multinational companies. Although the multinational company is not a recent phenomenon, it is only since the end of the Second World War that these conglomerates have been involved in international politics in their own interests rather than those of the nation in which the parent company is based. Needless to say, the nations concerned have taken various steps to ensure that such constraints are implemented as are needed to protect their interests against multi-national activity. In several cases constraints have taken the form of direct governmental intervention in the affairs of the multinational company. This appears to be the case in the oil industry where, irrespective of the socialistic inclinations of the governments concerned, they have either nationalised the industry wholly or forced the multi-nationals to accept 51 per cent participation by the government in the company's subsidiaries. For example, Iran nationalised its oil industry in 1951. This move was modified in 1954. Since then the National Iranian Oil Company has purchased all oil from the operating companies at the well head. Indonesia obtained complete ownership of that country's entire oil industry by 1968. Since then the government oil company - Pertamina - has been the major shareholder of any company undertaking offshore oil exploration. 
It is a remarkable thing that in the United States multi-national corporations control 84 per cent of oil refining. Let us have a look, after 23 years of Liberal government, at the level of density of foreign control in Australia. The level of control stands at approximately 32 per cent less than 90 per cent. In effect, foreign owned companies control 90 per cent of the oil refining in this country. I was interested in the remarks made by the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony).  If my memory serves me correctly he challenged the Government by saying that he would like to know what adverse effects this country could suffer by foreign ownership in certain areas. An article in the 'Australian' of 2 October this year carried the heading 'A long, hungry winter for U.S. families'. The article went on to say: 
Americans, who have long treated energy like yesterday's newspaper, are being warned they face a long, icy winter. 
Further on the article states: 
Because emergency services, such as hospitals, ambulances, police, and fire departments would have priority over the common man in getting petrol, oil gas and electricity, whole families would suffer. 
Further on the article states: 
The Government has made it clear that unless Americans voluntarily stop wasting their energy, mandatory controls and rationing are aa close as the next petrol pump. 
The United States in fact is being forced to import 200,000 barrels of fuel oil a day. Why is this so? We ought to take a little time to analyse this situation. It is a pity that the motion of censure was called off this morning because I would have relished taking part in the debate on it. What is the situation in the United States? Why has it been put in this position? Firstly, a recent study undertaken in the United States shows that there are some 44 Federal agencies which directly administer energy problems and 20 more which indirectly influence energy matters. The 64 agencies are scattered throughout 9 Cabinet departments, 40 independent agencies and the Executive Office of the  President.  Secondly, congressmen and small businessmen throughout the United States are charging that the major oil companies have manufactured the fuel shortage in the United States in order to raise prices. 
The Federal Trade Commission has for some time been investigating gas industry figures on the basis, it claims, that they are far too meagre. If the issue becomes heated at all in the United States pressure will be put on the Government to break up once again the multi-national corporations. Why will this be necessary? The answer is because they control in effect 84 per cent of all refining capacity in the United States, 72 per cent of natural gas resources, 20 per cent of coal and 50 per cent of uranium. The method they use in the United States is to eliminate competition among themselves, to co-operate rather than compete, to weaken if they do not dominate, and to reduce the independent companies in the marketing sector. That is the result in the United States of permitting the resource sector to be controlled other than through governmental regulation. 
Let us look at the situation in the United States. What method does it use to control foreign ownership of companies in this sector? In the United States control is exercised by the Securities and Exchange Commission which is part of the 'Department of Commerce. 
Mir McMahon - It does not own them though. 
-For the last 10 days we have been witness to a new chapter in the tragic modern history of the Middle East. For the fourth time in its short 25 years of life Israel has been forced to fight for its very survival. For the third time it fights alone with hardly so much as a friendly voice to be heard in its support. For the second time it is the victim of the combined aggression of Arab States, now 9 in  number, unprovoked by any act by Israel but simply by the fact that it continues to exist. 
It is a tragedy of awful dimensions already and seemingly limitless potential. The loss of life must certainly be greater than at any time since the 1948 war of independence itself and as in 1948, while there is the remotest prospect of Israeli defeat the world, with the single exception of the United States stands by mute and paralytic. The cost of this war is borne in the first place by the Israeli victims of it - their dead and wounded and bereaved. In human terms, the cost on the Arab side is just as awful. But there have been political costs as well which extend far from the area of combat. In the first place we have learnt that the high sounding declarations of developing detente between the great powers are not to be regarded with optimism or hope but with the utmost cynicism. James Reston of the New York Times News Service is worth quoting at length. I seek leave to incorporate an extract of his column of 10 October. 
The latest Middle East crisis between Israel and the Arab States has produced an even more important crisis between the United States and the Soviet Union, and between the United States and the Communist Government of China. 
In those big televised meetings between Nixon, Brezhnev, Mao Tse-tung and Chou En-lai in Moscow and Peking, the leaders of the major powers agreed to support universal principles, which would lead to a new order in the world, but when they all gathered around here at the United Nations on the East River during the latest Middle East crisis, they sang a different tune. 
You have to go back to all those reassuring communiques out of the Kremlin and Shanghai in order to understand what the Soviet and Chinese representatives said here at the United Nations about the Middle East crisis. 
At the end of May 1972, after the Nixon-Brezhnev meeting in the Kremlin, they said they were 'guided by their obligations under the charter of the United 
Nations, that they were aware of the need to make every effort to remove the threat of war and to create conditions which promote the reduction of tensions. &gt; 
The United States of America and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics', they said, 'have a special responsibility to do everything in their power so that conflicts on situations will not arise which would increase international tensions. . '. .' 
This was big news when President Nixon went to Moscow. It was also big news when Nixon and Premier Chou En-Lai of China signed the Shanghai declaration of February 27 1972, declaring that 'both wish to reduce the danger of international conflict  . . neither is prepared to negotiate on behalf of any third party. . . .' 
Yet when the latest crisis developed in the Middle East, all these noble promises and intentions seem to have been forgotten. Though President Nixon appealed to Chairman Brezhnev to co-operate in getting a cease-fire along the Suez, and Secretary of State Kissinger urged Huang Hua of China here to co-operate in a big-power effort to stop the fighting, the plain fact is that Washington got no co-operation. 
Huang Hua said it was 'perfectly just' for the Arab countries to 'rise in resistance to the invading enemies of their own sacred territories'. Yakob Malik of the Soviet Union not only supported the military activities of Egypt and Syria against Israel, but criticsed the United Nations Security Council for even raising the question at the United Nations. 
And this is the main point - the information coming here to the United Nations was that the Soviet Union, while committed to reduce tensions under the Nixon-Brezhnev agreement, was actually urging Algeria, Lebanon and particularly the King of Jordan to get into the war against Israel. 
This is not a casual or frivolous report.' 
But the new detente is not the only political casualty of this war; the other is the United Nations itself which by its impotence in this crucial situation has set the final seal on its own irrelevance. Of course, the virtual uselessness of the United Nations in the absence of big power agreement has been obvious for years, but it was always possible to find a reason for its inactivity in a particular case which left room for hope that it might yet find a peace-keeping role at least on the periphery. For example, if it did nothing about Hungary or Czechoslovakia that was because Russia was a principal party in those events and would have inevitably and invariably used its veto to block any attempted action. In Vietnam a similar excuse could be made on the grounds of America's involvement and there were all sorts of juridical arguments possible as well. All sorts of issues were available for dispute and if they did not justify United Nations inactivity they could at least help some people, so inclined, to try to explain it. 
But what can- possibly be said in justification or explanation of United Nations paralysis in the present Middle East war. For all the obscurity of the present military position this much at least must be clear to all: Firstly, Israel is an internationally recognised sovereign State and a member of the United Nations. Secondly, according to the undisputed reports of United Nations observers Israel has been the victim of a massive co-ordinated attack by Egyptian and Syrian forces in violation of a  ceasefire and of ceasefire lines established under United Nations auspices. Thirdly, Egypt and Syria have now been joined by forces of Iraq, Jordan, Libya, Morocco, Algeria, Saudi Arabia and Kuwait - all United Nations members themselves. Finally the Security Council has so far met 4 times, but so abortively to this point that it has not yet reached the stage of considering, let alone adopting, any resolution at all. And this same United Nations was to be the hope of the world. Who will ever believe it. 
Now what is the Australian position? So far as the general Middle East problem is concerned the Government view as enunciated by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  might be summarised by the following set of principles; all of them reasonable and proper: Recognition by the Arab States of Israel's sovereignty and right to exist; settlement of disputes by direct negotiations and not by imposed third-party solutions; withdrawal from occupied territories to recognised and secure, which is to say defensible, boundaries; and settlement of the refugee problem. In respect of the war itself, the Prime Minister has stated that the first priority of the Government through its membership and chairmanship of the Security Council is to attempt to secure a ceasefire. He adds, however, that he sees no advantage in seeking to apportion blame for the ceasefire violation nor, apparently, would he link his efforts with a call to restore the original ceasefire lines. In the realms of high diplomacy, about which I admittedly know nothing, that may well be the best and most constructive approach and I respect it on that basis. I trust, however, that I will be excused for doubting it and for preferring the approach of this statement which has the support of a majority of Government back benchers, and which I seek leave to incorporate. 
Recognising that the chairmanship of the Security Council by the Australian Ambassador,  Sir Lawrence  Mclntyre, could make it desirable for Australia to remain as uncommitted as possible in public discussions on the Middle East war, the undersigned nonetheless feel obliged to express the following view: 
United Nations observers have reported that the war was precipitated by a co-ordinated breach of the ceasefire lines by Egyptian and Syrian forces. No independent evidence is available to suggest any prior crossing or violation of the ceasefire lines by Israel. 
The Security Council should immediately call for the restoration of the ceasefire and of the ceasefire lines. 
This further tragic war again indicates the need for all possible action to achieve peace in the Middle East by means of direct negotiations, safeguarding the integrity and sovereignty of Israel and all the nations in the Middle East within secure and defensible borders. 
Australia, as an unaligned party in the Middle East dispute, should take every initiative open to it to promote these aims. 
Although time is so limited in the adjournment debate I must make one other comment. It has been suggested by some observers that if Israel is now suffering heavy and painful losses this 'serves her right' to put it crudely for not co-operating earlier on the return of occupied territories and the re-establishment of the pre-1967 boundaries. To that, 2 things should be said. In the first place a ferocious surprise attack as launched last week, if sprung from the pre-1967 borders, would by now have had Egyptian and Syrian troops fighting in Tei Aviv rather than still on their own soil. To that extent unless this war is followed by a real and genuine peace its only result will be to confirm Israeli determination to hold onto every single inch of land they can. More than that, given the general absence of support for Israel when faced as she now is with the staggering odds of men and material against her, who will be left in a position to moralise about it? Until today, no one; on the basis of today's news, the United States alone.  Mr Speaker,  my time is approaching expiry. I seek leave to have the short balance of my prepared speech incorporated in Hansard. 
But secondly and more important, what on earth can lead anyone to believe that a return to the pre-1967 borders would be an end of the matter. Can memories be so short that it is already forgotten that the 6-day war broke out because the Arab States did not accept the 1967 borders? Many of us will have seen an advertisement by a group called the Friends of Palestine in yesterday's 'Australian' and heard its spokesman interviewed on radio later. 
In response to the direct question: 'Doesn't your program simply amount to the dismemberment of Israel', the spokesman was at least honest enough to say 'Yes'. 
The Arab States are now proclaiming a more limited goal for the war they have launched but their earlier statements and actions indicate clearly enough that their real goal is precisely in line with the views of the Friends of Palestine, that is, the utter elimination of a sovereign State. This leaves Israel in the greatest peril and explains her monumental efforts and sacrifice in self defence. It also explains her readiness, repeatedly stated but continually spurned, to enter into direct negotiations for peace, without preconditions and at any time or place. It is a time for her friends to declare themselves if only to put a brake on the ambitions of the countries attacking her - to declare support when it is warranted; to apportion responsibility where it lies. Even if the rituals of diplomacy are bruised in the process that would seem to be a small price indeed to pay. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Education. To enable a factual comparison of past and present government programs in education, will the Minister indicate the amount of Commonwealth grants which will be paid to government and nongovernment schools in the current year, and also the comparable anticipated levels of assistance for 1974 and 1975? 

Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
Is leave granted? 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I ask a question supplementary to that asked by the honourable member for Paterson and I address it to the Minister for Housing. Is it a fact that only a minority of building societies have increased interest rates in excess of the 1 per cent increase previously announced by the Government, but that these have also adopted more restrictive attitudes than expected to extending periods of repayment in preference to increasing repayment instalments? If this is so, what action has or can be taken to bring these societies into line with similar institutions which are conforming to the Government's guidelines? On a directly related matter, has the Minister's attention been drawn to a reported statement by the  President  of the Western Australian Permanent Building Societies Association to the effect that what he referred to as Government distortion of the loan market would reduce home loans in Western Australia by 4,000 next year, leading to significant unemployment in the building industry at that time? How does that statement compare with the Government's own assessment of the position? 
Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
In this report the Committee has found it necessary to make observatons on 2 matters relating to the treasury minute on the one hundred and twenty-third report and 2 matters in connection with the Treasury minute on the one hundred and thirty-third report. Briefly, the observations were concerned with the adequacy of training provided by the Treasury in the interpretation of output data from the Treasury computer system, incomplete evidence submitted by the Department of Works and the Department of Air, and delays in the payment of accounts by client departments of the Department of Supply. Further details are set out in chapter 4 of the report. 
The one hundred and forty-sixth report concerns the Committee's inquiry into aspects arising from the report of the Auditor-General for the financial year 1971-72. The Committee would again commend the Auditor-General and his staff for the sustained effort they have made over the years to present the report to Parliament during August. As we have indicated on previous occasions, the tabling of the report in that month each year has assisted the Committee considerably in this important area of its work. 
In its inquiry the Committee took evidence from the Department of Air, the Department of Civil Aviation, the Department of the Navy, the Department of the Army, the Public Service Board, the Department of Supply, the Department of the Treasury and the Department of Works. In all, our inquiries related to 8 matters. 
In relation to the Department of Civil Aviation, the Committee inquired into fraudulent salary payments that occurred in the Department's Victoria-Tasmania region. The frauds were perpetrated by a number of officers within the salaries section in collusion with other participants. The evidence shows that a significant factor in the frauds was the failure of departmental officers to observe internal controls and checks specified in Treasury regulations, Treasury directions and departmental instructions. Other factors that facilitated the frauds were a lack of sufficient staff to handle the volume of work and the general inexperience of the staff in the salaries section. It appears that appropriate action has been taken by the Department to prevent a recurrence of similar frauds. 
The evidence taken from the three Service departments related mainly to inadequate checking of billings received from the United States services for equipment and stores supplied, which resulted in substantial overcharges of approximately $900,000 not being detected. The Committee considers it most unsatisfactory that inadequate checking of billings has persisted for so many years. The committee hopes that the measures proposed to overcome the checking deficiencies will be successful and has called for a report on the current position from the departments concerned. 
In connection with the Department of Supply, the Committee inquired into the necessity to subsidise production, in 1971-72 for the first time, at the Central Drawing Office and the clothing factory by charging amounts to the appropriation 'Reserve capacity maintenance'. The evidence shows that the Central Drawing Office did not have a viable work load after the transfer of much of its work and staff to the Defence Printing Establishment and productivity at the clothing factory had been adversely affected by a change in location and the Victorian electricity strike. On examination of the Auditor-General's report for 1972-73, we note that the clothing factory seems to have regained its viability as there was no charge to the appropriation in 1972- 73 and the Central Drawing Office ceased operations as a separate undertaking as from 1 July 1973. Also in connection with the Department of Supply the Committee inquired into over-expenditure on orders at the Government Aircraft Factories. A number of remedial steps were taken by the Department following audit representations and the Committee is satisfied that each of them will contribute to the eradication of the problem. 
In the case of the Department of Works the Committee's inquiry related to a claim by the Department against a private consultant in respect of the cost of rectification of deficiencies in the design for the structural frame for the terminal building at Tullamarine Airport. The Committee was neither fully satisfied with the method used to select the particular consultant nor with the methods of selection generally prevailing and has recommended that the Department should examine the alternative methods of selection suggested during the inquiry. The Committee was also not satisfied that sufficient control had been exercised in the administration of the contract and considered that every effort should be made to prevent a recurrence of similar circumstances. 
In addition to these matters, evidence was taken from the Department of Air in relation to accounting for supplies purchased overseas, the Public Service Board concerning incorrect payments to officers leaving the Public Service and the Department of the Treasury in relation to the Works Services Trust Account. I commend the reports to honourable members. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 
Subsidised Health Benefits Plan 
This Plan provides certain categories of persons with special help in meeting the costs of insuring for medical benefits and hospital benefits. 
This assistance is available to: - 
Low income families. There are three categories of low income families whose eligibility is determined by weekly gross incomes; Class A beneficiaries are exempted from paying health insurance contributions for the level of assistance provided; Class B beneficiaries need only pay one-third of normal contributions; Class C beneficiaries need only pay two-third of normal contributions. 
People receiving unemployment, sickness and special benefits from the Department of Social Security. Such persons need not pay contributions during their term of eligibility. 
Migrants during the first two months in Australia. Migrants need not apply for assistance but are eligible for medical and hospital benefits during their first two months in Australia by enrolling in a registered health insurance organization and producing evidence of their date of first entry into the country. 
The transactions associated with this Plan are shown separately in the Report. As no contributions, or reduced contributions, are payable by those eligible under the Plan, the inclusion of the transactions in the main tables for the medical and hospital funds would have distorted the results shown. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. Is the motion seconded? 
I ask the Minister for Minerals and Energy: Is it possible to estimate the total cost to Australia of recent increases in imported oil prices? How are these likely to be reflected in the prices locally of motoring, aviation and industrial fuels? Given that whatever uncertainties exist in international oil supplies at least it is certain that such supplies as are available will come at continually and sharply increased prices, has any study been made of possible economies in Australia with respect to oil consumption, other than that announced by the Minister for Transport regarding car engine capacities? If not, will the Minister consider having such a study commissioned at an early date? 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
The Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 5) embodies at least 20 and, I suspect, perhaps as many as 30 separate amendments to the Income Tax Assessment Act. Its complexity might be seen in another way if we look at the sheer volume of paper work to which it has given rise. The second reading speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  occupied about 5 pages of Hansard, the Bill takes 29 pages of print and the explanatory memorandum takes another 67 pages. In short, the Bill strikes me as being the sort of measure which will be an absolute delight to the accountancy profession and daunting to everyone else - and that certainly includes me. In fact, recognising my own limitations in this field, I intend as did the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  to restrict myself to dealing with only one and an admittedly minor provision in this Bill. I refer to the proposal to abolish tax deductibility for war memorial donations. 
Before I do that, however, I think that I should not be so discourteous to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch),  who led with unlimited time for the Opposition, as to ignore completely what he said. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, faced with a Bill which, as I have already said, includes as many as 30 amendments to the Act might have been expected in the time at his disposal to find at least one amendment with which he could agree, at least in a modified or qualified way. But he could not find even one such provision. He faced this enormous new Act with an unqualified, a uniform and quite impartial condemnation. Absolutely everything in it was rotten, including measures per,fectly in line with measures adopted by the previous Liberal Government, or at least analagous to them. 
I will give just one or two examples and I do not want to use any more time for this purpose than necessary. Look at the Deputy 
Leader of the Opposition's very first criticism of the Bill. He referred us to clause 6 which will impose taxes on pensions. To use his words, this was perhaps 'the most iniquitous clause of all* - a terrible provision. It was going to introduce the principle of taxability to the pension system. In order to put it in its worst possible light, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition pointed out that this dreadful measure was going to result in fully 20 per cent of the pensioner population being taxed. I would have thought that if the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition was interested in some sort of rational discussion of this question, he might have acknowledged at least this much, that, while it is true that 20 per cent will be taxed, that obviously and conversely means, as the Treasurer has pointed out, that 80 per cent of pensioners will not be taxed. That is, they will not be taxed at all, or even be required to submit a taxation return. Of the remaining 20 per cent, a goodly number will pay no more tax than they already pay and, of the small number still left after that  -  I am referring to single pensioners - those earning up to $75 a week will pay less than younger members of the community earning a similar amount and those earning over $75 a week will certainly pay no more. I think that the Deputy Leader of the Opposition might have acknowledged at least that much. 
I think that he could have acknowledged something else, namely, that whereas antiLabor governments have been talking about the abolition of the means test for over 60 years, it is only the Labor Government which has actually moved to bring the abolition into effect. From the very first day that we undertook the commitment to abolish the means test, we made it perfectly clear that that measure would have to be accompanied, for reasons of both equity and economy, by the introduction of taxation liability on pension payments. As if that were not enough, the truth is that the principle of taxation liability on pensions free of means test is a principle which previously and consistently has been accepted by the Liberal and Country Parties themselves. 
I wish they would remember it. Earlier this year when we were talking about one of the social service Bills and when the discussion of the taxability of pensions was under way in the House, I remember interjecting on the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth).  I remember the occasion so well,  Mr Speaker,  because as you know I interject rarely. 
Yes that is true, but I did interject at that point to ask: 'Is it not a fact that Liberal-Country Party proposals for abolition of the means test are and always have been accompanied by the proposal that those pensions would be taxed?' The honourable member for Mackellar was honest and direct enough to say: 'Yes, that is true'. Of course it is true. It would hardly be possible in equity or under any consideration to introduce the abolition of the means test without that provision. Of course, to be fair in return to the honourable member for Mackellar, he did point out that his Party would not be anxious to abolish the age allowance but in this respect the books are balanced, so to speak, by the special taxation allowance of $156 provided in our own Bill. So, I think that before one gets too indignant, as the Opposition parties are obviously intent on doing in relation to this question of taxability of pensions, one had better remember the background to it and the fact that the proposals of honourable members opposite were always linked with the same or at least a analagous proposal. 
I wish that honourable members opposite would remember something else at the same time and that is that at least in our case the taxability provisions are linked with an attitude to pensions which is somewhere approaching respectability. At least in our case and unlike that of honourable members opposite, it is accompanied by an advance commitment to ensure that the pension will reach a proportion of average weekly earnings which has never been reached in this country since the last time we had a Labor government, almost a quarter of a century ago. We are committed to bringing the pension within a reasonable period to 25 per cent of average weekly earnings - something to which honourable members opposite have never committed themselves and still today do not commit themselves. 
Again on the question of pensions, honourable members opposite might also remember that we have committed ourselves, in order to reach that target, to increases in the pension  of  stated minimum amounts only, twice a year. That is to be compared, if you will, with the record of the previous Government which no less than 7 times in its period in office allowed 2 years at a time to pass without any alteration or updating of pension payments. So I put to the House that it is not of much use plucking out this one question, limited as it is, related to taxability of pensions and ignoring the whole framework of the pensions system within which it has to be considered. 
I make only one other reference to what the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition had to say, and that is in relation to his eloquence and indignation on this other question of the taxability of profits arising from the sale of assets within 12 months of their purchase. He was terribly upset about that and I can understand his concern because it was obviously based on the very special, even peculiar one might say, nature of his electorate. It appears that in the electorate of Flinders we have a place which is literally overrun with 2 broad categories of constituents. The first category involves families who, within a few months of buying a home for themselves in that area, experience unexpected multiple births, and so they have to get a larger house, obviously. The other general category of population in Flinders comprises those people who, again within a very few months of purchasing a home there, become so ill that they have to move to the Gold Coast. 
Those were precisely the 2 examples given by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition, and in response to them I say only this: If we are to approach these things on anything near to a reasonable and rational basis we have to keep our feet on the ground much better than that. If the provisions of this Bill are in fact too limited, and if in practice they are shown to react unfairly or inequitably against a number of people they are always open for review and, given the approach of the Treasurer and the Government to these matters, I have not the faintest doubt that they would be reviewed. But I think that in practice we are going to find that these exaggerated examples are, by far, the exception to the rule. They are most unlikely to occur in practice, and surely the Treasurer is being more realistic than the Deputy Leader of the Opposition when he points out that if profits do arise from the sale of property within 12 months of purchase, it is much more reasonable to assume that this has been due to a speculative transaction rather than to one enforced by other considerations. 
I move from there hastily back to my original purpose, and that is to discuss the question of the abolition of tax deductibility of donations to war memorial funds. This move obviously came from a recommendation in the so-called Coombs Task Force report and its origin is to be found in item 136 of that report. It goes without saying that since the abolition of this deduction is Government policy and comes within the Budget measures, I do not oppose it. On the other hand, I am not all that enthusiastic about it either since, at least in some respects, I have the suspicion that it goes too far. In particular, I do not share the sense of indignation which comes through so clearly in the language of the Task Force report. Moreover - indeed this is my main reason for raising the matter - item 136 also deals with the other charitable deductions allowed by section 78 (1) (a) of the Income Tax Act. I do want to make the point specifically that I hope that the implied suggestion there that the abolition of deductions should be extended to these areas as well, will not be implemented. 
Let me quote some of the comments in the report relating to these matters. For example, it says at one point: 
The 'hard core' of the gift provisions relate to areas in which, at the time of their introduction, governmental activity was heavily supplemented and complemented by private activity. 
To which I would add - and still are. Again the report says: 
Some provisions have been widely abused: as gifts for war memorials are deductible, there has been a rash of 'memorial' swimming pools, private school gymnasiums, churches, chapels, and so on. 
This comment can only be understood as a criticism of the organisations sponsoring war memorial projects, and I believe that any such criticism is unfair and misdirected. 
 It is, of course absurd that 28 years after the war we should still be sponsoring new war memorial projects, and I am sure I have the approval of the honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes)  for that But if there is any fault to be ascribed from that, it is the fault of successive governments for failing to review these provisions, and not the fault of organisations who have brought them selves within them. From their point of view, while section 78(1)(a)(vii) has existed, its principles and provisions have been available for adoption. If I understand the position correctly, every war memorial project has also required the approval of the Taxation Office in advance, and when these requirements have been met I see no room for criticism, expressed or implied, to be directed at the organisations concerned. 
This, by the way, is without even making reference to the nature of the war memorial projects themselves, all of them necessarily non-profit, and almost all of them providing reasonable and useful facilities as well for a broad cross-section of the community. Given the background of these considerations, I am pleased that the Government, while adopting the proposal to abolish the deductibility, has not adopted the terms used by the Task Force in support of the amendment. I also welcome the fact that the Government has not adopted the sudden death cut-off implied by the report but has allowed a phase out period of 12 months so that donations to existing memorial projects made, before 30 June 1974, will still be deductible. But frankly, given the proviso that no new projects would be granted war memorial status, I believe that an even longer phase out period of 2 or even 3 years would not have been unreasonable. This consideration arises especially in view of current fund raising techniques. I think most honourable members will be aware of how large scale funds of this nature are raised today. Apparently you do not go to a man any more and say: 'Give us a donation' and it is physically handed over. You say: 'Make us a pledge' and it is a pledge to be paid over 4 or 5 years by annual instalments. It is less painless and you apparently get much more. 
What happens, though, is that the organisation proceeds immediately to build its project on the basis of its total pledges, and what it uses for colateral is not only the building which is constructed but also the pledges which have been made by intending donors on a bona fide basis. With the abolition now proposed to apply from next June, it is obvious that in the case of at least some projects which are at present under way, either the organisations or the donors, or both, are going to end up severely embarrassed and through no fault or bad faith of their own. It is on that basis that I would be inclined to say that an even longer phase out period would not have been unreasonable. 
There is another casualty of this amendment which has not been referred to by the Task Force and which should be at least recognised if only again to illustrate the need for the closest scrutiny of any further such amendments. As will be seen by a reading of section 78(1)(a)(vii) the section now to be discontinued, this not only supports the construction of new war memorials but also the maintenance of existing war memorials. 
Whatever may be said about the 'abuse' with respect to war memorials to be established for the first time in 1973, it can hardly apply to memorials which date from earlier years, many of them obviously built in the immediate sorrow and hopes for future peace which followed the First and Second World Wars. I cannot do more than hazard a guess at what it would cost to continue tax deductibility for the maintenance of the memorials already established. I suspect that it would be little. I would have hoped ' that perhaps we could have accommodated that by allowing for tax deductibility of that expenditure. 
I cannot conclude without reference to the fact that I hope that at least these drawbacks, even to this reasonable proposition related to war memorials, will serve as a caution to the need for care and consideration of further amendments which might be considered in relation to other charitable purposes. Again referring to item 136 of the report, under the heading 'Possibilities' are listed possibilities which include the partial or total abolition of exemptions of donations to all charitable causes. With due .respect, it appears to me that even the listing of these possibilities indicates a surprising insensitivity by the Task Force to the role which charitable organisations still play in the community as well as to the fact that the value of tax deductibility to their efforts is out of all proportion to the cost to Consolidated Revenue. I regret that time has caught up with me, but I think that the follow-on from these comments will be obvious to honourable members and I hope it is kept in mind. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Urban and Regional Development. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a reported statement by the Leader of the Opposition in Western Australia,  Sir Charles  Court, that it was good to see some members of the Commonwealth's proposed regional groupings deciding to have nothing to do with the proposals? Was he also reported as saying that the Australian Government's regional proposal would destroy local government? Is it a major function of the regional groupings to facilitate applications for direct grants through the Grants Commission? If so, what would the consequences be for councils refusing to join? What possible detriment to councils could arise from their membership of regional groupings and, in particular, could the Minister indicate how direct assistance from the Grants Commission could possibly destroy local government? 
Order! By implication the honourable member for Mackellar has now called the PostmasterGeneral a liar. I ask him to withdraw the implication. 
I make the position clear. The legislation we are introducing is in accordance with the Karmel Committee report. The only point of contention that the Opposition is now trying to raise today - and which it did not raise in the debate - is that there should have been some consideration of that aspect of the report which referred to higher category schools being phased out. That I shall acknowledge. However, the fact is that the report said that there was no " justification for the continuation of those grants but that those schools might be affected in their budgeting and some consideration should be given to them. That is the one kick in the Opposition's case. But the Opposition is saying that because that little aspect has not been looked at it will give us nothing for the government and nongovernment area which is in need. It could have allowed clause 66 to remain and enable a carrying out of all the programs, which I might add all the State Premiers have endorsed and for which they have already allocated money. Unless the program is allowed to flow through the whole of the State's programs for the next year is in jeopardy. They are upset now. I am being inundated by phone calls from across the nation. 
Responsible Ministers for Education in the States, irrespective of their politics, will have the whole of their programs put in jeopardy. I instance Victoria where they have the land, the buildings and contracts let on the basis of receiving this money and that State's program will be put in jeopardy unless some more money is given. For a start there was no amendment at all. The first time that I heard of the $5m was in a Press release by the Leader of the Opposition. Let it be put on record that I understand the Opposition spokesman on education and the acting spokesman on education had a little difference in the Press gallery as to who should be issuing Press releases and what they should say. I suppose that because they could not make up their minds on a Press release they got the Leader of the Opposition to do one and he has plucked the mathematical figure of $5m out of the air. He still has not given any indication as to how it would be allocated. Mathematically I do not think he can make it stick, but from our point of view that is not the issue. 
The issue is clause 66, the termination of the old legislation and the re-allocation of the appropriation of $114m, which is within the $690m that we are providing in this Bill. The Opposition has placed the whole lot in jeopardy by saying that we are not going to get the $114m for re-allocation. It could have let clause 66 remain and moved an amendment to clause 15 to guarantee that what it is contending could be argued and debated. It is too late for a death-bed repentance of the Opposition to say on grievance day that something should be done. I very much doubt whether there has ever been debate like this where a Bill has passed through the House of 
Representatives, to the Senate but is not yet debated there, while grievance day is being used to have another second reading debate. This would be the first time ever. It shows how worried the Opposition is. I thank the House for the opportunity to reply. 
The Prime Minister will be aware of reports of the murder by Syrian forces of Israeli soldiers captured in the recent Middle East war. Is there any reason to doubt the accuracy of these reports? If not, can the Prime Minister inform the House of what action, if any, has been taken on the matter by any country or international agency? Is it a fact that, even apart from the alleged murders, Syria is in breach of at least 3 basic covenants of the Geneva Convention relating to prisoners of war, arising from its refusal of access to prisoners by independent third parties, its refusal to allow prisoners to establish contact with their families and its refusal even to provide the names of prisoners held? As the Geneva Convention provides no sanctions against non-observance other than the possibility of condemnation by the world community, will the Prime Minister consider taking action to have the matter raised at the United Nations on the basis that this is a humanitarian question which can and should be settled independently and irrespective of the continuing dispute in the area? 
Does the right honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
Last Thursday week the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  introduced the Health Insurance Bill 1973, and we were advised at that time that the debate on it would ensue on the following Wednesday afternoon and Thursday - a day and a half in all. Immediately we heard the standard and predictable cries of outrage from Opposition spokesmen. This limitation of time, we were told, was a denial not only of justice, decency, democracy and free speech, but also of the rights of generations dead and not yet born. In short, it was exactly the type of ritual performance which is reserved by the Opposition for all such occasions. We do not begrudge it that. It was all in the usual course of events. It was also in the usual course of events that the Opposition should call for an extension of time for the debate, even though this would require an extension of this session of the Parliament. The only unusual thing about the occasion was that the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly),  to the surprise and dismay of most - I refer to the silent honest majority - agreed. That is why we are here today. 
Let me say something about this extension of the sittings of the Parliament in order to accommodate the cries of outrage. I do not mind an extension of the sittings of the Parliament at any time if it is for something worth while, and perhaps there are debates which are worth while pursuing in this further week's sitting. But among them I would not count this debate on the Health Insurance Bill, for this simple reason: There are only 2 practical purposes to be served by any debate in this House. One is, hopefully, to try to persuade each other, and the other, in the absence of that possibility, is to use the forum for the persuasion of the public. Neither of those purposes can possibly be served by this debate, whether shortened or extended. 
We will not persuade each other because on this question the Opposition has shown itself to be quite as intransigent as the medical profession itself. In spite of all this talk over months and years about the need for exchange of opinions, conciliation, face-to-face discussion and so on, and all these calls for flexibility and reasonableness, the truth remains that only one party to the lengthy discussions that have taken place has shown any flexibility, and that is the Government, and the extent of this flexibility can be measured by the whole range of amendments which have been made even between presentation of the Green Paper and of the White Paper. But on the other side of the House there has been no flexibility at all; the Opposition has continued to condemn us for our dogmatism. There is no purpose, either, in using the public forum for public persuasion, because nothing new can be brought forward in this debate of which the public has not already been made aware, not once but many times and even ad nauseam. 
This debate has not been proceeding since the White Paper was issued a fortnight ago. It has not been limited to the period since the Green Paper was delivered over 6 months ago. In its essential elements, in the philosophy and in its basic approach, the debate today continues a discussion which started no less than 5 years ago when the present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  then Leader of the Opposition, enunciated 3 desirable principles. The first was universal insurance instead of partial cover. The second was the equitable payment of costs of health insurance rather than the current inequitable system. The third was some predictability in medical costs both as related to costs in total and as applicable to individual fee for service arrangements. These are the basic things that we are discussing. We can argue the mechanics, but we need to keep in mind that neither the profession, regrettably, nor the Opposition is prepared to accept even in principle that any of those are worth pursuing. So, we engage in this extended exercise. 
Well, since we are on the exercise and since one cannot in this limited period cover the whole gamut of questions raised by the health insurance system, I propose to restrict myself to responding to a challenge issued by the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  in his capacity as spokesman for the Opposition on health matters. In the course of his speech in the debate on the second reading of this legislation last Thursday, the honourable member for Hotham said: 
I refer now, in specific terms, to a survey published by Philip Shrapnel and Co. Pty Ltd. It has stated categorically that the Minister already has underestimated the cost of his scheme by nearly $300m in the first year and that after the first year the cost will escalate sharply.  . . unless I have missed it, this is one allegation, by Philip Shrapnel and Co. Pty Ltd, about which the Minister has not cared to plant a  Dorothy  Dixer, has not made a statement about and has not attempted to refute, that is, that his scheme is underestimated by $300m. Why has he not done this? One wonders. 
I would hate to see the honourable member for Hotham left in a state of wonderment about the Minister for Social Security over the Christmas recess. I will attempt to enlighten him. 
First, it should be noted in this respect that the Shrapnel report was not published in a vacuum or for the 'academic exercise. On the contrary, it was commissioned by the Voluntary Health Insurance Association of Australia which claims to represent the great majority of open funds but is really a front for the big business organisations in the field, notably the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia. Philip Shrapnel and Co. Pty Ltd is a firm of consulting economists. Its commission was to produce comparative estimates of the cost of hospital and medical services under the existing voluntary scheme and under the Government's new health insurance program. 
Now, so eager was  Mr Moon, President  of the Voluntary Health Insurance Association of Australia to obtain cheap publicity in his campaign against the Australian Government that he released the figures before the report was available to him or to anybody else. The result was that for some time wildly inaccurate statistics were bandied about in newspaper headlines, without anyone having the chance to examine or challenge the data or the assumptions on which they were based.  Mr Moon  claimed in newspaper headlines throughout the country that the Shrapnel report showed that hospital and medical health services under the Government's program would cost $181m more than was estimated in the White Paper and $382m more than the existing voluntary scheme. Yet, when officers of the Department of Social Security asked  Mr Moon  for copies of the report on which these figures were based they were informed that the report was not available, that he had not seen it and that, consequently, and naturally enough, there was no data on which his claims could be verified or examined. 
Last -week, the honourable member for Hotham joined the campaign and asked why the Minister had made no statement about the Shrapnel report. The answer, I should think, is that the Minister wanted to study the actual report in detail before making any statement on it, and that surely is a reasonable and proper enough thing to do. But the honourable member for Hotham has gone beyond the figures quoted by  Mr Moon. Mr Moon  said that the Shrapnel report showed that the cost of the Government's program was underestimated by  S181m.  The honourable member for Hotham says that the Shrapnel report shows that the cost of the Government's program was underestimated by $300m. Are there any further offers? The colleague of the honourable member for Hotham, that is the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer),  repeated the higher figure and at the same time reflected on the competence of the Minister's advisers and departmental officers. 
Nowhere in the Shrapnel report is there any figure to justify this amount of  S300m.  As I will show, the shapnel report contains a number of  major  errors which invalidate its main conclusions. But the Opposition has chosen not simply to accept and to broadcast these conclusions but to distort them further in reckless fashion. The actual comparison of 1974-75 costs under the 2 schemes, made by Philip Shrapnel and Co., with references to the page numbers of the original Shrapnel report is in the small table which I have in my hand and which I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Secondary Industry been drawn to renewed Press reports that a multi-million dollar steel plant - what has been referred to as a jumbo steel plant - has been proposed for construction in Western Australia? In view of the interest in such a project by Western Australians and the need to broaden the industrial base of the Western Australian economy - a need which I believe the Minister himself acknowledged on his recent visit to that State - can the Minister inform the House of. the current status of the jumbo steel plant proposition? In particular, can he indicate the attitude of the Australian Government to it? 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Has the Prime Minister's attention been drawn to a resolution on the Middle East by the Australian Union of Students which calls for, amongst other things, a denial of Israel's existence as a state and for support of Palestinian terrorist groups? Is the Prime Minister aware that debates are currently taking place on Australian campuses to determine whether these resolutions should be endorsed or rescinded, that some Australian Labor Party members have been campaigning in their support, and that questions have accordingly been raised as to whether this might indicate some alteration to previously declared Government policy? Will the Prime Minister confirm that his previous statements to the House in support of Israel's sovereignty and right to existence, and condemning all terrorism whatever its source, remain unchanged so that, to the extent that individual Australian Labor Party members might be supporting the AUS resolutions, their opinions do not represent Labor or Government policies but are in fact inconsistent with both? 
The appropriation Bill is especially directed at provisions for salaries and payments in the nature of salaries. At the same time, in common with all appropriation Bills, it opens up the possibility of reviewing all government operations. Especially in view of the huge Federal funds now being chananelled through the States it seems appropriate to use the occasion for a review of Commonwealth-State relationships. I propose accordingly to discuss one aspect of the current debate on that relationship and I shall approach the topic by way of a brief comment on the current Western Australian State election campaign. The Western Australian election is only 11 days away and there has been an amazing change in public expectation as to its result. Frankly eight or nine months ago it was hard to find a Western Australian who expected the State Labor Government to be returned. Today the position is exactly the reverse. While a redistribution of boundaries leaves particular electorates in doubt, the overall result is not. On all sides now we hear the prediction that Labor will win again. 
I will have it. I leave a detailed analysis of the reasons for this change to others. For the moment I restrict myself to acknowledging the contribution to this remarkable resurgence in Labor fortunes by 2 individuals -  Mr John  Tonkin and  Sir Charles  Court.  Mr Tonkin,  as the Premier, goes into this election with a background of honest effort and solid achievement in the interests of his State. Every one of his 1971 election commitments has been honoured, excepting only those proposals, particularly price restraints, which were frustrated by the Liberal-Country Party majority in the State Upper House. 

 Sir Charles Court, on the other hand, as the election comes closer increasingly gives the impression that his well known compulsion for knocking is now being rivalled by his sense of desperation. Yesterday, having been caught short on his sums for a school construction program, he offered as a solution the prospect of State schools being built and paid for by private enterprise, and used by the State on a rental basis. I am told that the collective shudder of  Sir Charles'  own supporters registered on the Perth seismograph and one can only sympathise with them in the dismay they must have experienced. It is schools on hire purchase yesterday and no doubt it will be teachers on piece work tomorrow. It is all very novel and entertaining but not really helpful except in terms of assisting Labor's re-election. 

 Mr Speaker, I am sure you would appreciate, as would all politicians, how tempting it is particularly at election time to concentrate on the more obvious absurdities in Opposition proposals. I wish to turn, however, to an absurdity which is not so blatant and is perhaps all the more insidious because of it. It is advanced continually at both Federal and State levels and needs to be tackled at both. I refer to the dread if synthetic and transparent ogre - centralism.  Sir Charles'  policy speech last week, when it got to the subject of centralism, was an interesting mix of the lyrical and the hysterical. He said that the Liberal State Government would join in a 4-State alliance against the Labor Federal Government. He said that Western Australia would join the non-Labor governments of Victoria, New South Wales and Queensland in a united campaign against what he described as a Federal invasion of the States. He said: 
All States realise that while Labor remains in power at the Federal level this will be a fight to the death as far as. State rights are concerned. 
It was a clarion call to every able-bodied Western Australian to man the rabbit-proof fence against the marauding hordes from the east, and that was just for openers.  Sir Charles  Court would then, he says, create a special section in the Premier's Department to handle Commonwealth-State relations with the aim of extending relations from their present 'coldly financial' framework to a 'warmly personal' level. Considering the 2 propositions together, we would then presumably have  Sir Charles  Court fighting Gough Whitlam to the death in the friendliest possible spirit. 
What is all that nonsense supposed to mean? The truth, as it seems to me, is that  Sir Charles,  like Opposition members in this House, has been caught in his own rhetoric, for he wrote that the Liberal and Country Parties decided long ago that they would attack the Labor Party for something called centralism' and offer as their own alternative something called 'co-operative federalism'. That is very good, but again I ask: What does it mean? As phrases, slogans, labels, or terms of abuse or endearment these are as good as any. The trouble is that, flourished on their own, they add nothing to the possibility of rational discussion and they are always flourished on their own without the slightest attempt to ascribe any meaningful content to them. Of course, I think I know what is meant to be conveyed by this constant reference to the evils of centralism. The suggestion is that the Australian Government is constantly trying to grasp power to itself at the expense of the States. 
Mir BERINSON- Where is the evidence for it? What evidence there is points precisely in the opposite direction. I give education as the first of any number of examples that are available. 
'Let us discuss education first. In the area of education Commonwealth expenditure in the next 2 years alone will increase by a sum exceeding $ 1,000m. If ever there was the chance to use financial clout to demand power and authority, this was surely it. But it has not happened that way. On the contrary, at the tertiary level, for example, we have seen an expansion of the autonomy normally associated with universities to other tertiary institutions. Again, the enormously increased funds for State primary and secondary schools have been left to State initiatives and priorities for disbursement. I, for one, am still in doubt as to how effective the accountability provisions will be in allowing us to measure progress against cost. 
If anything, as that last comment might suggest, I would suspect that the Commonwealth has reserved too little influence in this respect so that we face the classic dangers of any arrangement where expenditure of funds is separated from the responsibility for raising them. The incentives for efficiency, economy and a reasonable rein on spending proposals are almost bound to slacken in these circumstances and one can already see signs of that tendency developing. It is in the interests of the whole community that that should not become the general pattern. 
Let me give another example at an altogether different level. I refer now to proposals to expand Perth's Forrest Place into a major city square. In respect of planning detail, the proposal is now the subject of a quite heated debate. I will refer to that on another occasion. In principle, however, surely no one will dispute that it is an exciting concept not only because of the facility it will provide but because of the rare degree of Commonwealth, State and local government co-operation which it represents. The Perth City Council will provide the present Forrest Place and the Commonwealth will contribute the very valuable and strategic Padbury Building site. The State will develop and maintain the proposed plaza. The whole concept hinges on Federal cooperation, on a Federal Government which is generous rather than grasping, as the centralism tag is meant to imply. It is not just coincidental that this generosity and co-operation have been forthcoming from the present Government now, although the general idea of a city square in Forrest Place has been mooted for at least a quarter of a century if not longer. Examples can be multiplied. Very large funds are being made available by the Australian Government for such varied projects as health centres, through the Department of Health, and community recreation centres, through the Department of Tourism and Recreation. In each case the priorities and administration are not exercised from the centre but at the State, local government and even individual sporting club level. 
Certainly the central Government is providing the impetus, the initiative and above all the funds for the vast expansion of these programs. But one has yet to hear of a State finding conditions so onerous as to lead it to reject a grant. This applies equally to the 3 anti-Labor State governments with whom  Sir Charles  Court is so keen to establish a four-State alliance as well as to the others. Dealt with on a case by case basis the argument of what one might call the 'centrophobics' tends to be less than overwhelming. But, to be fair to them, I have not yet referred to our minerals policy which they obviously regard as their trump card. They keep suggesting that it is an intrusion of State rights for the Commonwealth to enter this field at all. That argument is not only wrong but also ignorant. To take a topical problem by the horns, let us consider the case of Alwest. As a Western Australian I want to see that project implemented. I share the disappointment expressed by the Premier at its postponement. I hope that the guidelines drawn by Federal Cabinet yesterday can and will be met. I am only too conscious of how economically vulnerable Western Australia is left by the narrowness of its present industrial base. In any economic downturn we in Western Australia are almost invariably hit first and worst. We are naturally anxious to develop our resources in such a way as to move out of that position. 
But it is very far from saying that, to the suggestion that the Australian Government has no role at all in the Alwest decision - that their guidelines are an unwarranted intrusion into an area which is properly one for State action alone - in other words, greedy, grasping centralism at its very worst. When a national government puts limits on foreign takeovers and attaches conditions to the entry of foreign loan funds into Australia it is not improperly ousting State authority. It is doing nothing more than properly exercising its own right. Its authority to act in these fields is provided by the Constitution itself. It is probably impossible now to estimate the cost to Australia of the abdication from this responsibility by previous governments. The centralism bogy with its anachronistic calls to the worst and most divisive features of the old States' rights argument is something which we can well do without. Taken to its logical conclusion it ends up demanding: 'Declare yourself. Are you an Australian or a Western Australian?' That is an impossible and objectionable demand. My answer to it is that I am both, that I find not the slightest degree of tension between the two and that people who attempt to create that tension artificially between State and nation are doing a service to neither. 
I feel obliged to comment in the first place on the mechanics, that is to say the procedures, which have been adopted in discussing this Bill. Last night the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  suggested to us that if this Bill were put through at once it would enable increases to be paid a fortnight earlier than would otherwise be possible if the normal week's adjournment were taken. The honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  agreed to co-operate, and as a result the Bill is to be put through this morning with a minimum of debate, and indeed with almost none. I disagree with this procedure today as I have disagreed on the three or four earlier occasions on which this precedent was set. I believe it to be inconsistent with our duties as a Parliament. 
I have 3 reasons for raising this objection. In the first place we have to realise and accept the responsibility of dealing with quite astronomic sums of money. We are in this Bill providing for the disbursement of $220m. If the challenge of the honourable member for Hotham that we should hasten on to the 25 per cent target were adopted in this Bill, although he himself strangely enough does not adopt it, we would be talking in figures of $450m or $500m, and if concurrently we were to go the whole way and abolish the means test finally, as is to be done in any case within 18 months, we would be talking about a figure obviously closer to a billion dollars than to half a billion dollars. I have not bothered to take out exact figures. I do not think for the moment that that is the important thing. Whatever the precise figure is, it is an enormous one. 
Our attention at this time is primarily and properly directed towards the recipients of these payments, the social security beneficiaries. I think we have to realise when we are dealing with finance of this order that we also have a responsibility to those who will provide the sums involved, those who will pay. For all our desire to reduce tax burdens in some areas, it is precisely this sort of major legislation which will increasingly make that impossible. I hope it will be apparent without my needing to say it that that does not in any way suggest an argument against major social security advances. It is on the other hand, I hope, an argument for a proper scrutiny of amendments to social services legislation in order to ensure that maximum benefit is achieved. I repeat that I believe that Parliament is the proper place for that scrutiny and consideration to take place. 
I 'believe there is a second reason for objecting to this rush procedure. What I say is no reflection on either the Minister for Social Security or the honourable member for Hotham. It occurs to me that the way to demonstrate real concern for social welfare recipients is not by advancing the implementation of a single increase by a fortnight, hut by ensuring that increases are in fact adequate to the need and directed as quickly and effectively as can be done to areas of maximum need. It seems to me that this matter calls for maximum rather than minimum discussion, not only here but in the community as well. We, as a central forum have a role to play in stimulating that discussion outside the House. 
My final objection to this procedure is that it is unnecessary even for the purposes of achieving its own objective. I believe that we are not restricted to a choice between forgoing adequate consideration and debate on the one hand and delaying pension increases by a fortnight on the other hand. There is a third alternative and that is to take the ordinary adjournment and adequate debating time and make any increase retrospective to the date of introduction of legislation rather than make the increase payable from the date of the legisation's enactment. I have urged that course of action on the House before and I again urge it on the House today. I hope that in future this course will be adopted when dealing with similar questions. 
Because I am not now in the position to move that the provisions of this Bill be made retrospective. I have already pointed out - perhaps the honourable member for Hotham was not in the House when I did so - that I am not saying this in any way to be critical of him. I have identified the procedure as one agreed upon between the Minister for Social Security and the Opposition. I am not in any way putting my argument on a factional basis. I am putting it on the basis that for future purposes we should not repeat this procedure, but should make the legislation retrospective to the date of introduction. I am sorry if the honourable member for Hotham was not in the House earlier to hear me make that clear. 
I will restrict myself to indicating some questions which have raised themselves in my mind as a result of the major increases proposed in the present Bill. These are not questions which arose under previous governments when the odd 50c increase did nothing more than barely hold an existing border line position for pensioners. On 7 occasions 2 years were allowed to pass without any pension increase at all, so that the value of the pension over that period actually fell. What we have had since the election of this Government, particularly in this Bill is a qualitative change as well. This raises entirely new and different questions to which, I suspect, we are still not properly adjusted. 
I take as a starting point the Press reaction to the earlier announcement of the $3 increase. Without exception and in spite of concurrent calls for cuts in Commonwealth expenditure, the Press reaction was universally favourable. For the more cynical among us, that alone might be enough to make us wonder whether we might not have overlooked something. But the Press reaction was universally favourable. The general comment was along the lines of an editorial in the 'West Australian' which said that no one would or should begrudge this increase to social service beneficiaries. Indeed one would think that no one would begrude this increase to pensioners, yet some have - and they have 'been pensioners themselves. These people - I do not pretend to know how representative they are - have said that even on an across-the-board basis, the increase is not enough. Most significantly, they have added that more attention should have been given to increasing the supplementary allowance, if necessary at the expense - and this is the most significant remark of all - of a lower across-the-board increase. 
I believe that reactions like that really require us to go back to first principles and to re-examine some of the assumptions on which our approach has until now been based. We might come across a number of factors which, until now, have not appeared relevant. For example, the honourable member for Hotham made an interesting combination of comments on the question of our 25 per cent of average weekly earnings pension goal. Let me refer to his comments of last night. He said, in the first place: 'Why have you chosen the 25 per cent target? What is magic about that?' Having slammed the 25 per cent target, he demanded to know why we were not moving to it more quickly. Then he added, to top it all off, that his own Party of course accepted neither the target nor the timetable, in which case one wonders why the need to urge us to achieve it even faster.  His  performance in this part of his comments reminded me somewhat of the defence one hears about in some celebrated defamation cases: 'I did not say it; if I did say it it was true; if it was not true it was privileged'. 
In any event, the starting point of the honourable member for Hotham was: What is so special about the target of 25 per cent of average weekly earnings? In response the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  suggested that it was better than 18 per cent or 19 per cent, which was the best that the Liberals had done in their term of office. The honourable member for Hotham responded that that was irrelevant. I suggest that it was not really irrelevant, although in the context of that sort of shorthand exchange of views it might well appear so. It was a shorthand way of saying that our target was to at least reverse the erosion in pension standards which had occurred under the Liberal Government. In round figures the amount of 25 per cent was what was achieved by the last Labor Government. In the interim period the amount had been allowed to fall below that level, and we want to put it back. One of the thoughts that has occurred to me is that although an erosion of pension values did occur over the period, strictly speaking we may not be comparing the comparable when we speak in these terms. In order to try to indicate what I have in my mind, I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard a table which was prepared by the Parliamentary Library. It shows the standard rate pension and the standard rate pension plus supplementary assistance, and also each as a percentage of average weekly earnings. 
Firstly, let me say that I respect the principles which the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  is seeking to protect, but I want to add at once the thought that the fears that he has expressed so strenuously are exaggerated. I hope to be able to demonstrate that thought as I proceed. In the first place, he asked why the Committee should have this reference ten or twelve weeks before plans and documenta tion are finalised. He ascribes that, it seems, to a transparent election device. I think we will find, even as this debate proceeds, that it is not the sort of question which will be regarded as an unqualified electoral asset to either side, because if one went to Perth today one would find a heated debate proceeding on the details of the plan that has today been brought before us. If the Government were concerned only with temporal electoral advantage, I would think that, if anything, it would have postponed the presentation of this detailed plan for consideration, leaving it all on a basis of general principle, with which there can be no argument. I suggest that this is a useful exercise to present to the Committee at this time in advance of plans and documentation because what I think the Committee will find when it proceeds to Perth, as I am sure it will if it has this reference, is that what it has before it on this occasion is an unusual reference. It is faced not simply with a question of deciding on the pros and cons of a building in practice, but much more important than that, it will be involved in decisions on the question of the site for that building. As I hope to go on to show it will be a vital part of the work of the Committee to arrive at a decision on optimum siting of the General Post Office administrative block first, that is to say, in advance of its decision as to the nature of the administrative block itself. Although I am not a member of the Committee I would assume that that would be a reversal of what its normal procedures would involve. I have already said that we have in Perth today an intensive discussion on this very question. Not the least of the contributions which the Committee reference now would make, particularly by sittings and hearings in Perth, would be that it would provide a most important focus and forum for that discussion and also provide an impartial body which could hopefully proceed to rational consideration and an impartial decision. 
I want to refer to only one other comment made by the honourable member for Wakefield, and that is his reference to the fact that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  by his announcements, is pre-empting all the work of the Committee. Going back to his announcements starting in 1972, the historical detail of which I hope to cover because it is a matter of considerable interest and certainly of personal interest to me, there is, I believe, only one unalterable commitment already made by the Prime Minister in respect of this proposal, and that is to transfer the Padbury building site to the State or to the City Council, whichever is the most appropriate, for purposes of providing Perth with a major city square or plaza. That is the only unalterable commitment. There is no unalterable commitment, as far as I am yet aware, as to the site or the nature or the height or the capacity of the proposed GPO administrative block. 
Having said that in response to some of the comments of the honourable member for Wakefield, I want to go on to give some further background to his general question and I hope that the House will understand and bear with me if some of the comments that I make at this point are frankly and quite unabashedly subjective. The truth is that I have a particular personal interest in this project, and the reasons for that will become apparent from the comments that I make. In October 1972, I first approached the Prime Minister, who was then Leader of the Opposition, to ask whether he might be interested in a suggestion for his forthcoming election platform. I must tell honourable members that the suggestion was not met with instantaneous delight; on the contrary, I was fixed with something approaching a baleful glare and I was told that my assistance would be welcomed much more if I could suggest to the Prime Minister how he might reduce the existing list by ten or twelve suggestions rather than by adding another one to it. Nonetheless, I persisted undaunted. I have just been advised that the Prime Minister is anxious to make a statement at this stage. I will leave honourable members in suspense to hear the result of my undaunted and continued efforts on this question.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
As I was saying in my most friendly and unprovocative manner when the ceiling fell in before dinner, 
I approached the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in October 1972 with a suggestion for an election platform item. After some small initial encouragement from him I was able to proceed with an explanation of what I had in mind. I was able to tell him about Padbury Building, about the pending expiry of the lease thereon, about the relevance of that fact and of the possibility of extending Forrest Place into a major city square. I must say that in a very few minutes he had agreed in principle to the idea that was being advanced and had given me the authority to approach the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  and the State Premier for their co-operation. This, in turn, was forthcoming very speedily. The result was that on 17 November 1972, at an election speech in Forrest Place,  Mr Whitlam  made this project a commitment of an incoming Labor Government. 
By introducing this topic I do not want to give the impression that I in any way claim credit for this concept of a city square by the extension of Forrest Place. In fact to my knowledge this idea has been advanced consistently by, among others,  Mr Harold  Boas, a well known and pioneer town planner in Perth. It was advanced also, very soon after his arrival, by  Mr Paul  Ritter, then the Perth City Council Town Planner, lt was adopted by the New Heart for Perth Society. I think that all these people should have their vision and their imagination acknowledged. I do that readily and with appreciation to them. I repeat that 1 would not be so immodest as to attempt to claim any originality for the concept. On the other hand I would not be so humble either as to suggest that my own part in the progress of this possibility was insignificant. It is one thing to have an idea and it is another to be able to implement it. My role was that of matchmaker so to speak, and it has been a source of great satisfaction to me to have been able to produce that result. 
To bring events further up to date I need to refer to 20 February last when a proposed plan for redevelopment of the site was released simultaneously by the Prime Minister, the Premier of Western Australia and the Lord Mayor of the City of Perth. Immediately, and predictably I suppose, protests were forthcoming. Within hours there had been an instant analysis and condemnation from such well known and internationally recognised town planning authorities as  Sir Charles  Court and the editor of the 'West Australian'. We heard, in very short order, how this proposal would lead to a black hole, an oven in summer, an environmental disaster and a claustrophobic squash court - just to mention some of the more restrained criticisms made at that time. At the same time, and on an obviously more political level, we had people such as a councillor of the Perth City Council saying: 
I am sure the one thing that West Australians do not want today is further evidence of Canberra meddling in our city. 
That is another example of the claustrophobics about which I had a few words to say earlier this week. Did I say claustrophobics? I meant centraphobics. In a moment I will be asking the Public Works Committee to keep an open mind about the plan which was tabled in the House this afternoon. Unlike others, I do not claim a professional expertise to make a final personal judgment either for or against this plan although I tend to believe that the existing plan will be vindicated in the end. But even without committing myself to the plan in its present form I think it should be said that the critics so far have been excessively ungenerous. Those people who have referred to excessive meddling by Canberra in State and city affairs might at least acknowledge that on the joint committee consulting on the preparation of the plan Commonwealth representatives were in a minority. They were outnumbered by far by representatives of the State Government and by 3 representatives of the Perth City Council, including the Lord Mayor and the City Planner. 
As for the plan itself, it is too hard to explain to the House in detail without diagrams or models. I think that all I can do at this stage is throw in very quickly some of the criticisms that have been made and question whether they have been fair. For example, the criticism has been made that the proposed plan will leave a city square which is too small. One is entitled to reply to that criticism by saying that the open space in the proposed city plaza will be larger than the open space in Martin Place with which the plan often has been compared unfavourably. It is said that the proposed General Post Office structure will be an ugly building and that it will look like a cash register. That is presumably because it has been designed in a sloping terrace manner. Authorities, I think of equal standing, have ventured the opinion that that shape could lead to the possibility of an internal structural landscaping which, if anything, could add a great deal to the area. Probably the most insistent criticism has been that the nature of the plan, with the GPO building shutting off the northern end of Forrest Place, will result in the destruction of what otherwise would be a magnificent vista to the north. Again I say, only by way of a balancing suggestion, that other authorities have indicated that large enclosed city spaces can be quite as attractive in their own way as can the open vista, and the former in fact is the standard feature of European cities at which we often look with envy. 
Having said all that - a great deal more could be said if so much time had not been taken up by other matters - in tentative defence of the plan I repeat my request to the Public Works Committee for openmindedness on the plan put before it. I hope that the question that members of the Committee will ask themselves will not be: 'Does this plan meet the needs of the GPO administrative block?' I hope the question will not even be: Does this plan meet the needs of the GPO block without unreasonable violence to the adjacent city environment?' I urge the Committee to start at the other end and to ask: What is the ideal city environment in this area? Does the proposed, indeed could any, GPO block of the proposed capacity be accommodated here?' I admit that this would be an unusual approach but the position is unusual. In fact it is unique. We have the opportunity of creating a spectacular civic enterprise and we must always make sure that full advantage is taken of this opportunity. 
Order! There is no point of order in respect of a motion that the question be now put. It must be put forthwith. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
The honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp),  in his capacity as the shadow Minister for Social Security, has listed the following matter of public importance for debate: 
The actions of the Minister for Social Security in attempting to cover-up secret negotiations aimed at amending the Government's proposed health scheme. 
Normally I would not quote the terms of a matter of public importance raised by the Opposition, but I think the terms of this one ought to be repeated and quoted back to the Opposition because it appears to me to be difficult to conceive of a matter more ludicrous, irrelevant or puny, especially given the circumstances in which we find ourselves this week. It seems that we are within a few hours of an historic double dissolution based on an historic abuse of powers by the Senate. Yet here today the Opposition can find nothing more important to raise as a matter of public importance than whether a Minister did or did not participate in a meeting some weeks ago. 
This matter of public importance is irrelevant and puny on a number of scores. In the first place, it attempts to construct a conspiracy theory with loaded terms such as 'cover-up' and 'secret negotiations' to describe discussions which, if they had in fact taken place, would have been no more or less confidential than would be normal for any preliminary government discussion on this or any other subject at all. That the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  was not directly a party to any such discussions, secret or otherwise, is just a bonus for those who see the raising of this matter as a desperate clutching at straws. There is a second reason for looking at this matter as one of absurdity and total unreality. This matter of public importance is directed against a Minister who could not have been more open in his dealings with the public, the profession and the health funds. If anything, as the Minister responsible for this very delicate question of an alternative health scheme, he has been too open for his own good. The Minister has had to deal with a subject matter, the broad outlines of which were laid down as long ago as 1968 and have been publicly refined and reaffirmed ever since. 
For the first time, certainly in my experience in the Parliament and I believe in the experience of honourable members who have been here much longer than I, more than 6 months in advance of the legislation being introduced the Minister introduced a Green Paper for the very purpose of opening the way to even fuller discussion and attempts at co-operation. He followed that up, as we are well aware, with a White Paper and then with the Bill. Whatever criticisms can be levelled at the Minister, criticism cannot be levelled at his frankness or at his accessibility to interested groups. But there is yet a third reason which makes the matter of public importance inappropriate. After all, who are members of the Opposition to talk? Members of the Opposition seemed to become terribly upset, irate and indignant when a document containing the policy recommendations of the Liberal Party's Committee on Social Security, Health and Welfare, which they regard as confidential, was produced in the House today. They were not upset at all about the honourable member for Chisholm producing another document which was supposed to be, in their own terms, highly confidential and to be destroyed before reading. 
It appears to me that members of the Opposition have 2 alternatives in respect of this draft document of their alternative health scheme. It is a long, complicated and comprehensive document. They can say that they compiled the document on their own initiative, without consultation with interested groups; or they will be in the position of saying, as I would expect and hope them to say, that of course they would not go ahead with such a scheme without consultation with those who are most affected. I would hope that members of the Opposition would say that they did engage in consultations. If that is the case, why have those consultations been on the basis of cover-up and secrecy? Perhaps we can reverse the subject matter of this debate and, instead of talking about cover-ups and secret negotiations in relation to possible Government amendments, talk about cover-ups and secret negotiations between the Opposition and interested parties leading to the Opposition's draft health scheme. 
I will not pursue that line. I would regard it as being as absurd as the Opposition attempt to pursue the line contained in the matter of public importance which it has brought on today and its construction of a conspiracy theory on a matter which is not at all out of the ordinary.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I regret the raising of this matter of public importance for all the reasons of irrelevance that I have put to you. But, even more than that, I regret the raising of this matter because, in the limited time available to us not only today but perhaps in this Parliament if we are to discuss anything about health schemes, why should we not concentrate on the substance of the subject rather than peripheral and irrevelant matters such as possible further amendments? Why, in any event, should there not have been discussions on such possibilities over recent months, given the rejection of the earlier Bill and the continued intransigence of the Senate? More than that, why should there be any surprise if the Minister does consider further changes, in the light of his past flexibility and his efforts for agreement and compromise in this scheme? 
The trouble with honourable members opposite is that they have never been able to make up their minds in relation to health schemes whether to attack the Government for what they regard as its dogmatic and inflexible adherence to its alternative health scheme or, as now, to attack it for not being dogmatic and for being willing to accept alternatives to its original scheme. One thing is sure: Honourable members opposite cannot have the objections both ways. In fact, flexibility by the Minister even at this stage would be no more than consistent with his own record and attitude. If any illustration of that is needed it is surely to be found in the difference in content between the proposals of the original Green Paper and those of the White Paper and subsequent legislation. The Minister mentioned some of those differences, indicating his flexibility. One could list many others. 
For instance, the identity card system was first of Ml to be made compulsory but was then made optional, thus ensuring absolute confidentiality in the doctor-patient relationship. Bed-day subsidies were markedly increased. Originally, they were said to be too low for private hospital survival. The increase would certainly ensure the position of those hospitals- The independence of private hospitals in any possible conflict of religious and medical practice was absolutely guaranteed in the final form of the scheme. Private fund medical insurance, originally to be abolished, was allowed to continue. Private supplementary hospital insurance, formerly presumed to be based on actuarial principles which could have priced many people out of the market, was to be based on a community rating system. These changes were all achieved in only 6 months as a result of public comment and discussion. Yet the Opposition consistently calls the Government dogmatic. 
The only thing that may give rise to confusion among people who are not aware of parliamentary procedures is that the Minister is said to have indicated directly or indirectly that he was prepared to amend the Bill as re-presented this week - I have already said that there is nothing wrong in principle or practice with that - yet the Bill came in its original form. For what it is worth, I think we should at least clarify the position for people who may be confused by that set of circumstances. The reason the Bill came in in the original form and not in any amended form relates to procedures connected with double dissolutions. It was required to come in in an identical form if it was to be used for the purpose of advising the Governor-General to allow a double dissolution on this Bill as well as on other Bills. 
Order! The Minister's time has expired. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 - Mr Acting Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 

Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 

<graphic href="089131197407103_35_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="089131197407103_35_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="089131197407103_36_2.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="089131197407103_36_3.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="089131197407103_36_2.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="089131197407103_36_3.jpg"></graphic>

Debate (on motion by  Mr MacKellar)  adjourned. 
The former Governor-General,  Sir Paul  Hasluck, in a very pleasant, if pointed, after dinner speech on Tuesday night, reminisced about what he called honourable members' annual speeches. Today we heard the annual speech of the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  on this subject. I refer to his speech about the Labor health scheme meaning disaster not only for every man, woman and child in Australia but for generations yet unborn, generations not yet thought of and, one gained the distinct impression, even generations long since perished. 
To that the honourable member added his 6-monthly speech on the disgusting use of the guillotine to cut short debate on this vital Bill after only 2 hours discussion. 
In response to the 6-monthly speech of the honourable member for Hotham, let me give to him my 6-monthly reply, which goes something like this: I am all for adequate parliamentary debate. The question is: What does the word 'adequate' mean in this context? I think that when we talk about adequate parliamentary debate we are talking about discussion sufficient to air the issues, discussion sufficient to clarify any issues which require clarification for the public, and discussion adequate to allow the topic before the House to go into the community as well so that some feedback can come to elected members in this place. I believe in adequate parliamentary discussion in that sense and I think all of us should do everything we can to protect it. But we do not need lengthy discussions and parliamentary debates on this Bill at this time because every one of those preconditions has not only been met but has been met often and repetitiously and, as I think I may have said on previous occasions, even ad nauseam. 
This is not a subject which has suddenly been thrown into the Parliament for a quick decision. In every essential detail of principle there is not one thing different in the Bill before the House from the propositions which were first enunciated in great detail by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  - then the Leader of the Opposition - as long ago as 1968. The implementation of the Bill was part of Labor's election platform in the 1969 Federal election. It was part of Labor's Federal election platform in 1972. It was introduced into the Par liament in 1973 after the most unusual, almost unique, possibilities for public discussion which came by way of a Green Paper and then a White Paper. The Bill was rejected by the Senate once; it was rejected by the Senate for a second time on the eve of the double dissolution, and in fact the Bill became one of the 6 rejected Bills on which the double dissolution was justified. 
The circumstances of that second rejection are not irrelevant to the present debate, and to the continuing questioning by the Opposition as to whether the Government has or has not a mandate to proceed with this legislation and just how extensive, adequate discussion at this stage would have to be. 
The national health scheme legislatioin was not introduced into the House of Representatives in April until after rejection of the Supply Bill, which meant that an immediate election had already become almost certain. The Opposition in the Senate then went out of its way to provide a second rejection expeditiously. It is true that for the purposes of a double dissolution the Senate does not have, to reject a second time. It would have been enough to fail to pass the Bill at that stage. Nonetheless an adjournment for so modest a time as a week or even a very minor filibuster leading the Government to adjourn the debate would have left the Governor-General very hard put to determine that there had been a failure to pass, and hence an additional justification for a double dissolution. 
What this background adds up to is this: The national health scheme, which embraces the proposed new Labor health program, need not have been a causal factor in the double dissolution and hence it need not have been amenable to passage by way of joint sitting, as is now its inevitable course. That it did become the subject of these provisions can only be seen as a result of an Opposition decision, presumably deliberate, to again make the health scheme a major element in the recent election campaign. So it was. For the third: time, as in 1969 and 1972, this legislation was part of the package which the electorate supported when it returned the Labor Government. In response to the evidence provided by 3 successive elections and after 6 years intensive campaigning on this very subject, all that the Opposition can bring up is continued reference to some gallup poll which shows that a number of Australians - a majority if you like - are not enthusiastic about 
Labor's program. One thing that the Opposition has not done, of course, is to tell us how many people interviewed by the gallup polls were enthusiastic about the Opposition's alternative health program. That is understandable. No questions were asked about the Opposition's alternative health program because there is hardly anyone in the country who knows what it is. Yet I do not think that I am misrepresenting members of the Opposition when I say that they themselves concede that important elements of the existing scheme simply have to be changed if the scheme is to continue to operate efficiently and within the capacity of the community to support it. 
Again I emphasise that the Bill we are discussing today is not the outcome of some vaguely worded election undertaking to provide a better health scheme, or some other such generality. It is precisely the Bill presented last year and represented earlier this year. It is the Bill which it was understood would again be represented in the event of the return of the Labor Government. In every basic essential, though certainly not in every detail, it conforms with .the statements, the policy declarations and the printed manifestos which have been issued consistently since 1968. I wish that that at last could be absorbed by members of the Opposition because they would then be able to get away from this constant harping about the absence of a mandate and the lack of adequate discussion, and to concentrate on the actual legislation itself. 
I deliberately draw a distinction between the basic principles of the Labor program and the details of implementation. In respect of the latter, the Minister in particular has shown a remarkable and responsible degree of flexibility. Reasonable objections to elements of earlier drafts have been considered and amended in later drafts. I would have thought that one such amendment was the amendment relating to the absence of pressure for bulk billing. But the honourable member for Barker fDr 'Forbes) apparently considers that as an undesirable amendment. Even objections which to my mind were unreasonable have been accommodated by the Minister. I .think that the outstanding example of that was the wholly artificial and cynical attack on the proposed medical cards as a threat to doctor-patient confidentiality. Even those criticisms, cynical as they were, have been accommodated by the Minister on the basis that they had aroused public concern. 

Order! I think there have been sufficient interjections on this matter. I call the honourable member for Corangamite. 
The next point I wish to make relates to the provision for payment by way of compensation under clause 13 of the Bill. As acquisition of the land will be under the Lands Acquisition Act, a fair price must be paid; but the question arises as to when it will be paid. I regret to say that in the past there have been cases in which the Government has acquired land - admittedly at a fair price - but payment has been delayed for a long time. I believe that interest is now payable at 8 per cent, or thereabouts, on outstanding amounts. I point out to the. House that this is less than the Commonwealth bond rate, but it is certainly an improvement on the previously very low rate, which I think was of the order of 3 per cent. The Opposition would like an undertaking from the Minister that there will be no undue delay in the making of payment once the land is acquired or other compensation becomes payable according to the terms of clause 13. 
Finally, I refer to the issue of warrants for entry on to land, as provided for in clause 10 of the Bill. Among other things, clause 10 refers to the situation where an occupier refuses consent for entry or where it is impracticable to obtain the consent of the occupier 'within a reasonable time'. I am a reasonable man. I concede that on occasions the Minister can be a reasonable man. But the point is that neither the Minister nor I will be administering this legislation. I understand that that will b: done by the National Capital Development Commission. 

 -Mr Chairman, section 57 of the Constitution provides that where the requirements for a joint sitting have been satisfied the sitting shall vote but may deliberate; that is, it need not necessarily deliberate on the proposed laws put before it. It occurrs to me that when the founding fathers wrote in that provision they must have had something like these health Bills in mind because, especially having heard the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  and, for that matter, knowing in advance how I proposed to respond, I can only be fortified in the view that if there is one subject on which no good purpose can be served by further argument it is this subject of Labor's alternative health scheme. It has all been said before. Only rarely can a domestic political debate in Australia have been as long and expensive and as bitter and divisive as has been the case with this subject. We have fought 3 elections on it, the first as far back as 1969. We have passed this very Bill through the House of Representatives 3 times within the last 9 months. Thousands of man-hours and millions of dollars have been spent in propaganda pro and con. 
At every stage the Government has been open in its intentions and open to advice, suggestions and request. The present Bill, in its substantial difference from earlier concepts, reflects the willingness of the Government to accommodate, so far as that is possible, both the concern and the special interests of all affected groups. I am quite sure that even now the Government will remain receptive to reasonable approaches for further amendment to it; but, for the moment and for technical reasons which are well known to us all, the Bill must go through this Sitting in its present printed form. That being so and the result being inevitable, I wonder whether we might be able at last to look at the scheme in a rather calmer and more rational manner than has been the case in past debates. If we are to be honest we would all acknowledge, I think, the serious difficulty, when we try to discuss a complex issue for the purposes of political persuasion, is that it is easy to fall into the trap of using generalities and over simplification which ends up distorting the picture. 
In this context slogans are particularly good for short term political effect, if useless for real understanding, and whatever may be said about the opponents of Labor's health scheme it could not be said that they have been short of slogans. They have said, as  Mr Chipp  continued to say today, that we were going to nationalise medicine; we were going to prevent freedom of choice; we were going to destroy the doctor- patient relationship; we were going to wreck the hospital system; we were going to give much less service at far greater cost; we were going to socialise, centralise and bureaucratise; and we were going to reduce proud, vigorous and individualistic Australians to mere ciphers on some remote computer roll. 
The Leader of the Opposition says that is right. That indicates how much he must know about it. As we have seen today, not even all that vilification could stop the impetus of a new scheme, but it has had many unfortunate results all the same. In the first place, it encouraged an inflexible attitude amongst the medical profession which precluded its cooperation in amending and improving the scheme. In the second place, it produced what I would accept as genuine but none the less unnecessary anxiety and fear among doctors. That situation still persists and it has been deliberately transmitted to a very large number of patients. Thirdly, and perhaps most importantly, the blanket condemnation of the scheme produced- as a reasonably natural reaction- a blanket defence of it. In the course of that process some potentially serious difficulties have tended to become obscured. 
Accordingly, at the end of this long campaign, many people- doctors and patients alike- are obviously left with doubts, reservations and fears, many unreal and unjustified but others real and reasonable and calling for consideration. What I would categorise as the unreal worries can be passed over fairly quickly. They are issues which, in the main, have attracted most attention in the public controversy so far. For example I refer to the allegation that we are out to destroy the freedom of choice which exists in the present scheme. The honourable member for Hotham repeated that allegation today, as he has every time I have heard him speak on this subject. But it is less than a year ago that the honourable member for Hotham said: 
There have been many cliches spoken, in the hope that people are idiots, and based on the false premise that just because someone drops a cliche, everyone is going to believe it and therefore hate the Government, hate the Labor Party, and despise the health scheme. This line of reasoning is stupid. 
I wish the honourable member for Hotham would take his own advice. It cannot be repeated too often that the charge about destruction of freedom of choice is simply untrue. Coverage for all private medical service is part of the program and will continue to be available at reasonable cost. This applies to general practitioner services, to specialist services and to services within hospitals and outside them. Anyone who refers to the Bill itself rather than to their own pre-existing prejudices would find it impossible to deny that fact. Let me put it again as clearly and unequivocally as I can. Any patient seeing any doctor today under the present scheme will still be free to see that doctor when the new scheme is introduced. 
The new scheme will in no way restrict a patient from seeing a doctor he is seeing now. In act, far from restricting freedom of choice the new scheme will expand it in many important respects. For the first time pensioners requiring specialist attention will not be restricted to hospital outpatient wards but will be able to attend a specialist of their own choice at his private rooms. For the first time everyone will have the choice of access to free standard ward care including free medical services by paid hospital staff Again for the first time, free medical attention will become possible for everyone, free of means test, where doctors are prepared, entirely at their own discretion, to accept 85 per cent of the common fee in full payment for their services on a bulk billing system. Curiously, this last possibilityit can be no more than a possibility because it depends entirely on the doctor's preference- became the basis of a second attack on the scheme on the grounds that it would destroy the doctor-patient relationship. 
The reasoning here, if one can dignify it by that description, is that somehow there must be a direct passage of payment between patient and doctor for the doctor-patient relationship to arise. That is a peculiar concept, is it not, because among other things it would mean that the 1 1 million consultations last year between pensioners and general practitioners of their own choice where no direct payment was involved did not involve any doctor-patient relationship. One wonders how many doctors or pensioners would be prepared to agree with that proposition. 
It is tempting to try to pursue these fairly shallow arguments and others like them, for example, that we are going to nationalise medicine when our scheme guarantees the continuance of fee for service medicine, which is the very antithesis of nationalisation. It is tempting to try to pursue these more shallow arguments, but it is probably more important, given our limitation of time, to move to other areas which involve matters of more realistic concern. It is said, for example, that the new scheme will be accompanied by sharply rising health cost. So it will. But that really proves nothing on its own, does it, because the present health scheme is also accompanied by sharply rising health costs, and the figures are clearly available to demonstrate it. 
Between 1969-70 and 1972-73, for example, the cost to the Commonwealth of medical services to insured persons and pensioners rose from $193m to $329m, that is, at an average annual increase of 20 per cent. The Treasurer's statement of financial transactions for the 1973-74 year shows the outlay on health at $942m as opposed to $783m the previous year. Again, that is a 20 per cent rate of increase, and all on the basis of the present health scheme. 
In spite of the interjection by the honourable member for Griffith who is no doubt anxious to have some place in Hansard and perhaps on the television coverage, the truth is that the escalation of medical costs is a serious problem in all countries and under all systems, and there is no single, let alone simple, answer to it. State governments can confirm- and it is evidenced by the most recent 50 per cent increase in hospital charges- that hospital costs are running away in this country under the present scheme and at a much faster rate, as it happens than in Canada or the United Kingdom or the United States of America against which unfavourable comparisons are so often made. The present scheme has no controls, and comparisons with the new program are made on the erroneous, or at least the unbased assumptions about the extent to which services in the future will be free and will be subjected to abuse. In fact, the statistical feed-back from the new program will at least provide a starting point for cost control, that is, knowledge of where the money is actually going and what the component trends are. 
A second major concern has been expressed that doctors will be over-worked, that their surgeries will be flooded with patients, and that there will be an inevitable decline in their standard of practice. Once again I believe it can be said that these fears are based on unwarranted assumptions and assertions that all services in future will be free, and will be freely abused. 
In fact, doctors will have three billing options, two of which involve them in giving their patients bills and collecting from them exactly as they do at present. If they use these options, as they say they will, there is no reason to expect higher utilisation by people already covered than is already the case. On the other hand, if doctors do adopt the third billing option and so provide literally free medicine- and if their experience indicates that this does lead to excessive pressure and declining standards- there will be nothing to prevent them from reverting to another billing system which reintroduces part charges. The standard of medical practice, in other words, as is the case now remains in the hands of the profession itself. 
This still leaves for consideration what is probably the most serious question of all, namely, what will happen to hospital services when free standard ward treatment becomes available on the basis of paid, allocated hospital staff. On this question the honourable member for Hotham and the Opposition in general have adopted what might fairly be described as the disaster view, and it goes something like this: Firstly, as soon as free standard ward treatment becomes available there will be such an immediate and huge shift of patient demand to the standard wards that the public hospitals will be incapable of coping; their standards will crumble; patients will be left queuing for attention, with long waiting periods before admission. The honourable member for Hotham nods his head and insists on that view. He would also insist that the converse would apply, namely, that the public hospitals being starved of clients would simultaneously go into collapse, although for the opposite reason. 
That combination of events in fact could occur in a certain set of circumstances. The point of view I put to the honourable member for Hotham is that that set of circumstances is not going to occur and is positively prevented by the provisions of the Bill. That set of circumstances could arise, for example, if the Government provided no subsidy at all for intermediate or private beds, but that is not the case. It could happen if no arrangements were possible for private supplementary insurance to meet the gap between bed costs and government subsidy, or if the cost of that supplementary insurance were prohibitive. Safeguards against each of these possibilities are specifically ensured by the Bill or by clear commitments contained in the White Paper on which the Bill is based. A daily hospital benefit of $16 has been guaranteed. That figure was set before the most recent increase in hospital charges and, I believe, will have to be subject to further review. Again, the White Paper ensures that private supplementary insurance will be available and will be community rated to ensure reasonable contribution levels. 
Quite apart from these factual considerations, however, the disaster view ignores the probability that a high proportion of the public will not opt for free standard wards because in that situation patients will not be able to exercise their own choice of doctor. That will be the case only with private and intermediate wards. The disaster theorists cannot have it both ways. They cannot, on the one hand, say that the public desperately wants to preserve its freedom of choice of doctor but then say on the other hand that for the sake of an after-tax contribution of less than $1 a week they will desert their private doctors, desert that freedom of choice in a great stampede for the standard wards. I believe that the estimate made last week by  Mr Shaw,  the acting general manager of the Hospital Benefits Association of Victoria is more reasonable and certainly more realistic. He estimates that the Association will retain half its present contributors. Nonetheless, there is no point in denying that a potential problem in this area does exist and will have to be monitored carefully, especially in the early days, to ensure that excessive demand in particular areas does not disrupt the scheme as a whole. There seems no reason to doubt that that can be done. 
The debate in which we are now engaged did not start just this morning or even a couple of months ago with the double dissolution. It did not start last year with the Green and White Papers or at the 1972 election in which the subject figured so prominently. In essence, this debate continues and, hopefully concludes, at long last a discussion initiated 6 years ago by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  who was then Leader of the Opposition. Those days are so far past that it is hard to remember them. He enunciated 3 desirable principles. The first was universal insurance instead of partial cover, the second was equitable payment of costs rather than the current inequitable spread, and the third was some predictability in medical costs both as related to total health expenses and as applicable to individual fee for service arrangements. Nothing that has happened since has made those objectives less desirable or less necessary. Nothing that has been offered since by the Opposition or by any other source has indicated how those objectives might better or more fairly be achieved. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
What was the date of the last calculation of average costs in State primary and secondary schools, and what were the average costs at that time in respect of each State. 
Is it possible to estimate the approximate current costs at each level in each State; and if so, what are the details. 
-It is open to the honourable member to speak from the table if that is with the agreement of the Minister. 
In 1971-72 it was estimated that the value of Government assistance to farmers was some $3,000 per head. What sort of equity was achieved at that time? What sort of benefits flowed from that? The Opposition has not quantified the previous measure of assistance it gave. I will concede that there is unrest in farming areas. I will concede that perhaps the Government does not understand some of the feelings of this socioeconomic group of people in our community. The farmers understand that the government of this country has changed, but I am afraid that they still do not understand the reasons for change and the fact that priorities are different. It is simply a question of political fact that for 23 years some 43 to 5 1 per cent of the voting population of this country did not have the Government of their choice. I have only to refer to my own electorate, where we have 46,000 people without a hospital. Some people who get to hospital eventually are dead on arrival in the ambulance. There are high schools in other parts of my electorate where 2 high schools are jammed into one and we now have the ridiculous situation where for 3 yean one high school has been jammed into another. We have roads where the traffic travels at 0.8 miles an hour. 
The Country Party is a sectional party and it promulgates very effectively the interests of those it represents, but when it tries to interpret our policies as sectional I think it fails to understand the priorities this Government is articulating and the reasons for those priorities. This failure to understand is the reason why the government of this country changed. I simply do not believe that anything constructive can result from this urgency motion by the generation of fear or distortion of facts, nor will anything be achieved by members of the Country Party attempting to foment a rural revolution. There is unrest in the country, due as much to strikes as to any other factor. Strikes particularly affect the rural  sector,  and the Government well appreciates this. If there is no dieseline some irrigation equipment cannot operate. The strike at the Grain Elevators Board particularly affected the wheat industry. Costs in the rural sector have risen by 16 per cent but these cost rises are affecting all sectors in the economy equally. There is nothing particularly significant about this, and this is one of the Government's main problems, together with inflation. 
There is a danger in trying to promote fear; there is a danger in interpreting the present situation beyond the simple maximisation of one interest group. It could be said that some people in the rural community are only willing to uphold the concept of democratic government when it produces the results they desire. There was a rural decline in farm incomes in the late 1960s and early 1970s. What did the Opposition do then? Did it attempt to do anything about the dairying industry during the 1960s when it had impeccable advice that it was essential to do so? What did it do for the wheat industry besides put quotas on? What tariffs were ever cut in the interests of our export earners? In all cases the answer of the Opposition, which was in government in those times, was: 'We will not act unless the industry organisations are agreed. ' One act of the Government that has affected the rural sector is revaluation and, in terms of general economic management, this was essential. Some $ 1,900m of hot money flowed into the country and this flow has been one of the main factors causing our present inflation. Other things have added to it. We did cut tariffs as some compensation, but what happened in 1973 was that the world speculators, the international factors acting in all economies, rushed from currencies into commodities. Rural incomes last year rose dramatically for a peak of one year. The net rural income last year was estimated to be something like $2,993m whereas in the previous year it was $ 1,158m. It has been calculated that export income will be only marginally lower for 1974-75 than the record in 1973-74. If we look at exports of rural origin and their value, in 1971-72 the value was $2,425m, last year it was $3,536m and in the coming year it is estimated to be only slightly below that. There are 2 industries in trouble- wool and beef. By its actions in providing $150m the Government has not shown disregard for the wool industry. The government, by its actions to hold the wool market at 250c for 2 1 clean micron wool, has shown a great regard for the needs of the wool market. 
No,  Mr Chairman,  we have not changed our opinion at all. In fact we are stronger in our thought that increased production is the answer to the problem. 
But even with beef the figures will only return to something like the figures of 2 years ago. We are all hopeful that meat exports will again pick up early in the new year. But for the Government suddenly to come in with some plan that will help the beef industry out of trouble instantly because 3 markets have collapsed is simply beyond reality. What do the members of the Australian Country Party or the Opposition propose or want for the beef industry? They have not said anything. Are we to buy the beef? Are we to subsidise the price? Are we to control the productionor would that be socialism? The situation that we are facing with respect to primary industries presents a very complex picture. Counter to the figures of the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Sinclair),  I have more accurate figures which point to the situation being slightly worse than he said in respect of one matter. If we were to look at the trends in Australian rural production and exports as shown by figures provided by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics we would find that the main feature of the estimates is a decline of some 17 per cent in the gross value of rural production to $5,436m and a rise of 6 per cent in the value of rural exports to $3,763m. It has been estimated that farm costs rose by over 16 per cent in 1973-74. A similar increase- not 22 per cent- is expected to take place this year. Those 2 trends together will certainly reduce the net farm income. 
But there are complications with respect to the wheat industry. Whereas the prices will be higher, the production will be lower. Despite what the Opposition says the situation is not all gloomy. Let us have a look at the national market guide in the 'Land' of Thursday, 5 September. An article on the front page of the market analysis under the heading 'Dairy outlook is promising 'reads: 
The dairy industry faces continued strong demand for all its products next year. And unlike the meat and wool industries, Australian production is unlikely to fill overseas requirements. 
Butter, cheese, skim milk powder, and the whole range of dairy products are continuing to be strongly sought after on world markets. Prices are remaining at high levels, with skim milk powder particularly meeting solid inquiry. 
Let us have a look at the sugar industry. An article appearing under the heading 'Sugar prices at peak' reads: 
Fears of a world sugar shortage gathered momentum this week, pushing prices on world markets to record peaks. In London, the London Daily Sugar Price reached a record of 360 Pounds sterling a long ton under the impact of forecasts of a world shortfallLondon sugar dealers forecast that the shortages are likely to continue well into next year - 
And so it goes on. Let us have a look at the grains situation. Despite what the Deputy Leader of the Australian Country Party has said the Government is not responsible for the area planted or the weather. Production is expected to go up to 8, 100,000 tonnes in 1974-7 5 from the production of 5,380,000 tonnes in the current year. The value for 1974-75 has been estimated at $870m compared with the $550m for the year just passed. If we were to have a look at the coarse grains, sorghum and oilseeds industries we would find that all the market prospects are quite good. 
As I have said, when industries have been in trouble the Government has shown an interest and also a willingness to act. The Government is determined to act where possible not in an ad hoc way but in a most rational manner. As a member of the Australian Labor Party whose electorate is partially rural I must emphasise that what I have to say in Dapto, where I receive 75 per cent of the vote, also has to be heard 20 miles away in Kangaroo Valley, where I receive 23 per cent of the vote. There is a need for the people of 
Australia to ensure that the protection does not result from political deals or pure political lobbying and pork barrelling. I believe that the resources of the leaders of farm organisations and the Country Party would be more usefully employed in promoting a higher level of economic literacy among the farming community than in blowing against the winds of political and economic reality or in propagandising for the return of a certain and golden age which never did exist. The Whitlam Government is opposed to ad hockery and wishes to act justly with respect to the rural sector and to accord it no special favours over any other sector of the economy. Those are the reasons why it set up the Industries Assistance Commission to give assistance and measures of protection to all industries, primary and secondary, on some rational basis. That is the reason why the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt),  who is a member of another place, set up the Rural Forum and the National Rural Advisory Council. That is the reason why the Government has brought in a Green Paper, which will be the first step towards the getting of some overall national rural policy. Despite what the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party has said, the Green Paper was not a series of recommendations but a series of guidelines. The contents of the Green Paper will not be a series of recommendations until they become a White Paper. 
Our approach has been based on the interests of the whole rural sector and not just the people who live on farms. Perhaps the Government needs to state again and again that it does appreciate the role of primary industry, which provides 10 per cent of the total product of the country and in excess of 50 per cent of the export income with its 7 per cent of the population. In turn- if we need to state this again and again to give assurance- primary industry needs to realise what the national economic goals are. By and large they have been set for a long time. They are economic growth and industrialisation, the main purpose of which is to get away from excessive dependence on agriculture, and to promote full employment. Those goals have been set for a long time. They are not goals that were set by this Government. In facing this reality of national goals and in facing some true appreciation of their role in the whole approach of national policy formation, the rural sector, the rural organisations and their party representatives have, I believe, 3 options. They can change the long standing goals that governments of their own political persuasion upheld; they can accept the goals but attempt to attach some special virtue to one particular form of production; or they can accept the goals and the economic reality and take what comes in the light of the position in the market place but ensure at all times that the farming community gets economic justice. That is what the Government is about and that is why I reject the motion. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate of this nature? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
-In calling the honourable member for Canning, I remind the House that this will be the honourable member's maiden speech. I invite the House to extend the usual courtesies to him. 
-There are many peculiar things about this Parliament, as I think all of us would acknowledge. But one of the peculiarities that I thought I should raise briefly in this debate is the fact that it struck me, after a number of years here, that just about all honourable members are in favour of reforming the institution. We are even in favour of the same sorts of reforms, by and large. Yet the reforms themselves practically never occur. When I analyse it, the problem is that although we agree on some necessary reforms we never agree at the same time. Specifically what happens is that we all tend to agree that something desirable should be done while we are in Opposition and ineffective to achieve it, and when we come into 
Government and have the numbers to do something about it we tend to lose our interest. 
The natural question which arises from that set of circumstances is: Why should that happen? I think there is a good reason for it. No, I shall take that back. I do not think there is a good reason for it, but I think there is an understandable reason; namely, that Parliament exists not in any sense to help governments but almost totally to help oppositions. It follows from that, that to the extent that we improve the capacity of Parliament to perform so we improve the relative advantage which the Opposition parties enjoy here. That strikes me as fairly obvious. The truth is that Government Ministers do not need a . forum like this to attract attention. Wherever a Minister is, by virtue of his office, his powers and his ability to make binding and important pronouncements, there is a forum. That does not apply to the Opposition. The leaders and  deputy  leaders of the Opposition parties have some small chance of being heard wherever they appear. Other members of the Opposition, even front bench members, are almost ignored except in their local and more parochial Press. They are almost totally ignored. I think Opposition backbenchers are totally ignored. Indeed if there is anyone ignored by the media more than an Opposition backbencher I suppose - 
It is the Government backbencher. That is about the end of the line or the bottom of the barrel. I simply throw this in to make this point: Oppositions need Parliament; governments do not need Parliament. When all is said and done that seems to be the reason why we are caught in this odd dilemma whenever we come to consider improvements to the institution. Reforms of Parliament will help the Opposition far more than they will help the Government. Yet it is only the Government which has the capacity to implement the reforms. Therefore governments in this area by and large have tended to do nothing. 
The Australian Labor Party Government has been innovative in many areas- in many areas, I might add, not necessarily to its own immediate electoral advantage. I hope that this area of parliamentary reform might be added to those innovative programs. By coincidence just today we had the first meeting of one example of this readiness of the present Government to try to move things along a little. I refer to the fact that this select committee on the parliamentary committee system set up by this Government, advocated by its members when in Opposition, met for the first time today. Hopefully something useful will come out of it. The possibilities are most numerous and go far beyond anything which that Committee might do and can be seen in what might be regarded as both small and large scale potential changes. 
My time now is very limited. I propose to refer to only one example of each of these possible changes, namely, the use of question time, in the first place, and, secondly, the provision of additional staff for private members. First, I refer to question time. As an example of Opposition enthusiasm transformed by the move to Government benches, I refer to a speech of my colleague, the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating).  He gave a very good speech on 23 August 1971. 1 am sure that he remembers it very well In this speech he said that it was unfair to continue the traditional practice in this place of dividing questions asked without notice evenly between Government and Opposition. At that time, he gave a very persuasive argument. He pointed out for example that, after making allowance for the fact that the occupant of the Speaker's chair and the Members of the Ministry obviously do not ask questions, at that time there were 38 Government back benchers with the opportunity to ask questions without notice as opposed to 59 Opposition members; if calls from the Chair to ask questions without notice were divided evenly, obviously there was a heavy disproportionate advantage to Government back bench questioners. The only thing that has happened in the meantime is that numbers have slightly altered. Today the imbalance is 44 Government potential questioners as opposed to 61 Opposition potential questioners. With the equal division of questions between us, again we have an imbalance in opportunities to ask questions without notice. 
The honourable member for Blaxland is very incisive in these matters. He made the additional point that the question concerned not only an unfair number of opportunities going to one side of the chamber. He said this whole process could result only in a distortion of the function of questions without notice in the Parliament. If this part of the process is to have any real function at all, it is as a probing device and a testing device of the Government. Obviously this will operate in that fashion only in terms of questions coming from the Opposition side and not from the Government side. I do not say that all Government back benchers always ask Dorothy Dixers. They probably ask far fewer than is commonly believed. But they hardly ask probing questions. They are hardly likely to ask embarrassing questions. 
They are certainly not going to ask the sorts of testing questions for which, if we are to be honest about it, questions without notice were first introduced into the parliamentary system. 
I think that the remedy is very simple. It is in the hands of the Government; more specifically, it is in the hands of the  Speaker.  I hope that the  Speaker  will have the opportunity to consider this aspect and perhaps will consult with the parliamentary members of his own Party to see whether the remedy might be acceptable. I know that it will involve a break with precedent. I think it involves a desirable break with precedent. If we are forever to rely only on precedents, in areas like this and in many others we will never get anywhere. In the same way, I want to add my support to some of the comments I heard from the honourable member for Ryan  (Mr Drury)  about the desirability of more Speakership authority over the nature and length of answers to questions without notice. 
I have left myself with much too short a time to discuss the second question that I wish to raise. Let me throw it in very quickly. That is the question of additional assistance by way of personal staff for back bench members. I once used to argue that all back bench members should have some additional supporting professional staff. I acknowledge now that that might be wasteful. I would hope that, at the very least, we could reach the stage of having some shared sort of system by which additional personalised assistance could be available to us all. But whether that happens, it strikes me as absurd that we should be leaving people like the Opposition front benchers, the Opposition shadow Ministers, to their own devices as was the pattern set by the previous Government and continued largely today. The Leader of the Opposition today does have far better facilities than were enjoyed in our time in Opposition. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Health been drawn to a dispute between various psychiatric hostels and the Western Australian Minister for Health on an application for increase in the present State subsidy for such hostels of $ 1 per day per patient? As the possibility has been raised that as many as 700 or 800 residents of these hostels might be displaced, and as questions have also arisen as to the standards of the hostel system, particularly those sections of it which appear able to continue on the basis of the present subsidy, can the Minister say whether any inquiry into these hostels has been conducted by his Department in the context of its concern with mental health? Has consideration been given to the possibility of Commonwealth assistance to existing hostels or to the provision of alternative types of accommodation for the residents concerned? If such an inquiry has been made, can the Minister indicate its conclusions? If no such inquiry has been made, will be Minister consider instituting one as a matter of urgency? 
-I direct my question to the Treasurer. In view of the fact that private company tax rates are now equal to public company rates and that the proposed capital gains and property income taxes will remove most tax minimisation benefits of private company structure, has consideration been given to equating also the treatment of private and public companies in respect of their ability to retain profits for investment in company development. If so, what conclusion has been reached? If not, will the Treasurer undertake such a study and advise the House of its results? 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 

<graphic href="091131197410245_13_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="091131197410245_13_1.jpg"></graphic>

There are 3 companies involved and thennames are listed in these documents. They are F. and J. Rose Properties Pty Ltd, B. M. and S. Pry Ltd, and Canns Building Pty Ltd. One would hope that the Commissioner of Taxation will take the opportunity to investigate fully the activities of the companies responsible for this profiteering. I have had a company search made of the 3 companies. It is of interest that the 3 directors of one of the firms- B. M. and S. Pty Ltdinclude Boris Kappel. I assume that he is the same person who operates a real estate business in Dandenong under that name. This is an issue which transcends Party politics. It is an issue which must sicken every member of this Parliament. 
We face the problem of inflation. It is true that honourable members opposite do not agree with the solutions this Government is implementing to cure this international ailment. They have their own solutions which they believe would be more effective than ours. This does not in any way reflect upon the sincerity and honesty of purpose of all members of this Parliament to find a way out of this economic nightmare. It cannot be denied that whatever our Party or political affiliations we are all striving honestly in our own ways to return to economic stability. The people whom I have described to honourable members are defeating the efforts of us all to do this. I commend all honourable members to inquire in thenelectorates to see whether they can discover any sign of rackets similar to the one I have described. It is possible that this sort of activity is confined to my electorate. But this is not likely. If this practice is widespread, let us all kill this lethal virus of avaricious profiteering now before it becomes a national epidemic which aggravates the sickness of inflation to such a degree that it could mean death to any hope of return to a healthy economy. 
-The honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  was both right and fair to call this Bill a most significant social measure. I think it should be acknowledged as well with some pleasure that at least he shares the concern of the report and of the Government at the need to eliminate the requirement to show fault and to radically improve existing programs for compensation and rehabilitation. The honourable member for Hotham unfortunately then left what appears to me to be the central question, especially during the second reading stage of the Bill, of principle and got on to a discussion of details, many of which were wrong, and on to a violent criticism of what he regards as an absurd haste. We have to test quickly and expeditiously what the view of the Parliament is on the principle embodied in this Bill, the principle that we should have faultfree compensation for injury available on a 24-hour basis and that it should be available wherever and however the injury occurs. That is what we have to test and the detail can well come later on. 
Although I have said that many of the details introduced by the honourable member for Hotham in his speech were wrong, this is not as great a matter of concern at this stage as the question of whether or not we will move from a system which is inadequate and unfair and treats many people inequitably, to one which will cover the field much better. The honourable member for Hotham puts it as a criticism in terms of detail that so many amendments have already been listed. I do not accept that is a reasonable criticism in the circumstances of this Bill. We know quite well that between the time of the Woodhouse report, with its draft Bill, and the Bill itself some very significant amendments were added. We know, as the honourable member has already complained, that in the last couple of days- not at lunchtime today but some time yesterday I understand- copies of the further 46 amendments were made available to the shadow Minister covering this portfolio for the Opposition. 
-I am informed that these were made available last evening to  Senator Drake-Brockman,  but I stand to be corrected. That is what I have been advised. The point I wish to make is that the very existence of the original amendments and this further large list of amendments can hardly be seen as an indication of intransigence on this question but, more importantly, it should not be seen as a case of weakness either because right from the outset the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation  (Senator Wheeldon)  has made it clear that, throughout the discussions in this Parliament, in this House and in the Senate, even after the Bill has been passed as we hope it will, until the actual introduction of this scheme, the first stage of which is not scheduled until July 1976, further possible amendments will be considered on their merits and welcomed where they have reasonable force behind them. The very fact that there has to be a time lag between the passing of this legislation and the implementation of it- the Government has adopted the 18 months period recommended by the Woodhouse Committee- is itself an indication that at this stage we should not allow concern on matters of detail to prevent us giving a clear indication of our attitude to the basic principle involved. 
I want to get back to that principle and to discuss it in what time I have rather than deal with the proposed mechanics of the scheme.  Mr Speaker,  with your indulgence I shall do so in the first place by way of a small personal reminiscence. One of the occasional regrets I have at the timing of my election to this Parliament is that it coincided- I might say clashed- with my efforts at the same time to complete a law degree. Unfortunately since those days I have found that almost day by day my recollection of what little I learned during that course has tended to fade, and that makes me rather sad. Yet in spite of the fact that 6 or 7 years have now passed since I had to study torts and that I have this notoriously bad memory, I still remember something from that subject which is relevant to the present Bill, that is, the extraordinary complications which arise in the law of negligence. I remember, to this day, over reams of reports and texts trying to sort out in my own mind what all this argument was about on just one aspect of the law of negligence related to measuring remoteness of damage. These are very complicated arguments. 
What is the correct criterion to apply? Should we apply the criterion of directness or should we apply the criterion of foreseeability? One could spend hours- I suspect some academics have spent years- happily engaged in the pursuit of that ethereal project. Fortunately at the time of my law studies I had the advantage of having as a lecturer in the subject a professor with what I might call a healthy cynicism towards this particular dispute. I hope he is not listening because I am bound to misrepresent him, or the subject, given the circumstances. But what I gradually came to absorb at that time was that the choice of criteria was in itself irrelevant and meaningless and that given a decision in any case going either way either criterion could serve equally well to justify it. From there it was a relatively short step to some understanding or at least a belief on my part, which stays with me, that apparent changes in the decisions did not come from any change in criteria but in elements such as the ability of the common law to accommodate itself to a changing social framework. In cases of negligence that meant losing some of the former emphasis on laissez-faire and the needs of industrialisation and turning instead to a greater concern for the needs of the victim. It meant a tacit acknowledgement of the spreading availability of insurance, and later in some cases its compulsion. In turn this reduced the emphasis on concern for the morally blameless plaintiff as he would not in any case be paying as it was realised that the insurance company would. 
From here developed the realisation again that the insurance company itself did not really pay, that that was left to the general public either through the wide spread of insurance in some cases or through insured parties passing on the cost of premiums through the price of their goods and services. Finally, we are led by that sort of process to these two questions: If the public pays, what purpose is left in retaining the negligence action at all, considering that it was always essentially a means of limiting the liability of defendants; and, secondly, can we not turn our whole attention to the injury and the loss of the plaintiff and the need to compensate and rehabilitate him so far as possible rather than all these other theoretical considerations? An affirmative answer to that last question seems to have been the natural direction which the common law development itself has been taking and which this Bill seeks to embody by statute. 
I return to my original proposition that whether the embodiment of that new principle is to be accepted or not is really the main question we have to face up to today. It is that principle rather than the detailed provisions to which we have to direct ourselves, particularly in the second reading debate, leaving the luxury of argument about the mechanics of the scheme and who may or may not do a little better or a little worse under its provisions perhaps to the lengthy committee stage which I understand is to follow. No one has yet suggested- certainly not the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation  (Senator Wheeldon),  certainly not the Governmentthat the scheme as now outlined is faultless, but neither has there been any absence on the part of the Government of readiness to accommodate suggestions. If I might just express one concern I have, arising from the comments of the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp),  it is that in the catalogue of complaints which were made there were no great suggestions for improvement. We had nothing more than a question thrown in, which might hint at the direction of the Opposition's intentions, when the honourable member asked: 'Is it possible to have a dual scheme?' I hope the Opposition will not base its future approach on that question because if it does it will be the equivalent of saying that we should not have fault-free insurance. I think the Woodhouse Committee dealt with that point very succinctly on page 13 of its report when it commented: 
Certainly no government . . . could require its citizens, even if it wished to do so, to insure against risks that had completely or almost completely disappeared. 
That is precisely the position in which we would be placed if on the one hand we wanted to introduce a comprehensive, universal fault-free compensation system, and yet sought at the same time to retain, as I suspect the Opposition is wanting to retain, the common law action for negligence. What we need is an important value judgment. In his earlier comments the honourable member for Hotham hinted that he might be prepared to accept our value judgment and that what we should have is fault-free insurance to cover everybody, everywhere, all the time, without risk, and with certainty such as does not exist now. I think one can only regret that as his speech developed he moved away from that generalised approval of the aims of this legislation to something which, if the Opposition pursues it, will inevitably add up to a rejection of the total scheme and a rejection of any significant change and will bring satisfaction, I suggest, to no one other than the members of the legal profession. 
The Woodhouse report is replete with examples of relative advantages and disadvantages under the present system and the proposed scheme. It is full of very solid and disturbing evidence about the inequities of the present system. If one reads the submission put to members of Parliament by the Law Council of Australia one could easily be led to the assumption that the common law is not only generous to people who suffer injury but is also quick, simple and certain. In fact, as the report shows, it is slow, cumbersome and uncertain. It has problems of contributory negligence and the enormous problem of delays. I do ask people who perhaps have not yet had the opportunity of reading the report to look at those sections which show that claims are still pending seven or eight years or even longer after the incidence of some accident. It has the problems inherent in any system which seeks to provide in advance a lump sum benefit which cannot sensibly protect plaintiffs against the ravages of inflation. I think that when one compares what the Law Council submission is attempting to indicate with what the Woodhouse report actually demonstrates, one can only come to the conclusion that* some drastic radical reform is necessary. 
Not everyone will end up better off under the proposed scheme. Some people will end up with something less and I think that has to be acknowledged, but for the vast proportion of the Australian population the future position under the terms of this present Bill will provide much greater security, certainty and generosity of benefits than are available now. It will also ensure that there will be adequacy for all even though there may not be some of the sensational, or seemingly sensational, amounts awarded in the most isolated of cases under the present system. The honourable member for Hotham threw out some frightening figures such as $ 1 700m cost for the whole scheme. I think it is only fair to point out that that figure relates to the total scheme, which in terms of the Bill itself could not come into operation until 1979 at the earliest when sickness benefits would be included. The estimate for the injuries compensation, which it is suggested will come into operation in July 1976, is something like $450m. Again, it is interesting to observe, on the evidence of the Woodhouse inquiry, that the benefits will be greater, taken on the whole, and the cost to the community on the whole will be less. 
I turn to an example, not taken from the Woodhouse report, and not dealing with facts and figures, to try to get back to the thing that I have been trying to emphasise all the time; that is, the need to determine an approach to the principle of this legislation. By way of illustration I refer to the case of Bolton v. Stone which I think is a very interesting example of the problems in this area. I am not equipped to say whether it is an important example, but it is interesting. The headnote from the 'All England Law Reports' reads: 
During a cricket match a batsman hit a ball which struck and injured the respondent who was standing on a highway adjoining the ground. The ball was hit out of the ground at a point at which there was a protective fence rising to seventeen feet above the cricket pitch. The distance from the striker to the fence was some seventy-eight yards and that to the place where the respondent was hit about one hundred yards. The ground had been occupied and used as a cricket ground for about ninety years, and there was evidence that on some six occasions on a period of over thirty years a ball had been hit into the highway, but no one had been injured. The respondent claimed damages for negligence from the appellants, as occupiers of the ground. 
Held: for an act to be negligent there must be, not only a reasonable possibility of its happening, but also of injury being caused thereby; on the facts, the risk of injury to a person on the highway resulting from the hitting of a ball out of the ground was so small that the probability of such an injury would not be anticipated by a reasonable man; and, therefore, the appellants were not liable to the respondent. 
I find that fascinating for all sorts of reasons. In the first place, when you have a look at a summary like that it is a clear invitation to an advocate in any future case to start asking himself questions like this: What if the fence was not 17 feet above the level of the pitch? Say it was only 16 feet or 6 feet? What would be the position if there were no fence at all? What if the place where the ball landed was only 85 yards away from the wicket instead of 100 yards? Would that make any difference? Would it make any difference if instead of these fantastic sixers being hit only five or six times in 30 years they had actually been hit twice in a season? What is the significance of that? When one reads the report one realises that that is precisely the sort of question which an advocate in any future case would be asking himself. But what he would not be asking is what happened to Miss Stone. She was the lady who was hit by the cricket ball. She does not even rate a mention. Neither does her injury. 
Five members of the House of Lords commented on that case. Not one of them bothered to tell us what happened to Miss Stone. Whether she got a passing bruise on the shin or a permanent injury to the head, is regarded as irrelevant. But there are all sorts of other very interesting and important matters. For example, the sort of hit that actually put the ball over the fence is listed in this report. It was a straight drive. We are told that the Cheetham Cricket Club had existed since 1864. There are all sorts of fascinating bits of information like that but there is no information about Miss Stone, what sort of injuries she suffered, what her need was or what her suffering was. 
I think that puts it in a nutshell, if I may say so, just what is wrong with this whole system that we have now. The important things in terms of concern for people and their need in terms of compensation and rehabilitation are ignored, but not so matters which produce an enormous proportion of settlements being taken up with legal fees, with a few plaintiffs getting large amounts but very large sections of the community being left uncared for. That is what we have to ensure is not allowed to persist. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The documents read as follows)- 

<graphic href="091131197410315_15_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="091131197410315_15_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="091131197410315_16_2.jpg"></graphic>

<para class="block" pgwide="yes">Compiled at request by the Statistics Group of the Legislative Research Service from information contained in FAO Commodity Review and Outlook, 1 973-74 published by the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations. 

<graphic href="091131197410315_16_3.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="091131197410315_16_4.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="091131197410315_16_3.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="091131197410315_16_4.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="091131197410315_16_3.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="091131197410315_16_4.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="091131197410315_16_3.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="091131197410315_16_4.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="091131197410315_16_3.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="091131197410315_16_4.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="091131197410315_16_3.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="091131197410315_16_4.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="091131197410315_16_3.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="091131197410315_16_4.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="091131197410315_16_3.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="091131197410315_16_4.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="091131197410315_16_3.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="091131197410315_16_4.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="091131197410315_16_3.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="091131197410315_17_5.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="091131197410315_17_6.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="091131197410315_18_7.jpg"></graphic>

<para class="block" pgwide="yes">Compiled at request by the Statistics Group of the Legislative Research Service from information contained in FAO Commodity Review and Outlook, 1973-74 published by the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations. 
AVAILABLE FOOD SUPPLIES 
SUPPLIES OF WHEAT AND MEAT-SELECTED COUNTRIES 
Domestic Production as per cent of food supply available to the populations 

<graphic href="091131197410315_18_9.jpg"></graphic>

N.B.- A figure over 100 indicates that the country is a net exporter and conversely a figure below 100 that the country is a net importer. 
Compiled at request by the Statistics Group of the Legislative Research Service from information contained in United Nations Statistical Yearbook, 1972. 

<graphic href="091131197410315_18_10.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="091131197410315_19_11.jpg"></graphic>

<para pgwide="yes">Compiled at request by the Statistics Group of the Legislative Research Service from information contained in United Nations Statistical Yearbook, 1972. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the rate per mile applying to regular air passenger fares on the routes- 
Melbourne to Sydney 
Melbourne to Adelaide 
Melbourne to Brisbane and 
Melbourne to Perth. 
What is the passenger load factor at the latest date for which details are available in respect of each route. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What is the estimated cost to revenue of the proposal by the Australian Education Council, at its meeting of 1 March 1974, that school requisites, such as ans and crafts materials and stationery, should be exempt from sales tax. 
-The honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  started his speech by saying he had music for the ears of the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  in that he intended not only to accept these Bills but also to commend the Government upon them. I think that the least one can do, reciprocating in the same spirit of friendship and co-operation, is to say to the honourable member for Hotham that I, in turn, agree with him in his commendation of the Government for this legislation. It is a great pleasure to be able to do this if only because on so many occasions he and I seem to follow each other in social security debates under different sets of circumstances. 
I propose to deal mainly with questions arising from the Aged Persons Homes Act. This Act has been subject to regular amendment since it was first introduced in 1954. Amendments have come with increasing frequency in the last 5 years. During that recent period I think I would have spoken on most of the debates on this subject but, frankly, I must say that this is a task which is becoming harder as time passes, especially as the Government's term of office lengthens. This obviously is not because the scheme has become any less important than it was or that the Labor Government is less interested in it than were its predecessors; on the contrary, very close attention has been paid to this scheme by the Government and so many useful changes have already been made over the past 2 years that one starts to run out of hopefully helpful suggestions as to how it might be further improved. 
Particularly welcome in the present Bill is the proposed change of title of the Act from the Aged Persons Homes Act to the Aged or Disabled Persons Homes Act, reflecting as this does the extension of the class of eligible residents from aged persons only to disabled persons as well. In previous debates I have had occasion to comment on the peculiar emphasis which crops up in so many areas of our social security legislation based on old age consideration. The fact is that people of 65 years and over have never, as a matter of necessity, had greater need of the special benefits and subsidies of the old persons' homes provisions than people who are under the age of 65. Indeed, as a means test has never applied under this scheme, the reverse could very well have been the case in a number of situations. In that context I refer in particular to people on the invalid pension, for example. The same could well be said of the personal care subsidy. 
The description and background of that scheme may be found on page 58 of the latest annual report of the Department of Social Security. I think the description is worth quoting and I commend it. I reads: 
This subsidy is intended to assist organisations conducting hostel accommodation for the aged to meet the cost of providing meals and to employ sufficient staff to assist hostel residents who need help with bathing and dressing, the cleaning of their rooms, their personal laundry and the oversight of their medication, and to be available at all times in case of emergency. Until the earlier part of 1973-74, payment was made on the basis of $10 a week for each hostel resident aged 80 years and over, but as from 4 December 1973 the rate of payment was increased to $12 a week and eligibility extended to also cover residents under 80 years of age - 
I interpolate here to say 'to over 65 years of age' because that was the lower limit of admissions to these homes - 
Who require and receive the specified personal care services. 
I think it would be clear, without having to stress the point, that the age of 80 which was originally imposed was a completely arbitrary line to draw. I suppose all honourable members know people of 80 years and more and who are still very spry and completely able to look after themselves. Conversely we know many people well under the age of 80 who are unable to care for themselvesfor that matter we know of many under the age of 65- and, in fact, are in need of help with bathing and dressing, the cleaning of their rooms, their personal laundry, the oversight of their medication and the same sort of availability of assistance in the case of emergency. The point that arises from this is that the original limiting age of 80 was obviously an arbitrary age. After the initial amendment in 1973 we were still left with what is after all an arbitrary age of 65, and it is quite difficult to find any justification for it. 
To the extent that both of these age based anomalies are now corrected- that is in respect of both the personal care subsidy and the age of admittance- in what will now be known as the aged or disabled persons homes, this Bill is very welcome. I wonder if I could stretch a point slightly and draw an analogy with another scheme, still old age based, which I think should be subject to the same considerations now applied to the aged persons homes. I refer again, as I have done in previous debates, to the domiciliary nursing care benefit. I again refer to the annual report of the Department of Social Security for a description of this scheme which I think will again make the argument I am trying to present almost self-evident. The description appears on page 87 of the report under the heading 'Domiciliary Nursing Care Benefit' and reads: 
A domiciliary nursing care benefit is payable to a person providing care for an aged relative who requires professional nursing care to an extent that would otherwise justify admission to a nursing home. The rate of benefit is $ 1 4 a week. This benefit was introduced in March 1 973 as an incentive to people to care for sick and frail aged people who are in need of continual nursing care and supervision in the home environment. 
In addition to being an incentive payment, the benefit has enabled families to meet the extra costs involved in caring for the aged. Such costs could include special diets, laundry and visiting nurse payments. 
Here again I think the same argument is relevant- there is no problem. In a previous debate the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  interjected during my speech at about this point to remind me of the position of quadriplegics or paraplegics. Of course that is a situation which can arise at any age and which needs precisely the sort of services mentioned here. In fact, with respect to the desirability of maintaining disadvantaged people in their own home environment, that could be a matter of even greater concern with younger people than with aged people who are at present the only beneficiaries of this domiciliary nursing care benefit. 
I urge the Government- I am sure this would be one of the many continuing proposals under review- to keep under active consideration the extension into field of the domiciliary nursing care benefit of the principle that is involved in this Bill. Apart from other considerations, such a change would fill in the gap which now seems to me to exist between the domiciliary nursing care benefit which provides this assistance for care at home for people over age 65 and the handicapped child allowance which provides a similar sort of benefit for the care of people under age 16. If I understand the position correctly we are left with a rather odd and anomalous gap between those 2 age limits. 
I go on to discuss briefly, as the honourable member for Hotham did, this question of allowing shires to use loan funds. With him I agree that this is probably something worth doing while the whole scheme is under review. But for a different reason from his, I doubt whether there is very much in it. If I understood the honourable member for Hotham, he was really arguing that this amendment was not of much use because local governing bodies in any case were short of loan funds for their ordinary purposes. But I would put the limitations on the usefulness of this amendment on the different ground, namely, that for all practical purposes this has never been a limiting factor on any local government body which really wanted to involve itself in the field. 
It has always been possible for local government bodies wanting to use loan funds rather than rates to sponsor an organisation into which their loan funds can be channelled. This has been done in many of the cases. Nonetheless, the very fact that such a roundabout procedure is available and that the availability of it was always known- we had the peculiar position of the Department and Ministers always writing to councils who raised this question and saying: 'Well, you can always get around it'- leads me to say that it seems to me that if there is this roundabout method of achieving this end and if no secret is being made of it, it might as well be made a direct method instead of a roundabout method. That, for what it is worth, is what this amendment will achieve. 
I hope that it may have at least some marginal effect in encouraging local government bodies into this field. So far as I am aware- I think I am correct on this point- there is only one aged persons home sponsored by a shire in my electorate. There are many aged persons homes there. But the only one sponsored by a shire is in the shire of Bayswater, Mertome Village. This is a first class development. It is still in the course of expansion and, I think, a model which other local government bodies might well follow. Hopefully, this small amendment will encourage them along that line. 
Referring again to this recent annual report from the Department, one finds that in the last financial year, 1973-74, a very significant drop occurred in the amount of money being channelled into the operations of the Aged Persons Homes Act. That sum fell from $22m in 1972-73 to $ 17.4m in 1973-74, using round figures. That is a drop of roughly 20 per cent. It occurred over a period when building costs, I think, would have increased by 20 per cent. So, adding both of those factors together, one can readily appreciate that the development in this field dropped significantly in the past financial year. 
The annual report makes the point that this was more than covered in terms of accommodation by expansion in the hostel area. But I think that does not really answer the point of concern as I doubt whether anyone could really question that there exists as much potential demand for this sort of accommodation now as in previous years. 
-I was pointing to what appeared to be a very serious slow down over the past year in this scheme and suggesting that the obvious reason for it was a combination of increased costs of building and also the subsidy limits. These have both been increased. The proportion of subsidies increased from $2 for $1 to $4 for $1 in the legislation. As the Minister for Social Security indicated in his second reading speech, although he did not require the Bill to achieve this, the maximum amounts of subsidy have also been substantially increased. 
I intrude into the comments that I wish to make at this point to draw some attention to what I think may have been some sort of misapprehension by the honourable member for Hotham when he was quoting some of the new figures and what he said was still their insufficiency. The. honourable member for Hotham, if I understood him correctly, said in relation to the hostels legislation that only $11,700 a unit was now being allowed, that he estimated that costs would be approximately $13,000 a unit and that he then did a calculation of four-fiths of $1 1,700, assuming that the other fifth would be by way of donor entry, and said that that still left an organisation with a deficit of $1,300 on top of the allowance. If I have understood the honourable member for Hotham correctly I think that he was confusing 2 separate schemes. The legislation relating to hostels is not subject to the $4 for $1 subsidy- the outright grant. That is the first point. The second point is this: I wonder whether the honourable member for Hotham in making his own calculation of about $13,000 a single unit might have been including in that figure some estimate of the cost of land a unit. If so, that would tend to balance out his concern. The position with respect to the hostels legislation is that subsidies of up to $1 1,700 a unit for the building are available but additional grants up to $2,400 a unit for land are also available separately. 
The changes which have been brought about by this Bill and by the associated regulations in respect of the increase of the proportion of subsidy to $4 for $ 1 and in particular the increase in the maximum allowable amount of subsidy should quickly reverse the trend which we saw last year of a decline in the growth of units built under this scheme. I wish to make one point about the reversion to rapid growth of this scheme. I personally welcome that at this point. I am aware that a number of people are now coming to question the desirability of the sorts of aged persons homes developments that we have. When these first started with individual units being provided, the argument was developed that this was unbalanced and that what we had to have was a sort of triple layer scheme of independent units, accompanied by hostel units and nursing homes, to complete the requirements. That seemed to be accepted as highly desirable. 
In later times questions have arisen with people arguing about the possible undesirability of what they are starting to call aged enclaves or old people's ghettoes. I am not equipped to enter into that argument very well. What I can say from my own observations of many of these homes is that they have performed a remarkably useful function for people in the age groups for whom they are catering. My own position would be that I like this scheme until somebody can actually come up with something better. It is very easy to talk in terms of keeping people in their own homes, to claim that the environment is better, and that we should concentrate more on domiciliary care. The truth so far as I can observe is that it has been extremely difficult to develop an adequate domiciliary service. If we are to change to emphasis on domiciliary service, let us make absolutely certain that this is available first before we start talking about scrapping or reducing this scheme. 
I end with 2 questions to the Minister. These again are matters which I have raised very often but which I feel become more pertinent, given our increased aid. Firstly, I think we should look again at the possibility of reducing donor entries to first entry only, eliminating altogether, and once and for all, 'resale' of these units. The second question that I would put to him, also arising from this extended support of the scheme, is: Could we not develop a system by which maintenance charges in these homes come under Commonwealth review. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Minerals and Energy been drawn to a statement by the Western Australian Government that Perth could face a crisis with its natural gas supplies by 1980? Can the Minister indicate whether his own advice would lead to the same conclusion? If so, what proposals, if any, does the Commonwealth Government have which might help to meet the situation? Can the Minister also comment on suggestions that such problems as exist with Perth's future gas supplies have been contributed to by Australian Government policies on the North West Shelf fields? 

Order! No point of order is involved. 
-No, that is not in order. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering both measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
-I address a question to the Prime Minister as the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs in this House. Is it a fact that the Palestine Liberation Organisation charter can only be understood as calling for the elimination of Israel as a sovereign independent state? Is it also a fact that Australian policy supports the survival of Israel as a sovereign independent state, and that this was again stressed by our United Nations Ambassador last week? As the PLO and Australian policies are obviously incompatible, and since support for the PLO, whether positive or passive, can only encourage the intransigence of that organisation, can the Prime Minister say why Australia abstained from, rather than opposed motions at the United Nations which unreservedly supported the PLO position? Will he confer with the Foreign Minister with a view to ensuring that the Australian view is asserted more positively on questions affecting the Middle East and that, in particular, we vote as well as speak in line with our clearly established principles? 

Order! Honourable members were complaining this morning about the acoustics in the House. I informed them that I can hear all the interjections too well. Will the interjectors on my right please take a rest for the remainder of this speech. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) As private company tax rates are now equal to public company rates, and as the proposed capital gams and property income taxes will remove most tax minimisation benefits of private company structures, has consideration been given to also equating the treatment of private and public companies in respect of their ability to retain profits for company investment and development. 
If so, what conclusion has been reached. 
If not, will he undertake such a study and advise the House of its results. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 Mr WHITLAM I thank the House. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Above what class and rank in the Australian Public Service and Armed Forces respectively are personnel entitled to first class air travel. 
Can he say what are the comparable provisions in the United Kingdom, the United States of Amenca and Canada. 
What was the cost of air travel for (a) public servants and (b) servicemen during 1973-74, and what saving would have accrued from the use of economy, in lieu of first class, air travel in each case. 

 Mr Whitlam The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Public Service Board has informed me that under Public Service Regulation 84 officers and employees of the Australian Public Service whose annual salary exceeds $3,599 are eligible for first class air travel in Australia whilst travelling on duty. With regard to overseas air travel all officers proceeding overseas on short-term missions and long-term postings travel first class. 
The Depanment of Defence has advised that all wanarn officers and commissioned officers travel first class by air. Other members of the Defence Force generally travel economy class though there are some exceptions for certain female and junior categories. 
Precise details on the provisions applying in overseas Public Services are not readily available. In general, both first class and economy class air travel is used but the tendency is for a greater use to be made of economy class air travel. 
In any comparison between the Australian and overseas Public Services provisions, however, regard would need to be had, inter alia, to the relevant conditions applying to air travel in the country concerned. For example, one class air travel for domestic flights is widespread in other countries. The Government is currently considering the question of one class air travel on domestic airline services in Australia. 
The Depanment of Defence has advised that in the United Kingdom, the United States of America and Canada extensive use is made of service passenger aircraft. Where civil air is used, it is a general rule that service personnel travel by economy class but in the United Kingdom officers of two star rank and above travel first class and special approval may be obtained for first class travel in the United States of America. 
Current information is not readily available. However, the Board has provided me with estimates made in 1972 which indicated that the total cost of travel by Australian public servants was approximately $9m million in respect of domestic journeys and approximately $4m in respect of international journeys. Gross savings of approximately $ 1 .95m would have accrued if all travel had been by economy class. 
The Depanment of Defence has advised that the estimated cost of air travel for Servicemen in 1973-74 was $8. 147m and that the estimated savings that would have resulted, had only economy class air travel been used, would have been $0.940m. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
What is the usual age of entry to (a) kindergarten, (b) primary school and (c) secondary school in each State and Territory. 
What is the usual number of grades covered by (a) primary and (b) secondary schools. 
Order! No point of order is involved. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering these measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the approximate salary of (a) first year and (b) fifth year (i) graduate primary school teachers and (ii) graduate secondary school teachers in (a) Western Australia, (b) New South Wales and (c) Victoria as at 30 June in each of the last 5 years. 
What was the percentage increase in each category each year, and what was the percentage increase in the Consumer Price Index and Average Weekly Earnings during the same periods. 
I thank the House for electing me to the position of  Chairman  of Committees. I also thank the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden),  the Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  and the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  for their acceptance of that appointment. Needless to say, I will do my best in the interests of this House and in your support. 
-I am at something of a disadvantage in that I have been trying to sort out some 30 or more amendments. I must confess that my attention was distracted. I ask the honourable member to keep to the clause under consideration. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The table read as follows)- 

<graphic href="093131197503046_42_0.jpg"></graphic>

These figures do not include the large number of tenants in cottage flats and rental grant houses. 
-Order! The time allotted for the Committee stage of the Bill has expired. The question now is that the amendment to clause 6 be agreed to. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-I address to the Prime Minister a question supplementary to that asked earlier by the honourable member for Parramatta. Since the Prime Minister's reply seemed to indicate that an application for admission to Australia by a Palestine Liberation Organisation delegation might be considered more favourably now than at the time of its rejection just a few weeks ago can the Prime Minister say: Firstly, has there been any evidence in the meantime of any change in the basic PLO program calling for the elimination of Israel as a sovereign independent state? Secondly, has there been any change in the meantime in the United Nations charter calling for the protection of the integrity of the existing states? Thirdly, has there been any change in the meantime in the Australian Labor Party's platform calling for respect and recognition of Israel's sovereignty and right to exist? If there have not been changes in any of these respects will the Prime Minister ensure that consideration of future applications by a PLO delegation will consider these basic principles rather than the pragmatic questions of temporary tensions within the Australian community? If the principle of free speech and dissemination of Palestinian arguments is sought to be protected - 

The discussion has concluded. 
-Order! I draw the attention of the honourable member to the restricted scope of this discussion. The Bill concerns a bounty on compressors. I ask the honourable member to make his remarks more relevant to the Bill. 
Requested amendment agreed to. 
Resolution reported; report adopted. 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice: 
What was the approximate rate for bricklaying per 1000 bricks in each of the capital cities during the March and September quarters of each of the last five years. 

The discussion is now concluded. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Social Security been drawn to an increasing gap between approved nursing home charges in Western Australia and the total of pension and nursing home subsidy? Can the Minister say whether any relief of this position is being considered? If so, when can some decision on the matter be anticipated. 
-I agree that the honourable member is tending to drift away from the Bill. 
Did he give them those instructions? Were they entangled in a mass of bureaucratic red tape? Let rum answer. If he did give them the instructions and they had an open go and still did not provide the emergency crossing- one thing that is absolutely certain is that a temporary bridge is not there- if they could not provide ithe is guilty not just before the people of Hobart but before the people of Australia. If that is the kind of Army we have, if that is the kind of defence that is available to us in the event of enemy action against a bridge, the sooner the Minister and this Government are removed from office the better it will be for the security of Australia. The Minister may have it whichever way he likes. Is he guilty just before the people of Hobart in that he did not give the armed forces proper instructions to devote their resources to providing an emergency crossing quickly, or is he guilty before the people of Australia because of the way in which he has let the armed forces sink, because they are so inefficient that they could not do it even though they received their instructions? 
There was a chance of providing a reasonable ferry service, and it should have been running well before now. Do not tell me that travelling on a reasonable ferry service is necessarily a terrible hardship. As I said, many people in my electorate have accepted, use and prefer a ferry service as their permanent means of transport to the city. What rot! If the ferry service is uncomfortable or if it is inadequate, that is the fault - 
The reason, frankly, is that for many years, with one small interregnum, Tasmania has been drowned in a morass of socialist inefficiencies with the result that, in order to maintain the standards of Tasmanian people, the rest of the people of Australia have had to contribute through taxation. The people in my electorate, the people in the rest of New South Wales and the people in Victoria are getting a bit sick of paying for the inefficiencies of the socialist Government in Tasmania. I look at the Treasurer's return on payments to and for the States. The last available figures are in the return for 1973-74. New South Wales received $288 a head. Tasmania received about twice as much- $565 a head. This is the position because, in order to maintain standards in Tasmania against the inefficiencies of the socialist Government, this kind of extra payment has to be made. This practice has been going on for many yearsfor many decades- and the people of New South 
Wales are getting a bit sick of paying for the inefficiencies of the Tasmanian Government. 
Because this is a disaster, the Commonwealth Government, rightly, is picking up the tab. That is fair enough. But to pick up the tab year after year and to contribute immense sums to pay for the inefficiencies of the Tasmanian Government is getting a bit hot. New South Wales is becoming a bit tired of it. We do not see why we should have to pay these immense preferential revenues to Tasmania which apparently cannot look after itself. This, I am sure, is not the fault of the Tasmanian people. I know that the Tasmanian people - 
I come back to the main point that I was making. That main point is that if the Commonwealth Government had at its command resources which would enable it to defend Australia against even the most rudimentary enemy attack it would have at its command forces which would have enabled it within a matter of weeks to provide a temporary crossing of the Derwent River. It did not do so. That is the fact which stands. I ask the Minister for Defence whether the failure to do what should have been within the capacity of any army looking forward to the possibility of enemy action- to make the resources of the whole of Australia available for this one place- occurred because the Minister tied the Army up in red tape- I believe that is possible- or because the Minister has allowed the Army to deteriorate to the point where it did not have the resources- that also is possible. I would like the Minister to tell me why a temporary crossing was not available to the people of Hobart, who wanted it within the space of a few weeks after this disaster occurred. I ask the Minister to let me know the answer. Is he guilty just before the people of Hobart oris he guilty before all the people of Australia? 
-Is leave granted? 
There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 
-It is a fact that comments at this stage must be strictly limited to the contents of the Bill. I ask the Minister to do so. 
MrChipp-Tryit. 
-Is the amendment seconded? 
-The question is that clause 3 be agreed to. 
-There are circulated amendments and it might suit the convenience of the Committee for the 4 amendments to be taken together. Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
-I point out to the Minister that I am finding it hard to connect his present comments with the contents of the Bill. I ask him to restrict himself further than he is doing. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
-There are a number of significant measures in this BUI. (Quorum formed.) But the 2 most important are obviously the $5 increase in the standard rate pension and the second stage of the means test abolition covering persons of 70 years of age and above. In this context I believe that it is worth recalling the Government's original commitments on these 2 measures. These date back to Labor's 1972 election program. At that time we undertook to abolish within 3 years the means test for persons over 65 years of age. We also entered into a commitment to increase the base pension by $ 1 .50 every 6 months till a level equal to 25 per cent of average weekly earnings was reached. I think it is worth pointing out and repeating- it has been done often enough before- that at the time of the 1972 election no commitment was entered into with respect to a time scale for the achievement of pensions equal to 25 per cent of average weekly earnings, though many people assumed that the 3 year target applied to that as well. But in any event, by this BUI we have now for all effective purposes reached 25 per cent of average weekly earnings 6 months ahead even of the target ascribed to us, if not volunteered by us. In other words, we are running well ahead of our commitments in this respect and it is interesting to observe the relative improvements which are accordingly involved. 
To demonstrate the points I wish to make at this stage I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard a table comparing increases in the rates of pension, increases in average weekly earnings and the consumer price index over the period December 1972-the time of the 1972 electionup to the present time. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
What funds were provided for pre-school education (a) by the Australian Government and (b) from the States, own resources in each State in 1 973-74. 
What was the method of distribution of the Australian Government pre-school grants. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 
Re-introduction of quarterly automatic cost-of-living adjustments based upon an effective price index applied to the Minimum Wage with the resultant sum being added to all wages and salaries. 
That a standing Tripartite Commission be established to review the composition and structure of the price index and supervise its compilation. 
That unions eliminate the cost-of-living factor from all future wage claims with a reserved right to review possible distortions of relativities in two years' time. 
That future wage demands be confined to such factors as increased productivity, and changed skills, techniques and conditions of work. 
That each year, the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission will determine a national -wage increase based upon productivity for the previous year. And, in order to assist the Commission, the Statistician be asked to formulate a productivity index as a matter of urgent priority. 
That where parties are unable to reach agreement on wage increases required to compensate for changed skills, work methods and the like, the matter be referred to the appropriate panel for conciliation or arbitration based upon a work value study. 
Although the Commission has not adopted all the elements of the Government's case I applaud the historical decision to reintroduce wage indexation. Real wages will now be protected against inflation. Given the unions' response asked for by the Commission inflation will no longer be fed by a wage cost spiral based upon expectational demands. Along with last year's equal pay judgment the introduction of wage indexation ranks with the 1907 Harvester Award as a milestone in the history of wages policy. 
I stand by that statement today. The Cabinet decision stands by it. The Cabinet tells the Commission that it believes that the guidelines which the Government set out for its wages policy are good guidelines. The Government is prepared to introduce the mechanism that is needed to back up the guidelines to ensure that inflation is not fed on wage costs and that unemployment is not brought about directly as a result of wage cost caused inflation. 
-Are you referring to the question: That clause 3 be agreed to? 
Question resolved in the negative. 
-The question is that clause 3 be agreed to. 
-In accordance with the resolution of the House of 15 May 1975, consideration of clauses I to 47 of the Bill will be postponed and a general debate will first take place on clause 48 and any circulated amendments to that clause. The time allowed for the debate is 5 hours. At the conclusion of that time or such earlier time as the debate may conclude I shall put successively questions on the circulated amendments which are capable of being put and also such other questions as are necessary to conclude consideration of the clause. It will not be necessary for honourable members to move the amendments which they have circulated to clause 48. 
I take this opportunity to bring 2 other matters to the attention of honourable members. In the first place I should point out that during the consideration of this Bill I shall, as far as possible, propose the question on amendments in the form: 'That the amendment be agreed to'. I also wish to advise honourable members that at the conclusion of consideration of clause 48 I intend to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the Committee to postpone consideration of clauses 1 to 20 until after consideration of clause 21  which deals with the creation of the Family Court of Australia. My reason for suggesting that course is that a decision on clause 21 will have a bearing on more than 50 consequential amendments to other clauses, a number of which precede clause 21. 
Clause 48. 
1 ) An application under this Act by a party to a marriage for a decree of dissolution of the marriage shall be based on the ground that the marriage has broken down irretrievably. 
Subject to sub-section (3), in a proceeding instituted by such an application, the ground shall be held to have been established, and a decree of dissolution of the marriage shall be made, if, and only if, the court is satisfied that the parties separated and thereafter lived separately and apart for a continuous period of not less than 12 months immediately preceding the date of the filing of the application for dissolution of marriage. 
A decree of dissolution of marriage shall not be made if the court is satisfied that there is a reasonable likelihood of cohabitation being resumed. 
Circulated amendments. 

 (Mr McMahon)-Omit sub-clauses ( 1) and (2), substitute the following sub-clause: '( 1 ) An application under this Act by a party to a marriage for a decree of dissolution of the marriage shall be based on the ground that the parties separated and thereafter lived separately and apart for a continuous period of not less than 12 months immediately preceding the date of the filing of the application. '. (82a)  (Mr Hyde)-  (Amendment to proposed amendment 82): 
In proposed new sub-clause ( 1 ) omit ' 12 months', substitute '24 months'. (82aa)  (Mr Ellicott)-(  Amendment to proposed amendment 82): 
In proposed new sub-clause (1) omit all words after 'based', substitute 'on the grounds that- 
the parties separated and thereafter lived separately and apart for a continuous period of not less than 24 months immediately preceding the date of the filing of the application for dissolution of marriage; or 
the parties separated and thereafter lived separately and apart for a continuous period of not less than 12 months immediately preceding the date of the filing of the application for dissolution of marriage and each party genuinely desires the application to be granted; or 
having regard to the behaviour of the parties the marriage has in fact broken down irretrievably'. (82ab)  (Mr Donald Cameron)-  (Amendment to proposed amendment 82): 
Omit all words after 'based', substitute 'on the grounds that- 
the parties separated and thereafter lived separately and apart for a continuous period of not less than 24 months immediately preceding the date of the filing of the application for dissolution of marriage; or 
the parties separated and thereafter lived separately and apart for a continuous period of not less than 1 2 months immediately preceding the date of the filing of the application for dissolution of marriage and each party genuinely desires the application to be granted . (82 ac)  (Dr Klugman)-  (Amendment to proposed amendment 82): 
Omit all words after ' based ', substitute 'on the grounds that- 
the parties separated and thereafter lived separately and apart for a continuous period of not less than 12 months immediately preceding the date of the filing of the application for dissolution of marriage; or 
the parties separated and thereafter lived separately and apart for a continuous period of not less than 6 months immediately preceding the date of the filing of the application for dissolution of marriage and each party genuinely desires the application to be granted; or 
having regard to the behaviour of the parties the marriage has in fact broken down irretrievably'. 

 (Mr Enderby)-Omit sub-clause (2), substitute the following sub-clause: '(2) Subject to sub-section (3), in a proceeding instituted by such an application, the ground shall be held to have been established, and a decree of dissolution of the marriage shall be made, if, and only if, the court is satisfied- 
that the parties separated and thereafter lived separately and apart for a continuous period of not less than 12 months immediately preceding the date of the filing of the application for dissolution of marriage; or 
that the parties separated and thereafter lived separately and apart for a continuous period of not less than 3 months immediately preceding the date of the filing of the application for dissolution of marriage and the parties consent to the making of the decree. '. 

 (Mr Fraser)- Omit sub-clause (2), substitute the following sub-clause: '(2) Subject to sub-section (3), in a proceeding instituted by such an application, the ground shall be held to have been established, and a decree of dissolution of the marriage shall be made, if, and only if, the court is satisfied- 
that the parties separated and thereafter lived separately and apart for a continuous period of not less than 2 years immediately preceding the date of the filing of the application for dissolution of marriage; 
that the parties separated and thereafter lived separately and apart for a continuous period of not less than 1 year immediately preceding the date of the filing of the application for dissolution of marriage and the respondent does not oppose the making of the decree; or 
the respondent has behaved in such a way that the applicant cannot reasonably be expected to live with the respondent providing that such ground shall not be available if the parties have lived separately and apart for a continuous period of not less than 1 year.'. 

 (Mr Ellicott)-Omit sub-clause (2), substitute the following sub-clause: '(2) Subject to sub-sections (3) and (4) in a proceeding instituted by such an application, the ground shall be held to have been established, and a decree of dissolution of the marriage shall be made, if, and only if, the court is satisfied that- 
the parties separated and thereafter lived separately and apart for a continuous period of not less than 24 months immediately preceding the date of the filing of the application for dissolution of marriage; or 
the parties separated and thereafter lived separately and apart for a continuous period of not less than 12 months immediately preceding the date of the filing of the application for dissolution of marriage and each party genuinely desires the application to be granted; or 
having regard to the behaviour of the parties the marriage has in fact broken down irretrievably. '. 

 (Mr K. M. Cairns)-Omit sub-clause (2), substitute the following sub-clause: '(2) Subject to sub-section (3) in a proceeding instituted by such an application the ground shall be held to have been established if the court is satisfied of any of the following considerations: 
that after a period of at least 12 months during which the parties have lived separately and apart both parties genuinely desire that a decree nisi dissolving the marriage be pronounced; 
that during a period of not less than 2 years immediately preceding the filing of the application the parties have lived separately and apart; and 
that the conduct or behaviour of one of the parties constitutes just cause and excuse for the other party to terminate the marital relationship. '. (86a)  (Dr Klugman)-  Omit sub-clause (2), substitute the following sub-clause: '(2) Subject to sub-section (3) in a proceeding instituted by such an application, the ground shall be held to have been established, and a decree of dissolution of the marriage shall be made, if the court is satisfied that- 
the parties separated and thereafter lived separately and apart for a continuous period of not less than 12 months immediately preceding the date of the filing of the application for dissolution of marriage; or 
the parties separated and thereafter lived separately and apart for a continuous period of not less than 6 months immediately preceding the date of the filing of the application for dissolution of marriage and each party genuinely desires the application to be granted; or 
having regard to the behaviour of the parties the marriage has in fact broken down irretrievably. '. 

 (Mr Wentworth)-In sub-clause (2) omit '12 months', substitute '24 months'. 

 (Mr Hyde)- In sub-clause (2) omit ' 12 months', substitute '24 months'. 

 (Mr Ellicott)- Amendment withdrawn. (89a)  (Mr Ellicott)-At  the end of the clause add the following sub-clause: '(4) The Court shall not grant a decree based on paragraph (2)(c) where the only behaviour relied upon is lack of cohabitation or where on the facts before it the Court could grant a decree based on paragraphs (2) (a) or (b).'. (89b)  (Mr Ellicott)-At  the end of the clause add the following sub-clause: '(4) The Court shall not grant a decree based on paragraph ( 1 ) (c) where the only behaviour relied upon is lack of cohabitation or where on the facts before it the Court could grant a decree based on paragraphs ( 1 ) ( a ) or ( b ). '. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I take it that the honourable member for Mackellar is not pursuing the amendment. 
-Order! When I reported progress last evening, the Committee was dealing with clause 4. The last business was the disposal of the amendment moved by the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock).  In accordance with the procedure suggested yesterday afternoon, I invite the Committee to grant leave to the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  to move his circulated amendment No. 10, but without the right to speak. Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
-Order! The Attorney-General 's time has expired. 
-For what period? 
I hope that the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition is one that the Committee will accept. I hope that it is the sort of amendment that some people I see sitting opposite might be prepared to support in order to stop this drift and to recognise the fact that a woman who stops at home and looks after the children may be entitled in the coming years to some sort of wage. We are already thinking of that. Why should she be in an inferior position? Why should she be neglected?  Unless  we in Parliament start to stand up for her, she will -become a deprived person- deprived not only in a physical and financial sense but also, I believe, in a psychological sense. Many wives today are feeling that because they do not go to work they are in some way inferior. I notice it in speaking to married women who stop at home. They have this attitude that in some way they want to break through into a job in order to get away from what they have been taught to regard by society's standards as something of a tedium. So I support the amendment. 
I support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly).  Before stating my reasons, I hope that I can anticipate your indulgence to a small extent,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  to allow me to make a brief preliminary comment which is not very closely connected to the present clause. For unavoidable reasons I was unable to be present in the House when the vote was taken on the motion for the second reading of the Bill. My position as  Chairman  of Committees also effectively precludes my voting during the present Committee stage of the debate. In fairness, therefore, to the large number of constituents who have conveyed to me their special concern, both for and against this Bill, I should take the present opportunity to state my general position. 
In the first place, I would have voted for the motion for the second reading of the Bill and I would have voted against the amendments proposed yesterday to clause 48- in other words, I would have supported clause 48 as it now stands. On the other hand, there are a small number of amendments- the amendment to the present clause is one and amendment No. 102 to clause 72 is another- which I believe should be supported. I have to say that I feel some regret that the attention of the Committee has obviously declined since the major clauses were disposed of. I turn to clause 49 (2), which reads in part: 
The parties to a marriage may be held to have separated and to have lived separately and apart notwithstanding that they have continued to reside in the same residence . . . 
That will remain the case even if the amendment is carried. I am not altogether enamoured of its remaining. I know that it may well be said that it does nothing more than state the present law- and so it does. But it states a law which is not expressed in any existing legislation but which has come to be law by judicial interpretation. To that extent even the first part of clause 49 (2) appears to me to be unnecessary- in other words, the concept whereby living separate and apart can co-exist with the presence of the 2 parties under the same roof is quite well established without it. But even if it is worth having that first part of clause 49 (2), I cannot understand why we should take it to the extreme, which the latter part that is sought to be deleted now does, and include the provisions 'or that either party has rendered some household services to the other'. 
It. is not at all clear to me that that provision does nothing more than state the existing law. I could be well behind the times by now, but so far as I know the 1963 decision of the Full Court of New South Wales in the Crabtree case is still the one most often discussed. Although it did not go on the facts in the Full Court the statement of facts made it quite clear that, while the parties lived under the one roof, they had separate bedrooms and the husband made his own breakfast, had his other meals out, sent his washing out and so on. In fact there were none of these household services provided. I am not saying that one should have a look for that complete division to establish the grounds. On the other hand I do not believe that we should go to the extent of inviting the possibility of people rendering services, living under the one roof and nonetheless feeling themselves to be free to claim that they have established such a case. It would appear to me, agreeing to this proposition, that all we are left with as a ground for divorce is not so much 12 months separation as 12 months lack of cohabitation. I think that is bringing it within highly questionable grounds. But my main objection is that not simply does it open the way to perjury but also it positively invites it. This is the only part of the Bill that does so. It is all the more regrettable to me that this should be the position since, as I understand the case of so many people who, like myself, have supported the Bill in principle, not the least of its advantages is the fact that it will do away with much of the improper activity that until now has occurred in divorce cases. 
There is just one other comment that I should like to squeeze in if time allows. It has been said on a number of occasions that to do otherwise than to support these sorts of provisions is merely to rest on comfortable middle class assumptions and that we should recognise that people sometimes simply cannot afford to live under separate roofs. I do not understand that argument. It appears to me that the position before the dissolution of a marriage with respect to the separation of the sort that is envisaged by the people arguing for this clause is no different from separation after marriage and that the same provisions of maintenance or, in the absence of maintenance, of social security benefits that are available after a divorce are also available in the case of separation prior to a divorce. I would be happy if that position were clarified. So far it has not been clarified by anyone making that assertion. 
-Order! The honourable member for Moreton has already made his speech. 
The court shall regard the welfare of the child as the paramount consideration. 
The court should not give a damn about the parents when it comes to the welfare of the child. But, of course, in the consideration of the welfare of the child the conduct of the parents is relevant. 
-That course is not open to me. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
-Is the honourable member for Moreton seeking to move to that effect? 
-Proposed new clause 8lA is before the Committee. The question is that the new clause proposed to be inserted be so inserted. 
Proposed new clause negatived. 
Clause 82 agreed to. 
Clause 83. 
1 ) Proceedings with respect to the maintenance of a party to a marriage or of a child of a marriage, if there is in force an order (whether made before or after the commencement of this Act) with respect to the maintenance of that party or child by the other party to the marriage- 
made by the court; or 
made by another court and registered in the firstmentioned court in accordance with the regulations, the court may- 
discharge the order if there is any just cause for so doing; 
suspend its operation wholly or in part and either until further order or until a fixed time or the happening of some future event; 
revive wholly or in part an order suspended under paragraph (d); or 
subject to sub-section (2), vary the order so as to increase or decrease any amount ordered to be paid or in any other manner. 
For the purposes of this section, the court shall have regard to the provisions of sections 72, 75 and 76. 
The discharge of an order does not affect the recovery of arrears due under the order at the time as at which the discharge takes effect. 
Circulated Amendments.  (122)  (Mr Wentworth)-  In sub-clause (1), paragraph (b), omit 'registered', substitute 'registrable'. (123)  (Mr Wentworth)-In  sub-clause (7) after 'shall', insert ' , in relation to orders made under this Act, '. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-To regularise the proceedings I think leave should be granted to take the 2 amendments together. Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
-I ask the Minister for Defence not to take his place for a moment. We are in the process of counting for a quorum. (A quorum having been counted)- 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  put: 
That the honourable member for Gippsland be suspended from the service of the House. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The documents read as follows)- 

<graphic href="095131197505260_28_4.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="095131197505260_29_5.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="095131197505260_30_6.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="095131197505260_30_7.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="095131197505260_31_8.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="095131197505260_32_9.jpg"></graphic>

The Opposition's cynical approach to this Bill is again demonstrated by its rejection of the provisions in the Bill for the reform of the postal voting procedures. It is well known that the present procedures are open to abuse by party workers. A common form of abuse is for party workers to compile lists of electors who voted by post at the previous election and then forward to all such people semi-completed postal vote application forms in the hope of influencing voters to support a particular party. One has only to look at the percentage of postal votes which favour the Liberal and Country Parties to realise which parties are responsible for most of these abuses. The Government has proposed to inhibit such malpractices by preventing party workers from examining the lists of names of postal voters, except when this is absolutely necessary for an inquiry into an alleged or suspected contravention of the Act or for a petition to a Court of Disputed Returns. We have proposed to give the Chief Australian Electoral Officer power to vary the form of postal vote applications at each election to prevent the dubious practice of stockpiling partially completed forms. The Opposition has opposed or amended both of those proposals. 
The Australian public was somewhat indignant, and rightly so, at the time taken to finalise the results of the House of Representatives and Senate elections held in May 1974. The Government therefore proposed to alter the provisions of the Act in relation to postal voting with a view to earlier finalisation of election results. We aimed at an earlier deadline for receipt of applications for postal votes and an earlier deadline for the receipt of completed postal votes by the appropriate returning officer. Taken together, these proposals would have reduced the time taken for the processing of election results by some weeks. Once again, the Opposition has cynically rejected these proposals in the interests of narrow Party advantage. 
The same sad comment must also be made on the Opposition's attitude to the Government's proposal to close the poll at 6 p.m. instead of 8 p.m. This measure would have enabled an earlier posting of progressive figures on polling night and would have increased the probability that, by the end of counting on that night, the result of the election would be fairly clear. We proposed only an arrangement that was already practised by the well known radical,  Mr Joh  BjelkePetersen, in the Queensland State elections. 
I have already made reference to the deliberate attempt to confuse electors at the 1974 elections by means of a nomination of a very large number of candidates. The results of this campaign were particularly noticeable on the New South Wales Senate ballot papers where voters were required to rank up to 73 candidates. The Government proposed to raise the deposit necessary for candidates at Senate elections to $1,000. This would have effectively reduced the number of frivolous candidates, without affecting the candidates of the major political parties, and enabled more electors to register a formal vote. The Opposition parties rejected this proposal, thereby leaving the deposit for Senate candidates at $250. 1 am sure that everyone will be able to draw their own conclusions from these tactics. 
There are other examples which I could quote to demonstrate the degree to which the Opposition's amendments have effectively nullified virtually all the major reform proposals contained in the Bill. However it would be just one long, sad story, further detailing the cynical approach which the Opposition parties take to this important Bill- a Bill aimed at reducing malpractices, simplifying and clarifying the act of voting, and a speedier finalisation of election results. 
The Government is dedicated to a just and equitable electoral system. It is basic to our democratic society. The Liberal Party and the National Country Party, by their opposition to all proposals for electoral reform, clearly indicate to the Australian public that they believe in gerrymandering', 'loaded' electorates, and outdated and unjust electoral procedures. By their actions and their votes in this House and in the Senate, they stand convicted on this charge. The Government will not accept such Opposition emasculation of this piece of major legislation and it is now inevitable that the Electoral Laws Amendment Bill 1974 will join the long list of Bills providing the Government with grounds for another double dissolution. 
-Order! There is no point of order involved. That section relates only to the proceedings of the House itself. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
After clause 4, insert the following new clauses: 4a. Compensation shall be payable only to persons who- 
have suffered loss or damage to property as a result of the cyclone; 
make application in writing for compensation, and 
give proof of possession, entitlement and loss or damage suffered. 4b. ( 1 ) Compensation shall be assessed on the basis of the market value of the property as at 24 December 1974. 
Subject to the succeeding sub-sections, compensation in respect of any property (whether insured or not) shall be one-half of so much of the loss or damage as is not covered by insurance. 
The maximum amount of compensation in respect of loss of, or damage to, a private dwelling (including a boat or caravan used as a primary private dwelling) or premises on a property used for primary production is $25,000. 
Compensation is not payable in respect of a private aircraft or in respect of a boat, other than a boat used as a primary dwelling. 
Compensation in respect of personal possessions, including motor vehicles, caravans not used as primary dwellings, furniture and fittings, shall be determined on the basis of the possessions of members of a household and shall be subject to a maximum amount of $5,000 in respect of a household. 
The maximum amount of compensation in respect of the business premises of a person is $25,000. 
The maximum amount of compensation in respect of business plant, equipment and stock of a person (including crops and livestock in a business of primary production) is $50,000. 4c. A person who is dissatisfied with the decision of the Minister or of a person authorized by the Minister in respect of a claim for compensation under this Act made by the person may appeal to the Supreme Court of the Northern Territory, which shall review the decision and either confirm, reverse or vary it.'. 
Proposed new clause 4c represents the thrust of my remarks in this debate. In the Bill there is no right for any citizen to appeal. As I said in the second reading debate, we consider that a citizen, whether in Darwin or anywhere else, has a right to appeal to someone. I point out to the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  that this is a similar amendment in thought to the amendment which was accepted to the Darwin Reconstruction Bill. We managed to have a sensible amendment passed in relation to that Bill whereby the citizens could inspect the reconstruction plans which were to be on view for a month, and they were, and to which they could lodge objections. I think that the Government could be commended on the actions it took in those circumstances. This is a very similar amendment. I would hope that the Government, including the honourable member for Wills and Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant),  who visits Darwin from time to time for some reason or other, would support me in what I am saying. 
I suggest that there could be such a series of insurance claims that the Supreme Court could be overrun or flooded with litigation. I suggest that what the amendment proposes would be only a temporary measure and that upon the implementation of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal, it would take over from the Supreme Court. I emphasise that the citizen should have some right of appeal. I see that in another place the argument was used that such appeals could be made to an ombudsman, but I point out that in the Ombudsman Bill it is stated that the ombudsman is not authorised to investigate action taken by a Minister. So again, the decisions are made by the Minister, as is virtually every decision in relation to Darwin reconstruction. 
I ask that the Government take this amendment seriously. The people of Darwin are in a state of depression. They are worried about their future and need continuing consideration from this Government. I put it to the Government very seriously that it consider the insertion of clause 4c Of course, the rest of the amendments are virtually in line with the figures that were cited by the Minister when he presented the original Darwin Reconstruction Bill. 
-Yes, I have to uphold the point of order. The clause is very narrow and refers simply to the naming of the Purchasing Commission. 
-I take it that the honourable member for Parramatta is seeking leave to withdraw his amendment. 
-I call the honourable member for Sturt. 
-Order! I must call the honourable member to order. The clause with which we are dealing relates only to the constitution of the Commission. I do not think that this is an appropriate clause on which to re-introduce a former argument. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
In sub-clause (2), paragraph (e), omit 'sub-section 93 (2)', insert 'sub-section 93 ( 1 )'. 
In sub-clause (2), paragraph (e), omit 'sub-section 93 (3) ',insert 'sub-section 93 (2)'. 
These amendments are to correct minor drafting errors. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 87 to 92- by leave- taken together. 
Has the attention of the Attorney-General been drawn to the serious financial difficulties of the State legal aid scheme in Western Australia? Is it a fact that the activities of the office may have to be discontinued within a week in the absence of additional funds? What approaches have been made to the AttorneyGeneral? When can some decision be anticipated? 
I take this opportunity to discuss a current controversy about the admission of Palestine Liberation Organisation members into this country. Every piece of evidence we have- Gallup polls, the contemptuous rejection of pro-PLO resolutions on every campus in the country- shows that the great majority of Australians do not want the PLO here. I believe the majority is right. It follows that I regret the decision to admit PLO members. More than that, I am disturbed at the shallowness of the arguments which have been advanced in support of their entry. The arguments are twofold, free speech and the need to hear both sides of the case. However, to test the weight we should give these factors, consider a visitor coming shortly to Australia, a  Mr el  Surani. 

 Mr el Surani is the chief representative of the PLO in Egypt. He must therefore be recognised as a senior- indeed, top ranking- member of the PLO. Put another way, that simply means he must therefore be at least an accessory, perhaps an instigator and possibly even an active participant in some of the most obnoxious acts of international gangsterism which the world has suffered in recent years. In spite of that it has been argued that he should not only be allowed but positively welcomed into Australia in the interests, it is said, of free speech. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, I take the principle of free speech seriously. I respect it and I exercise it. In accordance with that principle I not merely concede but positively insist that the right to put the Palestinian case- even the PLO case- in Australia must be recognised. I have said many times that if  Mr Hartley,  the Australian Union of Students' Executive, the Friends of Palestine or any other supporter of these causes in Australia wishes to argue for them, their right to do so must be unquestioned. But to tolerate arguments in favour of PLO terror is surely going far enough. It hardly means that we must also import the terrorists themselves for that purpose. That is not a measure in support of free speech. That is a measure against free speech simply because terrorism is itself incompatible with free speech. 
What right of free speech did the PLO give to the Olympic athletes in Munich, to the Christian pilgrims they gunned down at Lod or to the schoolchildren slaughtered at Maalot. Yet, while their awful methods are reason enough to reject the PLO here, that is not the only and not even the main reason for doing so. Even more important than their methods is the unacceptability of their aims which call for the destruction, the entire elimination, of Israel as a sovereign independent state. That that is the objective of the PLO is to be found in the clearest words of their own covenant and spokesmen. The PLO covenant states: 
The Liberation of Palestine ... is a national duty to drive the Zionist, imperialist invasion from the great Arab homeland to pursue the Zionist presence from Palestine. 
What the PLO calls Palestine, of course, includes Israel. The people they call Zionists are actually Israelis. Putting the transparent subtleties of language aside, what the PLO is pledging to do is to drive the Israelis out of Israel- such of them as remain alive- and to utterly destroy the state itself. It goes without saying that this is contrary to international law and, specifically, to the United Nations charter. It also goes without saying that the PLO policy is contrary to Australian Government policy and certainly to the policy of the Australian Labor Party. This follows from the ALP platform. 
The question is: Given that this is in fact the position, how can we most effectively demonstrate it? Will that best be achieved by admitting PLO members or by saying, in effect, this: We are anxious to assist a settlement of the Palestinian problem. Our platform recognises that as well. But as our Government has put it to the United Nations, the only solution we will assist or even recognise is one in which a Palestinian state is created alongside Israel and not in violent replacement of it. While the PLO persists in its declared objective of destroying Israel its position so far lacks respectability, let alone acceptance, in this country that we must decline to have dealings with it. 
So which alternative should be adopted, acceptance or isolation? Perhaps the question can best be answered by this further question: What would we do with an application for entry from an acknowledged member of the Provisional Irish Republican Army, the Rhodesian regime or the Ustashi? There is not the remotest prospect of their acceptance into the country, let alone into our ministerial offices. On what basis of principle the PLO could be regarded as more acceptable than they are is impossible to discern. To attempt to reconcile that inconsistency we have had something of a play on words. Thus Messrs Zananiri and Chaikh who recently toured Australia were not here as PLO members but as members of the General Union of Palestinian Students who just happened to be PLO members and who just happened to discuss nothing other than the PLO line. Similarly,  Mr el  Surani does not come to Australia as a PLO member but as a representative of the Arab League who also just happens to be a senior PLO officer and will likewise have no other purpose in this country than arguing the PLO view. Unfortunately, the Government's description of  Mr el  Surani is really not as relevant as the way he is seen by others. 
After the statement of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  on the acceptability of  Mr el  Surani as an Arab League representative, the media headlined the story in this way: The 'West Australian' newspaper carried the headline 'PM "Happy" to meet PLO man'. The 'Canberra Times' newspaper headline stated: 'PM "Happy" to meet PLO'. The headline of every other newspaper was to exactly the same effect. If the media see the decision this way, the PLO will hardly see it differently and, to that extent Australia's potential to encourage more restrained policies must be diminished. That is a shame and, unfortunately, not helped at all by the equation offered by the Prime Minister between the acceptability of  Mr el  Surani and of a representative of the World Zionist Organisation. The latter, one assumes, was here to argue for the right to continued independent existence of a state which we recognise, with which we have friendly relations and to whose continued existence we are in fact pledged.  Mr el  Surani can be coming only to argue for the destruction by force of that same state. How can the 2 positions be equated? 
There is only one other matter which I can raise in my limited time. The last application for an official PLO delegation to Australia was rejected in January on the grounds that it could give rise to undesirable tensions within Australian society. I agreed with the decision, although I was not altogether enamoured of the reason. Frankly, I would have much preferred that the rejection be based on some broader ground of principle. Still, internal tension was the reason given and if there were ever any doubts as to its validity, these must have been dispelled by the circumstances surrounding the tour of the PLO students. For the first time we saw violent attacks on PLO opponents and the intrusion of threats, iron bars and flick knives into what had previously been, at least at our local level, a peaceful disagreement. In other words, the justification for rejecting a PLO visit earlier in the year not only has been vindicated but must apply with even greater force now. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, I conclude on this note: I do not say that Australia should never admit the PLO, just as I do not suggest that Israel should never agree to negotiate with that Organisation. But neither course can be reasonably supported until the PLO accepts and acknowledges Israel 's right to existence as a sovereign independent state. That must come first. After that, but only after that, most things, above all the great prize of peace, can become possible. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
The Committee in its report questions this goal, as well as other considerations upon which the legislation is based. The Committee believes that the planting rate is excessive and that because of the environmental disadvantages associated with the program it ought to be reduced. 
The main reasons for the Committee recommending a reduction in the planting rate are: (a) Future demand may not be as great as forecast due to a lower rate of population growth and lower consumption rates than those predicted; (b) future supplies may not be as scarce as expected due to the availability of long-term supplies from New Zealand with whom we have a free trade agreement; (c) the planting program has continued with little heed for environmental values especially where the clearfelling of areas of native forest is involved; (d) the financial returns and balance of costs/benefits may not be sufficient for the continuation of the commitment of public funds over such a long period. 
The Committee is not satisfied that any of these questions have been adequately examined and until they are it can see no purpose in proceeding with the program on the scale proposed. The Committee hopes that by examining the matter as expeditiously as it has and by making our findings and recommendations known to the Parliament 12 months before the current Act expires, there will be time for the more fundamental issues to be thoroughly analysed. Emerging from the Committee's examination of this legislation have been some serious environmental shortcomings which the Committee believes require most urgent attention. Primarily, these concern the tragic dearth of knowledge of the effects of clearfelling large areas of Australia 's native forests upon the flora and fauna they contain, and upon soil and water quality. The Committee is convinced that until much more is known about these factors, further clearing should not take place. The Committee was appalled to see the blatant disregard with which prime quality forests in some States are being bulldozed. In some cases not the slightest concession is made to environmental values, the only considerations being ease of planting and ease of harvesting. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, this leads me to 3 major recommendations of this report which cannot be stressed too strongly. The first is that more funds ought to be made available for biological surveys and wildlife surveys for the whole Australian continent. The great tragedy of softwood planting is that of the native forest being destroyed, so little is known about its flora and fauna content or its relative value. The second is for greater research to be conducted into the side effects of softwood forestry upon all the environmental issues raised in the report. The third- this is a very important factor- is for more funds to be allocated for the purchase of marginal or derelict rural land which has been cleared for its timber and which would be suited to forestry. All three are vital matters and I urge that serious consideration be given to them. 
This inquiry has been a particularly valuable one for Australia in that it has enabled the whole range of people interested in a piece of future legislation to make their views known to the Parliament. This, I believe, is one of the great benefits of Parliamentary Committees. Thanks to the hard work and the dedication of its members I firmly believe the Environment and Conservation Committee has made a valuable contribution to the process of the public examination of important topical issues. Since the commencement of the inquiry in October 1974, the Committee has travelled to every State holding public hearings and inspecting the activities of the State forest services. A sub-committee also visited New Zealand on what proved to be a most invaluable trip in that it enabled the Committee to resolve a serious conflict in evidence on a matter absolutely vital to future softwood forestry legislation. In that short period of time the Committee held 12 public hearings, heard 74 witnesses, and took 2400 pages of evidence. Naturally, there were many hours of private deliberation by the Committee. As  Chairman  of the Committee, I wish also to express on behalf of the Committee members our appreciation of the loyalty, dedication and interest of our Committee staff. They all applied themselves with interest to the task undertaken and, whilst I hesitate to mention individuals,  Mr Peter  Reece has applied himself with enthusiasm to his allocated responsibilities in this inquiry.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I believe that this report is an admirable effort and I commend it to the House. 
-Order! Yes, the Minister is in order. There is no point of order involved. 
-Only the first 3 amendments deal with clause 3. 
-As the Committee is taking the Bill as a whole, it is open to the honourable member to do so. 
This Bill is based on the results of a Tariff Board inquiry that was begun in 1969 and completed in 1971. The Government's proposals for the shipbuilding industry were released on 3 1 
May 1973. On 8 March 1973 the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  announced that an interdepartmental committee had been set up to investigate and recommend the level and method of assistance to the Australian shipbuilding industry. On 18 December 1973 the Minister for Secondary Industry released details of the Government's proposals for assistance to the ship-building industry that resulted from the review of the interdepartmental committee. It is those proposals that are now contained in this Bill. 
In the 18 months that has elapsed between the announcement of the Government's policy and its present enactment many changes have occurred in the shipping and shipbuilding industries. For example, there is now a considerable oversupply of shipping in the world market, so that freight rates have dropped to extremely low and unprofitable levels. Consequently, orders for new buildings are being cancelled. Furthermore, the entire shipping and shipbuilding industries have been transformed by the advent of the very large cargo carriers and the supertankers. That has made much of the former thinking concerning shipping, as well as the technology and scale of shipbuilding, outdated. There is considerable uncertainty in shipbuilding circles overseas as to the immediate prospects of the shipbuilding industry. With the mass tie-up of vessels, especially of the large tankers and bulk carriers, yards that were designed to construct larger ships are now being adapted to build smaller ships. The oil crisis and the world-wide inflation have made the normally uncertain life of a shipowner and a shipbuilder even more hazardous. In the light of those developments since the Government's policy concerning Australian shipbuilding was announced, it is unfortunate that this legislation will be of little relevance to the problems facing the industry. 
The Bill provides that a bounty will be payable on the production in registered Australian shipyards of vessels of 150 gross construction tons or more and fishing vessels of 21 metres or more in length, such vessels to be used on the Australian coast or operated under the Australian flag overseas. The bounty is also payable for the modification in Australia of existing ships where the cost of modification exceeds $500,000. If the vessel is disposed of for use outside Australian waters by a non-Australian flag operator within 10 years of completion, then the bounty will be repaid on a pro-rata basis. The amount of the bounty payable for vessels of less than 1 000 gross registered construction tons and for vessels of 92 000 deadweight tonnes or more, for oil exploration vessels and for modifications to existing vessels, is 25 per cent of the cost of construction. For all other vessels the bounty will be 25 per cent after 1 January 1981, but will vary on a sliding basis up to that date from its present level of 3716 per cent. 
The bounty proposals vary in some respects from those recommended by the Tariff Board in its 1971 report. Apart from some variation as regards the categories of vessels to which the bounty applies the main difference is the rate at which the bounty will apply. The Tariff Board recommended a subsidy to a maximum of 45 per cent for the period to 3 1 December 1 975, a maximum subsidy of 35 per cent from 1 January 1976 until 31 December 1978 and the introduction of a 25 per cent fleet rate after 1 January 1979. The Government's proposal is for a sliding scale bounty. The lower rate of subsidy of 25 per cent which will apply after 1 January 1981 is, I submit, a disincentive to shipbuilding in Australia. Although the industry has been given notice that after 1981 a level of 25 per cent subsidy will apply, it must in the intervening period rearrange its equipment, planning and personnel to cope with the new situation which will exist. The reorganisation and rationalisation will require substantial investment on the part of the Australian shipbuilding industry and, unless some incentive is provided, I believe that after 1981 we will see the virtual disappearance of a shipbuilding industry in this country. A higher rate of bounty before 1981 would have provided more work and subsequently a greater opportunity for existing yards to prepare for and cope with the situation which will exist after 1981. 
There are other matters, however, which ought to be raised in relation to this Bill. Firstly, I am pleased to see that the Government has accepted 2 proposals from the industry which deserved consideration. The first is the problem which existed as regards the determination of the bounty according to the keel laying date. Clause 10 of the Bill provides that the bounty is payable from a date fixed by the draft contract for the setting up on the construction site of a major unit from which the vessel is to be constructed. Not only does this provision recognise that there were many difficulties inherent in determining the keel laying date under a contract and sticking to the schedule involved, but it also recognises the essentially irrelevant nature of the keel laying for the purpose of determining the bounty. Under modern construction methods, there may not even be a keel laying as such; in fact, modular and unitised construction methods are becoming widespread. At any rate, a great deal of procurement and prefabrication of hull sections takes place. 
The second proposal concerns the method of payment under the bounty. Clause 16 of the Bill provides for advances on account of the bounty on such terms and conditions as approved by the Minister. Shipbuilders have to obtain payment from 2 sources, from the owner and from the Government. Bounty payments should be made in accordance with the provisions for payment contained in the contract between the builder and the owner. I ask the Minister to reconsider whether the method proposed is inappropriate. 
There are several other aspects of the Bill, however, over which concern has been raised. The first is the fact that although the Minister for Manufacturing Industry has the responsibility for shipbuilding and construction, the Minister for transport will be responsible for the administration of this bounty legislation. I believe that unnecessary confusion and duplication of departmental function has been introduced into this field by the Government's allocation of ministerial responsibilities. Shipbuilders are also concerned that there will be delays in determining the amount of the bounty payable under the Bill. As I understand it, the Minister will be unable to determine the bounty until after negotiations have taken place with a preferred tenderer on the final specification. It is thought that owners may be disadvantaged by this to such an extent that they will be completely discouraged from even entering into negotiations for building vessels in Australia. The owner already has considerable delays in obtaining a final price for a vessel, and since the future earning capacity of the ship and the rate of return on the ship owners investment depends upon this price ship owners will not be encouraged to construct ships in Australia. 
A further element of uncertainty is the provision contained in clause 6 relating to the calculation of the bounty. The clause provides that the Minister shall determine the bounty price in accordance with the accepted Australian tender price. Where there is more than one tender the Minister has to follow the lower or lowest tender price, even though this may not be the tender accepted by the owner. The bounty price therefore may be unrelated to the accepted tender. The question of escalation clauses is also one which needs to be considered. The increase in ship construction costs in recent years has been quite phenomenal. A simple procedure for the calculation of cost escalation needs to be formulated along lines similar to those prevailing in overseas yards. Difficulties already exist in planning for and recovering cost increases, and under the proposed procedures contained in clause 13 shipbuilders will have greater difficulty in establishing with Government investigations their claims for increased bounty payments as a result of cost escalation. The Government should adopt the same escalation formula agreed to by the owner which is contained in the contract between the owner and the shipyard. A mutually agreed formula needs to be worked out to enable shipbuilders to recover in full cost increases incurred during the construction of a vessel. This is vital in the case of long term and multiple ship contacts, particularly in times of rapid inflation, which increases labour costs and the costs of material by substantial amounts. The provisions contained in clause 13 are unsatisfactory.  Mr Chairman,  may I take my second period now? 

 CHAIRMAN- That will depend on whether any other honourable member rises. The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I call the Special Minister of State. 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
What quantity of (a) coal and (b) crude oil was used in Australia in each of the last 5 years, and what was the percentage increase in usage of each product in each year. 
Are any projections available for anticipated future usage of coal and crude oil respectively. 
Does the Government provide any incentive or assistance for changeover from oil to coal usage; if so, what forms does this assistance take, and what results have been achieved. 
-Does the Minister seek leave to move amendments Nos 5 and 6 together? 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
In sub-clause (1) omit the definition of "prescribed authority", substitute the following definition:- " 'prescribed authority ' means- 
a body corporate, or an unincorporated body, established for a public purpose by, or in accordance with the provisions of, an enactment, other than- 
an incorporated company or association; 
a body that has the power to take evidence on oath or affirmation and is constituted by, or includes among its members, a person who is a Justice or Judge of a court established by a law of Australia or a person who has, by virtue of an Act, the same status as a Justice or Judge of such a court; and 
a body that under sub-section (2) or the regulations is not to be taken to be a prescribed authority for the purposes of this Act; 
any other body, whether incorporated or unincorporated, declared by the regulations to be a prescribed authority for the purposes of this Act, being- 
a body established by the Governor-General or by a Minister; or 
an incorporated company in which Australia has a controlling interest; 
the person holding, or performing the duties of, an office established by an enactment, other than such a person who under sub-section (2A) or the regulations is not to be taken to be a prescribed authority for the purposes of this Act; or 
the person performing the duties of an appointment declared by the regulations to be an appointment the holder of which is a prescribed authority for the purposes of this Act, being an appointment made by the Governor-General, or by a Minister, otherwise than under an enactment; ". 
In sub-clause (1) in the definition of 'principal officer' omit paragraph (c), substitute the following paragraph: - "(c) in relation to a prescribed authority- 
if the regulations declare an office to be the principal office in respect of the authority- the person holding, or performing the duties of, that office; or 
in any other case- the person who constitutes, or is acting as the person who constitutes, that authority or, if the authority is constituted by 2 or more persons, the person who is entitled to preside at any meeting of the authority at which he is present;". 
In sub-clause (1), in the definition of 'responsible Minister', omit paragraph (c), substitute the following paragraphs:- "(c) if a prescribed authority referred to in paragraph (a) of the definition of 'prescribed authority' is responsible for dealing with a matter- the Minister administering the enactment by which, or in accordance with the provisions of which, the prescribed authority is established; 
if a prescribed authority referred to in paragraph (c) of that definition is responsible for dealing with the matter- the Minister administering the enactment by which the office is established; or 
if any other prescribed authority is responsible for dealing with the matter- the Minister declared by the regulations to be the responsible Minister in respect of that authority,". 
Omit sub-clause (2), substitute the following subclauses: "(2) An unincorporated body, being a board, council, committee, sub-committee or other body established by, or in accordance with the provisions of, an enactment for the purpose of assisting, or performing functions connected with, a prescribed authority shall not be taken to be a prescribed authority for the purpose of this Act, but action taken by the body, or by a person on its behalf, shall, for the purpose of this Act, be deemed to have been taken by that prescribed authority. "(2A) A person shall not be taken to be a prescribed authority by virtue of his holding, or performing the duties of- 
an office the duties of which he performs as duties of his employment as an officer or employee of a Department or as a member of the staff of a prescribed authority; 
b ) an office of member of a body; or 
an office established by an enactment for the purposes of a prescribed authority, but any action taken by or on behalf of such a person in his capacity as the person holding or performing the duties of the office concerned shall, for the purposes of this Act, be deemed to have been taken by the Department, body or prescribed authority, as the case may be. "(2B) Where - 
action is taken by a person in the exercise of a power or the performance of a function conferred by or under an enactment; 
the person does not exercise the power or perform the function by virtue of holding, or performing the duties of, an office established by, or in accordance with the provisions of, an enactment; 
the person is not an officer of a Department or of a prescribed authority for the purposes of this Act; and 
the person is not authorized to exercise the power or perform the function by reason of his being a Judge of a court of, or a magistrate of, a State or Territory, the action shall be deemed to have been taken, for the purposes of this Act, by the Department responsible for dealing with the matter in connexion with which the action is taken.". 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
Proposed new clause 7 A. 
-Order! I think it would be appropriate to raise that matter after the division. The point of order does not relate to the division. We will deal with it later. 
Question so resolved in the affirmative. 
Question put: 
That the motion (  Mr Daly's  ) be agreed to. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) In respect of how many patients was the nursing home subsidy paid in (a) Australia and (b) Western Australia at the latest date for which figures are available. 
In respect of (a) Australia and (b) Western Australia, how many nursing home patients were accommodated in (i) private nursing homes and (ii) non-profit nursing homes eligible for deficit financing. 
What is the average cost to the Australian Government of subsidising patients in (a) private nursing homes and (b) non-profit nursing homes in (i) Australia and (ii) Western Australia. 
: asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
How many applications have been received by the Schools Commission from independent schools for (a) capital grants and (b) innovation grants, and what is the total value of applications under each scheme. 
How many grants have already been approved under each scheme, and what is the total value of grants under each scheme. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to press reports which indicate that, in the last days of the war in South Vietnam, a type of bomb was used which operated by asphyxiation. 
If the Government can confirm the existence of such a weapon, will it consider some initiative to secure a convention banning it on the grounds that its nature is at least analogous to that of poison gas. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection leave is granted. 
I come now to his statement relating to new sources of borrowing. Nobody on my side of the House argues against new sources if the money is from the Arab oil producing countries. Of course we do not want funds from those who have engaged in illegal practices and have accumulated funds improperly. If the money comes from the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries, then of course it would be welcome in this country, provided it was arranged on appropriate terms. What we are arguing about now is the means adopted by the Aus.tralian Labor Party to get these loans, that is about those it has treated as agents, the degree of secrecy and the motivation for that secrecy. If this had been a normal and not an abnormal transaction, these questions would not have been necessary. 
I have here several documents which illustrate to the House what our position as a Liberal Party always has been on loans. We have always believed that negotiations should be open, that the Treasury should handle these matters other than in exceptional circumstances, and that it should not be left to agents to act as intermediaries. The Treasury should carry out the basic operation with the underwriters and brokers before it was agreed to at a ministerial and then the Cabinet level. I brought in to the House a letter which I wrote on 15 May 1967 setting out in clear terms exactly what I thought, and what  Mr Holt  agreed was the proper procedure to follow and the Department which should carry out loan negotiations. 
As an explanatory note I should say that during the time I was Treasurer I found that some other departments thought they had a greater degree of expertise than the Treasury. That was never the truth. But, vanity being what it is, one can never stop that kind of vanity and thinking. From generation to generation action has had to be taken by the Prime Minister to ensure that the proper role of the Treasury as set out in the Administrative Arrangements Order, for which the Prime Minister is responsible, is observed. In this letter of 1 5 May I said to  Mr Holt: 
The second report gives an account of the reactions of various bankers overseas to a proposal ... for a government-owned corporation that would borrow funds abroad. 
The letter was written in the context that the Trade Department no doubt would seek authority to borrow abroad, other than through the Treasury. I then stated: 
Finance in general and Commonwealth borrowing abroad in particular are clearly within the responsibilities of the Treasurer and there are well-established methods of bringing such matters to the attention of the responsible Minister. What . . . is being suggested cuts right across the long accepted divisions of Ministerial responsibility and breaks rules that are basic to the working of the Cabinet system. 

 Mr Holt agreed. During the time he was Prime Minister he refused to permit any Department or Minister to chisel in on this area of Treasury responsibility. The rule was broken during the Prime Ministership of the right honourable member for Higgins. The concept of Treasury responsibility was confirmed in a letter of 20 March 1975 from  Mr Hayden  to a  Mr Dyer  relating to an agent being allowed to act as an agent for borrowing of money on behalf of a government agency, when he said: 
No Treasurer could of course agree to provide such authority. 
The Prime Minister went on to mention that the British Government had borrowed from Arab sources. I state clearly that it was not the borrowing in which we were interested; it was the means and the people through whom it was done. The British said in their statement- as I think it ought to have said- that borrowing negotiations were first carried out by the Bank of England and then the commercial banks, as agents carrying out their normal functions under the Bank's supervision. Even tiny New Zealand has adopted exactly the same practice. 
The only person to whom the Prime Minister referred as having written a letter direct to a Treasurer of Liberal persuasion to seek approval to act as an agent for raising loans was  Mr Walter  Pisterman who happened to be a great friend of the late  Mr Holt  but whose request for approval was turned down. Let me turn to another question which I believe to be of critical importance and which is associated with what I have just said. I mentioned my recent visit overseas. Today the Prime Minister referred to Australia's rating in the official standard of precedence and borrowing priorities. Our rating by the relevant rating authority, Standard and Poor, is AAA, which is tops. That position was achieved by the hard effort of the producers of this country and in particular by the leadership of the Liberal-Country Party Government, and its incentives to growth and increased productivity. As the Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  said today, we won that rating because so many new raw materials were discovered and processed during the time we were in government. We became one of the most respected countries. A country in which other countries could invest with the lowest risk and with a reasonable return. I have no doubt that Australia 's rating is still high. But I say with great diffidence and hestitation that if one goes to the United States of America or England today he will find that it is not this country, this Parliament or the people of this country but the Australian Government that is being laughed at and ridiculed because of its economic and social policies. The Cairns and the Khemlani affairs have made us a laughing stock. People ask: 'What has happened?' One company said to me that it had already invested $150m in Australia and now wanted to invest another $350m. They referred not to the Strangler, as I called him before, but to Old Boofhead over there. They asked: 'What is he up to now?' This $3 50m cannot be invested because the Minister will acquire crudes at well head and he will not tell us the terms and conditions under which acquisition will take place. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Berinson)Order! It was not until the end of that sentence that it became clear that the right honourable member was referring to another honourable member in a quite unparliamentary way. I ask him to withdraw it. 
In authorising loans the negotiation must be government to government. 1 want to speak on only one other subject and that is about what has become known throughout the world as the Khemlani affair. There is no doubt that  Mr Khemlani  was the principal agent. The Prime Minister has said that he was not, but if you look at the correspondence and at the various documents that have been tabled there can be no doubt that he was the principal agent, and fits perfectly into the definition of agent. That can be illustrated by several of the letters that have been published- not in the list tabled today but published in the Melbourne Age. 
It is a fact that  Mr Khemlani  wrote to the Moscow Narodny Bank and told them of the 5 cheques for $20m and one of $ 1 5m that were to be issued to those who were to receive commission. One was for an amount of $ 15m for  Mr Bajius  who is now a fugitive from justice and one of the men who was tested by the security service or someone else as to integrity. He had this power. He was an agent. Then there is  Mr Khemlani  whom we cannot find now. He is also at large and not able to be traced by anyone so that we can test his opinion. 
It appears from the letters that apart from the Minister for Minerals and Energy the mastermind was the Prime Minister himself and that not only did he attempt to ignore the constitutional legalities but also adopted devious means to ensure that these negotiations were kept secret. He did so because he dared not show his hand before he had completed the deal as he knew that if he did the Labor Party would find it intolerable and so would the people of this country. However, if he could get away with it and face the people and the Labor Party with a  fait accompli  he would be safe and would have until Budget time in which to recover from the odium and distress he had caused. There is no appeal from that in Parliament. But the Labor Party and the people will each have an appeal soon. If the Labor Party does not change its leadership the people will change the Government and,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  certainly you will not be  Deputy Speaker  for long and the Prime Minister will lose his job as Leader of the Government and the Australian nation. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Yes. 
and (4) In regard to proceedings of the River Murray Commission I refer the honourable member to parts (3) and (4) of my reply to question No. 2329. In regard to proceedings of the Australian Water Resources Council the transcript of the minutes of the fifteenth meeting of the Australian Water Resources Council held on 27 July 1973 were tabled in the House of Representatives and Senate on 1 1 October 1973 and the minutes of the sixteenth meeting of the Australian Water Resources Council convened on 30 August 1974 were tabled in the House of Representatives and the Senate on 2 June 1975. 
Publication 'Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia'  (Question No. 2328) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Yes. 
and (4) I refer the honourable member to parts (3) and (4) of my reply to question No. 2329. 
Publication: 'Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia'  (Question No. 2329) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Yes. 
The Proceedings of the River Murray Commission are documents of the Commission and it is for the Commissioners to determine whether the report should be made public. The River Murray Commission consists of four Commissioners, one appointed by the Governor-General and one each by the Governors of New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia; it is not an agency of the Australian Government. 
Refer to answer (3) above. 
Publication: 'Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia'  (Question No. 2330) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Yes. 
1 refer the honourable member to part (3 ) of the Prime Minister's reply to question No. 2243 (Hansard No. 59, 8 April 1975). I would add, however, that this Government has considered the allocation of Federal financing assistance for the implementation of several rural dam and irrigation projects. In each case a report containing a benefit-cost analysis was published. The reports are: 'Lock-Kimba Pipeline Proposal, South Australia' Bureau of Agricultural Economics, 1973. 'Eton Irrigation Proposal, Queensland ' Bureau of Agricultural Economics, 1973. 'Reappraisal of Lower Dawson Weirs Project' Department of Northern Development, 1973. 'An Evaluation of the Dartmouth Project' Department of Environment and Conservation, April 1974. 
In addition a report of a benefit-cost study of the Bundaberg Irrigation Proposal, Queensland, 1975 has been published by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. 
Refer to answer (3) above. 
Publication 'Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia'  (Question No. 2332) 
For the information of honourable members I present a report on a survey conducted by Spectrum International Marketing Services Pty Ltd for the Department of Environment entitled 'Public attitudes to the environment'. Due to the limited number of copies available, 2 reference copies of the report have been placed in the Parliamentary Library. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. Legal Assistance for environment and conservation groups is provided through the Australian Legal Aid Office. 
See answer to ( 1 ). 
See answer to (1). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
30 June 1973-93 employed; 30 June 1974-160 employed. 
Employment at 30 June 1975-231. 
Details of the levels of public servants employed at 30 June 1975 were: 
The Government has not repudiated any agreements and does not intend to, but I do not think that I should attempt to leave the question on that basis alone, since this is an area that has given rise to considerable concern and difficulty. The background to it is that during the last financial year the previous Minister for Environment made offers under the States Grants (Nature Conservation) Act to reimburse the States for the purchase of various tracts of land valued in all at about $9m. That sum was allocated in last year's appropriations for those purposes and had the purchases been finalised by 30 June the matter would have proceeded to completion in the ordinary way. 
Since 30 June we have come across conditions which were not originally expected and which I do not have to discuss in detail at this point. In the context of the general budgetary approach requiring constraint, which the Leader of the Opposition last night informed us was not severe enough, the Government came to the conclusion that it was not able to proceed with all the offers previously made. The reason I am able to say that this does not involve any repudiation of agreements is that the original offer was made subject to final agreements being entered into as required by the States Grants Nature Conservation Act. The problem in so many of these cases was that some of the States and, unfortunately, particularly New South Wales, where Violet Hill and the Myall Lakes are located, were slow to enter into a form of agreement which was mutually acceptable. I said at the Concom meeting, and I repeat now, that it gave me no pleasure as my first introduction to the State Ministers concerned in these areas to have to advise them that there would have to be a cut back in the original contribution which we proposed to make but that in line with our budgetary procedures, which are common to those of the States, funds which are not expended at the end of the year in which they are allocated are not automatically available in the next financial year. That is the problem with which we are now faced. 
The Government has allocated $1.8m for the 1975-76 financial year. That amount is not inconsiderable. It is $1.8m more than was ever provided by the Opposition when it was in government. We are keeping the Act alive. It is a new Act and one which represented an important initiative of this Government Important tracts will be purchased with the allocation in this year's Budget, The Act will remain alive and will enable, I hope, continuing discussions with the States with a view to identifying suitable areas for future allocation - 
-Since the question directly involved Myall Lakes, I should point out that the amount involved here is of the order of $ 1.2m. To proceed with that possibility would preclude proceeding in other areas where final agreements between the States and proposed sellers of land have gone much further towards completion. I should point out, since this area was specified in the question, that it was an area where we were faced with an unwilling seller and if the purchase were to proceed the State Government would have been required to implement its resumption powers. To that extent there is no breach of faith with any intended purchaser and we have been anxious to ensure that nothing would happen in any negotiation on any proposed State national park that would involve such a breach of faith. That is not the case with Myall Lakes and, in view of the amount of finance that would be required to complete that purchase and the great proportion of our total funds which it would absorb, I have had to advise the State Minister with great regret that we are unable to proceed with our original offer. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. These surveys were jointly commissioned by the Western Australian Environmental Protection Authority and the Australian Government Department of Housing and Construction. The results have confirmed the findings given in answer to question No. 687. 
Yes. Reports of all previous monitoring work in connection with Hydrology, Beach Morphology and Ecology of Cockburn Sound have been made available to the Environmental Protection Authority. Officers of the Department of Housing and Construction have been consulted, as required, by the firm commissioned by the Environmental Protection Authority to carry out the appraisal survey. 
No specific submission on Palm Beach has been brought to my attention. 
The results of the surveys indicate that the prime cause of a general build-up of algae in the Sound is the significant increase in the past few years of quantities of nutrients being discharged into the Sound by established industry, as indicated in answer to question No. 687. 
In reply to the honourable member's question the following information is provided: 
The Department of Environment administers a program of Wildlife Policy Investigation which in 1974-75 made $381,000 available for a wide range of biologically and ecologically oriented studies. A detailed list of projects financed under this scheme is attached. 
The CSIRO Division of Entomology employs a number of taxonomists responsible for the collection and maintenance of the Australian National Insect Collection. CSIRO Division of Wildlife Research is also responsible for a continuing program of wildlife surveys in all parts of Australia. 
Two other Australian Government sources of funds for biological and ecological studies are the Australian Biological Resources Study Interim Council and the Australian Research Grants Committee. As both of these bodies and the CSIRO are the responsibility of my colleague, the Minister for Science, I suggest that the honourable member should contact the Minister if he requires further information 
The various State Fauna Authorities together with State Museums are also involved in survey programs. I am not aware of the details of such surveys and suggest the honourable member seek this information direct from the various State Authorities. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information you requested is shown in the attached table. Studies undertaken by Australian and State Government agencies and universities on behalf of the Department have not been included. 
8104,723.65. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
$27,000. In addition, $21,000 has been sought for public notices of environmental inquiries, $48,000 for the Australian National Parks and Wildlife Service and $5,000 for the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority. 
(a) Advertisements for the recruitment of staff. 
Advertisements for grants to conservation and environmental bodies. 
Public notices of intention to hold environmental inquiries under the Environment Protection (Impact ofProposals) Assessment Act 1974-75. 
Public notices of areas to be declared under the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act 1975. 
Expenditure over the last five years for the Department of Environment was as follows- 
1 974-75-$20,995 
1973-74-$ 15,458 
The Department was created in December 1972 and any costs which may have been incurred on advertising during the period December 1972 to June 1973 are not separately identifiable. No information is available in relation to expenditure in earlier years. 
The only costs incurred for public notices of environmental inquiries was $8,613 in 1974/75 and $406 in 1973/74. In so far as the Australian National Parks and Wildlife Service is concerned the only cost for advertising incurred was $1,290 in 1974/75. As legislation to establish the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority was only assented to in June 1975 no advertising costs were incurred prior to that date. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows 
The role of CSIRO as defined by the Industry Research Act is to initiate and carry out scientific researches and investigations in connection with, or for the promotion of primary or secondary industries in the Commonwealth or in any Territory of the Commonwealth or in connection with any other matter referred to the Organisation by the Minister. 
Much of the research undertaken in carrying out this role is concerned with understanding the environment and learning to manage it. However, the Organisation tends to concentrate mainly on longer-term research aimed at elucidating principles necessary for the solution of recognised general problems and the development of appropriate methodologies. 
The role of the Bureau of Environmental Studies is to carry out research and investigations to provide factual information needed by the Department of Environment to enable it to carry out its legislative and regulatory functions and to encourage research in those aspects of the environment where a need exists but which have not been adequately studied by other research bodies. 
Yes, I am aware of the concern. I could hardly help being aware of the position, especially given the forceful submissions on the subject put to me by the honourable member for Cook himself, the honourable member for Barton and other representatives of the area. I also took the opportunity last week to have a meeting to discuss the position with  Mr Bernie  Clarke of the Botany Bay Planning and Protection Council. I must confess that I hardly feel myself to be in the position to make any judgment on the submissions which have been put to me. It is not even clear at this point whether the direct environment protection powers available to me would be applicable in the Botany Bay situation, although the Commonwealth does have an obvious interest there through Towra Point and its involvement in the proposed harbour and airport developments. 
However, even conceding that much, I have to add that the arguments put to me justify at the very least very great concern for this area. It is a highly developed part of New South Wales. It is densely populated. Development will affect a great many more people, if the environmental impact is as serious as has been suggested, than many other developments which at the moment are causing greater general concern. I believe that close attention must be paid to it. At the invitation of  Mr Clarke  and local members I have agreed to visit Botany Bay next Monday. I will be accompanied at that time by the members of Parliament to whom I have referred already and also by some of my ministerial colleagues, including the Minister for Defence, affectionately known among his friends as the honourable member for St George. I am hopeful also that the Minister for Manufacturing Industry and perhaps others will join us. 
I have also invited the relevant Ministers of the New South Wales Government in the hope that they will be able to participate in the inspection and give us the benefit of their interest. They are unable to join us at the time that we have suggested but I am pleased to have had their cooperation to the extent of offers of relevant officers of the State departments being made available to assist us. It is very clear that this is one of the areas in which, if we are to be helpful, it will be only on a basis of Commonwealth and State co-operation. I think that the seriousness of the position on the face of it would certainly justify that course. 
I refer the honourable member to the Prime Minister's answer to Question No. 2586. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) (a) Grants are made to environment and conservation groups for the following purposes: 
Administrative Support. Grants are available to any non-profit organisation, properly constituted, with appropriately elected officers, adequate financial controls including audits, and a bona fide membership open to any interested person, which has as a major objective the identification, preservation, conservation, presentation or management of some component of the national estate whether in large regions, states and territories or the nation as a whole. Organisations which function as a servicing centre for other organisations are also eligible. 
Technical Assistance. The objective of this scheme is to ensure that private environment and conservation groups receive the professional assistance necessary to enable them to prepare sound cases on specific issues and thus help the community to become its own environmental advocate. 
Organisations must be properly constituted, locally oriented, voluntary, and accountable for expenditure of any funds received. 
The recipient organisation is required to apply its grant towards obtaining technical assistance of an expert consultant nature that would otherwise be beyond its existing resources. 
The availability of assistance under these schemes has recently been advertised in all major daily newspapers. 
I refer the honourable member to part (3) of the answer provided by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development to Question No. 269 1 . 
I refer the honourable member to the Prime Minister's answer to question No. 2789. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) Administrative support: 1971-72: $50,000; 
1972- 73: $170,000; 1973-74: $318,000; 1974-75: $353,000. 
Technical assistance: (commenced 1973-74) 
1973- 74: $84,400; 1974-75: $88,750. 
(a) Administrative support: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Australia is a signatory to the following conventions and agreements: 
Convention for the Protection of the World Cultural and National Heritage. 
Convention on Wetlands of International Importance Especially as Waterfowl Habitat. 
International Convention for the Regulation of Whaling. 
I propose firstly to discuss the role of the Senate within our parliamentary system and for that purpose I refer again to comments which I made in the Estimates debate almost 3 years ago. As you will be aware,  Mr Chairman,  I am not in the habit of quoting myself. If I make an exception to that rule now it is only to emphasise that what I am about to say as a member of the Government is completely consistent with my arguments in Opposition. It is not as some less generous members may suspect just a current reaction to a current set of problems. I refer to  Hansard  of 12 September 1.972. (  Quorum formed).  As I was saying,  Hansard  of 12 September 1972 records me in the following terms: 
For over 20 years the Senate has had the potential to be a highly negative and disruptive body and with the imminence of a general election and the likelihood of a Labor Government thereafter, that potential could be realised all too soon. ... the balance of power in the Senate is now held by 5 DLP and 3 independent senators, all 8 of whom between them represent a mere fraction of the whole electorate. 
This situation has presented no problem to this stage because the Democratic Labor Party could always be relied upon to support the Government parties. The same cooperation, however, could hardly be expected for a Labor Government. 
The prospects, then, would be of very great difficulty in passing any meaningful legislative programme at all and very serious instability of government. 
Even the double dissolution provisions would not necessarily resolve the problems likely to arise because, although not yet tested it does appear that the Senate can bring down a government without leading to its own dissolution by means of a refusal of Supply. 
Famous last words. I went on to say: 
As it is, we already have 2 Federal elections every 3 years, which is far too often for effective government. We should beware of opening the way to even more frequent polls than that. The result at best would be chaos- at worst, complete paralysis of the system. 
I then went on to discuss a number of myths about the Senate, the suggestion for example that it really is distinctively useful as a House of review; that it can realistically be looked to for protection of the rights of the States; that a multiparty rather than a 2-party Senate is desirable in principle despite the minority balance of power situations to which it lends itself. On the latter point I said this: 
The argument is that minorities should be better and more specifically represented than the 2-party system allows. Perhaps that argument is right, although I would deny it. But if it is right, why stop there? Why not be consistent and adopt proportional representation- that is, the multi-parry system for the House of Representatives as well? The answer is obvious and rests on the fragmentation, instability and indecisiveness which characterise every parliament which is elected on a proportional representation basis. 
While I believe that what I said in 1972 was right, I would now concede that I did not then go far enough. It is not enough to say- as I said then- that if we have proportional representation in both Houses of Parliament the result will be political instability. Experience has shown that one can produce that result, given a particular set of circumstances, by proportional representation in one House alone. Because of that voting system in the Senate we had one election 18 months ahead of time in May last year. There is now irrepressible speculation on a second premature election within the next 6 months. 
But the frequency of elections- intolerable as that is- is only part of the problem. Even more serious has been the effect of repeated dissolution threats on the quality of government in the meantime. No government, let alone one as new to administration and faced with as many unique international problems as ours has been, could be expected to function as effectively as it should while simultaneously obliged to renew its popularity on a 6-month rolling program. That simply cannot be done. Indeed, one of the most important features of this year's Budget is that it refuses to try. It recognises that our current economic difficulties are not amenable to instant solutions and it therefore initiates a relatively long term response. That the electoral cost of that exercise is potentially very heavy has nothing to do with the merits of the Budget itself. It rests solely on a fortuitous balance of numbers in the Senate which is a direct result of the system of proportional representation in that House. 
As to alternatives, the former Senate electoral system of preferential voting on a State-wide electorate is also, if not equally, undesirable. I therefore come back to a third alternative, namely, the replacement of State-wide Senate constituencies by 5 constituencies within each State, each constituency with 2 senators elected at alternate polls. The voting system in that case would be preferential as for this House. It would tend to provide clear rather than narrow majorities in the Senate and an improved prospect of the power in both Houses resting in the same party. 
Finally- and not least important- the proposed change is within the power of Parliament itself to enact. It is envisaged by the Constitution and would not require anything so impossible as the passage of a referendum in order to achieve it. I have made the identical suggestion many times and I have never yet been overwhelmed by the enthusiasm of the response to it. I raise it here again because developments in recent times have made such action more urgent than ever. With the disgraceful conduct of the New South Wales and Queensland governments in replacing Labor Senate vacancies with nonLabor appointments we have reached the stage where not only is the whole government of the country subject to the caprice of a peculiar voting system, it is now also vitally dependent on such otherwise irrelevant facts as the extent to which individual senators are healthy, ill or accident prone. The Queensland Government in particular, when it elected  Mr Field,  brought the convention on casual Senate vacancies to the point of destruction, and the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  has asked very properly whether the convention has not been torn up. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has responded to that question by describing the Queensland Government's action as without principle and without honour. The clear indication there is that the Prime Minister is concerned to preserve the convention. That should be the concern of us all. 
The alternative election system which I have proposed would encourage its survival, if only because the temptations to seize a chance opportunity for a Senate majority would be so greatly reduced. This is not the only or main argument for the change but an additional justification for it and if we avoid consideration of that possibility it is at the peril of our whole parliamentary system. 
For the information of honourable members I present a summary record of proceedings of the second meeting of the Nature Conservation Ministers held in Adelaide on 12 July 1974. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report prepared by the Australian Advisory Committee on the Environment entitled  Coastal Land.  The report is dated July 1975. 
Estimates debates are too fragmented for use as a platform for any real discussion of our attitude as a nation to environmental and conservation matters. One of my hopes is that we will be able to make opportunities for a more general discussion. I believe it is too simple to accept the impression that concern for the environment now is so widespread that the battle, at least in principle, has been won; that it is just a matter of sorting out the details; that we are not in fact in an area of political dispute, as the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  put it to us earlier. I respect the views of the honourable member for Gwydir but I have to disagree with him at least gently. As Minister for Environment, as one of what he called the colourful figures passing him by, I think I can say with confidence, and in the hope that I have not yet passed him by, that environment is one of our most highly contentious areas and as a result one of our most political areas. That arises simply from the fact that environmental questions come up so often on the basis of competing interests. There are the competing interests between the community as a whole and commerce taken narrowly. One can hardly deny that there are also competing interests even between governments and within governments. That is the sort of field in which anyone with the responsibility for environment finds himself. Frankly, I can conceive of very few areas which are more political. 
They do not always follow party political lines but I think they follow them often enough as well. I have already said that this is not a suitable opportunity for broad or philospohical approaches to this question. I want simply to take the opportunity to take up a couple of points that have been advanced. It was inevitable that the States Grants (Nature Conservation) Act should be mentioned. It was raised both by the honourable member for Gwydir and the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly).  I think I should respond to their comments. The background of the allocation in this Act is well known. An amount of $9m was offered to the States last year for acquisition of lands by them for nature conservation purposes. The sum of $9m was appropriated to meet that offer. But none of the funds available was taken up by 30 June, after which time the appropriations lapsed. As I have had occasion to point out previously in this chamber, they lapsed in the ordinary course of budgetary and economic management. 
The current Budget provides only $1.8m under this Act. That figure was estimated on the basis that, in the current budgetary conditions, we should restrict ourselves to completion of acquisitions where commitments which were legally binding or close to the point of being legally binding had been reached by the end of the last financial year. I stress again that the amount allocated was sufficient for those puposes. Nonetheless I am pleased to be able to advise the Committee that since the Budget allocation I have obtained authority to enter into forward commitments for the acquisition of land by the States on the basis that funds will become available in the 1976-77 financial year. Any interim funding necessary will be met by the States on the guarantee of reimbursement, and this procedure will ensure that all significant commitments by the States over the past 12 months, whether legally binding or not, will be honoured. This will now allow for the acquisition of land to the value of $6m. 
I want to add 2 points to that. Firstly, I take the opportunity to express my appreciation to the States for their co-operation in arriving at what I believe is a good solution, and certainly a fair solution, for people who whether or not they had accumulated legal rights would have been seriously disadvantaged if an arrangement of this sort had not been possible. If I may say so, given the sort of cut-back, it was an area in which a great deal of criticism could have been expected from the States and the relevant State Ministers. I think it is a good sign of the acceptance of a common interest in this program that that sort of attack merely for the sake of making State versus Commonwealth points was not adopted by the States. On the contrary, there has been a very high degree of co-operation along the lines I have suggested. I welcome that, I appreciate it and I am hopeful that it will set the pattern for our future work in this area. 
I should add for the information of honourable members that it is a matter of particular appreciation from my own point of view and an expression of the seriousness with which the States themselves view this program of land acquisition for nature conservation purposes that three of the States are contributing towards this expanded program out of their own funds. Those States are South Australia, Victoria and New South Wales. In the case of South Australia and New South Wales we have an agreement- subject to confirmation, admittedly- that the States will make contributions for the acquisition of land for which the Commonwealth originally undertook to find all the funds. I conclude my comments on the question of the nature conservation grants by saying that I believe that we will get this program onto a proper footing again only when we are able to revert to a triennial basis of funding, which was the original basis for this program. I hope that with the progress we have made in sorting out the immediate problem the State and Australian governments can combine on forward planning even in this year in expectation of an easier budget position next year allowing long term planning and acquisitions to proceed. 
I restrict myself to only 2 other comments, one in response to the honourable member for Wakefield who was kind enough to speak to me in a fatherly fashion about the undesirability of studies of time as a social indicator. The only thing I want to ask the honourable member for Wakefield is whether he has yet applied himself to considering the report that was produced on the basis of that grant. It is a quite comprehensive report. It came across my desk only yesterday and I have not had time to read it, which may be an indicator of some social significance. The point I really want to put to him is that it might be unfair in advance of his knowing- as I suspect that he does not know- the contents of that study, to make a judgment simply on the terminology of its title. In any event I invite him to reconsider his position after he has read the report, which I shall be happy to make available to him at any time he requests it. I say that, Dad, in a spirit of great family co-operation. 
Finally let me say this to honourable members as I believe it will be of interest to them: A great deal of the work of the Department of Environment is a bit like the iceberg with only a small amount of it appearing above the surface. It is in the interests of the Parliament for honourable members to be aware in rather greater detail of the sort of work that is being done in the Department, much of that work having a close association with the interests of the individual electorates which honourable members represent. Accordingly I have arranged that my Department will prepare a quarterly statement of activities on a State rather than an electorate basis. The first such report is almost completed and covers the period to the end of June. Subsequent reports will be available closer to the end of the quarter on which they report. I shall arrange for an appropriate distribution of this material to honourable members. I am sure that they will find it of wide interest. 
I am conscious that we have reached the limits of our time on these estimates. Perhaps I could just have one moment to respond specifically to the inquiry from the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  who asked about the prospect of funding for the acquisition of land at Dingo as the habitat of the bridled nail-tailed wallaby. I am advised that this area was in fact included in the Queensland Government's original proposals for acquisitions under the States Grants (Nature Conservation) Act. However, all such proposals were required to be submitted to the Queensland Cabinet and we have had no word that it has been accepted by the Queensland authorities, nor have we received a specific request for this property. 
My own Department regards this matter as one of high priority because of the rare species involved and had earlier funded the people in the district to look for it. I share the view of the honourable member for Gwydir that we have a special interest in acquiring land where there are endangered species. He knows our immediate financial problems. But I can add that if we were to receive submissions from the Queensland Government they would certainly receive serious consideration at least in terms of future extensions of our program. 
I thank the various honourable members who have contributed to the debate on the environment, particularly the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Lamb)  who has been a member, and is now  Chairman,  of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation. I also thank the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Kerin)  in particular. The honourable member has recently accepted the chairmanship of the Australian Advisory Committee on the Environment, one of whose reports was the subject of comment by the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Viner).  I advise the honourable member for Stirling that, as a fellow Western Australian, apart from being Minister for Environment, I will certainly be looking with great interest at any proposals on the highway to which he referred. 
The honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier)  raised the question of compensation. He himself acknowledged that the area concerned was not within my sphere of responsibility. But I can advise him that the whole question of compensation in matters such as this is currently the subject of consideration by the Heritage Commission. 
Proposed expenditures agreed to. 
Department of Foreign Affairs 
Proposed expenditure, $439,640,000. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The names and planned completion dates of those projects listed in the answer to question 2173 which are new in the sense that they were commenced after the formation of the Bureau of Environmental Studies are as follows: 
Relationships between BOD and instrumentally determined fractions in water. (December 1976) 
Soil conservation study (an Australian/State government task force project). (March 1 976) 
Field testing an algal harvesting process under summer conditions. (June 1975) 
Time as a social indicator. (August 1 975 ) 
Water quality problems in national parks. (June 1977) 
A dynamic approach to the optimisation of a complex urban water supply scheme. (June 1976) 
Nutrient, major ion and heavy metal budgets within aquatic ecosystems. December 1977) 
Simulation of the urban runoff process. (April 1 976) 
Hydrologic parameter assessment in Queensland using remote sensing. (December 1977) 
Relationship of shallow groundwater supplies to geomorphology and stratigraphy in eastern Tasmania. (June 1977) 
Hydraulic behaviour of an unconfined aquifer. (June 1977) 
Rapid spectroscopic methods for trace element investigations in natural waters. (June 1977) 
A field investigation of the drainage processes in a tropical rainforest catchment. (December 1977) 
Application of mathematical models to management of phytoplankton growth in lakes and reservoirs. (January 1978) 
Effects of artificial aeration and destratification on water quality. (June 1978) 
Eutrophication of the North Pine River Dam. (December 1977) 
Phosphorus balance of Lake Burley Griffin. (December 1977) 
For expected completion dates see part ( I ) above. In general the findings of each project will be published by the Australian Government Publishing Service as technical papers in an appropriate departmental or Bureau of Environmental Studies series. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Bureau will monitor environmental studies and research undertaken in Australia and overseas, appraise the scope and relevance of work in progress in Australia and in consultation with other sections of the Department and other agencies, identify important gaps in research. 
Bureau staff take pan in the work of relevant Australian Government inter departmental committees, take pan in advisory panels and committees involving Australian Government, State Government and non-government personnel and make use of the nation's considerable information resources documenting past, current and proposed studies and research. The nation's information resources do of course provide for access to overseas information resources. Where appropriate Bureau staff carry out detailed reviews of specific problem areas as pan of the process of defining whether further work is required and if so, what work is required. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The staff ceiling for the Australian National Parks and Wildlife Service has now been set at 20 full-time operative staff for the year ended 30 June 1976. At this stage no estimates are available for later years. 
The positions being established at this stage are one Director, one Regional Director for the Northern Territory, two Assistant Directors, one Clerk Class 10, two Clerks Class 8, and a Steno-secretary Grade 1. Other positions will follow after discussions with the Public Service Board. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) A number of environmental protection measures were attached to the export approval granted to the Manjimup project in August 1973. The requirements then imposed by the Australian Government are being complied with and there has been no occasion for me to recommend the granting or withholding of export approvals for woodchips in Western Australia, because no applications have been received since that time. 
Yes. 
Yes. I inspected the Manjimup woodchip area on 24 and 25 September 1975 in the company of the Honourable T. V. Jones, Minister for Conservation and Environment and  Mr Bruce  Beggs, Conservator of Forests for Western Australia. 
The preservation of the Shannon Basin was discussed with these Western Australian Government representatives. Our discussion was the subject of a press release issued in Perth on 26 September 1975 in which I welcomed the assurance by the Western Australian Forest Department that it would urgently re-evaluate its existing cutting programme and outline alternative measures which would be involved in preserving the remainder of the Shannon Basin. 
I shall forward a copy of the press release to the Honourable Member separately. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The submission will be considered for Australian Government financial assistance in terms of the objectives set down in the Government's policy statement,  A national approach to water resources management,  which was tabled in Parliament on 10 October 1973. Procedures currently being adopted for the implementation of a National Water Program, one of the objectives of the policy statement, provide for the submission of proposals for financial assistance by each State in the context of that State's total program of works in the water field covering the next five to ten years. The assessment of projects is undertaken within the framework of an Interdepartmental committee and in collaboration with the relevant State authorities. The Victorian submission will be assessed as part of the Victorian program. The submission has also been referred to the Salinity Committee of the River Murray Working Party for detailed evaluation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The River Murray Commission as such has not set up working parties to review its functions and scope but the Governments concerned agreed in March 1973 to establish a 'River Murray Working Party' to examine and recommend measures to improve the quality of the River Murray Waters in respect of long term salinity control and other forms of polution. It will also recommend changes to the River Murray Waters Agreement to enable the River Murray Commission to undertake these measures. To these ends, the Working Party has set up four Committees. Of these, the Salinity Committee, Irrigation Farm Practices Committee and Water Quality Committee have all presented reports to the Working Parry. The Biological Conservation Committee is yet to respond to the matters referred to it by the Working Party. 
The Working Party is currently drafting its report and is expected to submit this together with the reports referred to above to Ministers in the near future. 
Action along the following lines has been taken in regard to the first report of the River Murray Working Party (Interim Report River Murray Working Party- September 1973). 
Construction of Stage 1 of the Lake Victoria- -Brilka Creek Salinity Control Scheme has been programmed but has been delayed by high river flows. 
Victorian investigations in the Mildura Weir area have been completed and a proposal for works in that area are contained in the Salinity Committee's report. 
The proposal for the Curlwaa Irrigation Area has been implemented. 
Discussions have been held between the Victorian Authority and the River Murray Commission on the operation of the Ban Creek works to optimise salinity mitigation benefits. 
The posssibility of complementary works to increase the effectiveness of the existing salt disposal works at Barr Creek is comprehended in the recent report of the Victorian State Rivers and Water Supply Commission- Salinity Control and Drainage- a strategy for Northern Victorian Irrigation and River Murray Water Quality. 
Additional investigations in the Lake Hawthorn area have been made and are comprehended in the Salinity Committee's report. 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
The details of the proposals submitted by South Australia for assistance under the  States Grants (Nature Conservation) Act  1 974 generally must remain confidential. This is to maintain the accepted principle of confidentiality between prospective vendor and purchaser and to prevent land speculation. 
However in May 1975 the South Australian Minister of Environment and Conservation,  Mr Broomhill,  and the former Minister for Environment,  Dr Cass,  agreed to issue a joint statement setting out details of those proposals for which  Dr Cass  had agreed in principle to provide financial assistance under the  States Grants (Nature Conservation) Act  1974. This statement listed four adjoining properties, Canopus, Morganvale Hypurna and Postmark- situated adjacent to the South Australia-New South Wales border comprising 253 000 hectares and an area of about 28 000 hectares at Coffin Bay as being due for acquisition by the State Government with funds to be made available by the State Government. 
This statement also disclosed that the South Australian Government has sought financial assistance for the purchase of wetlands areas in the Pike River Basin and around Gurra Gurra Lakes, both along the Murray. 
Financial assistance was sought by the South Australian Government for the above proposals during the 1974-75 financial year. Funds were previously sought during the 1973-74 financial year for the acquisition of a number of areas including 2672 hectares at Murrays Lagoon on Kangaroo Island. This land has since been acquired by the South Australian Government and as such I am free to disclose its description without prejudicing any negotiations. 
Insofar as I am not able to publicly disclose details of the proposals put forward by South Australia for assistance under the Act I will be pleased to provide details to the honourable member on a confidential basis. 
Due to the limited funds appropriated this financial year for the purposes of the States Grants (Nature Conservation) Act it has been necessary to limit the number of areas for which agreements can be concluded and consequent legal and financial liability incurred this financial year. An additional amount has been offered to the State on the basis that agreements to be finalised this year will specify payment by the Australian Government in 1 976-77. 
I have written to the South Australian Minister of Environment and Conservation advising him of my desire to conclude agreements this financial year for the Murrays Lagoon program, a program at Pike River-Gurra Gurra Lakes and in respect of certain other lands for which no agreement to make a public statement has been made. I will be pleased to advise the honourable member of those areas not listed above for which it is intended to provide funds this financial year. 
The Government is not able to provide detailed costs of proposed acquisitions in advance of acquisitions; nor is it prepared to provide publicly details of estimated cost as this could prejudice the negotiating ability of the State Authority seeking the land. However, in the case of Murrays Lagoon this was acquired by the South Australian Government at a cost of $1 15,000 (Crown valuation) and this amount will be reimbursed to the State when an agreement is finalised. 
As with part ( 1 ) of this question I am only able to disclose details of areas approved in principle by the former Minister for Environment  Dr Cass  with the agreement of appropriate State Ministers. 
Accordingly I can only reiterate that the lands at Murrays Lagoon, Pike River and Gurra Gurra Lakes, Canopus, Morganvale, Hypurna and Postmark stations and lands at Coffin Bay were all approved in principle by  Dr Cass  subject to conditions. These conditions, to be a part of the formal agreement for each area, were stated as including the provision of Crown valuations, assurances that the purposes of nature conservation implicit in the proposals would be achieved and the conclusion of agreements under the Act. There is one other South Australian area for which  Dr Cass  gave approval in principle but in respect of which no joint public statement has been made by Ministers. 
I am prepared to identify on a confidential basis to the honourable member the proposal not listed above that has been approved in principle by  Dr Cass. 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
1 ) The details of the proposals submitted by Victoria for assistance under the  States Grants (Nature Conservation) Act  1974 generally must remain confidential. This is to maintain the accepted principle of confidentiality between prospective vendor and purchaser and to prevent land speculation. 
However I will be pleased to provide details to the Honourable Member on a confidential basis. 
Due to the limited funds appropriated this financial year for the purposes of the States Grants (Nature Conservation) Act is has been necessary to limit the number of areas for which agreements can be concluded and consequent legal and financial liability incurred. 
I have written to the Victorian Minister for Conservation advising him of my desire to conclude agreements this financial year for certain of the proposals and will be pleased to provide details to the Honourable Member on a confidential basis. 
An additional amount has been offered to the State on the basis that agreements to be finalised this year will specify payment by the Australian Government in 1976-77. 
The Government is not able to provide detailed costs of proposed acquisitions in advance of acquisitions; nor is it prepared to provide publicly details of estimated cost as this would prejudice the negotiating ability of the State Authority seeking the land. 
The Government's policy is that sufficient funds be made available in respect of specified portions of land as to enable a fair and just settlement. To this end agreements negotiated under the  States Grants (Nature Conservation) Act  1974 usually provide for the provision of funds up to Crown valuation. 
As with part ( 1 ) of this question I am only able to disclose details of areas approved in principle by the former 
Minister for Environment  Dr Cass  with the agreement of appropriate State Ministers. 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
The details of the proposals submitted by Western Australia for assistance under the States Grants (Nature Conservation) Act 1974 generally must remain confidential. This is to maintain the accepted principle of confidentiality between prospective vendor and purchaser and to prevent land speculation. 
However I will be pleased to provide details to thehonourable member on a confidential basis. 
Due to the limited funds appropriated this financial year for the purposes of the States Grants (Nature Conservation) Act it has been necessary to limit the number of areas for which agreements can be concluded and consequent legal and financial liability incurred. 
I have written to the Western Australian Minister for Conservation and Environment advising him of my desire to conclude agreements this financial year for certain of the proposals and will be pleased to provide details to the honourable member on a confidential basis. An additional amount has been offered to the State on the basis that agreements to be finalised this year will specify payment by the Australian Government in 1976-77. 
The Government is not able to provide detailed costs of proposed acquisitions in advance of acquisition; nor is it prepared to provide publicly details of estimated cost as this could prejudice the negotiating ability of the State Authority seeking the land. 
The Government's policy is that sufficient funds be made available in respect of specified portions of land as to enable a fair and just settlement. To this end agreements negotiated under the States Grants (Nature Conservation) Act 1974 usually provide for the provision of funds up to Crown valuation. 
As with Part ( 1) of this question I am only able to disclose details of areas approved in principle by the former Minister for Environment  Dr Cass  with the agreement of appropriate State Ministers. 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
The details of the proposals submitted by Tasmania for assistance under the  States Grants (Nature Conservation) Act  1974 generally must remain confidential. This is to maintain the accepted principle of confidentiality between prospective vendor and purchaser and to prevent land speculation. 
However on 25 September 1974 the Minister for Urban and- Regional Development issued a public statement in response to criticism by the Tamar Regional Master Planning Authority which stated inter alia that Australian Government finance would be provided to assist in the acquisition of land at Asbestos Range. This proposal is for a coastal national park and is one for which the Tasmanian Government has sought financial assistance under the  States Grants (Nature Conservation) Act  1974. 
Insofar as I am not able to publicly disclose details of the proposals put forward by Tasmania for assistance under the Act I will be pleased to provide details to the honourable member on a confidential basis. 
Due to the limited funds appropriated this financial year for the purposes of the States Grants (Nature Conservation) Act it has been necessary to limit the number of areas for which agreements can be concluded and consequent legal and financial liability incurred this financial year. 
I have written to the Tasmanian Minister for National Parks and Wildlife advising him of my desire to conclude agreements this financial year for certain of the proposals submitted and will be pleased to provide details to the honourable member on a confidential basis. The honourable member will no doubt be aware that the first agreement concluded under the  States Grants (Nature Conservation) Act  1974 in respect of Badger Island, Tasmania was tabled and appeared in the 'Votes and Proceedings' on Tuesday, 2 September 1975. 
The Government is not able to provide detailed costs of proposed acquisitions in advance of acquisitions; nor is it prepared to provide publicly details of estimated cost as this would prejudice the negotiating ability of the State Authority seeking the land. 
The Government's policy is that sufficient funds be made available in respect of specified portions of land as to enable a fair and just settlement. To this end agreements negotiated under the  States Grants (Nature Conservation) Act  1974 usually provide for the provision of funds up to Crown valuation. Any decision to provide funds over and above Crown valuation is made after consideration of the merits of the situation by the Australian Government Minister for Environment. 
As with part ( 1 ) of this question I am only able to disclose details of areas approved in principle by the former Minister for Environment,  Dr Cass,  with the agreement of appropriate State Ministers. 
Both Badger Island and Asbestos Range were approved in principle by the former Minister for Environment,  Dr Cass,  and 1 will be pleased to provide details of further such proposals to the honourable member on a confidential basis. 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
1 ) The details of the proposals submitted by Queensland for assistance under the  States Grants (Nature Conservation) Act  1974 generally must remain confidential. This is to maintain the accepted principle of confidentiality between prospective vendor and purchaser and to prevent land speculation. However I will be pleased to provide details to the honourable member on a confidential basis. 
Due to the limited funds appropriated this financial year for the purposes of the States Grants (Nature Conservation) Act it has been necessary to limit the number of areas for which agreements can be concluded and consequent legal and financial liability incurred. 
I have written to the Queensland Minister for National Parks and Wildlife advising him of my desire to conclude agreements this financial year for certain of the proposals and will be pleased to provide details to the honourable member on a confidential basis. 
An additional amount has been offered to the State on the basis that agreements to be finalised this year will specify payment by the Australian Government in 1976. 
The Government is not able to provide detailed costs of proposed acquisitions in advance of acquisitions; nor is it prepared to provide publicly details of estimated cost as this would prejudice the negotiating ability of the State Authority seeking the land. 
The Government's policy is that sufficient funds be made available in respect of specified portions of land as to enable a fair and just settlement. To this end agreements negotiated under the  States Grants (Nature Conservation) Act  1974 usually provide for the provision of funds up to Crown valuation. 
As with part ( 1 ) of this question I am only able to disclose details of areas approved in principle by the former Minister for Environment,  Dr Cass,  with the agreement of appropriate State Ministers. 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
The details of the proposals submitted by New South Wales for assistance under the  States Grants (Nature Conservation) Act  1974 generally must remain confidential. This is to maintain the accepted principle of confidentiality between prospective vendor and purchaser and to prevent land speculation. 
However I will be pleased to provide details to the Honourable Member on a confidential basis. 
Due to the limited funds appropriated this financial year for the purposes of the  States Grants (Nature Conservation) Act  it has been necessary to limit the number of areas for which agreements can be concluded and consequent legal and financial liability incurred. 
I have written to the New South Wales Minister for Lands and Forests advising him of my desire to conclude agreements this financial year for certain of the proposals and will be pleased to provide details to the Honourable Member on a confidential basis. 
An additional amount has been offered to the State on the basis that agreements to be finalised this year will specify payment by the Australian Government in 1 976-77. 
The Government is not able to provide detailed costs of proposed acquisitions in advance of acquisitions; nor is it prepared to provide publicly details of estimated cost as this would prejudice the negotiating ability of the State Authority seeking the land. 
The Government's policy is that sufficient funds be made available in respect of specified portions of land as to enable a fair and just settlement. To this end agreements negotiated under the  States Grants (Nature Conservation) Act  1974 usually provide for the provision of funds up to Crown valuation. 
As with part ( 1) of this question I am only able to disclose details of areas approved in principle by the former Minister for Environment,  Dr Cass,  with the agreement of appropriate State Ministers. 
The Press, having encouraged the Opposition into its rejection of Supply, is now frantically engaged in encouraging the Opposition into going into reverse. The device being used is the suggestion that the Opposition should search for a compromise. I have to confess that I have never yet been able to sort out in my own mind what practical form a viable compromise could possibly take. But at last tonight we have a positive suggestion from the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon).  He was good enough to give us the advantage of his age, his wealth of experience and his many years of participation in Parliament, in government and in Treasury matters. He has come forward with a compromise. The compromise is that he for his part will urge that the Loan Bill and the Appropriation Bills should be passed as long as they are put up by a Liberal government. That is typical of the Alice in Wonderland approach which he has adopted to all these measures and which his Party is crazily following. It would all be terribly entertaining and it would even be enjoyable if it were not for the fact that its consequences have already been so damaging and are so potentially disastrous to the welfare of this community. 
Today's proceedings have shown that there is a limited number of things to be said in this and associated debates on the withholding of Supply by the Senate. The longer the crisis drags on, the more repetition we will inevitably have. There is a serious risk in that, not to the Government but to the country. The risk is that the intense interest, the undoubted current antagonism to the Senate's irresponsibility will degenerate gradually into complacency, perhaps even boredom. When we say that the country is bordering on the brink of a political and economic crisis, people having heard that so often will tend to brush it aside, discount it, and say: 'Well, that is merely a cliche.' Given that possibility, I think it is worth stating the obvious, that the fact that a statement is a cliche does not necessarily make it untrue. On the contrary, the fact that the statement has developed the status of a cliche most often means it is self-evidently true. Certainly to speak today of the country being on the brink of a political and economic crisis is self-evidently true. It is demonstrated by the potential effect of rejecting this Loan Bill which finances the defence effort in this country. It is demonstrated equally by the analagous situations which would arise with a continued rejection of the major Appropriation Bills. 
We heard earlier today from the Minister for Defence  (Mr Morrison)  of the almost immediate effect on the defence forces which continued rejection of this Loan Bill would involvesalaries for the armed forces unpaid, aircraft grounded, naval patrols immobilised. The Opposition says that none of that would happen if only we for bur part would behave as any decent government should and collapse. We say that they should behave like a decent Opposition and withdraw their obstruction to Supply in the Senate. That proposition would have to commend itself at any time, given the contrast between the nature of the House of Representatives on the one side as the House of the people- the House where the Government is formed, the democratic House- and the Senate on the other side, being the acknowledged undemocratic House within the Australian parliamentary system. That proposition would apply at any time with any Senate simply as a matter of principle. But at this particular time with this particular Senate it applies with even greater force. 
In this case we do not simply have a rotten decision by the Senate: We have a rotten decision by a rotten Senate. It has been called a tainted Senate- not by me, not by the Prime Minister. I frankly would have been happy to have thought of that apt description first. It has been called a tainted Senate by a frontbench member of the Opposition side, the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen).  It has been described as a Senate making a sleazy grab for power. It was described in that way first not by me, not by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  not by any member of the Australian Labor Party but by a former Liberal Premier of South Australia. The action has been called wrong, stupid and shameful by a former Liberal Prime Minister of this country, the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton).  Why? Because the passage of the deferral motion on this Loan Bill and on the 2 Appropriation Bills was made possible only by shameful manipulation of a Senate vacancy created by a senator's death. All that was done, it is said, in the interests of fair play and morality. 
The Opposition says: 'Let the people judge'. Amen to that. Let the people judge; but let the people judge the Senate. Let them judge the Senate for its extraordinary and reprehensible lunge for power; taken regardless of national security as exemplified by its rejection of this defence Loan Bill; taken without regard to national political stability, without regard to the national economy and without regard to individual welfare either; as exemplified by the salaries which will not be paid to the armed forces, nor to the Public Service; as exemplified by pensions which will not reach pensioners and social welfare payments which will not reach social welfare beneficiaries. 
If the honourable member for Bendigo wants to complain that that is not true let him explain, given the admitted, special appropriations for social welfare payments, how he will ensure that those pensions and social welfare payments will reach the beneficiaries given that the requirements of Public Service manpowereven the very postage amounts to something like $100,000 per week- will be met without appropriations. Do not tell me it is not true that these pensions will not reach the pensioners. They will not reach the pensioners, and neither will payments reach small and large business throughout the country in contractual agreements with the Government and which in many cases are desperately anxious to obtain those payments on time.  (Quorum formed)  The personal and national economic disruption which the Opposition will unleash if it persists in its present irresponsibility is incalculable. Rejection of this Loan Bill providing $ 1,800m alone would deprive - 
... of $ 1,100m alone would deprive the economy of an infusion of about $20m per week. Together with the Appropriation Bills being stopped, this would deprive the economy of a weekly infusion of something like $200m. Is it any wonder that Liberal supporters are deserting their own party? This madness, this adventure with the nation's welfare has gone far enough. For the Opposition further to persist in its present course will lead the Opposition not only to defeat but also to disgrace. :  Mr GARLAND  (Curtin) ( 10.15) - '  Speaker-  ' Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  put: 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I refer the right honourable member to the Prime Minister's reply to Question No. 3110  (Hansard,  page 1598 of 1 October 1975). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Because its scattered occurrence limited surveys in many areas, and the problem of definition of the term rainforest it is very difficult to provide reliable estimates of the extent of rainforest in Australia. 
Specht Roe and Boughton, editors of the publication  Conservation of  Major Plant  Communities in Australia and Papua New Guinea  (July 1974) (known as the Specht Report) use the structural classification 'closed-forest' to include most of those forests popularly known as 'rainforest'. This classification includes a wide range of forest types from the cool temperate rainforests of Tasmania to the tropical rainforests of North Queensland and includes some of the better-developed mangrove and brigalow vegetation. 
Table 1 reproduced from the Specht Report indicates a total area of closed forest in Australia of 71 377 so km or approximately 0.93 per cent of Australia's area. Although these figures are the best estimate available the table is based on data collected twenty years ago and thus the figures should be treated with caution. 
The ecological survey currently being funded by the Department of Environment is expected to provide accurate assessment of the present extent of rainforests and other plant communities in Australia. This is however a major project and it will be some time before the results are available. 
Rainforests are being extensively cleared for agricultural, pastoral, forestry and mining purposes, for urban development and for the construction of roads, power lines and other public facilities. 
Because rainforests on both private and public land are being cleared for a variety of reasons and by many different authorities, companies and individuals, it is not possible to provide any accurate estimate of the rate of rainforest depletion. 
The Rain Forest Ecology Section of the Division of Plant Industry, CSIRO, is responsible for studies of rainforest ecosystems. Further details may be obtained from the Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs. 
5 ) Although there is no legislation specifically intended to protect rainforests, all States have legislation which can be used for this purpose. Under their respective conservation legislation all States and the Australian Government have the power to set aside areas of rainforest in national parks or other reserves and to protect individual plant species including some rainforest species. 
Some Forestry Acts also carry provisions to enable areas of forest to be protected from exploitation. Although the security of tenure of such reserves is less than that of national parks they nevertheless protect substantial areas of rainforest. 
Many national parks and other reserves in Australia contain rainforest vegetation. Specht et al have prepared an assessment of the conservation status of structural formations and alliances in each State of Australia. The assessment for rainforest (Closed-forest) is given in Table 2. According to this table approximately 39 per cent of rainforest alliances are not recorded in or are poorly represented in the existing reserve system. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The South Australian Government has sought assistance from the Australian Government under the States Grants (Nature Conservation) Act 1974 to enable it to acquire land on Coffin Bay Peninsula to establish a national park. 
In view of the present economic constraints it is not possible for the Australian Government to provide funds for the entire proposal this financial year but part of it will be funded. An agreement between the Australian and South Australian Governments, as required under the Act, is presently in preparation. 
Because of the delicate nature of land negotiations it is not possible to provide further details at this stage. 
