I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs a question. I believe that representatives of South Africa's 3 principal cricket associations, the South African Cricket Board of Control for Coloureds, the South African Cricket Association for Whites and the South African Cricket Board for Blacks, resolved on 18 January that cricket in that country be played on a normal basis under the control of one united governing body. Normal cricket was defined in that resolution, as I understand it, as participation in competition between all players at club level regardless of race, creed or colour. The 3 national bodies further resolved that their provincial authorities commence dialogue with each other on the implementation of competition at all levels by the beginning of the cricket season in September 1976. The resolution implies, in my opinion, a significant new approach to cricket in South Africa. 
-Could the Prime Minister inform the House whether 2 officials of the Government of Iraq visited Australia in December ostensibly for the purpose of establishing a consulate for Iraq? What were the circumstances and the result of that visit? 

 -Mr Speaker, I would like, to add my name to the long list of congratulations you have received on your election to the office of  Speaker.  You come to that position with a distinguished parliamentary career behind you, and I am sure that the future conduct of business here has been placed in the most capable and dignified hands. I understand that it is customary to make mention of one's predecessors in a speech of this nature. That is no difficult task, for having spent my boyhood and grown to manhood in the electorate of Phillip I came to know them all. The people of Phillip have been fortunate in their choice of political representatives over. the years, and I hope to carry on their tradition of service and dedication. It is with great pride, yet with a feeling of deep humility, that I accept the trust reposed in me. 

 Mr Speaker, I believe the theme of the GovernorGeneral's address and the Government's overall philosophical concept was summed up in the statement that the Government's long term objective was to encourage a development of an Australia in which people have maximum freedom and independence to achieve their own goals in life. I am reminded of the words of  Sir Robert  Menzies as long ago as 1944 when he echoed similar sentiments. He said: 
We have learned that the right answer is to set the individual free to aim at equality of opportunity, to create a society in which rights and duties are recognised and made effective. In this free society the tyrannical notion of an all powerful state is rejected and dogmatic socialism with it. 

 Sir Robert's words should be a reminder to all Australians that the philosophy of the Government cannot be reduced to embrace a glib phrase only. For example, the words 'free enterprise' are often used. This phrase is too narrow because too many people, and particularly those on the Opposition benches, exclusively seem to interpret the words 'free enterprise' as 'business enterprise' or, even more facetiously, 'big business'. The Government certainly believes in free enterprise, not only because it believes in restricting governments to areas which concern governments. More importantly, the free enterprise system is Australia's life blood. Tamper unnecessarily with that system and one tampers with the security of ordinary Australians. I say that advisedly because the free enterprise system is the major employment avenue for us all. That avenue is an avenue lined not with multinationals but with businesses of all sizes run by average Australians with the unique brand of Australian determination and initiative. The great guiding principles of the Government that men and women can grow to their full moral stature only when they control their own lives will be a source of untold comfort and inspiration and a solid base of confidence to all Australians in whatever fields of endeavour they may pursue. When government takes important decisions unnecessarily out of their hands, whatever its intentions it gradually destroys the very condition in which people can gain a sense of their own worth. 

 Mr Speaker, I note also with interest, in the Governor-General's Speech reference to the need to protect and improve the environment. This is a matter close to the heart of my own electorate of Phillip. Phillip is unique not only in the sense that it is the smallest electorate in Australia but also as one of Australia's most famous areas. Contained within its borders are a number of famous beaches. I need to refer honourable members to only one of these, and that is on the subject of preservation of our environment. I refer, of course, to that international symbol, Bondi Beach, depicted in glossy terms on many a postcard overseas. But those postcards do not tell the real story. Like so many famous tourist attractions of our nation much needs to be done to preserve its natural beauty and inherent attraction. The money is simply not available at community and municipal levels to undertake these tasks adequately. The job is a national one. I shall be working in the life of this Parliament to see its beauty restored and preserved by strongly advocating proposals such as the landscaping of its immediate foreshore and the building of an 
Olympic  pool in the area. It is to be hoped that this shall be regarded by the Parliament as a national heritage of the Australian people and will be funded accordingly. 
My electorate is also famous for its great sporting reputation, from its surf life saving clubs to its professional football teams. The Surf Life Saving Association of Australia is not a sporting body in the generally accepted sense of that term and it should never be confused in that manner. It is at present playing a more practical and recognisable role in Australia's well being than many other government funded agencies that receive millions of dollars annually. The Government, I trust, will recognise this by way of substantial grants. I will work to see that recognition maintained and expanded. For too long has their service to millions of Australians been largely ignored. They deserve a high expenditure priority. Honourable members will be aware of the freezing of funds to many amateur sporting organisations which has occurred as a result of the Government's attempts to mop up the economic mess remaining after 3 years of the previous Government's incompetence. I sincerely hope that this freeze is only a short term measure. The achievements of Australian sportsmen and sportswomen have done a great deal to enhance the international reputation of our nation. Their contribution, and government assistance to further their achievements, should not be ignored. 

 Mr Speaker, my colleagues have admirably commented on the twin cancers of inflation and unemployment that were the products of the worst government since Federation. I say no more about them except to add that the policies outlined by the Governor-General will succeed in excising these festering economic sores. 
I will now turn to 2 matters which are of great concern to a large number of my constituents in Phillip. First I mention the present plight of thousands of Jewish people trapped in the Soviet Union. I recently lodged with the Consul at the Russian Embassy a petition containing 2500 signatures protesting at the harsh treatment meted out to Soviet Jewry, decrying the discrimination against them and highlighting the consistent refusal of the Russian authorities to grant exit visas to them. I was informed by the Russian Consul that there were 2.4 million Jews in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics of which only 2 per cent were being detained, the reason stated being that these people were in possession of secrets of a military or state nature. All others were free to leave. This certainly does not agree with documentary evidence in my possession. In 1974 the average monthly migration was 2500. In 1975 there was a marked downturn in these figures, an alarming proportion, which lends credence to the voices that cry out from all over the world saying that the Soviets have choked off the migration of Soviet Jews. I pledge myself to work tirelessly in an endeavour to do whatever I can to right this terrible injustice which is abhorrent to the minds of all men of peace and goodwill. 
Secondly, fears were held last year that the Palestine Liberation Organisation would not only be allowed into Australia but that the Labor Party's love affair with a foreign power would blossom and that PLO offices would open here under the auspices of a Labor Government. In the light of current events,  Mr Speaker,  I have not the slightest doubt that those fears would have become a reality, leading to pressure on the Government to denounce the free and independent state of Israel. The annihilation of the Labor Government in 1975 will allay any further fears on this score. It would be a black day indeed for this country if the PLO ever darkened our doors. 
I also would like to comment on the question of our Indian Ocean strategy which was raised in the Governor-General's Address. I stress that it is vitally important to put this question in the overall context of global naval strategy between the super powers. Many naval experts now rate the Russian naval capabilities far superior to that of the United States of America, the unchallenged king of only a decade ago. There is a valid argument for the belief that the Soviets are intent upon developing a power monopoly across the oceans of the world. The Indian Ocean, the world's third largest, has witnessed a steady build-up of Russian naval presence. The Russians also have an undoubted ability vastly to increase their Indian Ocean forces. This, of course, comes as a result of the re-opening of the Suez Canal, which enhances the possibility of the movement of vessels from the vast Mediterranean fleet through to the Indian Ocean in quick time. They already have operational bases in areas such as Iraq, Aden, Mauritius and Somalia which could provide the back-up facilities for such a manoeuvre. In contrast the Americans have as yet no fully operational bases- I stress the word 'fully'- in the Indian Ocean. In such a context vague talks on zones of peace have become not only highly improbable and impractical but also downright dangerous in the context of the security of Australia's vulnerable western coastline. I commend the Government's support of the United States' development of a base at 
Diego Garcia, in addition to the expansion of the Cockburn Sound facilities. 
I draw the attention of the House to a very important issue, namely the mining and export of uranium. This is a policy area tragically stifled by the do-nothing policies of the previous Government. It is incredible that this should have been the state of affairs. Not only is uranium a unique and a valuable energy source but also the immediate wealth it will bring to Australia should be closely noted. Present indications are that the extent of Australia's uranium resources are as yet unknown. However, we have a present known reserve of some 300 000 tonnes, this being worth an estimated $ 18,000m. The return contained in that figure alone to the prosperity of the nation should not be overlooked. I think it is important that we develop uranium markets as soon as possible. Let there be no mistake, the world wants Australia's uranium and it is prepared to pay vast amounts for it. But it is no good sitting on this huge wealth as the previous Government did. 
I raise 3 arguments in support of that statement. Firstly, any economic advantage to be gained from future price rises can easily be obtained now. Long term contracts containing price escalation clauses can be clinched at this very moment. Secondly, there is every possibility that the boom in uranium prices is only short term. The development of advanced conversion and enrichment processes, as well as fast breeder reactors, could produce a uranium glut by the 1980s. Thirdly, we must recognise that the production of energy by a nuclear fission process is only a short term alternative in the supply of the world's energy. A great deal of research is going into the development of fusion processes which will not require uranium as the base product and that is to say nothing of the long term development of solar energy. Unless we act now to utilise our uranium resources to the maximum it could well be that a valuable national resource will eventually become worthless and the monetary return to Australia will be lost forever. I commend the quick recognition of this fact by the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  on his recent visit to Japan. 
I now turn to the subject of the GovernorGeneral. The second last  speaker  from the Opposition mentioned the fact that none of the new members on this side of the House when making a maiden speech had alluded to that topic at all. 1 have been sitting in this Parliament since 17 February and I have been hit by Opposition members with more wind about the GovernorGeneral and his action last November than that which is currently blowing off the coast of Queensland. The denunciations of the Governor-General have as much impact on the people of Australia as a scratched long-playing record would have on a conductor of the New York Philharmonic Orchestra. Suffice to say that in the Constitution there is an in-built safety valve giving the Governor-General absolute discretion to dissolve the Parliament. It is history now that he pulled the political plug on the worst government since federation. Will members of the Opposition never learn that they are here in this place not as an official Opposition to the Governor-General but as duly elected representatives of the people, to make some significant contribution to their welfare and prosperity? It is my earnest hope,  Mr Speaker,  that my deliberations and labours in this House will in some way make such a contribution. The people of this great nation recently reposed confidence in the coalition. I say with all the sincerity that I can muster that the future years will clearly indicate that that confidence was not misplaced. 
I read with interest in today's Press remarks attributed to the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young).  They referred to the sources of political funds. The best that that honourable member could come up with was some sort of tatty document making allegations against the Liberal Party about alleged events some 25 years ago. If my memory serves me right it was something in excess of a quarter of a century ago. One wonders whether the honourable member would have seen fit to introduce into this Parliament a private member's Bill if the Iraqi connection had not been blown sky high by the Press. I say that advisedly. One must look at the sequence of events. 
The matter I have referred to obviously was put in train in 1975, somewhere in or about the month of December or even prior thereto. A Bill was introduced into this Parliament designed to enforce disclosure of the source of Party funds. 
That Bill was rejected in the Senate. This proposition is nothing new. A casual reader of the journals of the media could easily be led down the wrong path into believing that this was something novel on the part of the honourable member. It is nothing of the sort. It is the old thimble and pea trick all over again. If this matter had never seen the light of day there is no way in the world that the Bill mentioned by the honourable member for Port Adelaide would have come into this Parliament. There would have been a smokescreen over it. Today's attempt in the media is nothing more nor less than a grandiose grand-standing attempt by the honourable member to cover up this whole murky, miserable, rotten transaction. It is true that funds are donated to political parties from time to time. We all know that the unions fund the Labor Party. The Party also has freehold properties which can be mortgaged and it has radio stations from which funds can be obtained. 
It has hotels and motels anything you like. The Labor Party says that it has disclosed its funds, which is no news at all, and then asks: 'What about yours?' Surely to goodness the rights to privacy of the individual donors must enter into the arrangement. If organisations were forced to disclose the sources of those funds one can imagine the rampant action that would be taken against them by left wing dominated unions. I am not talking about the good and true rank and file members of those unions but about their militant leaders who care nothing about the general good of the people in those unions. One can imagine, after the Governor-General had taken certain action - 
-Has the Attorney-General seen recent Press articles to the effect that senior Federal Government officials have expressed concern over his decision to take no further action in the Garland case? Have senior Government officials, in fact, expressed such concern? 
-It has sickened me to come into this chamber and to hear not only the many unjustified attacks on the actions of the Governor-General last November but also numerous vitriolic and cowardly attacks on the very character of the man himself. The Opposition has attempted to annihilate the good name, reputation and integrity of a man who was an adornment to the Bar of New South Wales, one of the greatest Chief Justices that State ever produced and a man described by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  when he chose him as Governor-General as one of the finest of all Australians. I know of no one who has been vilified more. To hear repeated, unjustifiable attacks on this great Australian thoroughly disgusts me. If he was an ordinary member of the Australian public, free to speak for himself, free to have recourse to the laws on defamation, not one of the cowards who now attack him under parliamentary privilege would utter a word. 
At varying times he has been called a liar, an agent of the Central Intelligence Agency, a conspirator and a person who was recreant to a solemn oath. Only yesterday he was described as downright deceitful. He was further denigrated by direct insults to the effect that he was more intent on safeguarding his own future than on exercising his constitutional powers. Further slurs have been heaped on him from time to time, comparing him to some latter day Hitler. I have heard some of the foulest utterances thrown at him, even casting aspersions at his manhood. I was delighted to hear the Chief Justice of New South Wales give the lie to reports that he advised the Governor-General against his proposed actions in November. The GovernorGeneral, this great Australian, should be released forthwith from any convention that demands his silence. I for one, as a member of the Australian Government, exhort and implore him to break his silence and to tell the Australian people exactly his reasoning and his motives in dismissing the worst government since Federation. When he sets the record straight good men and true who have been hoodwinked by these malodorous statements will bow their heads in shame. The attempt to destroy him came after he showed the Opposition he was no Charlie McCarthy but his own man, sworn to uphold the Constitution, which he did. History will applaud this man. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-On 1 April last the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  made an unjust, miserable, false and vitriolic attack on a colleague of mine - 
The honourable member for Hunter made an unjust miserable, false and vitriolic attack on a colleague of mine of the New South Wales Bar. 
I am just wondering how I now stand for time,  Mr Speaker. 
-On 1 April last the honourable member for Hunter made an unjust, miserable, false and vitriolic attack on a colleague of mine of the New South Wales Bar. I refer to  Mr David  Rofe, Q.C. It was made under the cloak of Parliamentary privilege. He enlarged these slanders to embrace  Mr Rofe's  client, a  Mr Danny  Sankey, and a stipendiary magistrate,  Mr Darcy  Leo. He was referring to prosecutions launched by Sankey against the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam), Mr Justice  Murphy and others. The attack was obviously designed to discredit those 3 reputable men in an attempt to shroud the current prosecutions. 
It was alleged that Sankey and  Mr Rofe  had been friends for some time in that they had apparently shared chambers at one stage or another and that Sankey had given a false alibi to one of his unsavoury clients, namely, one Stuart Harold Tange. The truth of the matter, which can be confirmed by the Bar Council of New South Wales, is that Sankey never shared chambers with  Mr Rofe.  In fact, his chambers were situated in another building. As far as the allegation about a false alibi is concerned, it is scurrilously false and should have been known to be so. The further allegations that the proceeds of the robbery found their way to Sankey was equally false. A record of the trial shows, firstly, that the robber escaped from a Mascot bank with $9,411 and that the whole of this money, with the exception of $132, was recovered by police later that same afternoon at Hunters Hill in New South Wales, which is the place where Tange was apprehended. The money recovered was identified by the bank officers as being the money taken by the robbers from the Mascot bank. 
The slanderous statement that Sankey gave detailed evidence as to the time and place of the meeting with Tange and that Tange was committing an armed robbery at the same time is equally scurrilous. I say that the record of evidence given at the trial indicates, firstly, that the Mascot bank was robbed by 2 armed, masked men at approximately 1.S0 p.m. on 25 August 1970; that the police arrived at the bank at about 1.55 p.m. when the robbers had left; that Tange, who was on that day a client of the firm of solicitors to which Sankey was articled, called into its Pitt Street, Sydney, offices at aproximately 2.50 p.m. on the date of the robbery concerning, of course, another matter; that later that day Tange 's solicitor was advised that Tange had been arrested and Sankey, in the company of a partner of that firm, went to the police station where Tange was being held; and that Sankey and the solicitor were called to give evidence on these events and Sankey was asked to describe what Tange was wearing when he saw him at approximately 2.50 p.m. I stress that, contrary to what the honourable member for Hunter has stated, Sankey 's evidence was in no sense alibi evidence for the simple reason that it was not suggested by anyone that Tange could not have been at the Mascot bank at 1.50 p.m. and at the Pitt Street office one hour later. No one suggested at the trial that Sankey 's evidence was false in any respect whatsoever. In fact, alibi evidence was given by another witness completely unrelated to Sankey. These facts, which are permanently on record, give the lie to the character assassination attempts by the honourable member for Hunter. 
The insinuation of a close working connection between  Mr Leo,  the stipendary magistrate,  Mr Rofe  and  Mr Sankey  is equally outrageous. There has been an attempt to link them together on the basis that they had acted in concert in having the prosecutions which I mentioned earlier heard in Queanbeyan. Suffice to say that the New South Wales Attorney-General,  Mr Maddison,  is on record as placing the association between  Mr Rofe  and  Mr Leo  as purely that of counsel and presiding magistrate. As far as the laying of the venue at Queanbeyan is concerned, that is simply explained by the fact that the allegations in the informations are that the alleged offences took place both in the Australian Capital Territory and in New South Wales. If the statements made by the honourable member for Hunter on 1 April had been made outside the Parliament a prosecution for criminal libel certainly would have been well-founded.  (Extension of time granted).  Having outlined the facts as such as they are known to me, I say by way of conclusion that they are in complete contradiction of what has been uttered by the honourable member for Hunter in his attempt to character assassinate 3 good, decent, upright citizens of the community. I suggest that he should withdraw his foul utterances and apologise. 
In view of the alleged truce in the Lebanon, is the Minister for Foreign Affairs considering re-establishing the Australian Embassy in Beirut? 
Has the Prime Minister seen the statement by the New South Wales Minister for Health,  Mr Stewart,  describing the Commonwealth Government's proposal to increase intermediate and private ward charges as 'bushranger tactics' that New South Wales would not go along with? Is there any validity in these charges? What would be the impact of a refusal by New South Wales to go along with the increases? 
-f direct my question to the Minister for Health. I refer to the quarantine restrictions on imported cheese. I understand that the Government, rather than prohibiting the importation of cheese, has decided to establish a withholding period of 120 days on all cheese imported from countries where the risk of foot and mouth disease contamination exists. If cheeses are produced under the same specifications as decribed in the Plum Island report, namely cheese manufactured from heated milk, are there any cogent reasons why these cheeses cannot be imported with a shorter quarantine period, say 30 days, from such non-exempt countries as Switzerland, France and Holland? 
-I should like to compliment the honourable member for KingsfordSmith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  on the very clear, concise and succinct manner in which he has placed before the Parliament information relevant to the background and the trials and the tribulations that the Family Law Act had in the High Court. He spoke with great clarity and indeed with the utmost accuracy on that particular matter. No doubt with the passage of time, further teething problems will manifest themselves and of necessity will be under the review of courts. These amendments are specifically designed to bring the courts into line with the decision of the High Court. This legislation, though somewhat experimental, recognised that a vast number of people were entitled to an early solution of their problems. It is, perhaps, unfortunate that the Commonwealth's jurisdiction over matrimonial property and custody is limited and that therefore the jurisdiction of the Family Court of Australia is also limited. The High Court's decision has, however, cleared the air and the Bill should now be passed without delay. 
I am delighted that greater emphasis in this Bill has been placed on the amendments with regard to the reconciliation of the parties. It is to be hoped that judges will now give greater emphasis to the wider powers given to them under section 7. 1 believe it is important that at the very commencement of the proceedings it should be the duty of any judge, if he were satisfied that even the slightest possibility of reconciliation existed, to forthwith bring into operation the relevant section, as a good, permanent marriage and the security and the welfare of the children thereof is paramount to the wellbeing of any State. Greater emphasis should be placed on these matters of reconciliation not only by judges but by the legal profession as a whole. The concept of a marriage being the union of a man and a woman for life to the exclusion of all others is to be applauded. I note that that particular concept is set out in the Act. 
Probably the greatest area of contention in matrimonial proceedings is that related to maintenance and to the division of property. The Family Court of Australia would not have jurisdiction in maintenance matters under the ruling of the High Court unless it is allied with matters of principal relief in divorce proceedings. Secondly, as far as property is concerned, the High Court held that the Act is valid only where the property proceedings are related to pending or completed proceedings between the parties for divorce or other principal relief. As I said earlier, these matters have been quite accurately expounded upon by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith. It is easily seen that again in these areas there is a divided jurisdiction between the Act and the relevant State law. The extent of the jurisdiction on property matters under the Act is, to say the least, incomplete. It is pleasing to know that with a view to resolving this and other difficulties the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  proposes to raise these matters with the States at the next meeting of the Standing Committee of Commonwealth and State Attorneys-General. In all, it will be seen that the High Court's decision has meant that the whole concept of the Family Court Court being able to deal with all matters relating to family law cannot now be realised as was at first hoped and at first envisaged. 
On the question of maintenance, under this Bill the continuation of concurrent jurisdiction would continue between tribunals established under State and Commonwealth Acts. Every effort should be made to ensure parity of justice for these claims throughout Australia, striving to achieve uniformity. I believe stricter guidelines should be inserted in maintenance Acts as to the matters to be taken into consideration in assessing a reasonable and adequate payment on the same lines as those set out in the Family Law Act which, amongst other things, not only takes into consideration the age and the state of health of each of the parties but is bound to have due regard to the income, the property and the financial resources of either parties, the care or control of a child, the financial needs and obligations of each of the parties, the responsibilities of either party to support any other person and so on. Those particular provisions are spelt out in full in section 75 of the principal Act. Perhaps if that is not to be followed, the States might give some thought and weigh heavily the incorporation of these matters in State maintenance legislation or even better, legislate to confer these powers on the Family Court. Some of the amendments set out in the Bill are there at the instance of the States. They include amendments to clauses 6 and 20 of the Bill. As I said earlier, they were put in the Bill at the request of the former Government of New South Wales and in this respect the Government's willingness to accede to its request must be highly commended. There is provision for the enforcement of maintenance. This is contained in clauses 18, 27, 34 and 35. These provisions certainly tighten up maintenance enforcement, and again I would suggest that the Government's action is most laudable. 
Another innovation as outlined in the Bill refers to stated cases. This provision is included to enable the Full Court of the Family Court to determine questions of law without the necessity or the expense of an appeal. As I understand it, that provision came to be in the Bill at the behest, as it were, of the judges of the Family Court of Australia. Again I suggest that the Government could be congratulated for taking heed of the advice from people who are involved in the day to day administration of the Court. 
Courts can function properly and efficiently only in direct ratio to the calibre of the judges appointed to them. I have recently heard most disturbing reports from eminent members of the legal profession that some judges are riding roughshod over litigants, the profession and the public generally. Indeed, I have been told of instances of judges talking down, berating and pontificating to these people and being down-, right rude to them. I believe that the public and indeed the legal profession have a duty, which has not often been exercised in the past, of reporting these excesses of judicial power so that disciplinary steps can be invoked. I would welcome any such complaints from the public or the profession and when satisfied as to their accuracy I would have no hesitation in waiting on the Attorney-General. I commend the Bill to the House. 
-On 20 May last the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  outlined to honourable members restrictions to be imposed upon the availability of free university education in Australia. The particular restriction to which I refer is the recommendation for the payment of tuition fees by students undertaking second and higher degrees. Firstly, let me say that this is a worthy move, both as a general principle and within the context of the current economic situation. However, I think there are some ancillary points to which this Parliament should direct its attention in order to alleviate genuine fears which have arisen subsequent to the Treasurer's statement in the minds of many current and impending tertiary students. What is the situation with regard to those who presently are undertaking secondary or subsequent degrees? Will they be allowed to complete their courses under the conditions under which they commenced; that is, will they be allowed to complete their courses without the payment of tuition fees? It should be obvious that a number of students would be forced out of courses because of the economic strains if they were suddenly confronted with the payment of university fees next year. This would be a patent injustice. In any event, according to information supplied to me, the cost of collection would be more than the amounts that in fact would be received. 
Further, I refer to the anomaly which will arise in cases of genuine economic hardship in the future. I refer here not to the 'professional' students who waste taxpayers' money in unnecessary studies, but to those students who are desirous of undertaking further studies after their first degree but will be prevented from doing so because they cannot find the money to pay tuition fees. I recommend that the Government seriously consider introducing a system of interest-free loans to such students. Under these provisions a student from a poorer family could borrow money from the Government to facilitate the payment of tuition fees and living costs while he or she undertook studies subsequent to a first degree. After those further studies were completed and gainful employment was commenced, the money could be paid back to the 
Government with the accrual of interest commensurate with the commencement of employment. Such an innovation, I believe, would be just and equitable both to the taxpayer and to the student in the sense that otherwise the student, by reason of his lack of income, would be deprived of completing tertiary studies subsequent to his first degree. 
On the question of economic assistance for students, I refer to the general position of all tertiary students receiving living allowances. Representing an electorate in which a large number of both technical and university students reside, I know that there are many cases of severe economic hardship resulting from inflation. Students, like all others on fixed incomes, are at the mercy of our current economic ills. I sincerely believe that the Government could look immediately towards protecting this group of fixed income earners, just as it moved to protect pensioners, by indexing money paid to them to the consumer price index. It is the role of any government to give assistance to any community group, particularly where that group by such assistance will be able to better itself in life. I leave honourable members with the sad thought that the Henderson report set the poverty line at $35 per week; the tertiary allowance for students is set at $3 1 a week. I commend these recommendations to the House. 
-It was a great pleasure to hear the comments on this legislation of two eminent lawyers, namely the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Ellicott)  who represents the seat of Wentworth, and the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  Of course, both of these honourable gentlemen are my immediate neighbours in the federal electorate of Phillip, the Attorney-General to the north and the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith to the south. But be that as it may, I regard the Bill before us as a most useful piece of legislation. In particular I refer to proposed new section 22a sub-section (2). The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith drew attention to that part of the legislation which contains provision for a plea after committal for sentence. Of course, New South Wales for many years has had complementary legislation in the form of section 5 1a of the Justices Act. Prior to that section coming into force the situation was that where someone decided to plead guilty in an indictable matter the witnesses had to be called and the evidence had to be presented to the magistrate and in due course the accused was committed for trial before a judge and jury. Therefore, where the accused in fact wanted to plead guilty this procedure still had to be gone through. Of course, section 51a was invoked and the situation was that no witnesses were called. Statements of the brief and of the evidence were prepared and handed up to the magistrate and if he thought on the face of this that he should accept the plea he would and commit the accused for sentence, without, as I have said, the necessity of running through the totality of the evidence. As I said, the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith referred to the continuation of the plea and I would hope that the Attorney-General might give some thought to that situation. 
It is often found, under section 5 1a of the Justices Act, that prior to pleading guilty at criminal court, at quarter sessions or wherever it might be, a situation has emerged which might be fortunate for the accused. I refer to such things as witnesses no longer wishing to testify, witnesses having died or having gone overseas; or there could be other witnesses who could speak as to his innocence. The accused then has the right, without being queried by the presiding judge, to change his plea to one of not guilty and those proceedings are remitted back to the magistrate and continued on the basis of a plea of not guilty. I hope that the Attorney-General will give some thought to incorporating at a later stage that particular provision which is a great safeguard to an accused person. 
I am dealing with section 18 of the Crimes (Aircraft) Act and it may be relevant at this stage to read to the Parliament the nature of that section. It says: 
1 ) Subject to this section, a person shall not- 
carry or place dangerous goods on board an aircraft to which this Part applies; 
deliver dangerous goods to a person for the purpose of their being placed on board such an aircraft; or 
have dangerous goods in his possession on such an aircraft. 
Penalty: Imprisonment for 7 years. 
In a proper case, and here I am referring to proposed new section 22a (3) in this Bill, a magistrate, with the consent of the defendant and the prosecution, can proceed to deal with the matter there and then. The operative words, as I see the situation, in that proposed sub-section are ' may ', which obviously vests in the magistrate an absolute discretion whether to commit or not, and 'if it is proper to do so'. 
As the Attorney-General mentioned in his second reading speech, there are numerous examples where it would not be proper to commit for trial, such as the placing on board an aircraft for legitimate reasons of a case or some container containing a rifle to be used on a hunting expedition, without any malice aforethought and without any improper motives. It is apparent that in such cases it would be a great waste of time and public expense as well as worry to an accused to send him for trial or for plea before a judge. It would be a waste if the magistrate did not have power finally to dispose of the matter. No doubt the magistrate, prior to embarking on that course, would direct those questions to himself and ascertain whether it was proper, in the terms of that particular sub-section, to take into consideration the type of goods in question which were the subject of the charge and the reasons for their being placed on the aircraft. After that type of deliberation he could then come to a decision about dealing with the matter. I can envisage other cases involving dangerous goods that would not be subject to his discretion; in other words, because of the horrendous nature of the matter he would think that it was a proper case to go before a judge and jury, or a judge for sentence. 
If honourable members will bear with me, I remember some few years ago I appeared in the case of the Queen v. Macari. That was the case of the now legendary  Mr Brown  who placed an explosive article on board an aircraft for the purpose of extorting some $500,000 from Qantas Airways Ltd. 
-He got it and he held on to it for a little time. 
-No, the honourable member for Hunter is wrong again. If my memory serves me right almost all of it was recovered, apart from a few dollars here and there that everyone is trying to track down. I remember there was a police investigation but the fact of the matter is that that money was recovered almost in toto. 
I understand he had a rich uncle somewhere. I am pleased I did not send him a bill because he is still in prison. 
-He is up at Maitland. We are getting sidetracked. That would be one illustration of a case when a magistrate certainly would exercise his discretion not to deal with it himself and would send the matter to trial. This Bill is to be commended. As I said earlier, it is a most useful piece of legislation and certainly will reduce the cumbersome and time consuming procedures heretofore adopted. 
I draw the attention of the House to a recent rescue operation that has now become known as the mission to Entebbe. It is my opinion that this epic sortie will be enshrined in the annals of military history as one of the truly great actions of all time. I am sure that the heroism, daring and conspicious gallantry of all those brave souls who took part have the admiration of all men of peace and goodwill. I have not the slightest doubt that, but for them, innocent men and women would have been slaughtered in the cause of political fanaticism. Terrorism in the form of the hijacking of aircraft would be in its death throes if all the nations of the world spelt out in bold terms thenrefusal to give sanctuary to these gangsters and made it clear that terrorism or aggression in whatever form it may take will be condemned and that automatic sanctions will be placed on transgressors. One could be pardoned for believing that a simple motion placed before the United Nations, condemning terrorism, would have been passed with enthusiasm and applause. I was staggered to read recently that this very motion, sponsored by responsible nations, had failed to pass. 
In retrospect there can be no question that the terrorists were aided and abetted in their infamy by that madman and butcher of humanity, Idi Amin of Uganda. One of the hostages was a lady of some 75 years of age by the name of Dora Bloch. She was taken prisoner by the hijackers and, whilst at Entebbe airport, apparently complained of food poisoning and was taken to a Ugandan hospital. Apparently she was in hospital at the very time of the rescue operation. After the success of that venture the same woman was seen by independent witnesses to be dragged from the hospital, screaming, with Ugandan soldiers forcing sponges down her throat to stop her plaintive cries. Wire service reports clearly indicate that the body of this unfortunate woman, whose only crime was to be an innocent tourist, was found charred and burnt beyond recognition on the outskirts of Kampala. Despite the weight of diplomatic protests and inquiries from Israel and Great Britain, Amin of Uganda has washed his hands of the whole affair. So I believe that the time has now come for the Federal Government to sever diplomatic relations with Uganda, and I call upon the Government to do so. 
-The whole purpose of the Marriage Amendment Bill is without doubt to uphold the institution of marriage by instilling in persons desiring to enter into the marriage state a perceptiveness of the obligations and responsibilities of the marriage vows. This is most laudable at a time when the institution of marriage in many quarters is being held up to ridicule and indeed in contempt. 
It is sad to reflect that the sanctity of marriage is to a large extent being ignored and that that institution is being eroded and attacked from many quarters. It is particularly refreshing that this piece of legislation is directly aimed at its preservation and protection. I know of no government in the past that has been courageous enough to spell out in bold terms its affirmation of its belief in that sanctity and the Government should be congratulated for doing so. 
I belong to that school which believes in the preservation of marriage as it is on the solid foundation that a nation can bloom and prosper. In short, the main aspects of the Bill are designed to forestall the breakdown of marriage. A firm step in this direction is envisaged by clause 9b of the Bill. This clause will allow the AttorneyGeneral out of monies appropriated by the Parliament to grant to an approved organisation under such conditions as he thinks fit financial assistance for the conduct of a program of premarital education. Whilst marriage counselling organisations are already in existence under the Family Law Act, the Bill will permit voluntary organisations that are willing to conduct premarital courses to apply to the AttorneyGeneral for approval and appropriate funding. 
Funding for marriage counselling and associated matters has been set in this year's Budget at $1,905,800 and this, of course, in itself exemplifies the tremendous importance of these organisations in the mind of the Government. It may not be generally known but the fact is that counsellors have been in great demand and my research indicates that they already have dealt with over 2000 new cases. They have been ' instrumental in saving many marriages that were destined for breakdown with all the consequential suffering and heartbreak not only to the parents but also to the children who always seem to suffer most in the long term. As I see it, the Bill is intended to avert the breakdown of this institution and it should decelerate the increase in the divorce rate. It is of interest that in the first 6 months of its establishment there have been 32 000 applications for divorce to the Family Court of Australia. The court had already granted nearly 17 000 divorces to the middle of July last and was disposing of over 1000 applications for divorce each week. These are on anyone 's say-so alarming figures and I trust that this Bill will go a long way towards reducing them. 
However meritorious the provisions may be they will not be used effectively and to their full capacity unless their existence is properly promulgated. I trust that the Bill will see to that. On my reading it seems eminently clear that there is a two-fold thrust; namely, by grants of money to approved organisations for extensive advertising of the courses and, in quite a revolutionary way, by clause 13 which requires an authorised marriage celebrant after receiving notice of intended marriage to give to the parties a document in the prescribed form outlining the obligations and consequences of marriage and indicating the availability of premarital education and counselling. There can be no doubt that numerous persons enter marriage with only a passing thought for its obligations and consequences and without giving it the serious deliberation that it certainly requires. 
It may be said that there are marriage celebrants who themselves place little value on or who have scant regard for the marriage vows. This is often exemplified by their celebration of marriage at bizarre rendezvous. It has come to my notice that numerous marriages have been celebrated by these people in sandhills amongst bikie groups where the main emphasis appears to be placed on intoxication. Only recently I heard of a case of 2 people getting married after catapulting from a plane with parachutes and joining hands with the marriage celebrant thousands of feet above the earth. This makes a mockery of the celebration of marriage. No doubt honourable members would know of similar instances. 
I trust that the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  in the near future will see fit to direct all marriage celebrants that in the performance of their duties a high regard for the dignity of the occasion is imperative and that marriages that emphasise eccentricities in the proceedings rather than the dignity of the occasion will be frowned upon. I say without any equivocation or fear of contradiction that it is high time that these celebrants were either pulled into gear or their authorisations withdrawn. 
The concept in clause 10 of the Bill, I say again, must be commended. The old procedure was that a person under the age of 18 years who had been refused parental consent to marry had simply to apply to a magistrate for consent. In practice, because of the nature of their business, in most courts these applications were not usually heard until the end of the day. From my own experience in these courts, the consent was rarely, if ever, refused. In fact no substantial inquiry as to all the underlying factors was ever set in train. I should be most interested to receive some statistical information- I am sure other honourable members would be also- as to the number of these types of marriages that succeeded. In the main they were cases where the girl was pregnant, was horrified at the stigma of illegitimacy and became hellbent on entering into marriage. The stigma of illegitimacy, thank heavens, is almost a non-event in this day and age. Counselling of these young people must of necessity have a beneficial effect and be another stage in the Government's intention to cut back the rate of divorce. It will be seen that under the new provisions a magistrate will be prohibited from proceeding with an application for his consent to marriage unless a certificate is produced to the effect that the applicant has attended such counselling. However, it will not have to be produced if sufficient reason is given. 
The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  mentioned clause 13 of the Bill and indicated his objection thereto and the possibility of an amendment being moved. Paragraphs (a) and (b) of clause 13(1) provide for the extension of the minimum period for giving notice of intended marriage from 7 days to one month before the intended marriage. As I understand the situation, the Attorney-General has received many suggestions in relation to the period of time. Certain organisations suggested that a period of 12 months would have been appropriate. Of course various other periods were advanced by different interested bodies. But there can be no doubt that prior to this provision being included in the Bill all these proposals with which he was inundated were weighed against the consideration that, in principle, arbitrary restrictions on a fundamental right such as the right to marriage should not lightly be imposed. But in any event, and again alluding to what the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith forecast as an amendment referable to the extension of this period of time, I would draw his attention to section 42 (5) of the principal Act. That section refers to the fact that a prescribed authority, if he is satisfied that the circumstances of the particular case can justify his action, is then authorised to solemnise the marriage notwithstanding that the notice has been received later than one month before the marriage. With the greatest respect, I can see no point in such an amendment. It is quite clear that contained within the Act, and I refer to section 42 (5), is an inherent discretion reposing in the prescribed authority to vary that time. 
Another clause sets out the ground on which marriage is void. I suggest that this speaks for itself and requires no elaboration from me. The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith alluded in passing to the fact that the Bill dealt with the old form of breach of promise. I can say that at long last the archaic action for breach of promise to marry is to be laid to rest. This form of action has long outlived its uselessness. It provided the opportunity for claims of a golddigging nature to be made. The existence of the action created the danger that a person would prefer to enter into an unsuitable marriage rather than face court proceedings. Other criticisms of this form of action have been levied and to these I add my own. It appeared to be hardly logical to award damages on the termination of an agreement to marry and not on the termination of the marriage itself. It goes without saying that the action involved a court in the almost impossible task of fixing responsibility for a broken engagement. Indeed, in New South Wales,  Mr Justice  Selby suggested that the existence of the action for breach of promise to marry runs counter to the prevailing social attitudes to marriage and preparation for marriage. For example, if the engagement period was to be used as a time during which the proposed marriage partners finally contemplated whether they would enter marriage, no good social reason was served by the threat that if one or the other doubted whether the marriage was likely to succeed and acted on such doubt, he or she could then be subject to legal action. 
The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith also mentioned that he doubted whether the Parliament had the constitutional power to legislate in relation to clause 21 (2) of the Bill. He raised some very interesting arguments to support that contention. As we know, the Parliament has constitutional power to legislate in respect of marriage. Honourable members will see on reading that clause that all it does is affirm the old situation relating to an action for the recovery of any gifts given in contemplation of marriage. It just re-affirms that actions of that particular nature are not affected. I doubt very much whether, either now or in the future, any constitutional question would arise in relation thereto. So it is that I concur with the statement by the AttorneyGeneral that in this Bill there is neither prohibition nor compulsion but persuasion and inducement to people to increase their selfawareness an awareness of each other when contemplating marriage and thereby to make with more prudence and consideration what will be their most important decision. I support the Bill. 

 Mr ANTONY WHITLAM (Grayndler) . (8.20)-The Marriage Amendment Bill 1976 is an important measure. It is, I hope, a measure which will be considered on non-party lines. The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  indicated that that is the way in which members of the Labor Party would be looking at it. There is very little that has fallen from the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicot)  in his second reading speech, the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith or from my distinguished and learned friend, the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Birney),  with which one can take exception. 
This is a very light Bill. It is a Bill with only 2 elements of any substance in it. It is the sort of Bill for which the Government is sending out to the Public Service departments at this time. It is essentially a lawyer's Bill. It is to update legislation. It is to do the things that when Labor was in power were being done as a matter of policy. It is a drafting measure. The Attorney-General says that it has 2 elements of substance in it. One is to require celebrants to hand a prescribed form of notice to persons intending to marry and the other is to extend the period of notice one must give before one marries. 
The honourable mamber for Kingsford-Smith has indicated in relation to the second of those important elements that he will be opposing it, and so shall I. The Attorney-General said that the Bill was seeking to uphold the institution of marriage. The honourable member for Phillip- in the ringing tones which Government supporters generally bring to the defence of some abstract concept like small business or motherhood- said much the same thing. Nonetheless, it is remarkable that the institution of marriage or any narrow legal definition has defied the description of the draftsman and defied the description of  Sir Garfield  Barwick when he introduced this legislation initially in 1960. No-one can talk in precise statutorily defined terms about what marriage is. I found it a little distressing that the honourable member for Phillip should see fit to remark upon the fact that occasionally marriages are celebrated in what he described as exotic locations. Somewhat  sotto voce  the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart)  remarked about persons who parachute while being married that at least that could be described as a marriage made in Heaven. Suffice to say that I know there is no subliminal message that the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  means to convey in this because all these bizarre marriages have been celebrated by ministers of religion and not by the authorised celebrants, the secularists who are so stigmatised in debates, at least in another place, but hopefully not in this place. 
The problem with the first substantive amendmentthat is, the requirement that a prescribed form of notice should be given to persons intending marriage- is, of course, that we do not have it before us. In the second reading speech the Attorney-General went on at some length about what a desirable thing this would be and how nice it would be if persons intending to marry had the gravity of the obligations they are about to undertake forced upon them by the State and their attention drawn to the existence of premarital programs run by voluntary organisations. As with so much legislation introduced by this Government, we do not have that form before us now. We do not know what this Government will say about the obligations of marriage. No doubt that form will be produced in some statutory instrument during a recess or while we are away from Canberra. 
The suggestion that the stability of marriage depends upon persons being acquainted with what I assume to be the legal obligations of marriage is, of course, a nonsense. It is unfortunately all too typical of what one expects from persons who have lived, as a great number of their constituents have lived, rather sheltered lives. Looking back on the history of this legislation which was first introduced by  Sir Garfield  Barwick in 1 960, we find that one most extraordinary aspect is the 2 great issues which were discussed at that time by members of this House. One was the issue of legitimation which at least has preoccupied some people now although it is certainly not, as the Attorney admits, one of the substantive amendments which this Bill seeks to effect. The other issue was the age of consent. 
Although that legislation was considered as a non-party measure, one of the extraordinary points which seemed to divide persons on our side of the House from those on the then LiberalCountry Party side of the House was the suggestion that persons who have been cossetted in private academies of secondary education and then in universities until they are legally adults, above the age of 2 1 years, should be treated in the same way as persons who have been sent out into the world to earn their living from the age of 1 4 or 1 5 years. It was amazing how this perception divided this House. One of the things that I still find extraordinary is that 16 years later the Attorney-General is promoting what he describes, at least on the surface, as a Government measure, which talks about the stability of marriage being posited simply upon the existence of pre-marital counselling. I have seen in my own constituency and the areas that surround it persons who have experienced marital instability. From that experience I can say one of the greatest causes of marital instability is the kind of social condition which is never addressed in this legislation and on which, even this very week, the Government has turned its back. The greatest cause of marital instability is the prospect of someone entering a marriage without the secure opportunity to remain a breadwinner. 
If honourable members who are trying to interject ever find the time to go into a divorce court or what is now called as a result of innovation by the Labor Government, more humanely and decently the Family Court, they will see that it is those real problems that cause marital instability. What saves marriages is access to places such as the Leichhardt Women's Community Health Centre in my district, which is always pilloried in the lowest terms by members from the other side of the House. Access to community health programs saves marriages and those are precisely the programs on which the Government is cutting back. Access to supposed middle class values about marriage in a formalistic pre-marital education is so much hokum and will never save marriages in this country. As Government members wrap themselves in this false cloak they will ensure that people go once more into the Family Court, there to fight out their disputes. This attitude is gross hypocrisy. 
The other substantive amendment which this Bill seeks to effect is one which I will be opposing, as will the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith. The proposal is that the minimum period of notice which intending partners to a marriage should give will be extended from 7 days to 30 days. That is a gross invasion of civil liberties. The Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  conceded as much himself towards the end of his speech when he said that such restrictions are not lightly to be imposed; nor are they. He said that suggestions are being put to him about the minimum period of this notice being extended. This marriage legislation has been in force, after being enacted by the Federal Parliament, for some 15 years, and I would have thought in this time we could have developed some real research into the causes of what makes marriages go awry and not have to rely on mere speculation or on guesses by essentially well meaning voluntary organisations. 
In 1960 and in 1961 when this legislation came before the House, after the disgracefully long period of 60 years, legislators in Canberra grasped the nettle of dealing with this power given them by our founding fathers and a lot of time was spent talking about how the age of consent would affect the prospects of the stability of a marriage. Statistics were produced. Now the Attorney-General comes in with a proposition to extend from 7 days to 30 days the minimum period of notice that needs to be given. He has not produced a single statistic, notwithstanding that in the intervening 15 years the Federal Government has had the administration of this legislation. That seems deplorable. I would hazard a guess that what the Parliament talked about 15 years ago about the age of consent being a much more realistic factor in the prospects of a marriage is still the case and that this question about the minimum period of notice before one gets married is of very little value whatsoever. 
Honourable members will be interested to know the position before the Federal Parliament legislated in this area. In 1960 the AttorneyGeneral,  Sir Garfield  Barwick, sought to put this information before the Parliament. He tabled information which I think bears repeating. The minimum period of notice of intended marriage prescribed by the various State Acts at that time was: New South Wales and Queensland none; Victoria 3 days; Tasmania 7 days; South Australia 10 days; Western Australia where a marriage is to be celebrated in a church under bans must be published 3 Sundays before the marriage or if under notice, a notice must be affixed to the church for 14 days; 7 days notice must be given if the marriage is to be performed by a district registrar. These were the periods stipulated previously. But in New South Wales and Queensland no minimum period of notice was prescribed at all, and whilst I have not had the time to do the research on this, I am sure that in many other jurisdictions under AngloAmerican common law there are no minimum periods of notice prescribed. 
It is odd that now this invasion of a civil liberty should be sought to be imposed upon intending partners to a marriage without the kinds of statistics that must be available being produced. I know that many honourable members on the other side of the House have something of a reluctance to have social scientists develop this kind of material for them. This is a relatively simple process and it would be easily available. From the kind of information I put before the House, it appears that not significantly more people in Queensland before 1961 who were married and who had to give no notice of their intention to marry have had their marriages come unstuck than persons in South Australia where, before this Parliament legislated, 10 days notice had to be given. It is odd that the AttorneyGeneral, in concluding his plea for the value of increasing the period of notice and even saying that from time to time he had had suggestions that the period of notice ought to be as long as 12 months, said - 
I address my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In view of recent reports of brutality and oppression in Uganda, will the Minister for Foreign Affairs express the Government's concern at these apparent gross violations of human rights? 
-Honourable members will be aware that Australia's failure at the recent Olympic Games to win more than her share of gold medals has prompted much discussion on the question of Government assistance to sport in Australia. I know that many members of this House from all parties share a mutual concern with regard to this question. I believe that our approach to the funding of sport should be at 2 levels. As the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  said in his statement of 26 July: 
Governments have to choose a middle road between helping the elite and helping the whole community to be engaged in physical activity. 
The first level of assistance should be at a community development level. Facilities must be provided through the efforts of the Australian Government, State governments, local governments and private enterprise to allow all Australians to participate in the sport of their choice, both as a pastime and as a means of attaining physical fitness. This year we will spend many millions of dollars on providing health care facilities. Why not spend some of that money on encouraging Australians to keep fit? By this form of preventive medicine not only would we be reducing the chances of Australians becoming a nation prone to sickness, but we would also be countering such diseases of our society as chronic absenteeism from work. 
Secondly, we should not ignore assistance to our sporting elite simply because people talk of the desire not to turn our top class athletes into robots. The provision of finances by governments to assist in providing international competition and technical expertise is simply the provision of a fair go for Australian sportsmen and sports women. Honourable members must never forget that every time an Australian sporting champion achieves international recognition, it encourages other young Australians to take up that particular sport and reduces the chances of the youth of this nation becoming a generation of armchair strategists and observers. 
Finally, I should like to draw the attention of the House to the recently announced plans of the Returned Services League of Australia. It plans to set up an Anzac Olympic foundation to provide for the general promotion of the national fitness of the total population and also to provide scholarships for athletes and coaches to undertake overseas tours. The aims of this foundation would therefore encompass the 2 principles of assistance to sport to which I have just alluded. The savings to Federal and State governments by the work that this body can potentially carry out would be enormous. Most honourable members would be aware that donations presently are not tax deductible when made to sporting bodies. I believe that the Government should consider making an exception in a case such as this in order that the initial excellent response to the aims of this organisation can be facilitated at a practical level. If we can perpetuate the spirit of Anzac by encouraging national unity and pride in our physical fitness and international sporting achievements, we will have taken a giant step towards providing for its future. 
I address my question to the Attorney-General. I refer the honourable gentleman to the continuing saga of the Barton case. Whilst appreciating that the Government has spent thousands of dollars and has launched unsuccessful extradition proceedings in Paraguay in an endeavour to secure the return to Australia for trial of this man and his son, I ask the Attorney-General whether every possible avenue in this regard has been exhausted? 
I would like to draw the attention of the House to the television ratings rat race. Last week Sydney television stations screened a near-record 189 repeat programs. Some of them had hit the screen more than once before. I estimate that about 200 repeat programs will be shown on Sydney television by the end of this week and that they will take up almost that number of viewing hours. The Sydney channels will be on the air this week for a combined 450 hours or thereabouts. The fact that almost 200 of those hours will be taken up by repeat programs is to my way of thinking a giant insult to the viewing public. I am told that the reason for this deluge of repeat programs is that we are currently- once again- in the season of non-rating madness. 
The silly season, if you like. For 2 weeks during the school holidays the ratings take a rest while the television moguls prepare themselves for the all-important final 2 rating surveys of the year. They, of course, determine the top station for 1976 and the amount of revenue that that station ultimately gathers from advertising. The trouble is that this race to the top is run at the expense of the viewing public. It is not just that we are subjected to repeats. Last week I noted that fifty of the 109 programs which were shown in peak viewing time after 7 p.m. had been screened at least once before, but we were obliged to suffer low quality repeats. 
Australian television today is a giant confidence trick on the public. We are being thrown the scraps and are expected to make a main meal of them. Culturally we are still going hungry. Some programs have been shown so often that the other day I was shocked to read that a certain seven or eight year old who played a leading role in a popular late afternoon comedy had died in America. She was 18 years of age. It costs stations only a few dollars to screen repeat programs. As long as they do that, they do not have to buy new ones. But what is more to the point as far as the Australian film industry is concerned is that the stations do not have to buy more local productions. Television spokesmen argue that repeat programs are a service to viewers and that not everyone sees a program the first time around. But one repeat is surely sufficient. Two repeats or more are enough to drive a person to bed or to begin to look forward to catching the new commercials. That is a sad situation.  1  say that possibly at the expense of repeating myself. 
My question to the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development concerns mermaids. I ask the Minister: Is he aware that an almost extinct species of mermaid has disappeared from the cliffs at Bondi, to the disgust and anguish of local residents and thousands of overseas tourists? Short of mounting a vast sea hunt and a netting operation in search of other mermaids, which no doubt would be too costly in the light of present economic circumstances, will the Minister, in view of this catastrophic happening, consider making a reasonable grant to the local council for replacements which I am sure will bring untold joy and gladness to the hearts of all mermaid lovers? 
-Thank you very kindly. It could easily be $103m a year. Indeed, the figure that I mentioned could easily be a most conservative estimate. About 20 per cent of records and cassettes currently in circulation in this country are pirated fakes. They are imported from Singapore and Hong Kong while others are made locally. It costs only about 25 cents to make one of these cassettes in Singapore or in Hong Kong. The cost of setting up a pirate duplicator can be recouped fully in one month of operation. That represents a 1200 per cent return on the capital invested. The pirating of cassettes and records is cruelly calculated cultural rape. Youngsters who buy these tapes and records do not even realise that they are pirated versions of the real thing. When they play them and hear the poor quality of the duplicated recordings, they immediately blame it on the artists or group responsible for the performance. After that, they do not buy any more recordings by that particular artist. As a consequence the artist's living is affected drastically and certainly by no fault of his or her own. 
Indeed, the public is quickly attracted by pirated cassettes and records because they normally sell for at least 50 per cent of the price of the legal ones. Who will pay $6 or $7 for the real thing when you can get what you think is just as good for a cost in the order of $3. This sort of lucrative rip-off is a flagrant contravention of the copyright laws. It is time that the Government took more positive steps in an endeavour to stamp out this illegal operation. In this regard I will shortly be making a submission to the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott). 
I draw the attention of the House to the present illicit traffic in pirate cassettes. The Federal Government should ban the importation of pirate cassettes and records and the New South Wales Government should crack down more heavily on the retail outlets all over Australia which are openly displaying them. This gigantic rip-off from our local recording industry is reaping these contrabandits an enormous $ 100m a year. 
I direct my question to the Attorney-General. I refer him to extradition proceedings launched against the fugitive financiers, Alexander Barton and his son, Thomas, on 20 charges of fraud and conspiracy. I ask the Attorney-General whether he is aware of recent newspaper reports that these men have been providing both the New South Wales Government and Federal Government with dossiers of information on the collapse of some of their companies, and the disappearance of millions of dollars, in an attempt to do a deal on these charges. I ask the Attorney-General: Have the Bartons in fact been providing detailed information on the network of their companies and making serious allegations against prominent persons in the business community? Have these ex-financiers attempted to do any deal whatsoever with the Federal Government as a condition precedent to their voluntarily returning to Australia? 
Is the Attorney-General aware that hundreds of thousands of pirate cassettes are being imported into the country to the financial detriment of Australian recording artists and reputable business houses? Are these cassettes a blatant breach of the Copyright Act? If so, what action is proposed to stamp out this practice which is fast developing into a million dollar industry? 
-I noticed a report in today's  Australian  newspaper to the effect that moves in London and Canberra are continuing so as to enable Prince Charles to become the Queen's representative in Australia. Speculation over an early appointment of Prince Charles as Governor-General of Australia must be offensive to  Sir John  Kerr whose place in history is assured as a truly great Australian, ranking with the greats of the past. The appointment of anyone other than an Australian to that exalted position would offend the nation. Australians owe a profound debt of gratitude to those stalwart politicians of yesteryear, in the days that have long gone by, who fought so vigorously, tirelessly and, as history recalls, so successfully in the debates that raged so long ago for the right of an Australian to be appointed as Governor-General in his own country. 
The speculation in the British Press concerning the appointment of Prince Charles to the office of Governor-General must be grossly embarrassing to this young prince who is held in such high esteem by all Australians. The placement of the first in line to the British throne in a highly controversial position of responsibility in another country would be a ludicrous action. This speculation seems to be based on some outmoded concept of the days of colonialistic thinking. Decisions about future Australian GovernorsGeneral are not the prerogative of the British Press. The suggestion of his appointment would seemingly be a spineless attempt to find a solution to the unwarranted controversy surrounding the Governor-General. In my opinion, such an appointment would be disastrous. 

 Status quo Governors-General must now belong to the past and hopefully buried with it. Any attempt to fill this office with a person who would be, by virtue of background, constrained not to act in a constitutional crisis would be to place this nation in a dangerous situation. It is my view that the office of Governor-General must always be occupied by a distinguished Australian who must now, because of the complexities of that high office, be absolutely conversant with every section of the Constitution and ready to implement it fearlessly whenever the overriding consideration of the national welfare arises. 
If the situation should emerge in the future that the majority of Australians want the powers of his office clarified, reduced or even increased, let it be decided by the correct democratic means- that is, informed debate and consequent referenda proposals. The election results of 13 December last clearly vindicated  Sir John  Kerr's actions in pulling the political plug on the worst government since Federation. Recent public opinion polls continue to support that decision by the Australian people and endorse the high regard in which he is held by the overwhelming majority of all Australians. Will the Opposition never learn that it is here not as an official Opposition to the Governor-General but as the duly elected representatives of the people to make some contribution towards their welfare and prosperity, a task which continues to elude the Opposition? The Leader of the Opposition said of  Sir John  Kerr not so long ago: 

 Sir John Kerr has made himself more powerful than any monarch since the Stuarts. 
The truth of the matter is that he has taken the most implacable stand against would-be despots and dictators since the Stuarts. He assumed office with the right spirit of service and full consciousness of the responsibility it imposed- an office he has already graced with wisdom and distinction. This might be an appropriate moment to inform the House that these last few words are not my own but those of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam),  which I adopt as my own. 
Can the Minister for Post and Telecommunications inform the House of the actual circumstances surrounding the seizure of the Fretlin radio transmitter in Darwin on Monday of last week? Is he aware of statements that the operator of this clandestine radio intends to flout the laws of the Commonwealth and carry on business as usual? Will he assure the House that in the event of any further violations, prosecution proceedings will be launched forthwith against those concerned? 
I draw the attention of the House to the recent Pacific Ocean cruise of the Russian liner  Fedor Shalyapin,  carrying a large number of Australian and New Zealand passengers which left Sydney on or about 12 September last and which returned on 1 October. The itinerary included the Solomon Islands, the New Hebrides, Suva, Tonga and Auckland. I shall say more at a later date and give facts to substantiate the Russian rip-off being perpetrated on good, decent, hardworking Australians snared aboard this ship by one of the most blatant and deceitful advertising campaigns ever to be perpetrated on the public and designed to trap the unwary into parting with hard-earned cash on fraudulent promises of a life of luxury over the period of the voyage. 
I should like to tell the House of 2 most disturbing incidences involving the rendezvous in the dead of night between this liner and 2 vessels in the Pacific on its return voyage. This ship is registered in Vladivostok and comes out here under charter flying the Russian flag with a hammer and sickle displayed prominently on the funnel. On the return passage, when approximately one day out of New Zealand in the Pacific and at approximately midnight, another vessel was sighted by passengers approaching the  Fedor Shalyapin.  This dimly-lit ship hove to some distance away. As the cruise ship drew near its engines were stopped and its lights turned off with the exception of navigation lights. Lifeboats were lowered into a choppy sea and were eventually seen to pull away in the direction of the other vessel until they disappeared into the darkness. My constituents inform me that not only were the lifeboats carrying men but huge containers were seen to be loaded into them. They could have contained anyone or anything. To say that the passengers were alarmed would be an understatement, bearing in mind that some of them were quite elderly and justifiably apprehensive. After an interval of time the lifeboats returned to the mother ship and were hauled back on board, less most of the original occupants and all the containers. The engines of the cruise ship were restarted and both vessels parted company in mid-ocean. 
I ask: What was the nature of this clandestine operation and why was it taking place in most suspicious circumstances? I hope no one would think me so naive as to believe that it was merely a transfer of crew, considering that it took place in dead of night out in the Pacific Ocean and only one day's steaming from New Zealand. At approximately 3 o'clock the same morning, a crashing and banging noise was heard to come from the side of the ship- to the mental anguish of passengers- and this time a submarine was sighted close by. At this early hour few passengers were up and about but those who were quickly passed on this intelligence to others. Because of darkness and poor visibility the exact nature of what transpired was not able to be ascertained with any clarity or certainty. 
The observations of the passengers, as I have outlined, call for an immediate explanation from the Russian authorities and the Sydney-based shipping line responsible for its charter in Australian waters. I shall be taking this matter up as a matter of urgency with my colleague, the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen).  I am gravely disturbed by these happenings, especially in view of recent reports that Russian spy ships are tracking the biggest Allied fleet ever assembled in this part of the world since World War II. 
-Following my speech in the House last week relating to the  Fedor Shalyapin,  I was contacted on the weekend and advised of a similar incident, this time in relation to another cruise ship the  Shota Rustaveli  during one of its cruises in the Pacific. My informant and his wife had decided on a cruise. They occupied the penthouse cabin on the bridge deck of the ship which looks directly astern. The cruise was apparently uneventful until 2 days out of Fiji. I hasten to add that my informant had had several years experience in the merchant marine on boats operating in Australian coastal waters. When this ship was some 2 days out of Fiji and approaching the Australian mainland in the darkened hours of the early morning, he felt restless, was unable to sleep and decided to sit in bed and read a book. He states that shortly afterwards the cruise ship's engines stopped. He woke his wife and told her. He quickly dressed, went out onto the deck and down to the rear portion of the  Shota Rustaveli.  To use his own words, which I confirmed with him on 2 occasions, he saw a submarine 300 yards aft of the  Shota Rustaveli.  There were no port or starboard lights on this latter vessel, only a mast head light. He was soon joined by 20 or 30 people at the stern of the ship. The submarine then beat a hasty retreat by quickly going hard astern and backing off at speed into the darkness. 
He states that the following day he sought out Russian officers and demanded an explanation of events of that early morning rendezvous. He was staggered when he received a flat denial that any such event took place and a further denial that the ship had stopped at all. At the time of the incident he states that the lights of the ship  Shota Rustaveli  were out and that only navigational lights were discernible. I believe that all Russian cruise vessels have on board KGB agents and that key officers on these cruise ships are Russian naval personnel posing as part of the merchant marine, having ready and immediate contact with both surface and underwater vessels in their sphere of operation. 
Since my speech to the Parliament on Wednesday last I have received numerous letters and telephone calls from all over Australia depicting similar clandestine rendezvous between Russian cruise ships and other vessels in the dead of night under the most suspicous circumstances. I am convinced that not only is there a Russian naval presence in the Indian Ocean but that reports that I have indicate an increasing presence in the South Pacific. I believe all Australians should be made aware of the present overtures being made by Russian authorities to the King of Tonga for the acquisition of an island in the Tongan group for obvious use as a power base. This is disturbing news to say the least and I am delighted that the Department of Defence is having these matters investigated. 
Let there be no doubt that the Soviets are intent on creating power bases across the oceans of the world. I hope that what I have said on this subject will awaken an awareness in all Australians that the great heritage that belongs to us all will vanish like a dream unless we are forever vigilant. 
I draw the attention of the House to a scurrilous advertisement that appeared in the  Australian  of 29 October last, which sets out the most infamous resolution ever passed by the United Nations, whereby Zionism was said to foster the growth of racism and racial discrimination. Mention was made also of the International Women's Year conference that was held in Mexico City in 1975, which promulgated the foul principle that international peace requires, amongst other things, the elimination of Zionism. Honourable members will recall that when Australia was governed by the Australian Labor Party a delegation from this country to that conference supported a resolution which contained reference to the elimination of Zionism. Such resolutions are contrary to factual and historic truth. The initiators of the resolution aim at denying the right of existence of Israel. 
This advertisement was in the nature of an offensive and had a definite political significance and purpose. It was designed to impeach the essence and foundation of Israel so as to prepare political conditions for the intensification of further attacks on its right of survival as an independent state in its own land and, in part, to prepare the ground for the establishment of an Arafatist' state in place of and on the ruins of the state of Israel. The enemies of Israel never cease in their campaign to convince the world that there are similarities between Zionism and apartheid and that Israel is a nation of racists. Racism and racial discrimination, including apartheid, are abhorrent not only to the people of Israel but also to all other peoples of the world who similarly cherish democracy. Never let it be forgotten that the Jews themselves are the classic victims of racial discrimination and that their martyrs over the centuries run into tens of millions. 
Those responsible for the advertisement are obviously oblivious to the Government's policy on the subject, which is one of support unequivocally and without reservation for the right of Israel to exist, and by 'exist ' I mean more than bare survival. I mean the right to those conditions which will enable its people to live normal lives and to go about their legitimate business without harassment and intimidation. The Government of which I am honoured to be a supporter quite properly regards the equation of Zionism with racism as totally infamous. The people who placed this advertisement should be prosecuted for false advertising. 
-Getting away from politics and on to sport, I draw the attention of the House to the present Australian rugby union tour of France. It is common knowledge that this side is not faring too well on the playing fields of that country, having been beaten quite resoundingly by France in the 2 tests played to date. 
House adjourned at 1 1 p.m. 
I would like to move away from politics to the field of sport. I draw the attention of the House to the present Australian rugby union tour of France and Italy. 
The honourable member should have been reading the papers. It is common knowledge that the side has not fared well on the playing fields, having been beaten by France quite resoundingly in the 2 tests played to date. It is always an occasion for some remorse when an Australian side sporting the illustrious green and gold colours of the nation goes under. This side is now in Italy playing possibly 2 unofficial tests. 
Prior to the departure of the Australian team one of its most seasoned test players who is also a constituent of mine mentioned a matter to me that gave me cause for great concern. What is not common knowledge, however, is that the Australian jumpers bearing the crest of Australia and of course coming in the fabled green and gold are being prostituted by commercial enterprise as a means of advertising its goods in an endeavour to boost sales. I was staggered to learn that this jumper the wearing of which is the dream of every Rugby player has sewn on to it down both sleeves the trade mark of the sporting goods manufacturer. I know that at club level in many codes of football manufacturers in recent times have profusely advertised their products on jumpers and other gear possibly as a  quid pro quo  for financial support. I do not criticise this. It is the sole prerogative of the clubs concerned. But when this trend spills over to embrace the national sporting scene and the Australian colours- and I emphasise the words 'Australian colours'- it becomes my business and I hope the business of all honourable members. Unless I am mistaken I sense here a deep injury to the national pride. 
Of course I appreciate the awkward situation in which the Australian Rugby Union found itself. I am given to understand that because of poor finances it was either a matter of accepting financial aid or cancelling the tour. I think we would all appreciate that if a tour of that magnitude was in fact cancelled it would have been a tremendous setback to rugby union in Australia. I say as forcibly as I can that the particular company concerned has a confounded cheek and impertinence to degrade the colours of the nation in the manner in which I have just mentioned. How dare they endeavour to push the sales of their own product in this way. I believe that this is offensive to all Australians. 
The Parliament has little or no control over who may or may not wear the nation's colours. In view of this despicable action I deem it appropriate to give a warning to any other commercial enterprises similarly minded to batten onto financially ailing national sporting bodies with a view to using the green and gold as a means of advertising. I suggest that they beware of any future encroachment in this area which I believe is sacrosanct to all Australians. Indeed the firm concerned should beware of this particular encroachment lest it incurs the wrath of the very people to whom they wish to project, with attendant consequences. I hope that I shall never hear of a similar happening again. In layman's language, I suggest: Do not act in this despicable manner. Hands off the national colours for ever. 
-My perception may be keener than that of most people but the soundings that I perceive emanating from the Fox report are all in tune with the establishment of a uranium export industry, subject only to adequate safeguards. Let there be no mistake, the Government is committed to this latter all important pre-requisite. Australia is a great and proud nation, blessed in many ways, particularly in its wealth of mineral resources, the rewards from which are the property of the people who go to make up this nation. Sadly, there are people in the ranks of the Australian Labor Party Opposition who would strangle this financial birthright and so the well being of all Australians. I believe that few issues of greater significance for this nation, and indeed the world, have faced this Parliament. Much debate has raged on the uranium question. Unfortunately much of it has been ill-informed and emotionally illogical. We must accept, because of the horrors of Nagasaki and Hiroshima, that people are naturally apprehensive about widespread nuclear developments. However, these fears have been unnecessarily inflamed by emotionalism on the part of certain environmental groups and fanned by irresponsible utterances of Labor politicians. Substantial progress and change often produce hysterical reactions. The scare tactics being used by those committed to stopping the development of an Australian uranium industry have already been seen through and rejected by the American public in a recent series of referendums. I note that the Fox report comments that a number of wildly exaggerated claims about the risk of nuclear power were made by witnesses. I hope we do not get a repeat of that in this Parliament. 
Placing this question of uranium development in a global context, the first point I make to the House is that the world has no short term alternative to the use of uranium as an energy source. We must accept the fact that oil can be viewed only as a short term energy provider. Natural gas has similar limitations. Additionally, this energy source should be seen as almost exclusively the long term source of raw material for the petrochemical and related industries. It is often suggested that coal could be used as a practical alternative to uranium in meeting the world 's energy needs for the rest of this century. However, this would be physically impossible, and coalfired power stations are a major source of atmospheric pollution already. For example, the Brookhaven National Laboratory in the United States of America has estimated that at least 50 per cent of pollutants in the air capable of causing biological damage result from the burning of fossil fuels for electric power generation. The Fox report indicates similarly that the operation of fossil fuel stations is more of a health hazard than the operation of nuclear reactors. 
While arguments in favour of solar energy are attractive, the plain fact of the matter is that this energy source is not capable of commercially meeting the energy crisis which is looming large as the world's oil sources dry up. Solar energy may be a solution to the energy problems of future generations but certainly not to our own or our children's. The first thing we must face in this debate is that uranium and the development of nuclear energy represent the only solution to the world 's immediate energy problems. 
Turning to some substantive questions about the nuclear industry, the first recommendation of the Fox report indicates that the mining and milling of uranium in Australia is a safe process. In informed debates there is agreement, on both sides of the nuclear power issue, that uranium mining carried out under today's tight regulations is neither an environmental problem nor a health hazard. People are prone to forget that uranium mining was carried out in Australia from 1954 to 1971 successfully and safely. It could hardly be argued that any new radical dangers have developed since then. All Australians can rest content that their own Federal Department of Health, after consultation with federal and State government departments, trade unions, trades and labour councils, the Australian Council of Trade Unions and mining companies, has developed the world's most stringent code to govern the mining and milling of our uranium. 
The second recommendation of the report gives a similar green light to the operation of nuclear power reactors. It is in this area that much of the attack on nuclear energy is astray. Many people honestly believe that nuclear reactors can explode in the same way as a nuclear bomb. Such a theory is nonsense and I refer the House to the Rasmussen report which is the most authoritative study on reactor accident risks. As a result of this report this risk can now be compared to other technological and natural hazards with which society must deal and will always be confronted. That study came up with a quantitative evaluation based on the simultaneous operation of 100 nuclear reactors. A person living near one of these plants would face an average probability of being fatally injured in a nuclear accident of one in five billion per year.  His  chance of fatality from an automobile accident is one in 4000 while from drowning it is one in 30 000, from air travel it is one in 100 000 and from lightning it is one in 2 million. Among a society of 1 5 million people residing around these sites some 9000 deaths and nearly 600 000 injuries would be expected each year from car accidents, falls, fires and other causes. By comparison less than one fatality and less than one injury would be expected annually from a nuclear accident. One should also appreciate that nuclear reactor usage is no longer at an experimental stage. 
I stress that there is no necessity for Australia to have nuclear reactors now or in the immediate future. We can continue to generate electricity by conventional means to meet our own energy requirements adequately. This may well be the key and, if so, the arguments against the mining and milling of this precious commodity, the rewards from which belong to all Australians, would of necessity vanish like a dream. The question of the disposal of radioactive waste from nuclear reactors has also been enveloped in ill-informed hoo haa. Basically 2 separate questions are involved and one is the short term disposal of nuclear wastes. A solution already is at hand for this. Wastes will be stored in massive concrete casks which can withstand all natural phenomena such as earthquakes and floods as well as man-made forces such as fire, sabotage and aeroplane crashes. The important point to remember is that the world should not be stampeded into a rash decision on the question of long term disposal. 
I turn now to the question of the benefit to Australians of a uranium export industry. This industry is capable of satisfying by 1985, 20 per cent at least of the world market and could be expected to earn for the good of this nation in the vicinity of $3,000m per year at projected prices. By comparison, the wool industry currently earns about $800m while our total mineral exports currently earn about $2,500m. The Fox report at page 83 indicated that foreign exchange earned by uranium exports would rise to a maximum of about 5 per cent of total export earnings by the early 1990s. 
I will be getting around to the honourable member in a minute. It must also be noted that uranium prices will slide as time goes by. This will occur particularly as a result of the introduction of fast breeder reactors. This point also is made in the report at page 63. Nowhere is the dithering more evident than amongst honourable members opposite. We have seen a series of conflicting public attitudes expressed by them which leaves me, and I am sure the people of Australia and others in the Parliament, thoroughly confused about who speaks with authority on their behalf or who can make a statement which will not be contradicted or rolled by some other faction in the Labor Party. All I can say is that this nation is lucky those honourable members are now in Opposition. If they were in Government Australia's uranium would grow steadily worthless while they argued with one another. If we continue to dither we could well be sitting on a worthless rather than a valuable commodity. 
Australia with a large share of the world's uranium reserves must also look to its international responsibilities. The peoples of the world, poor and wealthy, want more and more power to improve standards of living and Australia has a moral obligation to contribute to that improvement by the supply of uranium. I ask the Deputy Leader of the Opposition to bear that in mind next time he pontificates on the morality of the uranium issue. In a speech to the Australian Railways Union on 26 June this year he said: 
If the companies and the present Government want to take it out of the ground and out of Australia then they must be prevented from doing so. 
Such a statement is an appalling condemnation of this gentleman. The only authority which has a mandate to make policy on the export of uranium is the democratically elected Parliament. No union has the right to defy the decisions made by the Government on this issue. It is interesting to contrast that statement with the attitude taken by the American trade union leader, George Meany, who recently said: 
Because of the efforts of the labour movement progress in America will not be strangled due to unwise and obsessive restraints on development of safe nuclear energy. 
The attempt by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition to incite union blackmail on this issue is both serious and sinister. Perhaps this so-called great proponent of the 'fair go for all Australians' does not want an industry which will provide employment for 10 000 Australians by 1985 and produce a wages bill alone which will make available some $2m to be fed back into the economy every week. Denying the world access to Australia's uranium reserves will not help to alleviate this most serious problem. Page 70 of the Fox report states: 
Clearly, the development of nuclear power in the rest of the world can continue whether or not Australian uranium is made available. 
It is not essential to have nuclear power stations to produce a nuclear weapons capability. All nations have access to uranium ores from the ever-growing milling industry or from sea water. Separation processes can be used to acquire weapons material from these sources. Of course it is common sense that any country hell bent on building a nuclear bomb would hardly be deterred by having to obtain uranium at a high price from sources other than Australia. Finally I refer to my own maiden speech in this House on 4 March this year. I said: 
I think it is important that we develop uranium markets as soon as possible. Let there be no mistake, the world wants Australia's uranium and it is prepared to pay vast amounts for it. 
Since that time interest in the uranium issue has certainly been increased, but nothing has occurred to change my firm conviction on this issue. 
Let us then proceed with the development of a full- scale uranium export industry from which all Australians of this great nation can benefit. 
I draw the attention of the House to a palace in Paris or, as it is referred to in common parlance, the Australian Embassy in France. The site of the new embassy and apartments is  Quais Bronly 
The purchase of the land and the construction of the chancellery and the apartment block were the brainchild of the previous Labor Government when it went on one of its customary and now legendary spending extravaganzas which, allied to other financial excesses, almost bankrupted Australia. The construction cost of the chancellery and the apartment block, again authorised by the previous Labor Government, is set at a staggering and bewildering $ 1 8.4m. The contract was let in May 1975. The architect of the palace was none other than that well known Australian architect, Harry Seidler, a friend, confidant and associate of the hierarchy of the then Government. My inquiries confirm that the architect's fees are in excess of 11 per cent of this astronomical figure, which is equivalent to over $2.5m. Because of Seidler's agreement with the Labor Government- an agreement which I understand was signed, sealed and delivered- the present Government will be forced to pay this exhorbitant fee from the already depleted taxpayers' funds straight into Seidler's pocket. 
The chancellery consists of 2 basements for car-parking, a lower ground floor, a ground floor for reception and seven other floors. The Labor Government saw fit that the Embassy abroad should lack no home comforts. In this regard, the apartment block provides 2 basements for parking and includes a swimming-pool, a squashcourt, an auditorium and a library. It rises to 9 floors containing 32 magnificent suites. The total floor area of both offices and apartments is approximately 30 000 square metres. One could be forgiven for firmly believing that this Australian Taj Mahal was earmarked to be used by Labor Ministers, their entourage, fellowtravellers and hangers-on, if honourable members like to call them that, as their haven of luxury on the Continent. No doubt it was designed to keep them in a style to which they were never accustomed. 
-That is spot on. This in one further horrifying example of the despicable waste of taxpayers' money which the people of Australia will never quite forget. How hollow it now sounds when the Labor Opposition accuses this Government of cutting back on expenditure when spending sprees such as I have just mentioned were the order of the day for the previous Administration whose callous regard for the excesses of expenditure will haunt Opposition members for many a long day. 
Is the Minister for Transport aware that the extent of a recent fire on a Sydney train was mainly attributable to the presence of a highly flammable material- polyurethane- in the train seats? Does the composition of aeroplane seats used on Australian airliners include this substance? If so, does he regard its presence as a safety hazard? Is remedial action contemplated? Is there any need for public concern relative to any of the materials used in the manufacture of such seats? 
-Due largely to the approach made to members of the Parliament during the week by members of the Committee for the Freedom of Soviet Jewry, the House will be aware of the recent reintroduction of the ban by Soviet authorities on the import of flour products into that country. 
Government supporters- Shame! 
Thank you. I am convinced that this ban was deliberately conceived to prevent Jewish observance of the festival of Passover which lasts for 8 days this year from Saturday evening 2 April next. This traditional Jewish festival of freedom is held in celebration of both the Hebrew exodus from enslavement in Egypt and the subsequent formation of the Jewish people. My belief, as mentioned earlier, is fortified by my recent visit to the Soviet Embassy when I requested its officials at least as a sign of goodwill to forward to the Moscow Synagogue a packet containing Matzah bread. Whilst I admit that my request was not flatly refused it became apparent after discussion that an embargo had been placed on this commodity for ulterior motives. 
The prohibition by the Russians against the importation of Kosher unleavened bread which is the basic sacramental item in the observance of the Passover will be condemned by all men of peace and goodwill. If there were any doubts in the minds of the peoples of the world who may have been confused by the avalanche of Russian propaganda that may have descended upon them from time to time referable to their treatment of Soviet Jews, I say to them here at least for public scrutiny is real, outward, solid and unmistakable evidence of an unremitting and devilish desire to crush the Jewish people. Thus there can now be no doubt as to the real intentions of the Soviet as it once more puts the Russian jackboot into Soviet Jewry, but this time at the very core of Jewry's religious beliefs. 
I think it is important to have some clarification here and now on the Government's attitude to mercenaries. So there can be no mistake about the Government's attitude as far as that body of men or women is concerned, I refer to the statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  on or about 1 3 April 1 976. It was a quite clear cut statement of the Government's attitude: 
The Government does not approve the service, recruitment or training of Australians as mercenaries for service in other countries. 
That is a quite clear and unequivocal statement of the Government's attitude. The provisions of the Bill have a two-fold objective. Firstly, there is a prohibition on incursions into foreign countries for the purpose of engaging in hostile activities. Secondly, there is a prohibition on the recruiting of persons in Australia to serve in armed forces in a foreign country. It is the Government's wish to preserve international relations. This Bill will go a long way towards achieving that goal. It would seem that most countries have some arrangement whereby one is not permitted to recruit openly mercenaries and mercenary types to go and fight in a foreign land. Australia had never formerly had any legislation along these lines, and for reasons that I will subsequently advance this commendable piece of legislation is not before time. 
I have received numerous inquiries from Australian Jews expressing their doubts as to whether the provisions of the Bill would prevent them enlisting in the armed forces of Israel or whether an Entebbe type raid emanating from Australia would be caught up in the sanctions imposed by the Act. I can immediately allay all fears they may have on both those counts. Clause 6 of the Bill forbids a person to enter into a foreign country with intent to engage in a hostile activity against the Government of that country, or engage in a foreign country in a hostile activity against the Government of that country. The Bill clearly sets out that engaging in a hostile activity consists of doing an act for the purpose of achieving, among other things, the objective of the overthrow by force or violence of the Government of that country. The operative word here is the word 'objective' mentioned in the clause. One must look at the objective of the action. Taking that into consideration there can be no doubt in my mind that Australian Jews wishing to fight for Israel would be free so to do and that any rescue operation of an Entebbe character would not be an infringement because the objective- again I stress the word 'objective'- of such a raid could never be said to be for the purpose of the overthrow by force or violence of the Government of a foreign country. 
Tonight I shall address my remarks mainly to the second thrust of the Bill, namely, that concerned with recruitment in Australia. Here it is important to note that citizens, especially those who might be described as patriots, would not be ensnared by the provisions of the Bill if they enlisted as mercenaries to fight in support of the Government of the country of their origin. That is an important consideration. Clause 9 (1) (d) of the Bill is of particular relevance to my remarks. It will be noted that that clause makes it a penalty for any person to do any act or thing for the purpose of facilitating or promoting the recruitment of persons to serve in any capacity in or with an armed force in a foreign country. I mention that because it has particular application to the Rhodesia Information Centre at Crows Nest in Sydney. I have not the slightest doubt that this centre is a front for the recruitment of persons in Australia to serve in the Rhodesian armed forces. The director of the centre is on record as saying only in January of this year that they advised Australians wishing to take part in the war against black nationalist guerrillas to communicate with Salisbury. Only last week this national centre, in response to a phone call, advised me that if I wanted to join the Rhodesian army to write to Salisbury. It was suggested also that I send a medical certificate along. I was further informed that I would be contacted direct from Salisbury and that, if accepted, I was to fly there at my own expense. I was also advised that if I was not accepted my air fare would be refunded. I was told further that Rhodesia would take as many mercenaries as it could get. 
My belief as presently advised is that at the moment between 100 and 200 Australians are serving in the Rhodesian army. Reports referable to Australians serving in Rhodesia show that they are expressing grave doubts as to whether they would be caught up under the sanctions of the legislation if they returned to Australia. I am sure they would not be entrapped by the provisions of this Bill or by any of its clauses. Therefore they should have no worries on that score whatsoever. 
I suggest that the Rhodesia Information Centre, m its nervous state to facilitate enlistments, has a confounded cheek in thumbing its nose at the Bill presently before the House. I hope that members of our Commonwealth Police Force pay the centre a call shortly and cite the provisions of clause 9(1) (d). I hope that they will specifically draw attention to the fact that anyone who transgresses this clause is liable to a penalty of $10,000 or imprisonment for 5 years. I can only hope and trust that that type of call would bring an abrupt halt to this pernicious practice emanating from that source. 
There can be no doubt that the Rhodesian Government has recruited, and still is secretly recruiting, Australian mercenaries to fight a Vietnam type war against the Zambians. I believe that ample evidence exists that Rhodesian army officers posing as South African businessmen have been operating in all Australian capital cities. Reports have been received of an efficient spy system being set up by Rhodesians giving them access to highly confidential military records of every ex-serviceman they recruit. An example of one recruitment drive is in relation to a former private who served with the 5th Battalion, Royal Australian Regiment, in Vietnam. Apparently this former soldier was wounded in that country and left the Army in 1970 with a 100 per cent war pension. He had been attracted to a Sydney newspaper advertisement that invited Australians to migrate to Rhodesia.  His  reply by way of inquiry was met with brochures and general information. An example of the deceit that is flowing from the centre is the fact that he was also given a migrant application form. Of course that form sought information in respect of his military background. 
He subsequently received a telegram asking him to ring a motel in North Sydney and to ask for a certain person. The next day that gentleman initially stated that he was a businessman in Australia on holiday and had been asked to check up on people who had made applications to migrate to Rhodesia. He talked generally about Rhodesia and then said straight out that he was a major in the Rhodesian Army and was in charge of recruiting. He said that he had been sent to Australia for the specific purpose of interviewing applicants for the army. The major stated that the Rhodesian Army was interested in Australians because of their experience in this type of action in Vietnam. Obviously he was here in secret. He went on to say that he would be in a lot of trouble- no doubt he would have been-if the Australian Government knew that he was here recruiting. 
As further evidence of the deception that is being practised, this former soldier was told that his passport would not bear any stamps to indicate that he had been to Rhodesia. All that would be shown was that he had entered South Africa. The offer to the former soldier included a free flight for himself, his wife and young daughter to Salisbury, the guarantee of a house with 2 servants, free medical, hospital and dental service and a substantial salary with a bonus every 12 months. I understand the contract was to be for 3 years at the end of which he was to get a bonus of $1,500 plus a free return flight to Australia. The Rhodesians wanted, and still want, men to wage a Vietnam type of war against the Zambians. Apparently this former soldier was informed that the Rhodesians did not have enough combat experienced troops. 
Information was given to him that there were Australians in Rhodesia, all specialists in booby trapping and ambushing, currently operating behind the Zambian lines. In any event an application form to join the Rhodesian army was duly completed and almost immediately a telegram from the Director of the Rhodesian Information Centre at Crows Nest arrived requesting him to ring a man in Melbourne. This he did. He was told by this gentleman that he was an officer in the Rhodesian army and that he was in Melbourne personally to study all applicants' military records by sighting them. According to him the Rhodesians had somebody planted in the Deparment as its records, as everyone knows, are highly confidential and are never officially disclosed. He subsequently received his contract duly signed by the mysterious major on behalf of the lieutenant-general and commander of the Rhodesian Army. However, further deception became manifest. It was visited on him when he read the contract and apparently it contained conditions completely different from the ones that had been previously stated. In that regard he had been told that he was liable to service anywhere in the world. 
Only recently an advertisement appeared in one of the national papers seeking fit men for tough, exciting adventure jobs overseas. Ages were to range from 18 to 30 years. It was stipulated that applicants must be single and have had past bush or military service. The job was to be with all expenses paid, good pay and top conditions for the right man. Reports last year received from the Singapore Government indicated that Sydney was being used as a base to recruit South East Asian students for communist guerrilla groups. Reports from the Singapore Government said that links had been traced between underground communist cells and a recruitment and fund raising centre in Sydney. It was said that the centre had been set up to subvert Singaporeans and Malaysians in Australia. 
All in all the recruitment of persons in Australia, as I have said, is obnoxious, and the severe sanctions imposed by the Bill will go a long way towards eradicating this practice. The recruitment of mercenaries to fight in foreign lands is usually a shadowy affair conducted in secrecy over lunch or in hotel suites. It is interesting to note just how many able-bodies and broadly experienced mercenaries and commandos are presently in this country and prepared for a price to lend themselves to fight anywhere at any time for a cause. Let there be no doubt that over the years there has been a vast recruitment campaign of the nature to which I have referred in every State of the Commonwealth. I say with deliberation that foreign recruiters are present in Australia and have been for some time taking advantage of decent Australians who, not having served as mercenaries before, know very little about how they can be treated and indeed about their safety since they have perhaps always served in a former Australian Army and have been treated accordingly to its standards. They may go overseas- if honourable members opposite listen they will learn something- and fight somewhere in Africa or South America and end up without any support, military or financial, perhaps dying and being tagged as indiscriminate killers. 
The fact remains that recruiters need Australians who have taken part in the Vietnam War and are known to be well trained and responsible people. They are in great demand as mercenaries, as people who can be depended upon in times of crisis. Recruiters from America and Europe have this in mind. They realise the distance of the trouble spots from Australia, the untapped manpower that exists and the reasonable frustration on the part of former soldiers and commandos living in a country which is perhaps still reasonably quiet and undramatic in its social structure. It must be understood that many former soldiers still seek military action and comradeship. Therefore the underlying theme is that our people to an extent are naive and easily roped in to serve in all sorts of mercenary outfits. They want to experience this sort of thing since it has not been part of our heritage to be able to do so as perhaps it has been part of the heritage of Germans, Irishmen and Scotsmen in the past. 
Local and overseas recruiters are obviously aware that there are hundreds upon hundreds of men living in Sydney, Melbourne and other cities who are prepared to fight for money. Therefore no doubt the Rhodesians and perhaps now the South Africans have an immediate need for such men and, that being so, have stepped up their own recruiting drives. I have been given to understand that South Africans are recruiting from gun clubs and from the Army, a practice which if continued will be visited by heavy penalties under the Act. A particular problem has arisen with the sort of people who deal in mercenaries. They are with few exceptions low and disreputable in their commercial and personal outlook. Of course the thought has always been that a person who wishes to be a mercenary has a right to do what he wishes with his own life. As I said in the early part of my speech, this Bill does not restrict the operations of mercenaries as such because it would be regarded as impinging on or inpugning the personal or individual liberties of the subject. The Bill, as I said, does not impinge on their activities for the reasons I have just stated. 
I believe on the information I have I should sound a clear warning to similar-minded Australians. There are a great number of people in this country who have had experience in fighting. Numbered amongst them are Americans, Canadians and a lot of English and Irish people. Amongst this group are those who have come here and have taken out a nationality umbrella with all its advantages and have then chosen to earn their living elsewhere in cash, which naturally is not taxed, to return to Australia and use the country to live in and on whereas they fight for an earn money in other nations. The Bill is a most commendable one. As I have said, it outlaws incursions and recruitment in Australia. I commend the Bill to the House. 
I address a question to the Attorney-General. Is the honourable gentleman aware that the New South Wales Government has recommended that additional remissions be granted to prisoners undergoing sentences on 1 1 March 1 977 to mark the occasion of the visit of  Her  Majesty Queen Elizabeth II and that the recommendation was approved by the Governor of that State? Does he agree that this anomalous situation could create tension among inmates, with Commonwealth prisoners feeling deprived of an important remission entitlement? Will he make a similar recommendation to the GovernorGeneral in respect of Commonwealth prisoners? 
I should like to draw the attention of the House to a subject, the magnitude of which the large majority of Australians either ignore or fail to appreciate. 
That problem is the cost to the nation of excessive consumption of alcohol. The time has come when the Federal Government must meet both its moral and financial responsibilities to combat this national tragedy. Figures are available on the financial burden which alcoholism is placing on the national economy. In February of this year the  President  of the Australian Foundation of Alcoholism and Drug Dependence stated that alcoholics employed in industry were costing Australia $532m a year. In a similar statement made in March the Director of the Victorian Health Department estimated that alcoholism was costing the Government $600m. Indeed, there are believed to be some 300 000 alcoholics in Australia. Thirteen per cent of the Australian male work force is included in that number. 
But the financial cost does not stop at the level of reduced work force efficiency. In the last 10 years deaths related to alcohol have climbed by a staggering 54.8 per cent. Alcoholism is now Australia's fourth major health hazard after cancer. Dependence on alcohol will cut the life span of a drinker by 10 to 12 years and can cause brain damage, ranging from momentary amnesia to a total collapse of the short term memory system. It causes liver failure and is believed to contribute to certain types of cancer. That in turn has created a massive financial burden on our health system. At a recent conference on assistance to employees affected by alcohol and drug usage, it was indicated that alcohol cost the N.S.W. public more than $3 10m through its public hospitals system this year. I shall also make brief mention of the nation's road toll in this context. 
Whilst arguments continue as to the significance of alcohol in the carnage on our roads the simple fact of the matter is that half the drivers killed have more than the legal limit of alcohol in their blood. This leads me to the immeasurable cost in human suffering from alcohol abuse. Apart from the loneliness and despair of the alcoholics themselves one cannot begin to contemplate the magnitude of the effect of their illness on their estimated 900 000 spouses and children. The human tragedy is greater than any of us can measure in personal monetary terms. It is startling also to look at what this nation spends on alcohol. In 1974-75 Australians spent $2,039m on beer, wines and spirits. This amount represents about one-third of that spent on food and 5.9 per cent of our total personal consumer spending. 
Australians are the highest consumers of alcohol in the English speaking world with a current annual intake of 12.72 litres  per capita  of the population over 15 years of age. Each year we are consuming 5 per cent more alcohol. If this trend continues, by 1990 we will have achieved the dubious honour of becoming the top drinking nation in the world. Figures clearly indicate that there is every likelihood of that occurring. I am alarmed that more than 9 per cent of Australian children between the ages of 12 and 17 claim to get very drunk more than once a month. Thirty thousand secondary school children in Victoria and New South Wales are officially classified as having severe alcohol problems. Reports flow in consistently of a growing number of students arriving for school on Mondays with hangovers from the weekend and from drinking sprees. Similarly, students are found sleeping off the effects of lunchtime drinking during afternoon classes. 
A recent survey by the Victorian Department of Health conducted in one country town classified 7 per cent of third-form students in a secondary school as being heavy or very heavy drinkers. Another survey conducted by the New South Wales Health Education Advisory Council found that although only five of the 1407 boys in the survey of 30 government and nongovernment schools throughout New South Wales were of legal drinking age, 19 per cent purchased alcohol personally from licensed premises. These figures connote that we may not have to wait until 1990 to become recognised as the world's heaviest drinkers. In stark contrast to the crippling cost of alcohol to the nation stands the amount of Federal Government financial assistance to combat the problem. On 8 February this year the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  announced an additional grant of $100,000 to the Australian Foundation of Alcoholism and Drug Dependence under the Commonwealth's community health program. This grant brought to $271,800 the amount being received by AFADD currently. I sincerely believe that financial expenditure in this area must be given a far greater priority. In his speech in this House in delivering the Budget on 17 August last the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  said: 
The cost to the taxpayer or health care in Australia has rocketed in recent years. 
Even allowing for the Medibank changes, total outlays on health were then estimated at almost $3,000m for this financial year. Leaving aside the personal cost and the cost to industry of alcohol abuse, one is left wondering by how much this expenditure could be reduced if more substantial sums were channelled into promoting the prevention of alcoholism. Strenuous attempts have been made at Government, media and community level to warn the public of the dangers of drugs and tobacco. The efforts in the area of prevention of alcoholism stand in poor contrast. 
In Australia above all other nations the concept of heavy drinking is not only socially accepted but glorified. Australians seem to have no real appreciation of the extent of alcoholism in the community much less of the damage it is doing. The image of the alcoholic as a skid row derelict is quite wrong. The skid row drinker is just the tip of the iceberg. Greater Government financial assistance is urgently required to promote a greater social awareness of the dangers of excessive alcohol consumption. The Government must act to reverse this social acceptance which has set in. 
I note also from the Budget estimates that $775m in excise duty on beer and $71m on spirits will be collected by the Government this year. The recycling of some of this money back into the prevention of alcoholism would be money well spent indeed. The modern technique of rescuing the problem drinker is to get assistance to him early. I seriously suggest that the only way to assist Australia with its alcohol problem is to provide additional Government funds to fight it before the nation itself is on skid row. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 
Getting away from the prices freeze for a moment, my question is directed to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I ask the Minister: Is he aware that drug trafficking by post is on the increase in Australia and that police commissioners are believed to be concerned at the lack of powers by police and customs officials to intercept mail which they suspect contains drugs? Is the Minister satisfied that the existing laws are adequate to cope efficiently with this communal use of the mails? If not, will the Minister take the necessary action to put more muscle into existing legislation to facilitate the interception of suspect mail? 
-The circumstances surrounding the recent death of an infant highlight the need for more stringent safeguards to ensure that the dosage typed on medicine bottles is accurate and strictly in accordance with the relevant prescription. The coroner was told that a typing error on a medicine label may have caused a child's death recently. The baby was given 10 times the prescribed dosage for a serious heart condition. Instructions typed on the label of the medicine bottle read: "Three millilitres twice a day'. It should have read: '0.3 millilitres twice daily'. Death ensued 5 days after his mother took him home from hospital. 
Because of the human element involved, mistakes must and do occur to the detriment of the public. I wonder how many other fatalities or near fatalities have been occasioned because of a typing error as to the correct dosage. Another contributory cause is the careless writing of many doctors on prescriptions, which is a blatant disregard for the safety of patients. I appeal to them all to write in a way that leaves no room for misinterpretation. I point to the case of an all night chemist in the western suburbs of Sydney who dispensed antibiotics and a sleep producer. Both were capsules. One antibiotic capsule was to be take every 6 hours and one sleep producer capsule at bedtime. The labels were mixed and the customer of course was asleep more than he was awake. The point that has to be made is that in large establishments where there are many dispensers it is almost an impossibility to identify who dispensed a prescription. It is that person who is ultimately responsible for the final product as to both label and contents. I have written to the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  to see what can be done to make as foolproof as possible the labelling and checking of contents. I believe that a dispenser should be required by law to initial the label, thereby providing a further safety check and at the same time permitting of identification of the dispenser should the need arise. 
-In just over 3 minutes of every hour of every day of every week of every month of this year, a crime is being committed simultaneously in at least 2 States of Australia- Victoria and New South Wales. I am talking here about reported crime. Recent crime statistics indicate that Australia is in the grip of a crime epidemic of such horrific and gargantuan proportions that in comparison it could make Chicago and other recognised crime capitals of the world appear like convalescent homes for geriatric pickpockets. I feel it my urgent duty to bring these statistics to the notice of this Parliament and to the people of the nation. The time has arrived when we politicians can no longer afford to languish in a secular outlook of judicial leniency and powder puff penal reform; nor can we continue to take a kid gloved attitude towards this red zone situation. Before it is too late we must come to grips with the reality that crime in Australia  a la  1977 is no longer a private war between its perpetrators and the police. 
I turn to the one aspect of crime in Australia which has escalated beyond all probable predictionarmed robbery. It has become the scourge of this country. A somnolent Rip Van Winkle indifference, not just by members of the community until, of course, something actually happens to them or to a loved one, plus a sort of Alice in Wonderland, dormouse in the teapot attitude by some members of our judiciary and probably by as many of our State and federal parliamentarians, are at least in part responsible for this current reign of terror. Honourable members will not need me to remind them that whoever said that the law was an ass may well have been right. However, what is more to the point is the mushrooming heavyweight criminal element in our society that is making an ass out of the law. Whether it is terror at the snout of a gun or any other offensive weapon, this most despicable form of crime has become the fashionable trademark of the professional Australian criminal. Every would-be Ned Kelly is doing it and far too many innocent defenceless Australians are having it done to them as these thugs escalate their war on society. 
Armed robbery in this country has increased at the alarming rate of more than 1000 per cent in the past 15 years. A decade ago when there was an armed robbery it was considered to be a singular sensation. Today in New South Wales we are averaging almost one a day and in Victoria more than one a day. Until last week Victoria had recorded its 170th armed robbery for this year alone. Included in this figure are the robberies of 20 banks and 28 pharmacies. New South Wales for the same period has recorded 120 armed robberies, including robberies of 17 banks and 8 Totalisator Agency Board offices. A detailed breakdown shows that in 1975 in Victoria there were 223 reported armed robberies while in 1976 there were 248. In 1975 in New South Wales there were 376 armed robberies and in 1976 there were 377. In Victoria in 1975 there were 36 street holdups as well as holdups of 3 1 pharmacies, 26 banks, 2 1 service stations, 10 hotels, 5 taxi cabs, 4 TAB offices and 18 private homes. In Victoria in the following year, 1976, there were 36 street holdups, and holdups of 25 chemists, 31 banks, 24 petrol stations, 16 hotels, 6 taxis, 13 TAB offices and 13 private homes. Included in the overall total were 13 payroll robberies, 7 railway station jobs and 41 holdups in shops. The total haul from armed robbery in Victoria last year was a staggering $2,281,617. The take in New South Wales exceeded $lm. Who says that crime does not pay? Our criminals are laughing all the way to, and very often from, the bank. 
Melbourne is fast becoming the Chicago of the south and Sydney the Chicago of the east. The statistics from New South Wales tell their own tale of a rampage of terror by robbery under arms. In New South Wales in 1 975 there were 7 1 armed holdups in the streets and holdups at 28 pharmacies, 19 banks, 34 service stations, 18 hotels, 32 taxi cabs, 36 private homes and 49 retail stores. During the financial year ended June 1975 there were 21 holdups plus 4 attempted holdups in TAB offices. There were other armed holdups in different categories. In 1 976 there were 64 street holdups and holdups in 14 pharmacies, 25 banks, 45 petrol stations, 16 hotels, 29 taxis, 39 private homes, 62 retail stores, 11 railway stations, 12 TAB offices, as well as in Post Offices and restaurants. And on we go to the first half year to December 1976 in which there were 9 armed holdups on TAB agencies, whilst from July 1976 to May this year there were 16 such holdups. 
The chilling twist to these latter type offences is that now the criminals are grabbing members of the public from inside the agencies and using them as hostages to force TAB officers to hand over funds. It is a shocking state of affairs when decent citizens are terrified to enter these agencies and even their own banks because they fear for their own safety. All over Australia last year, police estimate, $4m worth of property was stolen in armed robberies alone. The object is not always money. About two-thirds of armed robberies in Australia are cash orientated. With the remaining third, the object is drugs. Armed robberies committed for the latter purpose are increasing in frightening proportions. Deaths and physical injury from this type of crime are a matter of record. 1977 is without a doubt the year of the gun. The use of automatic weapons in armed robbery is so commonplace now that it hardly merits comment in the media. In Victoria in 1975, 155 guns used in armed robberies as a means of threatening the victim as opposed to knives being flouted by 75 armed robbers. The New South Wales figures for the same year were 250 guns and 117 knives. In Victoria in 1976, gun happy criminals totalled 181 while another 55 used knives. In New South Wales, the figures were 247 for guns and 1 15 for knives. Let there be no mistake. The highly professional hoodlums are well and truly on the scene. The days of the artful dodgers of our criminal society died with Dickens. The latter day 'Machine Gun Kellys' are very much alive and well and living very profitably in Australia. This country is fast flowering into a criminal's paradise. The time has come for drastic retaliatory action. It is no longer good enough to leave the job to our police officers. Our judicial and penal systems are fast making the career criminal in this country a privileged class. We must not let misguided groups put at risk the classic Australian doctrine which protects the right of the individual against the power of the State. 
The gaol population of this country is virtually the only group showing a diminishing growth rate. Where have all the convicted criminals gone? They have gone out on to the streets, of course, and into our homes, banks, totalisator agency boards and shops, committing more and more crimes. Even if a long term sentence is imposed, the fear and dread of imprisonment is often negated by the lucky felon finding himself suddenly transported to some pleasant rural training farm cum holiday camp where the smell of pine forests and lucerne fields makes Alcatraz sound more like the king's castle in some child's favourite fairy story. The granting of short nonparole periods for armed robbery is eroding the deterrent aspect of punishment. In nearly all cases the period subject to good behaviour is, in fact, the effective sentence. Believe me, gunmen find this a source of great comfort. The practice of granting concurrent sentences on armed robberies must be placed under close scrutiny. The moral of the story is that once a person has made one hold-up he should keep going and have all his crimes dealt with under wholesale discount arrangements. 
I turn to the matter of bail. Treating hardened criminals kindly very often makes them contemptuous. It also very often, too often, leaves them at large to continue their lucrative criminal careers. It is time for legislation that will precisely set out the criteria for the granting of bail. Separate categories of crime could be included, such as armed hold-ups, where justices would be specifically bound to refuse bail except in the most exceptional circumstances with the onus to be on the defendant as in murder cases. Too frequently, criminals out on bail commit other robberies to pay for their defence or merely to continue their comfortable life styles. If a confirmed hardened criminal uses a gun or knife to steal property by terror, the courts should not readily recycle him into the criminal market. Society's fingers have been burned too many times in this way. I propose the setting up of a national bail data bank in which pertinent information on a criminal's court and prison record is fed into a computerised system for quick and easy reference by the State and Federal judiciary. Lack of relevant, informed data on a criminal is very often the reason for the granting of bail instead of the imposing of a period of custody in the interim. I believe also that there is a strong case at this time for legislation to be introduced for it to be mandatory that a justice should record his reasons not only for refusing bail but also for granting it, certifying that he has personally read the accused's official up-to-date record. This data also should be fed into the national bail data bank. 
Courts, for one reason or another, are not always informed of the totality of an accused person's criminal record, particularly whether he has been granted bail in the past and his behaviour course whilst on bail. In other words, they are not always informed whether he has committed offences whilst on bail or whether he has absconded. The inclusion of vital information of this character in a national bail data bank would be foolproof and a matter of easy reference for those entrusted with the hearing of bail applications. Even though we are spending $ 12m to $ 1 5m a year in this country on security measures such as bank cameras, armoured cars, payroll guards and tellers' cages - I am not including the cost of maintaining our police forces in this figure- commercial and private security is still careless enough for the professional criminal to make his hit and run successfully. Society nowadays makes it a relative pushover for the armed robber who is out to get rich quick at the expense of someone else. Television is a constant tutor to the apprentice armed robber. Public apathy, over-zealous psychiatrists and a criminal laxity m our gun laws are all contributing to produce and nourish a brand of desperate gunmen and robbers who will stop at nothing and at no one to achieve their perfidious goals. Many of them are the criminal jet setters, flitting from one State to the other, committing a robbery there and boarding a jet plane here to pull off another job in their home territory within the day. Western Australia is one State that is afflicted this way. 

 Mr Acting Speaker, I believe that the onus of containing this magnitudinous problem now lies, more than ever, not only with the law enforcement agencies but also with the judiciary and legislators working hand in hand. The hitherto politically fettered fist of legislative power must smash these criminal exploiters of our society, these uppity gangsters who make puppets of our judiciary and our parliaments and who are riding high on a national crime wave which may very soon engulf us so thoroughly that we will never again be able to argue effectively that great democratic philosophy that the greatest good for the greatest number must prevail in the end. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Giles)Without wishing to detract from the powerful speech that has just been made, I remind the 
House once again that any person sitting in the Chair, other than the  Speaker,  should be addressed as  'Mr Deputy Speaker'.  The use of the term  'Mr Acting Speaker'  is analogous to the situation which will arise next week when the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  will be overseas and the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  will be the Acting Prime Minister. The situation occurs only when the  Speaker  is away and someone else is appointed in his place. 
I address a question to the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. I refer to the proposed world cricket series that is currently being organised by  Mr Kerry  Packer and to the fact that several South African cricketers have been enlisted to take pan and to play in Australia. I ask: If the Minister is satisfied that those cricketers would be coming here purely to play as individuals, not as cricketing representatives of South Africa and only as members of a world team, would visas be forthcoming? 
-The dog in the manger attitude of the Australian Cricket Board towards the Packer promotions is a shortsighted attitude towards professional cricket. Unless the Australian Cricket Board does a complete about face, the cricketing public of this country will be the losers. They will then be denied their right of seeing the thrilling spectacle of the world 's greatest cricketers doing battle on the playing fields of Australia. As a former first grade cricketer and naturally a lover of the game, like so many thousands of Australians, I welcome the initiatives that lie behind the Packer promotion of a world series in cricket. The greatest single worry of all cricket lovers throughout the world is that the inauguration of a professional series would sound the death knell of the historic England versus Australia test matches as we know them. I have satisfied myself that this need not be the case. 
Professional promotion of cricket is as inevitable as was the professional promotion of golf and tennis in this country. To ensure that the super tests and the traditional test series exist side by side is paramount. I believe that it can be achieved only if the Australian Cricket Board will face up squarely and perceive the inevitability of which I speak. There need be no interference with the series in Australia. In the 1979-80 summer no series is planned for Australia. The Australian team is due to tour India and Pakistan during that period. Negotiations on both sides in a spirit of conciliation and compromise can see the super series and the test matches proceeding without interference one from the other. 
My investigations lead me to the firm belief that Kerry Packer has requested a meeting with the Australian Cricket Board and that its only response has been that the Board will meet him in due course. I believe that it was foolhardy of the Board's Secretary in his recent endeavour to fly to England to 'kill off' the Packer promotion by inflaming world opinion when neither he nor his Board has signified a willingness to sit down and talk. If this arms length attitude continues, the clear and unmistakable loser will be the public. 
The prospect of seeing the best players in the world gathering together in a series of super tests each season must surely excite the interest of even the casual supporter. I believe that the new professional group will provide more opportunity for younger players and that the group's existence will open up the opportunity for the emergence into international cricket of up and coming players. It will mean that our great players will not be lost to the sport prematurely. Certainly this has been highlighted recently with players like Ian Chappell, Ian Redpath and Ross Edwards quitting the game in their prime. 
I recall the old saying that there are none so deaf as those who do not want to hear. I believe that if the Board has adopted this attitude- many could be forgiven for believing that it has- it has fallen into grievous error. Let there be no mistake that the Australian Cricket Board over many years has rendered great service to Australian cricket and, as a direct consequence, to all Australians. Let it continue to do so by instigating a conference with the Packer group in an atmosphere of compromise on both sides. I am sure that if this were done common sense would prevail and that it would be to the advantage of all cricket lovers throughout the nation. When one looks at the Board's itinerary over the next 3 years one sees that only one tour of Australia that is guaranteed of success is planned in the next 3 years. 
I draw the attention of the House to what I call the Rarotonga rip-off, aided and abetted by a dark conspiracy between the Prime Minister of the Cook Islands,  Sir Albert  Henry, and a crook, charlatan, arch-swindler named Milan Brych. The whole purpose of this swindle is to entice to the Cook Islands for treatment Australians who either have cancer or who, for one reason or another, think that they may have fallen victim to this dreaded disease. Brych is a former Czechoslovakian refugee who conned the Medical Council of New Zealand, upon his own sworn testimony, into believing that he had undergone medical training in that country commencing in 1958. He became a member of the staff of the Auckland Hospital Board institutions, and from early 1972 onwards began to make false, grandiose and extravagant claims about his ability to cure cancer patients by a remedy so secret that he has never to this day disclosed it. He conned not only the Council but apparently also members of the medical profession in this country, to such an extent that Australian patients have been going to New Zealand for treatment by Brych from 1972 onwards. 
Following a flood of complaints his background was investigated by the Medical Council during 1974. He was struck off the New Zealand medical register in November of the same year on the basis that he had fraudulently claimed to hold medical degrees. Following extensive abuse of the New Zealand legal system which culminated in long delays, the matter was finally resolved in April of this year when Brych withdrew his appeal against being struck off the register. In addition to the charge of fraud surrounding his assertions to having medical degrees, I believe that he was then also facing some 23 other charges laid by the Division of Medicine from Auckland. 
Brych disappeared from the Auckland scene and has now set himself up in the Cook Islands under the patronage of his co-conspirator,  Sir Albert  Henry, at whose behest and insistence the Cook Islands Medical Act was specifically altered to allow for Brych 's registration as a medical practitioner. This dastardly act was done in the face of repeated warnings from the Division of Medicine in Auckland to the Cook Islands Medical Council and to their Minister for Health. It is of interest to note that Brych 's appeal against being struck off the medical register in New Zealand was dismissed on 5 April 1977 and that the Medical Act of the Cook Islands was altered just prior to that date. That is singular overt evidence of the birth of the conspiracy. To his great credit, the  chairman  of the Medical Council resigned in protest. 
The facilities under which Brych is operating are almost non-existent. Brych was subsequently appointed by the Prime Minister and his Government as Director of the new Cook Islands Medical Research Institute, and he expects to start work in a new $400,000 centre next year. The Cook Islands Government has got plenty of coconuts- small ones at that- but no money. The only possible way in which this project can be financed is by ripping off money from Australians and Americans who are worried to the depths of despair by their terminal condition. The existing hospital in which he works has no automatic suction, oxygen or similar amenities at the bedside of the patient. There are no elaborate laboratory or X-ray facilities. It would be an over-estimation to say that the blood transfusion services are poorly developed. As is the situation with all cancer quacks, figures and facts are nonexistent, but the propagation of information, not only by himself but also by his medical agents in this country, is specifically tailored to ensnare a multitude of unfortunates into the mistaken belief that he has some miraculous method of treating cancer. 
I am given to understanding that a file prepared by the Auckland police is now at police headquarters in Wellington for their study and for examination by the Solicitor-General. The whole purpose of this exercise will be to base a request for an extradition order against Brych to take him back to New Zealand to face criminal charges. As my good friend of racing fame, the late Ken Howard, would say, it is London to a brick that his co-conspirator,  Sir Albert  Henry, will refuse. This gentleman obviously sees Brych 's arrival on the scene as manna from heaven which will fill his Government's coffers. He has levelled abuse at all his critics, foremost among whom has been our own Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  whom he has described as a person who would not know the difference between tinnea and foot and mouth disease. He is on record as saying that he does not give a damn what  Mr Hunt  says and he will not be dictated to by  Mr Hunt  or by anyone else. There is news in store for that gentleman. In the face of mounting criticism he has again gone on record as saying that he does not give a damn if Byrch does not have a certificate in other countries and that he had given him a certificate that is legal in the Cook Islands. 
Australians are being ripped-off by this unholy alliance to the tune of between $7,000 and $10,000 a patient. An expose as to how Byrch's fees are divided would, I am sure, make the most interesting of reading. I would exhort our own prestigious medical associations to conduct their own investigation for the purpose of searching and seeking out Australian medical practitioners who are actively promoting in this country Byrch's activities in the Cook Islands and openly recruiting patients here in return for a financial kick-back. Only last month  Sir Edward  Hughes,  President  of the Royal Australian College of Surgeons, returned from New Zealand. I understand he described Byrch as a complete and utter rogue, and he expressed concern, so I believe, that money may be leaving this country and finding its way into the pockets of this man. This timely and most interesting observation caught my attention and should become the immediate concern of the Commonwealth Government in the near future. Section 21 of the Health Insurance Act states: 
Subject to this section, where medical expenses are incurred in respect of a medical service specified in an item rendered outside Australia, on or after the date fixed for the purposes of section 10, to an Australian resident, by or on behalf of, a prescribed person - 
I emphasise the words 'prescribed person' -  . . medical benefit is payable in respect of that medical service as if that medical service had been rendered in Australia by or on behalf of, a medical practitioner. 
Although  Mr Brych  is not a medical practitioner in the ordinary accepted sense of the word, the dreadful anomaly is that he is, in fact, a medical practitioner under the definitive section of the Act. If honourable members will bear with me, section 2 1 of the Act which refers to a 'prescribed person' says that a 'prescribed person' means a person authorised to practise as a medical practitioner under the law of the place- in this case it is the Cook Islands- where the professional service was rendered. 
Of course he is entitled to practise as a medical practitioner in the Cook Islands because  Sir Albert  had run roughshod over the advice of his own medical council. 
Honourable members will recall that the same gentleman,  Sir Albert  Henry, by his own machinations and for his own ends and, no doubt,  Mr Brych  's also, arbitrarily made him a medical practitioner under that law. Put simply it means that from time to time all the people of Australia are making a contribution towards this criminal who has battened on the hopes and aspirations of a number of Australians. This must cease. I call upon the Federal Government to correct forthwith this anomaly by amending section 2 1 giving the Minister discretionary power to preclude payment of benefits for services rendered by persons such as  Mr Brych.  If it does not move expeditiously an unjustified accusation of double standards could be levelled at the Government. I assure the House that there is no alternative but to continue with the payment of benefits until this amendment is implemented. I thank the House. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. Will Australia's policies on uranium development and export be affected in any way by recent discussions and decisions at the British Trade Union Congress on nuclear energy recently reported in the Australian Press? 
-An incident occurred in Broken Hill this week that almost went unnoticed. It has now been called the Latham affair. It concerns the present Administrator and his stooge, the Town Clerk, as well as Noel Latham, who honourable members will recall is the courageous trade unionist who dared to challenge the might and despotism of the Barrier Industrial Council. After fighting legal battles before the Federal Court of Australia and in jurisdictions of the Supreme Court of New South Wales the matter was finally resolved by way of a settlement.  (Quorum formed).  As I was saying, the incident concerns the present Administrator and his stooge, the Town Clerk, as well as Noel Latham, who honourable members will recall is the courageous trade unionist who dared to challenge the might and despotism of the Barrier Industrial Council. After fighting legal battles before the Federal Court of Australia and in jurisdictions of the Supreme Court of New South 
Wales the matter was finally resolved by way of a settlement which effectively restored Latham's membership of the Amalgamated Metal Workers and Shipwrights Union. With the concurrence of the Broken Hill City Council he was reinstated in his job as a leading hand mechanic However, after he reported for work, some 90 individuals walked off the job. Despite a meeting called this week by the Barrier Industrial Council the 90 members present, being respectively members of the Town Employees Union, the Municipal Employees Union and the Building Trades Union, decided to have their own meeting at which a resolution was passed supporting the right of any individual to exercise his discretion as to whether he should work with any particular person. This resolution was obviously a sham and a fraud and was directed at pressurising the Broken Hill City Council once more into dismissing Latham. 
The Administrator and the Town Clerk usurped the functions of their office and acted contrary to all democratic principles when they carpeted Latham at the Council Chambers and put pressure on him to resign on the basis that if he did so voluntarily the Council would pay him full compensation. Let me tell those men now in case they already do not know that their powers flow only from the provisions of the Local Government Act, which would never countenance their despicable behaviour in their miserable attempts to erode the democratic rights of this individual. They are the same democratic rights as thousands of Australians went away for, fought for and died for. Their actions have horrified me and I am sure will disgust all those who believe not only in the rule of law but also in an individual's right to work without harassment and intimidation. I suggest that they both resign. 
-Having spoken at the opening stages of debate on the first Fox report, it now gives me great pleasure to re-enter this debate in its concluding phase. Many speakers, both in this House and in debate across the nation, have attempted to give the uranium issue a moral perspective. I believe it is proper that such attempts should have been made, and it is to this question that I seek to address my remarks. In order to understand whether it is the Government or the Opposition that is morally correct in its nuclear policy, one has to examine motives. The motive of the Government in its painstaking deliberations over a nuclear policy has been to make the right decision for Australia and the world. In particular, great regard has been given to the questions of Aboriginal rights, the safety of mining and milling, the operation of reactors, reprocessing, enrichment, disposal of waste products and the spread of nuclear weapons. 
In the context of Government motivation and the morality of the decision to mine and export, I seek to canvass once more the question of nuclear proliferation. In the last year attention to the possible spread of nuclear weapons has been gaining increasing predominance both as an aspect of the nuclear debate and as a world issue. It is right that this should be so, and I am proud that Government members had given this matter the vital attention it requires. Late in 1976 a report of the authoritative Stockholm International Research Centre stated that within nine years 35 nations will possess the capability to produce their own nuclear weapons. Nonsignatories of the nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty included in that group were Pakistan, Brazil, Argentina, South Africa, Cuba, Spain, Egypt, Switzerland and Turkey. In such a context the survival of mankind might seem a daunting prospect. 
Never has the world had to meet such a grim threat. Few nations have a greater responsibility to meet the challenge than has Australia. An article in the  National Times  of 30 May to 4 June this year stated: 
Uranium could be the issue on which Australia wields more influence in the world than ever before. 
I tell aU honourable members and the people of Australia that that statement was supported to the hilt by the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  when he said: 
In Brussels, London, the Hague, Paris, Rome and Bonn, as well as in Moscow, I consistently asserted Australia's wish to develop her own enrichment capability so that as much uranium as possible should be exported in an enriched form. 
He then went on to say: 
The obvious interest shown throughout Europe in Australia as a supplier of uranium suggests that we shall exercise considerable influence in this important area. 
Who knows, we may still achieve a bipartisan policy on that. The same moral motivation was inherent in the speech of the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  to this House on the safeguards POliCY on 2 June when he said: 
Surely there can be no doubt that, if Australia were to make its uranium resources available, the strengthening of nuclear safeguards would be enhanced. The possibility of premature development of the plutonium economy, with its implications for nuclear proliferation, could be avoided. It is only by acting now that we can contribute to long-term global stability. 
Again, the theme was clear in the speech of the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  In his speech to this House on the day of the Government's policy announcement, he said: 
Far from hindering the cause of non-proliferation, uranium export, subject to the fullest and most effective safeguards, will place Australia in a position to help the development of an increasingly effective non-proliferation regime. 
It represents a consistent moral approach to one of the most crucial tasks any Australian government will ever tackle. Let us make no mistake. The Carter initiatives deserve supporting. They are currently facing their greatest challenge. In the United States of America, the Senate has voted to keep alive the Clinch River demonstration fast breeder reactor project and the Barnwell reprocessing plant. In Europe, France and West Germany have signed an agreement on the development and construction of fast breeder reactors. By making a determined stance in conjunction with the United States and Canada, remembering that Australia and these two countries hold more than half of the world's reasonably assured reserves of uranium we can foster the peaceful development of nuclear energy as the principal solutions to the world's current and foreseeable energy problems. What is the international alternative? It is a world of darkness, industrial dislocation, famine and poverty. 
Having mentioned the moral approach of this Government and the Carter initiatives, I would also like to make a brief reference to the Canadian stance. Earlier this year, Canada froze uranium exports to Britain, West Germany, Italy and Japan pending the negotiation of stronger agreements on safeguards. Speaking at a Press conference in April, Prime Minister Trudeau said: 
To us, the danger of nuclear proliferation is more important than economic advantage. 
Thus the Federal Government's reasonable approach is clear also in the Canadian attitude. In stark contrast stands the approach of the Australian Labor Party while m government. That policy was motivated by a grubby desire to make a quick buck whatever the national or international consequences may have been. Let us look at the facts of what it said. Even before it took office in 1972, we have the words of the shadow Treasurer, the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford).  He said: 
Uranium exports, in whatever form could be highly profitable to this country. With the proper taxation policies, there could be enormous economic benefits for everyone who lives here. 
The theme was well developed by 1 974 when the then Minister for Minerals and Energy made a statement to this House dealing with Northern Territory uranium. On 3 1 October 1 974, he said: 
My purpose in this statement is to outline the Government's program for the rational development of uranium resources in the Northern Territory: A program which will return substantial economic benefits to Australia from our supply of this vital energy resource to our overseas trading partners who face such grave difficulties in securing their energy requirements. 
What of the daddy of them aU, the current master of pious pontification on the uranium issuethe honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating).  I know he would like to forget, but let me remind him of his previous money-grabbing motives. In government he said to this House: 
So we have another 40 years of production, another 40 years of power to be supplied by conventionally enriched reactors. There is no reason why the price of uranium will not keep escalating and there is no reason why this Government will not allow a maximum return to the people of Australia and the uranium producers of Australia. 
The golden gleam in his eye did not dim with the passage of time. Just prior to the elections in 1975 he said: 
We are prepared to give the Japanese any amount of fuel that they need, enriched if we can do so. The only thing is that we would like to do the enriching. Instead of sending just yellow cake at bargain basement prices we want to get the profit that comes from enrichment. We do not want the stuff to be sent to the United States or the Soviet Union or any place else where Japan may choose to have it enriched. A good offer is before Japan. It can come in with Australia on enrichment if it wishes. If it wants to wait until we develop the technology and secure the capital, as we have the raw material, it will wait too long. The Japanese should get off their tails and move into this undertaking. 
His present rantings on a moratorium are a prostitution qf that policy. He changed and did a complete about face - not because he was interested in the health and prosperity of all Aus.tralians but because he knew that if he did not he would be out on his ear, stripped of his position as spokesman on minerals and energy, beleagured and berated by those of the Left. Where was their concern then for mining safety? Where was their concern then for reactor safety? Where was their concern then for the safe disposal of waste products? Where was their concern then for their moral obligation to help prevent the spread of nuclear weapons? 
I put it to honourable members that such issues to which they now adopt a holier than thou attitude were lost in their desire to finance their own socialist extravagances which were bankrupting this nation. How different their policy is now. In Perth, in July of this year, the Opposition placed an indefinite moratorium on the mining and treatment of uranium in Australia. Delegate Holding told the Australian Labor Party conference: 
It means that any company, national or international, which wants to involve itself in a mining process or export of uranium as from this date does so at its own risk. Such company being told quite specifically and quite categorically what the view of this movement is, if it decides to enter into any contractual arrangement, then it does so at its own risk. Any such arrangement will be repudiated by a Labor government and the loss will fall where it lies. 
And so, in a sham 45-minute debate, one of the great political hypocrisies of our time was perpetrated. How hollow now seem the words of those honourable gentlemen opposite while in government. In 1974, the then Minister for Minerals and Energy said: 
We, on taking office, assured Japan that we would honour contracts entered into right to within a couple of months of the election despite the fact that the contracts were made at excessively low prices. Demands have been made by Queensland Mines in particular to try and panic the Japanese. We have assured them that delivery will be made, that we have the stocks to make these deliveries and the stocks are at Lucas Heights at the present time. We can provide all commitments up to 1 980 out of these stocks. 
Again, the honourable member for Blaxland on the same day said: 
Those contracts are going to be met to the letter because the Australian Government has ratified them and the decisions of one Australian government have to be upheld by the next Australian government. 
Notice Labor supporters do not talk these days about honouring commitments. On the contrary, they will dishonour them - to Australia 's everlasting shame. What in fact has happened is that the Opposition has replaced its profit motive of government years with a new motive. No wonder the people of Australia will never again repose any confidence in the Labor Party. Members of the Labor Party are determined to breed fear into the hearts and minds of Australians over the uranium issue. The desire to obtain quick dollars has been replaced with a desire to acquire quick votes. If they are genuinely concerned about dangers in uranium mining or export now why were they not concerned in 1972, 1973, 1974, or 1975? 
After the horrors of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, with the genuine concern of people over nuclear wastes and nuclear proliferation members of the Opposition have decided to set themselves up as peddlers of fear. They have embarked upon one of the shabbiest, immoral political tactics of all time. They must stand condemned by the Australian people and exposed for the hypocrisy of their attitudes in this Parliament 
In an article in the Sydney  Sun  on 15 May 1977, the Leader of the Opposition wrote a column headed 'The Crime of Mining Uranium'. There has been only one crime committed on the uranium issue. Both in government and in opposition, the Labor Party has preferred expediency as its policy motivation to honesty and international obligation. The newest member of this crime syndicate is its own  President, Mr Hawke.  Speaking at a Press Conference earlier this month in which he announced the decision of the Executive of the Australian Council of Trade Unions to call a referendum,  Mr Hawke  said: 
We are getting closer and closer to blood on the streets of Australia on the issue. 
What an appalling, irresponsible statement from this man. Let there be no mistake about this ACTU policy resolution. It is a cunning of Labor's fear campaign. The greatest hope the Labor Party has of whipping up fear and violence is for it to pit Australian against Australian in a referendum in which it would manipulate genuinely worried but ill-informed voters with its new found nuclear lies. The Government has pulled the political rug from under  Mr Hawke  by its recent announcement that there will be no referendum on the issue. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I claim to have been misrepresented. 
I draw the attention of the House to the heroic stand being made by Noel Latham at Broken Hill against all those who would seek to trample his democratic right to work into the dust of the Silver City. A halt must be called somewhere along the line, because what is happening to him could easily be the first step in the erosion of the democratic rights of all Australians, which are the same rights that thousands of Australians went away and fought for, and in support of which many were either killed or maimed. 
Motion (by  Mr  James) put: 
That the honourable member for Phillip be not further heard. 
-Has the attention of the Prime Minister been drawn to recent suggestions that the Government should resurrect some of Labor's discarded programs? What effect would such action have on the Government's success in combating inflation? 
-In reply to the remarks of the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  who has just spoken, it is true as I said at the 1975 election that Joe Riordan is a very fine fellow. I have known him for many years.  His  greatest drawback was that he belonged to the worst political party we have had since Federation. I draw the attention of the House tonight to the heroic stand being made by Noel Latham at Broken Hill against those who seek to trample his democratic right to work into the dust of the Silver City. A halt must be called somewhere along the line because what is happening to him could easily be the first step in the erosion of the democratic rights of all Australians, which are the rights that thousands of Australians went away, fought for and were either killed or maimed in supporting. As further evidence of the jackboot dictatorship that would smash our democratic freedom I quote to the House the contents of a document distributed in Broken Hill by militant union officials. It is entitled 'A Memorial to Latham, the Scab'. It reads: 
After God had made the rattlesnake, the toad and the vampire he had some awful substance left with which he made a scab. 
A Scab is a two-legged animal with a corkscrew soul, a water-sogged brain- 
Like the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)-  and a combination backbone made of jelly and glue. Where other people have their hearts he carries a tumour of rotten principle. 
When a Scab comes down the street honest men turn their backs, the angels weep tears in heaven, and the devil shuts the gates of hell to keep him out 
No man has a right to scab as long as there is a pool of water deep enough to drown his body or a rope long enough to hang his carcase with. 
Judas Iscariot was a gentleman compared with a Scab for after betraying his master he had enough character to hang himself and a Scab has not. 
There is no word in the English language that carries so much hatred, scorn, loathing and contempt as the term Scab. 
Your colleagues put it out and you concur with it The quotation continues: 
Once branded and a man is marked for life. There is no escape. It is infinitely worse than the brand that was placed upon Cain. It stays with a man everywhere, it shadows his every footstep. 
It never dies and no wonder, for it is a synonym of all that is mean, contemptible, unmanly. It designates the loss of dignity, honour, principle and manhood. 
It signified that it is impossible for its owner to descend lower depths. 
He has tried to undermine men who are battling for the bread and butter of their wives and little ones. He is thought to defeat his fellows and rivet the chains of oppression around them. Judas Iscariot would never have sunk so low. 
-I direct my question to the Treasurer. I refer him to the revolutionary changes to Australia's system of income tax announced in the Budget to apply from 1 February 1978. As these historic changes provide very substantial benefits to taxpayers at all income levels, I ask: Why was 1 February 1 978 chosen as the date of implementation? Will the Treasurer give consideration to bringing this date forward so that taxpayers may receive early Christmas presents from the Government? 
Is the Minister for Defence satisfied as to the adequacy of surveillance measures presently implemented around Australia's coastline? 
-I was astounded and staggered by a report in this morning's  Sydney Morning Herald  of the denial by the Lebanese Consul-General,  Mr Freijy,  that he expressed the sympathy of the Lebanese people for the Israeli victims of the weekend terrorist attack to a delegation from demonstrators he received in Sydney on Monday. I was one of the speakers at the demonstration, which was called to denounce, to decry and to deplore this crime against humanity and at the same time to bring to the notice of the Australian people the massacre of hundreds of thousands of Christian Lebanese at the hands of the Palestine Liberation Organisation. I was invited to join the delegation which, apart from myself, consisted of Rabbi Alony of the Central Synagogue, at Bondi Junction,  Dr Schneeweiss, President  of the Executive Council of Australian Jewry, and  Mr Michael  Marx,  President  of the Australian Union of Jewish Students. The delegation was in consultation with the Consul-General at the Lebanese Consulate in Sydney for approximately half an hour. During the course of the interview he frankly expressed the sympathy of the Lebanese people for the Israeli victims and this expression of sympathy was most heartening to the delegation. 
Not only is the headquarters of the PLO set-up unmolested in Beirut but it is also and has been a haven from which it has launched its maniacal expeditions, and a place to retreat to after the finalisation of its missions of death and destruction. Whilst the Lebanese Government harbours these butchers of humanity it can only expect retaliatory action by the Israelis, as we have witnessed today. Although directed towards the PLO, inevitably many others will be accidentally killed and death and destruction within Lebanon must always be the end result. I hasten to add that the PLO has listening posts in Australia. I can only come to the conclusion that it has brought tremendous pressure to bear on the Lebanese Government to instruct the ConsulGeneral to do a complete about-face. The weekend attack on the Haifa road brings all nations to the grim reality that the PLO's politics of blood must be condemned forever, that its observer status at the United Nations must be forthwith revoked and that there must be an agreement by all Arab states that the PLO is not, and never has been, the legitimate representative of the Palestinians. 
As a prerequisite to all this the Lebanese Government must come out loud and clear to the effect that the PLO is no longer welcome in Lebanon. It should immediately put the PLO's guns on the backs of its members and run them out of the country. Israel's right to survive as a free and independent nation is paramount. The courage of its great people will never be cowered by these butchers of humanity and will be applauded by all men of peace and goodwill. 
I ask the Minister representing the Attorney-General whether depositions relating to a conspiracy case in the Special Federal Court in Sydney late last year involving a  Mrs Patricia  Moylan were removed from that court without the knowledge or approval of the presiding magistrate? Who took this action and did it occur the day after the same depositions were unsuccessfully sought by counsel representing a  Mr Frank  Christopher Lawrence in similar proceedings in another court? Further, were both cases related to the importation of cannabis into Australia. 
I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Has his attention been drawn to Press reports concerning the presence in Angola of Cuban and Soviet troops and advisers? Does the Minister have any information on this matter? If the reports are correct, what is the Government's reaction to the presence of foreign troops in Angola? 
-Last week two seemingly unrelated events occurred- one was Anzac Day, the other was the infamous sacking of Noel Latham by the Broken Hill City Council. Honourable members and indeed not only the people of New South Wales but also all Australians are entitled to ask and to be told exactly what was that relationship. We commemorate Anzac Day as an occasion to remember with pride and homage our glorious dead, those who paid the supreme sacrifice, those Australians whose blood was spilt on foreign fields. They died so that the people of Australia could live in peace, harmony and tranquility, free from oppression and dictatorial regulation of the basic freedoms. The principle so enunciated has been abrogated, cast to the four winds and virtually spat upon by those creatures whose iron fists control the Barrier Industrial Council and the Broken Hill City Council and who have a stranglehold over the destiny and livelihoods of thousands of ordinary decent Australian men and women. Its edict is conform. Step out of line and the sacred principles for which our men died and which are the inherent right of us all will be jackbooted into the dirt. 
I am proud to have fought at Noel Latham's side for some 13 months and to applaud his victories in every legal forum that was open to him.  His  cause was just and found to be so.  His  stand was vindicated, and his courage in the face of threats and actual violence, both to himself and his wife and family, should be applauded by all those who cherish the great ideals for which our Diggers gave their all. Applause is not enough; action is now required. I have examined the possibility of propelling the Broken Hill City Council into court for denying natural justice to a trade unionist and an ex-member of the merchant marines who, on anyone's say so, has done nothing wrong and has given long, loyal and valuable service to the Council. However, this may not be legally feasible. What would be feasible, however, is a simple amendment to the law to provide for a right of appeal to a court, which amendment would not only safeguard Latham's democratic rights but also the rights of others who may find themselves on the receiving end of union muscle. After all, Latham's rights are representative of the rights of all Australians, rights that Parliament is duty bound to protect. 
If the New South Wales Government keeps on turning a blind eye to the overall situation- to do a Pontius Pilate in this case- by washing its hands of the affair, the assumption can be reliably made that it would act similarly in similar circumstances where any other responsible worker in New South Wales was the recipient of union strong arm tactics. Surely then the New South Wales Government exists to protect the democratic rights of its citizens. If it fails in this its primary responsibility then it has failed the people. It becomes undeserving of their trust, and its parliamentarians must be cast from office at the first available opportunity by the very people who put them there. The message I wish to get across tonight loudly and clearly is that it is no longer simply a matter of Latham or the BIC or the Broken Hill City Council. It has escalated well beyond that. This is a fight by all men and women of peace and goodwill and by all those who stand for the democratic way of life against any duly elected representative of the people who pays lip service only to the very principles for which the flower of this nation died. I can only show the people of New South Wales the way to right this terrible wrong. For their own sakes and for the sakes of their children and indeed for posterity they must demand, as I do, the recall of the New South Wales Parliament from its S-month recess to pass the necessary legislation that clearly only it can pass. If it fails to take this action, as sure as the night follows the day, its end should be inevitable, permanent and justified. 
-I draw the attention of the House to a scurrilous, false, defamatory and malicious article that appeared in this morning's  Sydney Morning Herald  headed in bold type, 'Robinson linked with $40,000 "windfall" Queensland land deal'. The ordinary man in the street and the ordinary reasonable man in the community on reading that statement would come to the false conclusion that  Mr Eric  Robinson, the Minister for Finance, was up to his elbows in the till into which the supposed windfall found itself. That profound libel was supposedly based on questions asked in this House yesterday by the honourable member for Batman  (Mr Howe)  and the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage).  The worthless questions are worth repeating if only to lay bare any assertion that the heading to the article has any validity. At page 1774  of Hansard  of 4 May the honourable member for Batman asked the following question: 
My question is directed to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Is it a fact that in February last year the Australian Postal Commission purchased land at Bundall on Queensland 's Gold Coast from Ron McMaster Pty Ltd for $280,000? Is it also a fact that less than four weeks previous to that Ron McMaster Pty Ltd had bought the land from Watkins Ltd for $240,000? What discussions, if any, did the Postal Commission have with the former Minister for Post and Telecommunications about the matter before it was finalised? 
At page 1775 the honourable member for Chifley asked the following question: 
My question without notice is directed to the Prime Minister. Is it normal practice for the Government to provide windfall profits of $40,000 to its political supporters as a result of land purchases by Commonwealth departments or authorities? What procedures exist to ensure that land bought on behalf of government departments and authorities is not bought from land speculators who have access to inside information? 
From those questions I say that it clearly emerges that the matter of which I complained is without any foundation whatsoever because I allege it appears that the heading for the article is supposedly based on those two questions. This is a subject that could be referred to the Privileges Committee. I am of the opinion that the writer appears to be in contempt of the Parliament. I urge the Minister to sue the Fairfax group for substantial punitive damages as that organisation is richly deserving of severe censure and the organisation has a solemn duty to publish the facts, not tortious innuendoes. 
I ask the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs whether the Crown has decided to lodge an appeal against the inadequacy of the sentence passed recently in the Northern Territory Supreme Court on a prisoner named Tait for offences against the Customs Act? Is it a fact that there was a substantial disparity between that sentence and the sentences passed recently on two American women for their part in the illegal importation of drugs into Australia? Were all of the defendants indicted under the Customs Act? If so, can he account for that disparity? 
-The Federal seat of Phillip while not embracing Sydney airport lies very cose to it. As the Federal member, I have received complaints from several of my female constituents almost immediately after they have been processed through customs. The serious complaint is that they have been required by customs officers to strip whilst both an external and an internal search is made of their person in search of drugs. Some time ago I made a complaint to the then Minister in charge of customs on behalf of one of my constituents and eventually received an apology. The same kind of search happened again recently so I decided to research the Customs Act and, in particular, the section that purportedly gave customs officers this power. 
The relevant section is section 196 which states that if any officer of customs or of police shall have reasonable cause to suspect that any person is unlawfully carrying, or has any goods subject to the control of customs, or any prohibited imports, or any prohibited exports secreted about him, the following consequences shall ensue: Firstly, the officer may detain and search the suspected person; secondly, before the suspected person shall be searched he may require to be taken before a justice or the Collector of customs; thirdly, the justice or collector may order the suspected person to be searched or may discharge him without search but females shall only be searched by a female searcher appointed by the justice or collector. 
In the course of my career as a lawyer I have never come across, nor indeed have I ever heard of, any legal authority for the proposition that the word 'search' is an all embracing term to permit of an indecent assault on a citizen. Searches have been carried out on many of my female constituents, and no doubt on many female constituents of other members of the House, by customs officers who justify this type of indecent assault by relying on the provisions of section 196 of the Customs Act. On a proper reading of this section, I believe that that proposition is untenable although customs officers innocently believe that this right is held by them. It is my firm belief that the word 'search' does not bestow on a customs officer the right to require a citizen to strip and to be both externally and internally searched. 
There can be no doubt that what has happened is that an indecent assault, an indictable offence under the criminal law, has occurred. People must realise their rights. Customs officers only have rights bestowed upon them by a parliament. Despite holding an honest and reasonable belief in the lawfulness of their actions, if they perform actions for which they are not given power they are guilty of an offence. As I said, these officers perform their task diligently and honestly but there is not the slightest doubt that these types of searches have not the imprimatur or stamp of approval of an Act of Parliament and therefore are illegal. It follows naturally that they themselves, however innocently, are committing an indecent assault on those whom they detain and search in the manner to which I have referred. 
I give the following advice to members of the community who find themselves being requested to submit to a search at an airport or shipping terminal: Demand to be taken before a justice; and demand in the presence of the justice that he require the officer to nominate the source of his reasonable cause for suspicion. If this latter requirement cannot be satisfied, and I doubt whether it would be in many cases, then that person should demand his immediate release from custody. 
I am not oblivious of the fact that drugs are coming into this country in substantial amounts and are being secreted internally by wrongdoers. This type of smuggling activity must be stamped out for the protection of the whole community. The whole situation is fraught with danger and difficulty and in many cases leads to denuding the person of their self-respect. The whole situation calls for the immediate attention of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  so that the position can be clarified and the right to search given to a customs officer only on proof of reasonable suspicion being shown to the satisfaction of a justice. Even if such proof is provided, intimate searches of the kind to which I have alluded should only be performed by a medical practitioner. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  It now being 1 1 p.m., the debate is interrupted. 
I ask the Minister for Transport whether he is aware that on 9 June 1928 one of Australia's greatest heroes,  Sir Charles  Kingsford-Smith, landed in the Southern Cross at Eagle Farm Airport after an historic crossing of the Pacific Ocean? Does the Government propose to commemorate the fiftieth anniversary of this epic event? Does it intend to acknowledge the deeds of one of the nation's greatest sons who did more than any other man in the history of the world to open up the present airways of the world? 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I ask: What progress, if any, has been made towards the implementation of the Government's election promise to provide an ethnic television service? 
Will the Prime Minister inform the House of the reliability of estimates of the deficit based on alternative Budget approaches? 
I ask the Minister for Transport: Is he aware of criticisms of the Government 's announced new international aviation policy, claiming that ethnic groups will have to fly to London and then to their countries of origin when wishing to return home for a visit? Are these criticisms justified? Will the Minister consider the need of ethnic groups in our community to have direct cheap air fares to their countries of origin? 
I ask the Treasurer: Does the historic decision of the Government to allow the States to borrow from overseas an amount of $ 1,767m herald a softening of the Government's economic policies and a weakening of its resolve to fight inflation first? What were the factors that motivated the Government to come to its decision? What does the Minister see as the advantages of this to the nation as a whole? 
-Has the Treasurer's attention been drawn to the editorial in today's  Sydney 

 Morning Herald to the effect that the Government has been unduly forcing the pace downwards on interest rates? Has the Government acted in disregard of market forces on this issue? 
I direct my question to the Acting Treasurer. In view of the recent events surrounding the St George Building Society Ltd in Sydney, can he advise what the Government intends to do to provide an insurance scheme for those people who deposit funds in building societies? 
Is the Prime Minister aware that Australian Rugby Union players are participating in a national team playing a series of matches in the Transvaal? In view of the Government's previous statements on sporting contacts with South Africa, what is its attitude to Australian players participating in that tour? 
-Further to what I was saying earlier: From what the Chief Justice has said, he has deluded himself into believing that the letter's intended destination was, first, for his own eyes and thence into his own back pocket. Reading the grossly excessive and uncalled for verbiage to which I have referred, the ordinary reasonable man in the street could easily come to the conclusion that the Chief Justice was severely castigating the honourable member for an alleged attempt to pervert the course of justice. That is inherent in the words he used. I quote from the telex: 

 Sir Laurence said the MP,  Mr Reg  Gillard, Federal member for Macquarie, had written to him personally, presumably to 'influence the outcome' of a case concerning a Bathurst solicitor who was struck off the roll. 
To attempt to pervert the course of justice is a crime well known to the law, and indeed ranks high on the criminal calendar. As a consequence of these unfortunate utterances, the Chief Justice himself has more than likely committed contempt of the Federal Parliament- an institution to which, despite his exalted position, he is accountable and from which he has no immunity. It is my earnest wish that the Chief Justice should now appreciate that he has utterly and completely misdirected himself as to the totality and intention of the letter to which I have referred. He should apologise to the most honourable member for Macquarie and to the Parliament. 
I draw the attention of the House to a most intemperate and ill-considered outburst by the Chief Justice of New South Wales against one of the most respected members of this Parliament. I refer to the most honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Gillard),  whose reputation for integrity, honesty and fair play is well known and appreciated by members on both sides of the House and by all of his constituents. This highly defamatory statement was issued publicly today and followed in the wake of a letter written by the honourable member by way only of a character reference for a  Mr Vince  Gordon of Bathurst who was appealing to the Supreme Court against his disbarment as a solicitor. It is a matter of profound regret that the Chief Justice appears to be so far removed, remote and uninformed as to what actually happens in similar circumstances in courts below that of the court of appeal. 
Letters, from almost beyond the time of legal memory, have been written to presiding magistrates and judges pleading for leniency in a variety of cases and advancing matters within the peculiar knowledge of the writers and referable to the general good character of a person, with the sole intention that their representations be taken into consideration in mitigation of penalty- the singular expectation being that they be read out in open court and so form part of the official record of those proceedings and taken into consideration on the all important question of what is the appropriate penalty. It is enshrined in the law that courts are duty bound to take into consideration the previous good character of any person placed in jeopardy there can be no exception here. That was all that was intended by the honourable member for Macquarie and it is sad reflection on the Chief Justice himself that he could not see the wood for the trees and that he proceeded with all due dispatch and reckless haste to place a dark and sinister interpretation on the actions of the honourable member as instanced by his use of the words 'grave impropriety'. 
The Chief Justice complains that the letter was written to him personally. This complaint would no doubt be justified if the letter were marked personal and confidential' which of course it was not. He himself has fallen into grievous error when he describes the member's action as being taken to attempt to influence the course of justice by making a personal approach to him. He has not only placed on the letter the dark and sinister interpretation of which I speak but also has shrouded it with a cloak and dagger connotation that is utterly baseless. From what the Chief Justice has said, he has deluded himself into believing that the letter's intended destination was firstly for his own eyes and thence into his back pocket. By the use of the grossly excessive and uncalled for verbiage to which I have referred the ordinary reasonable man in the street reading it could easily come to the conclusion that the Chief Justice was severely castigating the honourable member for an alleged attempt to pervert the course of justice which is inherent in the words he used. I quote from the telex: 

 Sir Laurence said the M.P.,  Mr Reg  Gillard, Federal member for Macquarie had written to him personally presumably to 'influence the outcome' of a case concerning a Bathurst solicitor who was struck off the roll. 
To attempt to pervert the course of justice is a crime well known to the law and one which ranks high on the criminal calendar. 
No Member may use offensive words against either House of the Parliament or any Member thereof, against any member of the Judiciary, or against any statute unless for the purpose of moving for its repeal. 
I would have thought that, prima facie, to say a judge has acted in a way which is defamatory prejudices an issue which may best be determined in a court. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. I refer the Minister to a statement made this morning by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate on Sydney's Channel 7 program  Eleven A.M.  when he stated that the Government was negotiating with oil companies and the Queensland Government on the renewal of licences for drilling on the Great Barrier Reef. Is there any truth in substance or in fact in the statement made by  Senator Wriedt? 
I ask the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs whether the Government will take early action to follow up the breakthrough achieved last week by  Mr Hawke  in his discussions with Soviet authorities on Soviet dissidents and Jewish emigration? 
-Has the attention of the  Deputy  Prime Minister and Minister for Trade and Resources been drawn to statements made by the honourable member for Reid at a street rally in 
Sydney yesterday that a Federal Labor Government would repudiate any contract or commitment entered into under this Government with respect to the mining and export of uranium? I ask the Minister: What would be the effect of any such repudiation on the people of Australia? 
-Is the Minister for Foreign Affairs able to inform the House of measures taken to ensure the safety of the Australian test cricket team during its opening match of the Indian tour in Srinagar on 1 to 3 September? Have adequate measures been taken to ensure the safety of the Australian cricketers during their Indian tour? 
I ask the Minister for Health: In view of the estimated 3,500 deaths in Australia in 1977 attributable to alcohol, does he support the recent introduction of low alcohol beer into New South Wales? 
