I ask the Minister for Immigration: Is it correct, as reported in yesterday's edition of the Sydney 'Sun', that immigration officers in London are telling plumbers that they will live a life of luxury if they migrate to Australia where all plumbers drive big American cars? Having in mind that a plumber's average wage in Sydney is ยง73.74 per week, some S7 per week less than the version by the Commonwealth Statistician of the average Australian wage, I ask: Does the Minister consider this a luxury wage and one that could run and maintain a big American car? Finally I ask the Minister: If he is not in a position to answer my question now, will he initiate an immediate investigation into the allegations made in the newspaper article, and, at the same time, make available to all immigration officers, regardless of where they  aTe  stationed, up to date copies of the major Australian industrial awards in order that intending migrants can be advised correctly as to the Australian wages and working conditions applicable to their particular trade or calling? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Shipping and Transport. Is it correct that the Government has approved of the entry into Australia of 2 new Bulgarian-built ships to be operated by the Australian Territory Liner Services in the Gulf of Carpentaria? If so, what will be the function of these ships and where are they to be registered? Has any Australian shipyard had orders cancelled or indefinitely deferred as a direct result of the decision to allow into Australia these 2 foreign built vessels? 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. Has the Commonwealth 
Government ever made ex-gratia payments of council rates on Commonwealth owned property in any local council area in South Australia? If so, to which councils have such payments been made and what Commonwealth department or departments are involved? 
I ask the Minister for National Development why, if the minerals conference decided it was not necessary to issue a communique after its meeting yesterday, he and the Attorney-General issued a joint communique. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Has the Government ever made e.x-gratia payment of council rates on Commonwealthowned property in any local council area in South Australia. 
If so, to which councils have the payments been made, and what Commonwealth Department or Departments were involved. 
by leave - I present the report of the Australian delegation to the 57th Interparliamentary Union Conference held in New Delhi from 30th October to 7th November 1969. I move: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
I am pleased indeed to present this report to the Parliament and at the outset 1 desire to indicate that it is not my intention during these few remarks to speak on the matters which were discussed at the Conference because they are fully reported in the report itself. However, I commend the report to all honourable members and trust they will make time available to read and study it. I welcome the opportunity to express publicly my thanks to the other members of the Australian delegation, namely,  Senator Laucke, Mr Devine, Senator Hendrickson, Senator Byrne  and  Mr Hallett,  for their help and comradeship during the whole period of the Conference. T am sure I speak on behalf of all members of the delegation when I record our sincere appreciation to  Mr Roy  Bullock,  Deputy Clerk  of the Senate, who acted as secretary and organiser of our party, and  Mr David  Sadlier of the Department of External Affairs for their outstanding cooperation, helpful advice and assistance, not only in making our task of performing our duties at the conference much easier but also for the thoughtful and efficient manner in which they handled other personal matters that arose during the course of the trip. 
I feel obliged to report that the leader of the delegation,  Senator Laucke,  performed his important duties with great energy, courtesy and tact.  His  co-operation and friendliness were a great boost to us all.  Senator Laucke  was very much assisted by his enthusiastic and active  deputy, Mr Devine.  The delegation's special thanks go to  Sir Arthur  and Lady Tange for acting as joint hosts at the reception given at the High Commissioners residence and to other members of the High Commission and their families for the kindly assistance extended to us all. Words cannot express our thanks for the manner in which our host country, India, from its gracious Prime Minister right down to its most humble citizen, assisted and encouraged us. Finally, I desire to state that in my honest opinion the Australian delegation, having regard to its small numbers, played a most significant role at the Conference and, because of this, I believe greatly enhanced the already good name of Australia among the vast majority of the 54 countries represented by some 400 assembled delegates. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I preface my question which is addressed to the PostmasterGeneral by reminding him that on 19th August 1964 in answer to a question he informed the House that the Post Office was experimenting with a home telephone meter to record the number of calls made from a particular telephone so as to assure subscribers that they were not overcharged. I now ask: What progress has been made in this direction during the past 6 years? 
In discussing the estimates for the Department of the Treasury I desire to refer to the proposed increase in sales tax on motor vehicles and home appliances, with special emphasis on motor vehicles, and to point out how this proposed measure will seriously affect the economic stability of South Australia. Basically South Australia manufactures many goods especially vehicles and home appliances, for the national market. Any downturn caused by Commonwealth policies, such as an increase in sales tax and increased interest rates, has a far greater effect on growth patterns and employment in South Australia than in other States. The proposed increase in sales tax from  25  per cent to  271  per cent represents the ninth change in sales tax on motor vehicles in  19  years. There have been  5  increases and  4  decreases. History reveals that each time the tax has been increased car sales have fallen alarmingly and the Australian motor vehicle industry and its allied industries - including the rubber, paint, glass and steel industries - have been forced to make heavy retrenchments. However each time the Government has belatedly adjusted the position by reducing the tax these important industries have immediately commenced to pick up.. 
I emphasise that in relation to employment opportunity South Australia relies heavily on the motor industry, for when one realises that in May of this year the two major car manufacturing companies, General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd and Chrysler Australia Ltd, were between them employing in that State more than 18,000 people and that an estimated further 9,000 were employed in the State in providing components and spare parts, it can be seen that these totals are significant in a manufacturing employment total of some 130,000 in South Australia. These figures show that more than one-fifth of South Australia's manufacturing employment is based on the motor industry. 
This sales tax increase could not have come at a worse time for South Australia because earlier this year, following the increase in interest rates, new car sales dropped by some 10 per cent in some States. As a consequence, one of the major car manufacturing companies in South Australia, after waiting a few weeks to ascertain whether its fears regarding the finance squeeze were justified, cut its production schedule by roughly the same proportion as the fall in the daily total market rate and retrenched some ISO men. At the moment neither of the 2 major companies in South Australia is replacing labour wastage through retirements, deaths, etc., and this alarming situation prevailed even in the field of skilled tradesmen. In other words, the recruitment of labour for the present and the immediate future has ceased in the motor industry in South Australia. My advice is that the same position applies in the electrical and home appliance industries of that State. 
The manufacturers of South Australia believe that the downturn in employment opportunity in South Australia is due entirely to the financial and economic policies of the Federal Government. In any case, growth in the Elizabeth area, where so many migrants are housed, will be severely checked at a time when the Federal Government has commenced a drive to attract more migrants. The 
Government's repeated alteration of sales tax on motor vehicles seems to indicate that its economic advisers have no idea of how these decisions affect not only the industry and its employees but also the people of Australia as a whole. In this regard I point out that any increase in sales tax on motor cars does not affect the purchasers of new vehicles only. Its repercussions are much wider than that. In actual fact, it is an added tax on every section of the community. It goes without saying that the sales tax is a tax on the person who buys a new car. It also affects the person who buys a second hand car, because the price of second hand cars is governed by the price of new ones. 
This sales tax is also passed on to the person who does not own a motor car but who purchases certain types of goods. Because of the nature of normal business practice, commercial firms pass on the increased cost of the vehicles they use in their business by adding some amount to the cost of the goods they produce or sell. In this way the customer carries his share of the increased tax. The overall effect therefore is to depress living standards. 
The South Australian Government is so concerned as to the repercussions that this added tax will have on the State's employment position and its economy that on 20th August this year the House of Assembly of South Australia carried the following resolution: 
That this House calls on the members of the Federal Parliament representing South Australia to take action in the Federal Parliament to protect employment and development in South Australia from the impost on the sale of wine of SOc per gallon and from an increase of 2i per cent in sales tax on motor vehicles and electrical goods which are proposed in the Federal Budget and which will adversely affect South Australia far more than any other State. 
Consequently in speaking today on this matter I, as a South Australian Federal member, am taking up this issue as requested by the State Government. It is also of interest to note that the Liberal Opposition of the South Australian Parliament moved an amendment to the Government motion in the following terms: 
That this House inform the Prime Minister that the interests of the wine industry and the manufacturing industries in South Australia will be beneficially served if the increased taxes on the sale of wines and consumer goods be removed as soon as possible. 
There is no question that both political sides of the South Australian Parliament are clearly concerned as to the position in South Australia following the proposed introduction of these added taxes. It clearly indicates that both sides of the Parliament are concerned that these tax increases will affect the State's economy and its employment position. 
I ask the Treasurer  (Mr Bury')  to have an investigation made into the present position of the motor industry, particularly in South Australia. I can assure him that he will find, amongst other things, firstly, that the employment opportunities for newcomers do not exist; secondly, that there is a grave possibility of retrenchments; and, thirdly, that the number of new vehicles at grass and in the sale rooms is almost at a record level. I make an appeal that the implementation of these tax increases be deferred until such time as a further study is made. However, if the Government really requires the extra finance that such increases will bring I suggest it may be raised by increasing the sales tax on really luxury vehicles and increasing the customs duty on all imported vehicles. 
In the time remaining to me I wish to raise another matter which comes under the jurisdiction of the Treasurer. I refer to section  74  of the Income Tax Assessment Act, which provides that expenditure incurred in the year of income by a taxpayer on being elected as a member, or in contesting an election for membership, of the Federal Parliament or of the Parliament of a State shall be an allowable taxation deduction. This is a reasonable provision as far as it goes, but I believe that it should be extended to cover persons who contest elections in the field of local government. I feel every honourable member of this Parliament fully appreciates the importance of local government and the part it plays in the interests of the community. Local government, which is accepted and recognised as a necessary and vital part of our society, has been aptly described as representing the grass roots of our political and administrative structure. As such it is my contention that it should be given every assistance and encouragement. I find it very difficult to understand in a country which has  3  recognised and essential forms of government - federal, state and local - why our tax laws differ in their treatment of candidates for elections in these  3  different forms of government. In fact, if any preference is to be extended to one of the  3  forms of government, f believe it should be to local government, because members of local government bodies, in the main, and particularly in South Australia, receive no remuneration for the many hours of service that they give in the interests of the public at large. I know that this matter has been raised before in this House. Regardless of this, however, I again appeal to the Treasurer to give further consideration to the matter, which I hasten to point out will not be a very costly venture. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the undersigned citizens of South Australia respectfully showeth: 
That due to the higher living cost, persons on Social Service Pensions arefinding it extremely difficult to live in even the most frugal way. 
We therefore call upon the Commonwealth Government to increase the base pension rale to 30 per cent of the Average Weekly Male Earnings for all States, as ascertained by the Commonwealth Statistician, plus supplementary assistance and allowances in accordance with ACTU policy and adopted as the policy of the Australian Commonwealth Pensioners Federation, and by doing so give a reasonably moderate pension. 
Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to bring about the wishes expressed in our Petition: so that our citizens receiving the Social Service Pensions may live their lives in dignity. 
And your Petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
In speaking to the estimates for the Department of Social Services I desire to comment upon what I believe to be the worst feature of an overall very mediocre social service structure. In using the word 'mediocre' 1 am conscious of trie fact that the majority of the Australian public will recognise that I am being most generous to the Government. The matter that greatly concerns me is the scandalous way the Government treats an enderly couple where the wife is not of pensionable age. In such cases these unfortunate frustrated people are expected to exist on a combined weekly income of $15.50. Week after week most honourable members receive inquiries on this matter from aged couples in this terrible position yet this Government during its 20-odd years of continuous office in our so-called prosperous society has consistently ignored appeals from members on both sides of the House to stop imposing this terrible penalty upon aged couples whose only fault, if it can be so called, is the fact that some 30 or 40 years ago when they married the difference in their ages was more than 5 years. 
To illustrate the point more clearly 1 propose to refer to a typical case that came to my notice some time ago where the husband on reaching the age of 65 years was retrenched. He applied for and received an age pension.  His  wife, who was 58i years of age and the mother of 1 0 children, had not worked for wages for almost 40 years. She had no skills other than those of a housewife and mother but she was expected to seek employment in order to ensure that for the next 18 months that she and her husband would be able to exist. Instead of being completely disregarded by the Government and left to fend for herself in the jungle of the unskilled unemployed she should have been immediately granted some government assistance. In fact, a government with any sense of pride or decency would honour rather than humiliate her. 
I am aware that this type of situation has been raised many times in this Parliament. It seems to me - it has even been suggested by some of the Government supporters - that the only reason why no corrective action has been taken is the fear that a small percentage of single pensioners may marry younger women in order to obtain the married couple rate of pension in lieu of the single rate. This type of reasoning is completely unacceptable to me. However, if that is the case, in an effort to offer some kind of compromise solution it is with sincerity that I suggest to the Minister for Social Services and the Government that the Act be amended immediately to make the wife of an age pensioner eligible for a similar pension, together with the fringe benefits, provided that the couple have been married for a period of at least 3 years prior to the date of the husband becoming eligible for the pension. I say this although in my heart I believe that this amendment should not be necessary because the wife should now receive the pension as soon as her husband becomes eligible. 
The House will recall that the Minister for Social Services in his second reading speech on the 1969 Social Services Bill made reference to a survey on poverty in Australia conducted by Professor Henderson and his colleagues in the University of Melbourne. The Minister sought to show by way of a complicated table that pensioners who have no means beyond their pension - the people who are really at the bottom of the income scale - were, in real terms of purchasing power, substantially above the poverty line datum as disclosed by the Melbourne survey. The Minister, of course, made no reference in the table that he presented at that time to the couples in the category to which I am now referring. I challenge the Minister to tell the House just where these people stand in relation to Professor Henderson's 'poverty line' as adjusted to the latest level of the consumer price index. I invite the Minister to take up this important issue during this debate and tell the Committee and the people why the Government continues to keep a small section of the aged people of this community in a position well below the starvation line. 
I have no doubt that if the Minister does reply to me he will endeavour to make a case that one or both of the couple should obtain a part-time job to supplement their social service pittance. This is practicable in some cases but in the majority it is not, especially when the male partner has no particular skills and his wife has not been engaged in industry for some 35 years or more. What employer is likely to employ aged people in these circumstances? Even if one or both of them is able to obtain some employment the means test still keeps them in a position much worse than that of the couple who are both eligible for the pension. As I understand the Act at present, a pensioner couple with no means beyond the pension can earn an additional $17 before the pension is affected, thus making their total weekly income $44.50 a week but where only one of the couple is a pensioner the total allowable income, before the pension is reduced, is still only $17, making a total income including pension of $32.50 a week or SI 2 below that applicable to the pensioner couple. In these special circumstances a simple amendment to the Act could be made to allow such a couple to earn the additional $12 a week and thus put them on par with the pensioner couple. This could be achieved without it costing the Government one additional cent. 
Some aged couples in this category who cannot obtain employment and who happen to own their own small cottage are placed in an impossible position because of the fact that they are not even eligible for supplementary assistance. Some of these people who have approached me can show clearly that out of their miserable pittance of $15.50 a couple a week they must put aside over $4 a week in order to cover their land tax and council and water rates which, in total, almost invariably exceed $210 a year. Added to this is the high cost of urgent and necessary maintenance which most honourable members will realise would be considerable on a 40-year old wood and iron or asbestos cottage. Many of these people spend their aging years in constant fear that the roof may leak or that the plumbing may fail in the sure knowledge that, if these things happen and maintenance is needed, the small amount of money left for food and clothing will almost completely disappear. 
Much has been said and written about the approach of Nazi Germany to the aged and the frail. This approach which consisted mainly of brutal extermination shocked and disgusted the world. Yet today in a rich country like Australia there is this small section of aged people who were among the pioneers of our land and who during their working life readily accepted heavy taxation in the belief that the government of the day would maintain them in a reasonable manner in the twilight of their lives. Instead they now find that they are expected to exist on this small pension income which can only be described as something very much less than is needed to cover the lowest concept of a reasonably plain diet. The subtle Government approach to this serious problem in my view can only be construed as a definite policy designed to shorten the normal life expectancy of these most unfortunate people. The Government must stand condemned for allowing such a tragic situation to continue for so long. I trust that the Minister for Social Services will recognise this injustice and take some immediate steps to rectify it. 
Did the Minister for Trade and Industry tell the House on Monday that the weighted average of freights from Australia to Europe has increased since 1966 by only 4 J per cent? Did  Mr H.  Dean, the  Chairman  of the Australia to Europe Shipping Conference, say the same day that the increase was 7 per cent? Can the Minister reconcile these 2 figures? Does either figure take into account the devaluation of sterling in 1967? If not, will the Minister agree that the actual increase in freight rates has been significantly greater than either he or the  Chairman  suggests. 
J present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the undersigned citizens of South Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That duc to the higher living costs, persons on Social Service Pensions are finding it extremely difficult to live in even the most frugal way. 
We therefore call upon the Commonwealth Government to increase the base pension rate to 30 per cent of the average weekly male earnings for all States, as ascertained by the Commonwealth Statistician, plus supplementary assistance and allowances in accordance with Australian Council of Trade Unions policy and adopted as the policy of the Australian Commonwealth Pensioners' Federation, and by doing so give a reasonably moderate pension. 
Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to bring about the wishes expressed in our Petition: so that our citizens receiving the Social Service Pensions may live their lives in dignity. 
And your Petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for the Interior. 1 remind the Minister of the remarks made by the Prime Minister in this House on Tuesday, 16th February, when he called for the curtailing of expenditure by governments as one of the first lines of attack on rising costs and prices. Having in mind that statement I now ask the Minister: Will he follow the lead given by the South Australian Labor Government and stop for the time being the proposed additions to this Parliament House? If the Minister refuses to take the action called for by the Prime Minister, will he inform the House of the estimated cost of the current Parliament House extensions? 
1 present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and the Members of the House of Representatives in the Federal Parliament assembled: The humble petition of the citizens of South Australia respectfully sheweth: 
The red kangaroo and many other marsupials, through shooting for pet foods and other purposes, have been reduced, to. a numerical level where their survival is in jeopardy. 
It is an indisputable fact that no natural resources can withstand hunting on such a concentrated scale, unless some provision is made for its future. 
We, your petitioners, therefore humbly pray that: The export of all kangaroo products, including pet foods and furs, be banned immediately. And, your petitioners, as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is addressed to the Postmaster-General. It refers to the radio broadcasts covering the pick-up roster for waterside workers, ls the Minister aware that in Adelaide the metropolitan commercial radio stations have discontinued their long-standing arrangement in handling this business because, they claim, during  such broadcasts their listening audience falls away? As a consequence, new temporary arrangements have now been made with 5PI, a regional station, which are most unsatisfactory in regard to both the times made available and the very poor reception during some periods. Could the Minister arrange for these most important broadcasts to be made over the national station at times most suitable to the parties concerned? If this is not practicable, will he confer with his colleagues, the Minister for Labour and National Service and the Minister for Shipping and Transport, with the object of expediting a satisfactory solution to this important problem which, if not resolved, could lead to unavoidable and costly delays in shipping movements? 
My question, which is directed to the Treasurer, is supplementary to that recently asked by the honourable member for Boothby. Did the Treasurer, when speaking yesterday at Wesley Church, Melbourne, say, among other things, that in Australia there appears to be wide scale personal boredom and lack of purpose or acceptance of challenge? If so, I ask: Having regard to the undeniable fact -that the vast majority of this country's manufacturing work force is geared to, and is expected to obtain production schedules based upon achievement in' high volume overseas companies, can it be assumed that the Minister's remarks were directed to that section of high level executive personnel who spend so much of the working week on golf and race courses? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the undersigned electors of the State of South Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That Charles Martin, a 24 year old graduate in Building Technology is in Cadell Prison, in South Australia for failure to comply with the National 
Service Act, an Act which offends the conscience of many electors who are not directly, touched by its provisions. 
That bis failure to comply with the Act was done as a matter of conscience, and that his imprisonment roust therefore cause concern to all electors who oppose the National Service Act, and the decision to send conscripted troops to Vietnam. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will repeal the National Service Act, and cause Charles Martin, and all others imprisoned under it, to be released. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assem bled. The humble petition of citizens of the Division of the Australian Capital Territory respectfully showeth 
That the Australian Capital Territory Pharmacy Ordinances 1931-1959 Section 46, Sub-section (1) states that 'A person shall not publish any statement, whether by way of advertisement or otherwise, to promote the sale of any article as a medicine, instrument or appliance . . . for preventing conception'. 
And that this infringes upon each individual's right as a human being to all available information about contraceptive devices in order to help prevent unwanted pregnancies. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the words 'or for preventing conception' be deleted from Sub-section (1) of Section 46 of the Australian Capital Territory Pharmacy Ordinances. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Labour and National Service and it refers to compulsion, a subject that has been raised consistently in this House. Is it not a fact that in all of the Government's rural legislation that provides for levies to support research, promotion and marketing, such levies become compulsory for all producers in the applicable industry regardless of the conscience and that severe penalties are provided for those who do not pay? If it is true that such is the case, can the Minister explain to the House where in substance this policy differs from the trade union policy of compulsory unionism or preference to unionists? 
I rise to support the amendment .which was so capably moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and to endorse his condemnation of the Budget. In doing so, first of all 1 refer to the fact, that almost all of the Government members who have spoken in this debate up to now - and I do not include the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  who has just spoken - have spent most of their time blaming everyone but themselves for the economic troubles of the country, in spite of the fact that they have been continually in office for some 22 years. This Government with its laissez-faire capitalistic attitude allows free enterprise monopolies, land sharks and finance companies to exploit the community at will, and only when a crisis arises does it acf to overcome a situation which competent planning could have avoided. As usual the Government then proceeds to overcome the ill, in this case mild inflation, at the expense of the working man, the chronically sick aged and those aged most in need. 
There is no question in my mind that this Budget has been tailored unjustifiably to hit wage earners and to create a sizable pool of unemployment as a means of slowing down consumer demand, a measure which, in the view of the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden),  will contain inflation. Apparently neither the Treasurer nor his advisers have learned from overseas experience. Surely they are aware that the conservative governments of the United States of America and Great Britain made the fatal mistake of putting millions out of work in an effort to contain inflation and that these policies have not worked because as unemployment increased so did inflation. The governments in both of these countries now are trying to adjust the economy and reduce unemployment by applying some democratic socialistic measures. As these depressive policies have, not worked overseas I ask the Treasurer why he believes they will work here. 
In the field of social welfare spokesmen for the Government continually assert that its welfare policies are based on the formula of first assisting those most in need. The Treasurer emphasised these words in his Budget Speech, as did the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  in his second reading speech on the Social Services Bill. At every opportunity the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and his predecessor have always claimed that the Government's welfare policies are based on the premise - I repeat it - of assisting those most in need. However, once again in this Budget those most in need are completely forgotten. I refer to people such as a married couple where the wife, because of age, is not eligible for a pension. These couples are still expected to exist on a single pension between them. 
I turn now to the question of the urgent needs of the chronically sick aged people. I propose to quote some pertinent extracts from correspondence addressed to me from the superintendents of 2 non-profit nursing homes in South Australia in the sincere hope that the Government will take heed of the plea for help from the practical experts in this field of health. The first extract is from a letter from the Port Adelaide Central Methodist Mission. It states: 
I wish to register my concern and deep disappointment that the new budget has failed to take cognisance of the needs of chronically sick aged people. 
The Treasurer, in his address, stated that the Government was anxious to ensure that those whose need was greatest should receive prime consideration. Yet no relief whatsoever has been offered to sick aged pensioners apart from the pension increases. In the main these are men and women who have served their country well over a lifetime and just when their need is greatest they have been forgotten by, their Government. 
The second extract is from a letter from the Helping Hand Centre Inc. It states: 
This is a matter of extreme concern to us in South Australia. We- seek your help as a representative of South Australia in ensuring that this matter will be reviewed and some positive action taken. 
I draw the attention of the House to the next paragraph: 
The disregard of the plight of the frail and sick aged people in need of nursing care is something that I cannot understand. It certainly appears to be a callous rejection of the welfare of a section of the population who have been written off as useless because they are no longer productive. 
During recent months Prime Ministers and Treasurers - whoever they have been from day to day - have made many public statements on the state of the economy, and it has become quite clear that most of these speeches, which are all different, have been tailored to tickle the ears and impress the gathering which the speakers are addressing. The ordinary people, the electorate at large, are bewildered. They have become almost punch drunk with this underhand political skulduggery. They cannot understand how the economic situation can so change from day to day, nor can they understand how a government, after more than 20 years in office, can so blatantly excuse itself from any blame when things go wrong. 
The Treasurer in his Budget Speech said We are suffering from cost and price inflation which is gathering pace'. Yet in spite of this in both the present Budget and the one preceeding it the Government increased petrol and postal charges. This action must increase the inflation he is so worried about because rises in these 2 items are not only a direct increase in costs to people with cars, telephones and so on but by virtue of the fact that they are so important and so heavily used by industry and commerce it is elementary that the increases will be passed on to the consumer by way of higher prices. Already this is clearly evident in the important transport industry, where, as a direct result of the Budget air fares and freights have been increased by some 64 per cent which in the final analysis will be borne by the consumer by way of higher prices for goods and services. 
In this debate Government supporters are using the old Goebbels technique of attacking other sections of the community in an endeavour to take the spotlight off the Government's failures. The honourable members for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer)  and Hume  (Mr Pettitt)  are prime examples oi those who use this type of character assassination. They have viciously attacked the members of the Arbitration Commission for being weak and incompetent and they quite wrongly claim that the country's inflationary condition is due entirely to excessive wage increases granted by the Commission. They make these ridiculous claims at the very time their Government's own Bureau of Census and Statistics advises that its figures show that the wage increase for the quarter ended 30th June 1971 was 1.1 per cent - the lowest rise in any quarter for 2 years. 
Furthermore the gross national product,  now $33,00Om, is carved up on the basis of approximately SO per cent going to the 4,500,000 who represent the employees of the total Australian work force and the other 50 per cent going to the 750,000 non-employees. This is the same carve-up as 20 years ago when the number of employees was much fewer. The number of employees in the work force is increasing at a rate which in 3 years' time will see an increase of one million employees compared with 3 years ago. What is more important still is the fact that over the past 15 years the percentage of the total work force who are designated as employees rose from 89 per cent to 91 per cent, yet their share of the gross national product is still the same. In view of the statistics from the Government's own department how can anyone suggest that high wages are the major cause of inflation when the true fact is that the workers' share of the economy is less than it was 15 years ago? lt is worth recording that the honourable member for Hume called for the sacking of members of 'he Arbitration Commission and their replacement by other men. I would remind him that every current member of the Commission with the exception of one was appointed by his own Government and during my time in this place every new appointment has been greeted with acclaim from Government supporters. Government supporters still continue to mislead the public on the concept of wages and prices. They quite wrongly claim that wage, increases are the main springboard for price increases and that the unions are doing a disservice to workers in pursuing higher wage rates. The true facts of course are that decisions of wage tribunals in Australia are based, in the main, on the wage applying at the time of the nearing and its relativity to the appropriate price index, with in some cases a further minute upward adjustment covering any increase in the gross national product. In point of fact in most decisions of the Court where it awards a wage increase it makes a reference in its judgment that the increase so decided is one that, on the evidence before it, should be able to be absorbed by the employer without increasing costs. 
Since arbitration was first introduced into the Australian industrial relations field wage increases, where granted, mainly cover price rises since the previous wage adjustment and anyone who suggests otherwise is either handling the truth carelessly or alternatively knows nothing about the subject. In my view one of the great faults of this Government and its supporters is their inconsistency in dealing with issues which are similar in principle. In many such cases they arrive at their decisions not on the issues involved but on the people involved. For instance, day after day in the House, Government supporters, particularly those from the Country Party, raise the issue of long term low interest loans for the rural sector, and 1 might say 1 commend them for their persistent endeavours to assist the farmer in this period of rural slump. However, last year when the Government meekly allowed the Reserve Bank to raise the general interest rate by one-half of 1 per cent, we on this side of the House requested the Government to reconsider the position because of the fact that this increase would cost the average home buyer something approximately an additional $1 per week, or alternatively it would take him some 5 years longer to pay off his home. It is of interest to recall that every supporter of the Government voted against our proposal. 
That is right. Another issue on which principle is disregarded by Government supporters is on the subject of compulsion - an issue that has been raised quite a lot recently in this House. On the one hand the Government and its members support compulsion in the many Acts requiring levies from the rural sector for research, promotion, marketing, etc., of the product involved. They claim, and in my view rightly so, that all producers in their particular fields, whether it be cattle, pigs, dried fruits or any of the many other fields, have much to gain from the legislation relating to their industry and accordingly they should all pay a levy in proportion to their production to support whatever programme is involved. In effect they obtain compulsion by legislation and they then safeguard this compulsion by prescribing heavy penalties for those who refuse to pay. On the other hand when the same set of rules and the same arguments are advanced by the trade union movement to obtain compulsory unionism or preference to unionists in order that all workers in a particular trade or calling equally share the cost of obtaining the best possible wages and conditions Government supporters completely disregard the principle that they have legislated for in the rural sector and raise the hackneyed cry of conscience and the rights of the individual. 
For some months prior to the Budget the credibility of the Government was understandably at a very low ebb due in the main to the internal fighting and back stabbing within the Liberal Party. This situation has now considerably worsened because of the grim realisation in the electorate that the Budget repudiates so many of the Government's solemn pledges. The Government has reversed the election promise to reduce taxation; it has ignored the pledge to pay special attention to the chronically ill; it has sabotaged the undertaking to establish a national system of kindergarten child minding" centres; it has failed in its social welfare programme to make adequate provision for those most in need; it has forgotten its indication to act on the report of the nation-wide survey on education. The Budget is silent on the promise to establish a rural finance insurance corporation and it makes no provision or indication of a plan or an inquiry into the possibility of establishing a national superannuation scheme. In point of fact it has moved backwards in this area because of its retreat from the easing of the means test in the present Budget. 
The people are well aware of the false claims of the Treasurer that the real purpose of the Budget is to contain price rises because the document itself increases for the second year in succession petrol and postal charges which everyone knows will have a flow-through effect by increasing costs on most other goods and services. The Budget also proposes to increase the cost of pharmaceutical benefits by 100 per cent, television and radio licence fees, customs and excise duties on cigarettes and tobacco products, light dues and air navigation charges. Some of these increases, particularly the last two, will have a similar flow through effect as the petrol and postal charges. Several speakers have made the point that one of the main objects of the Budget is to create a sizeable pool of unemployment in order to contain consumer demand and at the same time quieten union or worker activity. Whilst I agree with this opinion I go further, because it is my belief that for some months now the Government has been moving quietly in this direction. I must admit that in some fields it has already succeeded with this shameful plan because in the metropolitan area of my home state of South Australia the motor industry last week dismissed some 750 skilled tradesmen and the work force of our small but competent local shipbuilding industry is very low when compared with its capacity and in some instances the Government is the guilty party. 
The retrenchments in the motor industry, regardless of perhaps some error of judgment by the employers, are due mainly to the policies of the Government which make it comparatively easy for any of the world's large foreign car producers to ship so much of their excess production into Australia. Surely the Government and its advisers must know that the great art of cheap and efficient mass production in a manufacturing industry such as the motor industry is high volume production. In other words, the more vehicles that can be produced from the one tooling programme, the cheaper the cost. Our Australian car manufacturers, realising this, have tried very hard, with some measure of success, to secure an export market and thus increase the volume of production However, due to the excessive number of -imported vehicles allowed into this country, their anticipated local growth rate has been curtailed drastically. In effect, the action of. the Government increases the cost of the wholly Australian product while at the same time it decreases the cost of the foreign vehicle. It is clear that this type of policy can only mean retrenchments in the Australian industry. I support the amendment. 
My question is also directed to the Minister for Trade and Industry. When did the Tariff Board commence its inquiry into the shipbuilding industry? Has the Board completed its inquiry and, if so, when did the Minister receive its report? In view of the important role that the shipbuilding industry plays in defence and merchant shipping, when can the Parliament expect to receive the report and the Government's decision on that report? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is it true that Australian aid to East Pakistan has been seriously depleted by substantial freight charges on aid being shipped to that country? Is the Minister aware of the offer by the South Australian Branch of the Seamen's Union of Australia to man ships without pay to transport relief aid to that country? Is the Government prepared to accept this generous humane offer, and if so, will the Government approach the Australian National Line and other Australian shipping companies to see whether they will make ships available free of charge for that purpose? 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
How many telephone subscribers in each State and Territory have made official complaints alleging that they have been overcharged over the past 5 years. 
How many of these complaints were justified in each State and Territory. 
What was the amount of. refunds made to these subscribers in each State and Territory over the period. 
Is the Minister for Supply aware that the Engineering Division of Hawker Siddeley Electronics Engineering of Salisbury, South Australia will be completely transferred to Brookvale, New South Wales, by 1st March 1972 and that as a direct result of this, retrenchments of highly skilled tradesmen have already commenced and are expected to continue? Is it a fact that there are vacant positions at various levels within the Weapons Research Establishment at Salisbury which the highly skilled retrenched personnel from Hawker Siddeley are competent to fill? If so, will the Minister take immediate action to fill the vacant WRE positions from the skilled personnel retrenched by Hawker Siddeley? 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
What progress has been made by his Department in the provision of home telephone meters to record the number of calls made from a particular telephone so as to ensure that subscribers are not overcharged. 
Did his Department in. recent years experiment with imported meters; if so, with what result. 
I desire to speak very briefly to the estimates for the Department of Civil Aviation. Unlike other speakers in this debate who have confined their remarks to troubles associated with the siting of Sydney's second airport, I want to address myself to the troubles associated with the Adelaide Airport and in particular to the possible extension of the southern runway across Tapley Hill Road into the area at present occupied by the West Beach Recreation Reserve Trust. In order to inform the House of my concern on this issue I feel that I should briefly explain the history of the West Beach Recreation Reserve Trust. In 1954 the South Australian Government passed the West Beach Recreation Reserve Act which handed over 400 acres of polluted waste land between the western boundary of the Adelaide Airport and the sea to a trust consisting of 3 members each from the West Torrens and Glenelg city councils. These trustees were given the right to appoint an independent  chairman.  The legislation required the trustees to develop a recreation reserve on this waste land, and I feel sure that most people will agree that the trustees' efforts have been outstandingly successful. Eight ovals have been constructed, planted and irrigated on which football, rugby, soccer, baseball, softball, tennis and cricket are played. 
A conservative estimate of the number of persons who play and enjoy these facilities is in the region of 2,000 each week while a further 8,000 to 10,000 spectators enjoy the sports and the environment of this great sporting complex. A pony riding club and a marching girls club also are provided with grounds. Also there is a modern caravan park equipped with 500 power points, planted with lawns, trees and shrubs. This park, which is completely irrigated, has a capacity for 550 caravans, two golf courses have been established, one of championship dimensions and the other a par 3 pitch and putt course. Land also has been leased to a marineland, the Holdfast Bay Yacht Club, the South Australian Sea Rescue Squadron, the Glenelg Baseball Club, the South Australian Catholic Lawn Tennis Association and the Westward Ho Golf Club. 
On 18th May this year, at the request of the trustees, I made representations to the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  requesting his Department not to proceed with the suggested proposal to extend the airport runway into the reserve area as this action would completely destroy the only modern sporting reserve of this type in the Adelaide metropolitan area. The Minister's private secretary replied to me on 24th May advising that the  Minister was  having the matter examined and would be in touch with me as soon as possible. On 2nd June the Minister forwarded to me a copy of his reply to the  Chairman  of the Reserve Trust in which he stated that his Department was only examining the possibility of extending the runway towards the southwest. However at the very time, whilst his exchange of correspondence was proceeding, the Minister's Department was trying to coerce the West Torrens City Council to rezone its mainly industrial suburbs of Hilton, Mile End, Torrensville. Thebarton and Cowandilla to industrial and commercial areas. In other words, the Department of Civil Aviation was endeavouring to use the Council to make a decision contrary to the wishes of its rate-payers, a decision which would be of great assistance to the Department if and when it wished to proceed with the extension of the runway. 
There is no question in my mind,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  that the Department of Civil Aviation tried to use the Council for its own ends, and consequently at this stage I am delighted to be able to report to the Committee that the Council unanimously rejected the Department's proposals. I point out that these residential suburbs referred to were completely built up long before the airport was conceived and they contain many thousands of homes. Whilst I fully realise that this matter is one that concerns mainly the Department of Civil Aviation it is also one that is, or should be, of the utmost importance to the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts  (Mr Howson).  The Committee will recall that the Prime Minister, soon after taking over his high office, appointed a Minister for the Environment in accordance with the election promise of his predecessor. I believe that was the first such appointment in the history of the Federal Parliament. Honourable members are well aware that during the Senate election campaign the then Prime 
Minister made the Government's intentions on this issue very clear when he announced: 
We have taken the decision to set up a Commonwealth Office of the Environment which will be responsible for advising the Commonwealth and recommending to us action that should be taken to prevent or reduce pollution arising out of the activities of any Commonwealth Department or Authority. 
I repeat the concluding words:   . . to prevent or reduce pollution arising out of the activities of any Commonwealth Department or Authority. 
Having regard to this clear charter given to the Department of the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts I confidently expected that during the recent debate on the Estimates for his Department the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts would have grasped the opportunity further to restate his charter, particularly that section that directs him to intervene when the activities of any other Commonwealth department will cause added pollution. I expected him to warn other Ministers that if their departments infringed in this area he would act on the authority given to him. Of course it is now history that he failed to do so. 
It is my understanding,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  that the latest estimates available reveal that only approximately 13 per cent of the Australian population ever travel by air. Yet the Department of Civil Aviation, in order to cater for this small section and also to accede to the demands of the airline companies, is not only prepared but appears eager to continue increasingly to harass and annoy residents living in the built up areas adjacent to our city airports by extending runways to cater for new and larger planes. No thought appears to be given to the added noise and air pollution, and in this particular case even expensive, health giving, pollutionfree sporting fields are no exception. This is remarkable to me. When all is said and done, the taxpayers being harassed by this noise and air pollution in this area comprise part of the people who heavily subsidise the airlines and keep them going, not the 13 per cent of the population which travels in aeroplanes. 
In conclusion I call on the Minister for Civil Aviation to accede to the almost unanimous request of the people of Adelaide and to make an early announcement that the proposal to extend this runway will not be pursued. At the same time I challenge the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts to stand up to his responsibilities and report this matter to the Prime Minister and the Cabinet immediately. 
I ask the Prime Minister: Was his Liberal colleague, the Queensland Treasurer, correct in saying that Brisbane, with 50 per cent of his State's unemployment, was the only local government area in Queensland whose local government authorities missed out on 
Commonwealth unemployment grants? Was  Sir Gordon  Chalk correct in saying that this exclusion was a shabby, unfair deal? Will the Prime Minister, in the light of his colleague's comments, make available Commonwealth grants for the relief of unemployment not only in Brisbane but also in other urban areas which are at present missing out? 
I  present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled the petition of the undersigned electors of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That on 10th December 1948, Australia signed the 'Universal Declaration of Human Rights', Article 25 reads: 'Everyone has the right to security in the event of unemployment, sickness, disability, widowhood, old age and other lack of livelihood in circumstances beyond his control.' 
Yet, 23 years later, in our country of great national wealth and abundance it is to the nation's shame that many thousands of our people live in a state of being inconsistent with the dignity and worth of the human person - languishing in poverty and want, neglect and the lack of proper care necessary for their health and well-being. 
We, the undersigned, respectfully draw to your attention that the conscience of the nation is not at ease while the records of our country show that social services are not comparable with that of other advanced countries administering such services, therefore, we call upon the Commonwealth Government to immediately legislate for: 
Base pension rate - 30 per cent of the average weekly male earnings, all states, plus supplementary assistance and allowances based on a percentage of such earnings. Unemployed benefits equal to the foregoing. 
Completely free health services to cover all needs of social service pensioners - hospitalisation, chronic and long-term illness, fractures, anaesthetics, specialist, pharmaceutical, hearing aids, dental, optical, physiotherapy, chiropody, surgical aids and any other appliances. 
Commonwealth Government to promote a comprenehsive national scheme in cooperation wilh the States and make finance available to provide for the building of public hospitals, nursing and hostel-type homes necessary to effectively meet the special requirements of aged people, in conjunction with a comprehensive domiciliary care programme to enable aged people to stay in their homes. 
Mental illness placed in the same position as physical illness. 
Substantial Commonwealth increase in the $5 subsidy a day per public bed pensioner patient in general hospitals. 
Ten per cent of Commonwealth revenue to local government for general activities which now include social welfare, health, conservation and other community needs. Commonwealth subsidy for the waiving of rates for pensioners. 
Commonwealth Government to increase the non-repayable grant to the States for low rental home units for pensioners. 
Royal Commission or other form of public enquiry into Australia's social welfare structure that Australia may be brought into line with accepted world standards of the most advanced countries. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
At the outset I point out, as every honourable member knows, that I am not a legal man. The point I raise may be covered by some statutory rule in some other field. But I believe that if the Government wants to make this provision relating to  deputy  presidents and arbitrators clear and above suspicion it should insert another clause in the Bill. I do not have the legal training that some honourable members have and the clause I suggest may require drafting in proper legal form, but I ask the Minister to give some consideration to my suggestion in order to make this provision look pure and decent. I would suggest that a suitable clause would read: 
No person who is a shareholder in any industry party to awards covered by this legislation shall be appointed as a deputy president. 
I do not think I need go further than that. I think my suggestion speaks for itself. I am of the opinion, rightly or wrongly, that in the past some judgments in the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission have been given by men who themselves, their spouses or other members of their families have been shareholders in an interested party to the award. I think the Government should give some consideration to my suggestion. 
I ask the Minister representing the Attorney-General a question relating to the church division in the Greek community of Australia wherein some 
Greek priests in this country are not recognised as priests under Greek law. Are marriages performed by these priests, involving Greeks or Australians born of Greek parents, legal marriages under Australian law and does the Australian law legalise registry office marriages between Greeks or Australians born of Greek parents? If so, what action, if any. can the Australian Government take to prevail upon the Greek Government to accept these marriages as legal under Greek law? 
Until this evening I was under the impression that the prime objective of a Conciliation and Arbitration Act was to provide the best possible industrial relations between the work force and the employers of this country. This Bill, particularly in this clause, goes as far as is humanly possible in the opposite direction. I do not want to take up the time of the Committee, but I was intrigued by my friend the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  who based his argument on the. recent dispute which involved the State Electricity Commission in Victoria. The fact is that if this Bill is passed in this form, it will set the scene for similar disputes. Anyone who is aware of what happened in the dispute involving the State Electricity Commission in Victoria knows full well that the dispute continued because the State Government refused to allow the Commission's officers to negotiate a settlement of the dispute with the employers. That is the fact of the case. The dispute would have been concluded earlier but for the intervention of the Victorian Government which, like the Commonwealth Government, wants to stop negotiation. We cannot have a Conciliation and Arbitration Act that cuts off negotiation and passes the matter over to arbitration before proper discussions between the parties have been concluded. 
Tonight we heard the honourble member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  deal with the question of public interest. He is a learned gentleman; he is a lawyer. But I venture to suggest that no-one who heard him tonight had any better idea of what 'public interest' meant when he finished than when he started. He confused the issue right along the line. The fundamental basis of industrial relations is negotiation between the parties. They do not want anyone else there What happens if there is a dispute in a large industry? I will give an illustration. I refer to the time when the Victorian Government and, 1 think, the New South Wales Government passed legislation in respect of long service leave. A challenge was taken to the High Court and later to the Privy Council as to whether those governments had the power to pass the legislation. J belonged to an industry which was associated with employers who had part of their work force in New South Wales, part in Victoria and part in South Australia. 
The situation was that Victoria and New South Wales has passed legislation in respect of long service leave, but anyone in those States who had spent many years in the industry and was getting near to the time when he was entitled to long service leave was promptly transferred to South Australia where the long service leave provisions did not apply. We negotiated with the companies concerned, and eventually agreed that if the Privy Council upheld the union's case that the States' legislation was valid, the companies concerned would apply the same terms and conditions to the people working under exactly the same award in South Australia, Victoria and New South Wales. What is wrong with that? But that could not be done under the sort of legislation we are considering tonight. We return to the old story that we are dealing with human beings on the employer side and on the union side. When all is said and done, most disputes in recent years have been caused by the intervention of the various governments, such as occurred in the dispute concerning the State Electricity Commission in Victoria. If we leave employers and unions to negotiate their troubles betwen them we will find that we will have better industrial relation concepts in Australia. On world standards industrial relations in Australia are pretty good. At least the Bank of New South Wales thinks that is the case because when it advertises overseas for migrants to come to Austeralia it refers to the great industrial relations set-up in Australia. 
A lot has been said this afternoon and this evening about the question of public interest and the situation on the waterfront where the employers and the unions negotiated an agreement which resulted in reduced working hours and increased wages. My friend the honourable member for Moreton said that more people are involved than the 2 parties to the agreement. On his definition of public interest not only the Waterside Workers Federation and the employers are involved in that agreement; many other people in Australia are involved. He amplified that by saying that the agreement would result in increased freights which would rebound on the Australian public in the way of increased prices. 1 am prepared to say that that is possible. But the fact remains that in recent years, because of improved techniques, the output per waterside worker has increased out of sight. If the argument of the honourable member for Moreton is sound, freights should have decreased some years ago because of the reduced work force and increased productivity. But he is not interested in that; he says that public interest does not come into that. If the Government really wants to perfect an industrial relations concept in Australia, I suggest that it could write the Conciliation and Arbitration Act on the back of an envelope and trust to the goodwill and decency of both sides in the industrial field. 
Can the Minister for Shipping and Transport say whether the Government had let it be known that a statement was to be made to the Parliament this morning on the Tariff Board report on shipbuilding? If so, can he explain why this report is not being presented today, having in mind that the Board presented its report to the Government on 12th June 1971, some 50 weeks ago? 
I ask the Prime Minister a question concerning representation at the Constitutional Convention next year and the associated steering committee. The right honourable gentleman commendably has sought to ensure representation of all political groups from the Commonwealth and the 6 States. Will he intercede in his own Party to ensure that both' factions in his South Australian branch - that is, those led by  Dr Eastick  and  Mr Steele  Hall - are represented? 
I wish to associate myself with the remarks made by the previous speakers and to offer my brief but sincere tribute to the late Jack Mortimer who to me had all the qualities of a real man.  His  approach to life was based on honesty and tolerance and he was highly respected by all who knew him. In normal circumstances Jack Mortimer would still have been a member of this Parliament. He lost his seat in the big swing against his Party in 1966 although the swing against him personally represented the smallest percentage of swing of all South Australian Labor held seats. This clearly vindicates the oft repeated statement that in his day Jack Mortimer was the best Labor stalwart in the country districts of South Australia. I extend my deepest sympathy to  Mrs Mortimer  and her family. 
I direct a question to the Prime Minister. At the Consitutional Convention to be held later this year is it still proposed to ensure representation of all political groups from the Commonwealth and the 6 States? If so, which of the 2 fighting factions of the Libera] Party in South Australia will officially represent that Party? Is it intended to invite both groups and thus run the risk of the Convention being turned into a blood bath? 
by leave- I present the report of the Australian delegation to the 60th Inter-Parliamentary Union Conference held in Rome from 21st September to 29th September 1972. The Conference was attended by 526 members of Parliament, in addition to 184 advisers, Clerks of Parliament and group secretariats. The United Nations Organisation, the International Labour Organisation, the World Health Organisation, the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation and various other world groups also were represented. It is not my intention during these few remarks to canvas all of the issues which were discussed at the Conference because they are all fully covered in the report itself. However, I commend the report to honourable members and I trust that they will find time to read and study it. 
I welcome the opportunity publicly to express my thanks to the other members of the Australian delegation, namely, the leader  Mr Jess,  Messrs Fitzpatrick and Hallett and Senators Kane, Poyser and Rae for their help and comradeship during the whole period of the Conference. I also report that the delegation played an active role in all of the deliberations of the Conference, both in the committee stages and in the Conference generally. I feel that it is fair to say that on a pro rata delegate basis Australia's contribution was at least equal to that of any other country represented. 
I report to the Parliament that the Conference approved of an application from East Germany for membership of the Union. Every member of the Australian delegation voted in support of this proposal. On behalf of the delegation I express our sincere thanks to the Australian Ambassador in Rome,  Mr Malcolm  Booker, and to  Mrs Booker  for the kindness and generosity extended to lis at all times. I also wish warmly to thank the secretary of the delegation,  Mr Roy  Bullock, O.B.E., and the counsellor,  Mr Gordon  Miller, for their courtesy, help and co-operation. They both cheerfully performed many duties well outside their particular responsibilities. In fact, they appeared to work, and work extremely well, on the old basis of 'the difficult things we do immediately, but the impossible takes a little longer'. Finally, to the Parliament and the people of Italy, our host country, I extend on behalf of the whole Australian party our everlasting grateful thanks for their wonderful hospitality and for the efficient manner in which they organised and conducted the conference. I move: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I ask the Minister for Labour: Is he aware of the contents of a recent speech made in the South Australian Parliament by the Liberal member for Alexandra, wherein he stated that the ideal way to increase industrial production is to stand workers down and let them go hungry for a while? If so, does the Minister agree that this type of Liberal-Country Party argument  would only worsen industrial relations and thus decrease industrial efficiency? Does the Minister believe that it would be in the interests of Australia to turn the clock back to the age-old English custom of working infant labour in the mines and that we should do away with the policy of full employment, working under arbitrated award conditions, and replace it with contract or sub-contract labour not covered by workers compensation, sick leave or annual leave? Will the Minister agree that this type of argument is completely contrary to all International Labour Organisation conventions and, if adopted, would not only create undreamed of industrial unrest and consequent decreased production but also would be looked upon with disgust by the United Nations and its affiliated member countries? 
Is the Minister for Urban and Regional Development aware that the New South Wales Minister for Decentralisation has stated that the policies of the Federal Government are aimed against decentralisation? If so, is this statement correct? 
My question is also directed to the Minister for Minerals and Energy. Has the Minister examined the interests held in Australia and overseas by the Australian Mining Industry Council? If so, what are the results of his investigation and can he say what are the activities of the members of the Council? 
I ask the Minister for Social Security whether he has seen the pamphlet being circulated by the honourable member for Boothby and the advertisements appearing in his name which seek to implant a belief that our promise of free hospital care in standard wards of public hospitals is false and that this type of care would cost, according to one advertisement, $49 a week and according to the other $119 a week. Will the Minister inform the House of the true situation as there are many concerned people in South Australia who are worried about the honourable member's scare stories? 
I ask the Minister for Minerals and Energy: What is the present availability of bunkering fuel for shipping to and from Australia? 
Will the Minister for Labour inform the House what action, if any, he has taken to avert the threatened close-down of all domestic airlines arising from a demarcation dispute between the Federal Transport Workers Union and the Transport Workers Union of New South Wales? 
