-I ask the Minister for Education and Science a question about the marine institute which it is proposed to establish at Townsville. Will the institute deal solely with studies of the Great Barrier Reef, or will its studies cover all matters of marine biology? Will it co-operate with similar institutes throughout the world? 
J would like to congratulate the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  on his speech, although I myself certainly cannot agree with a lot of the things he said. It is obvious that he has done his homework and that his materia] was well thought out. I wish him well through some of the stormy passages, especially in the realm of defence, that I can see him encountering later. I also wish to commend the Government on the manner in which it is implementing legislation to fulfil election promises and other matters referred to in the GovernorGeneral's address. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  may call it a flurry of legislation if he wishes, but I feel he would have some real cause for complaint if the Government had been lax in presenting this legislation. As it is, in the way I see it, the Government is proving to the people in the shortest time possible that it is a responsible government which will honour its election promises. 
Tonight there are 2 matters I wish to speak about which I feel are of vital importance to the people of Australia and which, in my opinion, should receive high priority attention. I direct my remarks to all members of the House, and in particular to the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes),  the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  and the Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes).  The first matter is the possibility of an increase in drug abuse and the illegal traffic of drugs throughout our country. Within recent months I doubt whether there would be many people who have not read or beard that the use of illegal drugs has reached epidemic proportions in the United States of America and Great Britain and many other countries of the world. I feel that it would be extremely foolish of us if we failed to realise that Australia too could become equally susceptible. Even though we may enjoy the distinct advantage of geographical isolation in this matter, it is because of this and because of the diligence of our health authorities that we do not experience the problems of smallpox, yellow fever and such diseases. Yet the illegal entry of drugs into our country is another problem altogether and one which could be effected quite simply by callous, brutal and determined men. I do not think I need enlarge on the fact that our tremendous length of coastline could assist this operation. I know that our health authorities and our customs authorities have already launched a nationwide campaign against drug abuse, but I am firmly of the opinion that, with our scattered population, it is physically impossible for our Federal authorities and our State Health and Police Departments to cover every avenue which this illegal traffic may flow through. 
The answer to this is not a simple one, but I feel there is' an answer which will mean a lot of patience, hard work and the co-operation of parents, teachers, our own youth and in fact all those people and organisations who have regular and close contact with our young people. The answer can' be summed up in one word and that is 'education'. In this regard, we must be prepared to learn from the mistakes that have been made overseas. Let us face it. Many mistakes have been made, and possibly one of the greatest has been a failure to recognise that no single class of people is immune to this new menace. I call it a new menace' even though the taking of drugs in some form or another has persisted throughout the ages. I cannot recall throughout my readings of history any era where the misuse of drugs reached such proportions as it has at the present time. 
While we may consider that ihe illegal use of drugs is not a major concern in Australia at the moment, nobody has convinced me that it could not become so in the future, and I am sure that everyone will agree that this must be prevented, no matter how much effort is involved. From all the accounts I have studied over the last 7 months, it is the youth of the nation who are most susceptible to this detrimental influence. It undermines their moral fortitude and destroys them mentally and physically. I feel that we must remember it is the youth of today who will be the leaders of this great country of ours tomorrow. I say that there is not one of us who would not like to see our Australian youth mature into healthy, vigorous, clearthinking adults. In my opinion, no efforts should be spared to protect them from this shocking menace. 
There are many reasons why our young people become involved in the misuse of drugs. It could be because of an unhappy home environment, the pressure of intense study, the urge to try something different, or it could be as a reaction against authority, just to name a few reasons. As I mentioned previously, no single class is immune. Probably one of the greatest contributing factors is ready access to the illegal drug market, and this is the point of my discussion which really disturbs me. Drug abuse follows no fixed pattern. I fully realise that this makes detection and prevention extremely difficult but there must be an answer. While I know that our narcotics investigators, both State and Federal, are constantly on the alert to combat this menace, I am convinced that a great responsibility falls on the parents and teachers to assist in this matter. Unfortunately, there are a great number of parents who will not be convinced that their children could become involved in this unhealthy business but, whether the children become innocent victims or not, unfortunately it ls only grim experience that makes such parents realise that they had the wrong outlook. 
Unfortunately, again there are so many people who could supply information regarding this illegal traffic but who, for some reason or other, refuse to do so. There are parents who think that their children would receive some notorious publicity which would be detrimental to their future, others who think they may become involved and, worst of all, the parent who thinks that if the knowledge that his son or daughter had used the drug marihuana leaked out it would adversely affect him socially and in business. These people must be made to realise that the knowledge they may possess would assist all the youth in the community and that there is no personal publicity given to individual cases unless they wish it to be so. 
Speaking of people withholding knowledge of this evil business, I was amazed to read quite recently that  Dr Wainer  of Melbourne had claimed he had proof that the drug cannabis was being grown by some Italian cane farmers in the Ingham district of north Queensland and that these same farmers were being stood over by members of some organisation and were being forced to grow this rubbish, which was eventually distributed on southern illegal drug markets. He stated that these were not just wild claims but that he could prove them. Surely the right and proper thing to do would have been to inform the authorities immediately this information became available if the doctor believed it to be fact. 
I fail to understand why  Dr Wainer  made his claims through the Press instead of first approaching the authorities, unless of course he desired the publicity that it got. The Ingham district is part of my electorate. I have known quite a number of Italian farmers for many years, and I can assure the doctor that in my book they are responsible citizens who are greatly respected throughout the district. This statement that he made has upset them considerably, and they would desire nothing better than to have his claims investigated and cleared up completely. I would say to the doctor that the right and proper thing to do, after making such a statement, would be to inform the authorities immediately. If he does not wish to become involved with the authorities, he can give me the information and I will guarantee to act upon it quickly and without any mucking about. I am perfectly willing to make a special trip to Melbourne to gain this information in order to clear this matter up, if  Dr Wainer  desires. 
If only people could see the actual result of a fine young person who has become an addict of drugs after graduating from the so-called soft drugs to the bard drug:, I am sure that they would think twice abou, withholding even the slightest piece of information which may assist the authorities to destroy this evil. It has been claimed in some quarters that the so-called soft drugs such as marihuana and pep pills are not harmful or habit forming. I have no medical knowledge to support me when I speak of this matter, but I do know after reading articles over the past 7 months that over 90% of our young people who are addicted now to the hard drugs such as heroin, opium or morphine say that they started on soft drugs. There are some people, including men with medical knowledge, who state that marihuana should be legalised. Even some of our own countrymen, including two of our senators, believe that it would not be harmful to legalise this drug. What amazed me last week was that the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  gave this a passing glance during his maiden speech and said that marihuana should be legalised. This amazes me. 
I would say that, before they really go off half cocked on this matter, they should be reminded that there is no known authority which can state with any certainty that this drug has no bad after effects, even though medical authorities in a number of countries have been studying this question for years. I have here a publication from the University College in London which states: 
Subjects with chronic cannabis psychosis continued to have vertigo and disturbance of balance as well as auditory hallucinations for some weeks after the initial hallucinations had disappeared. 
Finally, these findings are given in London: 
. 95% of heroin addicts started their acquaintance of drugs with cannabis. 
So, let us hear no more nonsense about legalising this rubbish, for goodness sake. 
Previously, I spoke about the ready access to illegal drugs. With regard to this, the people who have become addicted, whether it is by their own choice or not, have my sympathy. It is a frightful experience to see them withdrawing from a bout of drug taking. I have not seen really hard cases. But what I have seen is enough for me. The people - or, should I say, monsters - who supply the drugs in the first place will never get a pat on the back from me. On the contrary, I sincerely believe that they should be punished as harshly as possible. I say that these ruthless, callous and - I call them - vile individuals who deal in human misery are the ones whom I would seek to destroy. The original sources of supply down to the lowest, meanest pedlar represent a channel of complete and utter human misery. The people who control and distribute this misery deserve the harshest penalties of the law. 
Let us have a look at how harsh the laws are that can deal with these characters. We read where a person was found with marihuana in his possession and, according to the evidence, was prepared to peddle this rubbish. He was fined $250. He probably paid the fine out of his fob pocket, having no need to touch his wallet to pay such a miserable fine for such a grave offence. The week before last, we read of a drug pedlar, 19 years of age, who appealed against the severity of a 4 year gaol sentence for peddling marihuana, dexamphetamine, morphine and methadome Fortunately, he lost the appeal. God knows how many people this character had helped along the road to despair, misery and degradation, and the law can stop his activities for 4 years only. 
Imposing fines on these people for conducting their harmful practices is 'somethingnothing'. They can afford to pay and to laugh while they are paying, knowing full well that they can leave the court and continue their deadly business to regain the loss of money paid in fines. People thieve because they are in need or are too lazy to work and want to make a quick dollar. Most murders are committed in moments of extreme emotion or sheer callousness. But the animals, who unfortunately have the right to be called human brings and who supply and peddie drugs to anyone and everyone they can, can be classed as executioners who condemn hundreds of normal healthy young people to a painful, miserable and lonely death which may take years to eventuate. Taking money from them in fines does not stop this traffic one little bit. So 1 suggest that we take their freedom and their rights as citizens. I suggest that we keep them apart from the society that they seek to destroy for the sake of money and an easy life. To add to my suggestion, 1 would request that this Government, in conjunction with State governments, considers making the minimum sentence 10 years without the option of a fine and with no parole period for such offences. 
It is my firm belief that only this type of punishment will serve as a deterrent to those criminals who would endeavour to make a lucrative business by dealing in human misery. Thinking along the lines that prevention is better than cure. I suggest that this Government again in co-operation with the State authorities expands the present drug education scheme in order that all parents, teachers, our Australian youth - in fact everybody - are familiar with the problems of the misuse of drugs and the shocking results that this habit can produce. Finally,  I  would appeal to all those people throughout the Commonwealth who think that they may have some information to offer which would assist the authorities to prevent this menace from spreading throughout our communities to please pass on their information. There is no need for them to become involved. Any information, no matter how small, may be the means to keep this dirty business away from Australia. [Quorum formed.] 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Gun)  adjourned. 
House adjourned at  11.8 p.m. 
I address a question to the Minister for Customs and Excise. Last Tuesday evening during the AddressinReply debate I suggested that those ruthless characters who illegally peddle drugs should receive a minimum sentence of 10 years without the option of a fine and with no parole period. Firstly, is the Minister satisfied with the penalties administered by the courts at present and, secondly, will he give consideration to my suggestion? 
I ask the Prime Minister a question. During the recent conference of the Advancement of Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders League statements in the Press quoted the Federal  President  of the Australian Labor Party,  Senator J.  Keeffe, as saying that some Federal parliamentarians had been discreetly instructed to divide the Aboriginals. Will the Prime Minister order a thorough investigation into the allegations made by the senator? In the interests of the Australian people will the right honourable gentleman endeavour to persuade  Senator Keeffe  to announce publicly the names of the Federal parliamentarians whom he claims to be involved, as I feel that his statement casts a distinct slur on the integrity of every member of this Federal Parliament? 
 - Is the amendment seconded? 
Has the Minister for the Army seen a letter published in the Melbourne 'Age' on 29th April from an ex-national serviceman who claims that Australian troops razed an entire village in South Vietnam during 'Operation Ainslie' in August 1967? Are the allegations correct? ff so, what were the circumstances? 
I rise on a matter which, to me, is of extreme importance and in which I have spoken many times before in this House, namely, the age pension. I have been reared in a hard school and I reckon I have seen my share of hardship and suffering. In the normal course of living such experience should probably harden a person's feelings towards the distress of others, but I find that J. am unable to disregard the enforced conditions in which so many of our older citizens exist. These people are fellow Australians. They are as much Australians as is every member of this House, and the aged persons in the category I speak of tonight are probably more entitled to be called good Australians than many of us. 
The Universal Declaration of Human Rights states that everyone has the right to a standard of living adequate for the health and well being of himself and ot his family, and the right to security in the event of old age and other circumstances beyond his control. I submit that the event of growing old is most certainly beyond anyone's control. Why then should so many of our elderly citizens be discarded because age has dictated that their useful productive life has finished? Why should they be forced to exist under conditions which they would never have tolerated in their earlier years when they had the strength and the physical ability to battle circumstances? The elderly people I speak of are mainly those who reared their families during the depression years; who, because of circumstances beyond their control, fought every inch of the way for years in order to feed, clothe and educate their children in a world that at that time was sick with poverty; who, many times denied themselves food so that their children could eat: who would have given anything within their power to have owned their own homes; and who worked 44, 48 and more hours a week at their jobs to earn a meagre living - and when I say worked, I mean worked, not just filled in the hours, because at that time there were 6 men ready to fill 4 men's jobs. 
I know many men who displayed exceptional courage during World War II, but I know many more men and women who displayed even greater courage during the depression years; for their type of courage was both physical and moral, and the odds against them were consistently present. These are the people I mean when I talk of age pensioners. The society in which we live today has been classified as an affluent society. There is work for everyone who can work. Our development as a nation is expanding as never before, and will continue to expand. When we talk of our economy we express it in thousands of millions of dollars. All this is good and full credit should be given to the Government for reaching this desirable state, but what of the old timers who helped up reach this situation? In my opinion if their efforts during their working lives had not been productive we could not have made it as we have done at present. 
This thought leads me to express my contempt for those people of a younger generation who classify the age pensioners as a drag on the community, a bunch of nohopers and damned old nuisances. I have heard these expressions uttered. Others airily dodge the pension problem by suggesting that these people should all be put in homes. For some people it is easy to forget that if it was not for the work done by the older generation they would not be enjoying the life they lead today. In case they have not thought of it, I remind them that one day they, too, will be old people. 
Another problem associated with the age pension which 1 fail to understand is the situation that exists where a man has married a lass some 6 to 10 years younger than himself. When he reaches the pensionable age of 65 years his wife has not reached her pensionable age of 60 and consequently we find them trying to live on his pension pki* his wife's allowance. Some 12 months ago when I mentioned this to an officer of the Department of Social Services he said that there was nothing to stop the wife from working. This was an answer that I did not appreciate because it does not take much thought to realise that there would be very few people who would employ a woman in her late fifties even if she were capable of working after devoting most of her life to rearing a family. I feel that there is a definite need to have a look at this situation also. 1 have watched age pesioners in my electorate, prior to my coming to this House and during my term here, working out their budgets, in some instances I have assisted them with this task. Honourable members can believe me when I say that after such a task I was not the happiest of men. In fact, it is an extremely depressing business. I make this request: Let us take politics out of the age pension problem. Let us allot the pensioners an amount that is real and reasonable and do away with the handout we give them each Budget - a sum, which in the final analysis, amounts to something nothing. The care of our aged people is a government responsibility and the present Government is to be commended for the assistance it has provided so far - assistance such as medical service and free medicine, cuts in television and radio licence fees and telephone accounts, reduced fares on pub'ic transport and the easing of the means test. 
 I ask the honourable member to listen. When one realises that about 70% of our pensioners rely completely on the pension they receive, which is $15 to $17 a week, one must realise that few of these people would have television sets or telephones or would bc capable of travelling very much. The subsidy granted by the Government for Meals on Wheels is also of valuable assistance, but there is a limit to what Meals on Wheels can do for aged people. I believe that in assessing these problems we have started at the wrong end. I was solidly behind the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  when he said that his concern was for the aged and the needy, for this is as it should be. I am hopeful that the Government will go down in history as the government which recognised and gave justice to its elderly citizens who contributed so much to the affluent society we now enjoy. 
These aged people do not need much. All I ask for them is enough to live out their lives with dignity; enough to ensure that they can afford 3 meals a day; enough to know that they can meet their rent or rates without depriving themselves of food or clothes to do so; and enough so that they can maintain their self respect and independence. I ask that in the next Budget we share with them the prosperity of this nation which they have helped to create. 
My question is directed to the Minister-in-Charge of Aboriginal Affairs.. With regard to the offer made by 
Comalco Holdings, at present mining bauxite at Weipa, will the local Aboriginals in that district be allowed to participate? 
My question is directed to the Postmaster-General. How long is the public of Australia to be inconvenienced by the go slow tactics and 24 hour stoppages by members of the Union of Postal Clerks and Telegraphists? Further, did the Minister meet the  President  and Secretary of the Union at any time last week? If so, what was the result of these discussions? 
Has the Ministerin.Charge of Aboriginal Affairs seen a statement made by  Mrs Kath  Walker, as reported in the Brisbane 'Courier-Mail' of Tuesday this week, in which she claimed thai the Minister and the Minister for Conservation, Marine and Aboriginal Affairs in Queensland had disregarded the decisions made by the Townsville conference on Aboriginal affairs at its recent meeting? I was under the impression that this conference was an outstanding success and; that the decisions reached were of value. I ask: Did the Minister disregard these decisions and. if so, I would certainly like to know why? 
The Minister for National Development will recall a question being asked in this House recently regarding a paper which was to be presented to the Management Symposium on Ecology, Technology and Resources by some officers of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission. Has this paper yet been presented? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Defence. Recently General Dynamics reported that it bad overcome the problems associated with the Fill aircraft and that it could not understand why Australia had not taken delivery of these aircraft. Is there any substance in this report? 
Regardless of what else this year's Budget has done, it has at least highlighted the extent of the liaison between the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. To my mind the people of Australia should be told of this backstage relationship, which I predict will prove to be detrimental to the best interests of the country. The Leader of the Opposition may deny this relationship as much as he wishes, but I will never be convinced that he did not assist in engineering last Tuesday's fiasco of Budget protest rallies and anti-Budget strikes to serve as a backdrop to his on-stage performance that night. But the people of Australia are not fools. It is my opinion that the Leader of the Opposition and his partner,  Mr Hawke,  will be called to account for the tremendous loss in wages and productivity caused by their selfish and irresponsible actions, which can only be described as a political stunt. 
On Tuesday night last we heard the Leader of the Opposition - and since then we have heard other members of the Opposition - try to convince the people of Australia that the Opposition's ideas of economic management are better than those of the Government. The Leader of the Opposition was even prepared to go to the people on the Budget issue. I have no doubt that he was hoping that the Opposition's real ideas on economic management would be clouded or hidden in the confusion of an election campaign. I take this opportunity to remind the people of Australia of the hidden issues in the policy of the Australian Labor Party on the financial management of this country. I shall quote some of the planks of its platform. One of the Australian Labor Party's major aims is to clothe the Commonwealth Parliament with unlimited powers and with the duty and authority to create States possessing delegated constitutional powers. Secondly, it seeks the nationalisation of banking, credit and insurance, monopolies, shipping and sugar refining. Thirdly, it seeks to introduce a capital gains tax which would be paid by those who benefit from the sale or revaluation of assets or issues of bonus shares. I have picked out those 3 planks of the Australian Labor Party's platform to give an indication of its intentions. I could go on quoting items from the constitution and rules of the Australian Labor Party which are, in my opinion, all designed to destroy financial freedom, incentive and ambition of the individual. This Parliament would then become the supreme central power and when the Australian Labor Party said 'give' everybody would have to give and give heavily with no redress. This is the intentions of a Party which is trying to argue about economic management. This is our alternative government whose ideas on financial management appear to belong to the dream time. 
I noticed in the Budget Speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  that there is to be an increase of $12m in drought relief to Queensland. This money will be most welcome. However, one aspect which worries me considerably is how the distribution of this finance is to be managed? I presume the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  will lay down certain conditions and then leave it to the State Government to implement them. I understand that this is the normal procedure. In his Budget Speech the Treasurer stated that the Commonwealth would make payments to wool growers based on the fall in their gross proceeds from wool between 1968-69 and 1969-70 beyond a certain percentage. Does this mean that a wool grower who lost all his stock because of the drought and had no clip in 1968-69 or 1969-70 would be entitled to some payment to assist him? I sincerely hope it does because there are properties in western Queensland which have had no relief from drought conditions for over 5 years. At the moment there are thousands and thousands of acres of land which are completely bare- not even a clump of grass is growing on them. There is no stock in these desolate areas. People have had to leave their properties in these areas. There is no bird life or wild life. Even the ants have gone. These have been my observations in the last 6 weeks. 
There have been instances where growers, including elderly people, have spent their life savings to hand feed their stock in the hope that there will be a change in conditions and have borrowed from banks and pastoral firms, such as the Australian Mercantile Land and Finance Co. Ltd, to continue hand feeding until these 2 sources of borrowing have had to call a halt also. lt is to the credit of the banks and the pastoral agencies that they have lent as much as possible to help the grower, but he has still had to watch his stock die. A lot of growers have left their properties; they have had to walk off them. These people are now working in the coastal towns. We have some in Townsville and there are some in the Burdekin area. They are working as taxi drivers, labourers or in any work they can get. A number of business people in the inland towns have also been badly affected and have had to close down. For example, half of the shops in Winton have closed. The future is not bright for these people and for this once important and thriving industry. This is not fantasy; it is hard cold fact. I sincerely hope that the people who have been through this experience will be seriously considered when the conditions of drought relief are discussed. 1 mention these things because I also feel that an industry rehabilitation or reconstruction programme should be commenced now. I have heard some reference to such a programme in speeches which have been made by the Minister for Primary Industry. I have also heard references to a reconstruction programme in the speeches of some of the supporters of the Australian Country Party. A lot of the properties which have been affected by drought will have to be reseeded and restocked when conditions change. This will be no easy task. A lot of people are under the impression that Australia's mineral wealth will take up any economic slack caused by the drought. I can assure those people that we will still be depending on our primary industries for quite a while to come. All . that is needed is for another country to discover the minerals which we have and produce them at less cost than we can produce them, which would not be very difficult, and we have lost our minerals market. With our wool industry in the state in which it is in at present we could be in serious trouble economically if this were to happen. So again 1 ask that a rehabilitation programme be commenced at once to rebuild the once great wool industry in our drought affected areas. If I had my way 1 would make it compulsory for every member of this House to visit these areas and see the conditions for themselves. I do not have the words to describe the desolation which is in these areas at the moment. 
Speaking of primary industry prompts me to mention another section of the industry which could become a problem in the very near future. I speak of the cattle industry. I understand that our cattle population is greater now than it has ever been although a number of cattle properties have been as seriously affected by drought, as have some sheep properties. This leads me to believe that a large number of cattle are being raised by people other than graziers. Farmers with land to spare could purchase store cattle and fatten them for sale to either pastoral firms or meat works. There is nothing wrong with doing this. What bothers me is what will happen when conditions change and the properties which are drought stricken at present are producing cattle again. 1 hope we have learned from the problems of overproduction in the last few years when, for one reason or another, demand for our products on the world's markets has eased. I hope we have learned from the economic strife that is caused in sections of rural industry when this happens. At present the meat industry looks as though it will remain stable for some time but I would again pose the question: What happens when present drought conditions change and the western properties are again in full production? So I suggest that the executive of the cattle industry keep the situation under close scrutiny. If control of the industry becomes necessary, let it be controlled to avoid any economic upheaval and to preserve the industry's stability. 
I have no doubt that the Budget is designed to combat inflationary trends in the economy. I am confident that it will achieve this purpose. But there is one aspect of the Budget that 1 must question. Since I made my maiden speech in this House I have advocated the provision of a higher standard of living for our senior citizens. I will not cease campaigning on behalf of these people. As most honourable members know, I have taken it upon myself to establish an aged persons nursing home in my electorate, where such accommodation is badly needed. 
In the electorate of Herbert in northern Queensland. This was not an easy task and T was not overjoyed when I heard that pensioners were to receive an increase of only 50c per week in the Budget. No doubt 50c is better than no increase, but the people who depend on their pensions for survival will have to spend the 50c on food, clothing and shelter and I am afraid that the increase soon will be swallowed by the next adjustment to the cost of living. These people, who helped to build Australia into the great affluent country it is today, deserve to be treated with respect, dignity and compassion. I appeal to the Government to review the whole pension scheme. Even if it is at the cost of some other section of the community, let us place our senior citizens on a standard of living which will allow them to live without worrying whether they can afford enough food to eat and enough clothes for their body or whether they can meet increased commitments for rent and rates. 
I am confident that the Budget will meet the requirements it is designed to meet - that is, to keep the economy stable. Regardless of how the Opposition may attack the Budget, which is its job as an Opposition, the overall economic situation of the country will the better for this Budget. I believe that a Budget is compiled to balance the nation's economy for the ensuing 12 months. A study of our economic development in the last 20 years proves that this has been done by successive Liberal-Country Party governments. It will continue to be done as long as those Parties occupy the Treasury bench. But it is becoming more and more apparent each year that members of the Opposition are trying to create the impression that a Treasurer should be cast in the role of Santa Claus and that Budget time each year is gift time. They perform like disappointed children if they do not get the expensive presents to which they think they are entitled. I am afraid that a rude shock awaits them if ever by some unfortunate mischance those who sit opposite are able to form the government. 
I commend the Treasurer for the overall job he has done on the Budget. I will have no part of the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition. I conclude my remarks this afternoon by looking in retrospect at the protest rallies and strikes of last Tuesday. If the Leader of the Opposition will accept a warning from one such as I, I would say to him: Take care my dove or the hawk will get you. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Services and Minister-in-Charge of Aboriginal Affairs. I refer to the wolfram deposits in the Banks Island group which are worked in a small way by the Torres Strait islanders. I know that the Queensland Government is concerned to improve the situation for the islanders and has asked the Commonwealth Government for advice and possible assistance. Can the Minister tell me whether the Commonwealth Government will help and, if so, what is the present situation? 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
Mow many employees of the Australian Broadcasting Commission have made overseas visits on official business in the past 2 years. 
Was the purpose of each visit related to (a) current affairs programmes, (b) news progammes, (c) management purposes or (d) other purposes. 
What was the cost of these visits as they related to (a) current affairs programmes (b) news programmes and (c) management purposes. 
IX overseas visits were made to obtain material for current affairs programmes, how many people went on each trip and what were their individual functions. 
Does the Commission maintain resident stall's at various centres throughout the world. 
If so. where are they based and what are their functions. 
Order! The Ministers lime has expired. 

 Mr REYNOLDS (Barton) 15.5]- The views of the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  on Communism and international affairs are far too well known for me to take up lime now in dealing with his most recent puerile statements. But I put it to honourable members: If your Party had introduced a Budget that offered pensioners a slap in the face of 50c a week, would you not be looking for some kind of escape route, some kind of alternative, about which  io  talk rather than social services? I do not intend to speak at length on social services because, as the Minister rightly said - this was one of the things which he did say correctly - Bills will be introduced seeking to provide these new social service benefits and of course an opportunity to debate this subject will be presented when the estimates for the Department of Social Services are before the Committee. 
I wish to assure the Minister of this: No amount of conjuring with figures by the Minister will ever convince pensioners that the Budget increase of 50c a week was anything but a slap in the face to them. Equally unconvincing are bis comparisons with previous rates that applied 21 years ago, almost a quarter of a century ago. Surely pensioners as well as other people in the community are entitled to participate in the improvements in our economy in that time. The Minister gave the lame excuse that the health plan will be behind the Government next year and then it will be able to resume its social services programme. The health plan will bc behind the Government? 1 thought the Government still had a monumental task io face up to as far as its health programme was concerned. What about the provisions for hospitalisation, costing millions of dollars, if the Commonwealth is to do something about them? What are the other alternative demands on the Commonwealth in this period in respect of education? Did the Minister not read in this morning's Press a release by the New South Wales Minister for Education stating that Australia will require Si, 443m in extra funds over the next 5 years if the proper needs of education are to be met? What about all of these demands? 
The Minister tries io justify the increase to pensioners of 50c a week. What is 50c? It is 7c a day with an extra lc on Sunday. Now, 7c is the price of a newspaper. The extra lc added to that 7c on Sunday will not buy even a Sunday newspaper. This increase of 7c a day is hardly more than half the price of a pint of milk. That is the increase that has been handed out io pensioners when companies are making profits of between 555m and $58m in this country. 
The only real lest as far as pensioners are concerned is: How well are pensioners doing today compared with retired people in other countries of the world and how well are they doing today compared  with  other people in the community - wage and salary earners, business people and the like? This is the only real test: What can pensioners buy with their pensions? I assure the Minister that pensioners are far from happy about this increase. I have a resolution from one of the pensioner branches in my electorate. It says in part: 
This Branch wishes to register our contempt of the Federal Government for the blatant insult handed out in respect of the miserable 50c pension increase in the 1970 Budget. It would seem that this matter indicates that pensioners are expendable in the eyes of the Gorton Government. 
I suppose that that resolution is as straight to the point as anything could be as to what pensioners think of the pension increase in this Budget. May I say this by way of advice to pensioners' organisations: Do not wait to present your petitions to this Parliament during the Budget session. That activity should go on if it must go on - and unfortunately it must go on while we have a 'Conservative' Government here - during the autumn session of the Parliament. All appeals by pensioners organisations must come when the Budget is being prepared rather than after it has been presented. 
How pensioners must wish that the Australian Labor Party had been successful at the election last October. I am sure that it was no fault of pensioners that we did not achieve power. If the Australian Labor Party had been elected last October pensioners would have received, as promised, a minimum pension increase last November of  $1  a week. The pensioners were promised a further increase of  $1  a week until pensions reached at least  25  per cent of the average weekly wage. That would amount at the moment to about  $20  a week instead of the  $15.50  they are getting. The Labor Party also promised that pensions would be adjusted automatically according to changes in the consumer price index. This has been the subject of thousands of petitions presented to the Parliament. The many people who are debarred or partially debarred by the means test from receiving the pension were promised that a national superannuation scheme would be introduced. My colleague, the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson),  mentioned the great number of countries overseas that already have a national pension scheme operating. How aggrieved must those ex-servants of the 
Commonwealth, the persons on Commonwealth superannuation, be about the Budget. They were promised in the last  2  Budgets that there would be a review of Commonwealth superannuation benefits, and yet this Budget provides nothing for them. 
I turn to the matter of taxation, which was supposed to be a feature of the Budget. A detailed examination of taxation has been made by my colleagues and will be made during further debates in the Budget session. I want to protest about the inequitable manner in which taxation reductions have been made. The people on incomes of up to  $10,000  or  $12,000  a year have received the greatest reductions while those on the lower levels of income have received very little. I ask: Why has consideration not been given to lifting the base level of exemption that has not been increased for some years? At the moment anybody earning an actual income of  $416  a year has to pay income tax. ft must cost more to collect the tax than the tax returns to the Treasury. According to figures for the year  1967-68,  which are the latest  1  have,  134,700  persons earned less than  $600  a year in actual income - not taxable income. That means their earning rate was about  $11.54  a week. Surely they are entitled to some priority in real relief under income tax concessions. But they received a reduction of a few cents. For that year  303,500  persons earned less than  $800  a year in actual income, which is about  $15.40  a week. It would not have meant any great generosity on the part of the Government to relieve people up to that level of the necessity to pay any income tax at all. Instead of that the Government gave to the people on high incomes taxation relief of about  $500  a year. 
The Budget provided for no increase in deductions for the family man. lt would have been even more equitable if, instead of increasing the deductions, a flat rate deduction was made from the actual tax due by the taxpayer. Then those persons on the lowest incomes would have received proportionately more relief, than the people who need it less. Alternatively, increases could have been made for the support of families through child endowment and maternity allowances, things that the Government has forgotten about years ago. Let me indicate the only changes that have been made since 1954 in the maximum deductions for dependent members of the family. The amount of deduction that can be claimed for a totally dependent wife is $3 12. That is an increase from the $208 which was allowed in 1954. As far as the Government is concerned, a wife is worth only $312. The amount of deduction that can be claimed for the first child has been increased from $156 to $208. In 16 years the increase in that kind of deduction has been $52. That is not S52 off the tax. It is just the deduction that can be made from taxable income. The $52 increase in the deduction would be worth very little to a man on a low income. The deduction for other children has been increased from $104 to $156. Over the last 16 years there has been very little increase in the amount of deduction that can be claimed for dependent members of the family. 
On the other hand, since 1954 the amount that can be claimed for insurance and superannuation contributions has arisen from $400 to $1,200, which is a threefold increase. I wonder how many people in the community can afford to invest $1,200 a year in insurance or superannuation. The Government abides by the philosophy: To those who have got it, we will give; to those who have not got it, we will give less. The taxation provisions are not only inequitable but downright inflationary. The 50 cents increase to pensioners and the wage increases that many people have received will be frittered away by further inflation. What else could be the result of increasing such an item as petrol tax by 3c a gallon? That must be reflected in increased costs at every stage of production. Postal charges will rise by 20 per cent; telegrams will be increased by 33£ per cent; telephone rentals will be increased by $7 a year to an all time record of $47. Before making a single phone call a person will pay almost a $1 a week for rental. These increases represent costs for the community. The Budget was supposed to aim at reducing inflation, which is riding high enough as it is with prices increasing at the rate of 5 per cent. 
What kind of impact are these imposts going to make on the costs of production and distribution? There is no assurance that increased company taxes will not be passed on to the consumer in higher prices. 
The Budget almost anticipates that they will be reflected in higher prices. The Commonwealth is persisting in levying the hated receipts duty tax, ostensibly on behalf of the States. The other night the Minister for the Navy  (Mr Killen)  said that the Commonwealth was not doing this on its own initiative; it was doing it at the wish of the States. I wonder how true that is. The States levied this wretched tax, which is a regressive tax, only because the Commonwealth would not give them a fair share of the income tax, the company tax and the other taxes which it raises. It was imposed because the States had to look for other sources of revenue. The States would give it away tomorrow if they could only persuade the Commonwealth to give them a fair share of the revenue it raises. 
Not only is there a direct impact on the consumers by the increases in taxation and other charges but there is also an indirect impact which will take place as those charges and increases are reflected in costs of production and distribution. On top of that there will be the mark-up that the retailer will add to the total cost of the product. We have seen that happen already in the case of wine. We were told that the price of wine would increase by 8c a bottle. Everybody assumed that that would be the increase as far as they were concerned. Then about a day or two later it was announced that the cost of a bottle of wine would increase by 13c, more than half as much again, because of the simple device of the mark-up on the total cost. So the inflationary effect that I have just spoken of is added to the already steep rises in prices caused by a number of factors. One of those factors is the high interest rates. The Government is a notoriously high interest rate government. The high interest rates will be reflected in increased charges to everybody who is paying off an item - to the home owner, to the person who buys land and to the person who buys any other commodity. It will mean an extra charge and it will take him longer to pay off the debt he owes. Land speculation is typical of the activities that have been allowed under Liberal-Country Party governments in both the Commonwealth and State fields. Recently I saw an editorial in the 'Sydney Morning  Herald'  which indicated that the price of residential land in the Sydney metropolitan area had trebled in the last 10 years. Not many people would need to be convinced of that. The other day in my own electorate, a middle class electorate, people paid $30,000 for a home block at Blakehurst. I would say there are people paying more than that. Prices of $15,000 and $20,000 for home sites are commonplace. This does not reflect increases in wages which the Government would like to persuade us are the main cause of inflation. This is the result of the greed and avarice of people who are conspiring to keep land sites in short supply. 
Then there is the matter of profiteering. Prices have increased at an unreasonable rate. The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd made mammoth profits this year but nevertheless imposed 31 per cent increase in the price of steel. [ wonder what the farmers and their representatives think of this. Increased steel prices along with transport and shipping rate increases are all refected in the cost of the machinery the f farmers buy and the prices they receive for heir products. Not only is there profiteering hut there is also the speculation which evident in the Stock Exchange through the boom period. All this has generated an expectation of higher prices. Then there has been what I regard as sheer wasteful so-called defence expenditure. The United States of America is feeling the pinch strongly by its involvement around the world. It is trying to curtail, restrict and constrain this kind of expenditure. I wonder how many more pensions or schools could have been provided if we had not spent all the money we did on the Fill aircraft. But that is only a dramatic instance of wasteful defence expenditure and the involvement of this country. We have spent millions and we still have a very inefficient defence system in this country. 
All this is liberalism let loose. We have inequalities, privilege waste and the things one expects from a government that has been so long in power. Not only are these taxation levies and other charges inflationary but they are inequitable. Let us look at the other items in the schedule affected by taxation increases. An increase to 271 per cent has been levied on a whole range of goods designated as luxury items. I wonder what woman would regard deodorants, nail polish, baby powder, hair spray, hand lotions, baby cream, face powder and lip stick as luxuries. There has been a campaign in this House for years to get this tax abolished. I wonder how the womenfolk in our community feel about it now. Not only has it not been abolished but it has been raised to 271 per cent. The same rate of tax applies to records, cameras, television sets, radios, contraceptives, cars and other items. 
The Government made a big noise about reducing income tax but, as the commentators have said, only to take it back with the other hand with more to boot. Of course, the poor smokers and drinkers cop it most when that happens. The price of cigarettes has been increased by 3c a packet and wine by 8c a bottle. But the excise on wine could lead to an increase of 13c a bottle. What is the total effect of all this? The Commonwealth Government has made a reduction of $292m in income tax in the Budget but has taken back $235m in additional indirect taxation, $53 m in increased charges of the PostmasterGeneral's Department and into the bargain there are the indirect effects of such taxes as company tax. There is also the threatened receipts duty lax still to come. What kind of bonanza is this for the people who voted for the Liberal and Country Parties at the last election expecting to get relief from taxation? Those on the lowest incomes get the least taxation relief and will feel most heavily the indirect taxation increases. 
We have to add to this the unhappy impost brought down at the end of the last session, that is, the increased medical insurance charges. Again that was a flat rate charge. Every person, except those on the bottom rung who are exempt, from the worker to the greatest factory owner or company director in the land is compelled to pay the same flat rate of 75c a week in medical insurance charges in New South Wales and some comparable amount in other States. The same kind of thing will happen again. There is a lot more to come. Let the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  not kid the people that the matter of health insurance is finished. Hospital insurance charges are to come and my prediction is that they will be just as onerous. If this Government is as unfair as it was in the imposition of medical insurance charges the people can expect a further burden with hospital insurance. 
The Government has budgeted just about to equate its income and expenditure. I wonder how accurate the Government's predictions have been in the past. Last year the Commonwealth received in payasyouearn taxation $59m more than it had budgeted for. My prediction is that this year, because the progressive nature of the taxation schedule has not been changed and because most people pay a much higher rate of taxation as they improve their positions, the Government will rake in even more than it anticipates in the Budget. People will be paying a lot more than the Government has budgeted for. I want to refer particularly to some taxation matters that affect education. A number of petitions on this subject were presented to this Parliament but like so many others they went completely unheeded. There was a plea for personal educational expenses to be allowed as an income tax deduction for people who educate themselves. We are always asking people to better themselves, by engaging in further education. But I wonder how many people realise that not lc of any educational expenses an individual incurs is deductible. A youngster who undertakes a part time university course cannot claim those expenses as a taxation deduction. 
There was a plea for the removal of the present age limit in respect of the educational expenses and maintenance allowance for students. Under the taxation provisions deduction of educational expenses incurred on behalf of a dependent can be made only up to the age of 21 years. Once the student attains that age no claim can be made despite the fact that the costs of his education might at that stage be greater than they ever were. Let us remind ourselves that there is a much greater number of youngsters going on to tertiary education today. In order to receive tertiary education they usually have to complete 6 years of secondary schooling. This means that most youngsters at the beginning of their tertiary education are aged about 18 or 19 years. As any university course and certainly most diploma courses are for a period of not less than 3 years - many of them go well beyond that - many of these students are well over 21 years and are still totally dependent on their parents. Yet once they reach the age of 21 not lc of their educa tional expenses can be claimed as a taxation deduction. Why does the Treasurer not make a more flexible arrangement in this matter? When a student is totally dependent on his parents there should be a full deduction allowed. 
Then there is the amount of the deduction. It has been the same for years. The maximum amount that can be claimed is $300 per annum, and in some cases that would not pay more than about a quarter of the cost of maintaining a 20 or 21 yearold student at a university, college of advanced education or any other institution. It is about time these things were looked at. Education is in a mighty mess and this description applies particularly to pre-school, primary, technical and teacher education and education for the handicapped. Not only is the actual position becoming quite desperate but also an increasing proportion of parents, students and the community in general is becoming aware of the situation. More and more parents are writing to their local members, both Federal and State, indicating their grave concern, not to say bitter disappointment. Even more to the point, they are indicating their utter determination to force governments to take notice of their wishes for a decent education for their children. 
The unhappy situation in respect of the farming community, people on pensions, the I million people living in poverty or near poverty in Australia, and the plight of pollution, are among the many deficiencies that excite keen community concern - I say this advisedly - but about nothing else, I believe, is there more widespread dissatisfaction and anguish in Australia than about the appalling and deteriorating conditions of many of our schools. By depriving Stale schools of urgently needed basic requirements such as teachers, classrooms, equipment and so on the Liberal-Country Party Government is arousing a ferment of protest and resentment against aid for nonState schools. This is an unfortunate byproduct of the present neglect. I support aid for the education of all children but I can understand the many parents with children in State schools watching the deteriorating conditions in their schools and feeling that they have been deprived simply because the Government is giving aid to non-State schools. I do not see it in that way. There are many alternative sources of revenue other than taking from private schools. I certainly abide by the Labor Party's policy of aid in accordance with need. 
Inequality of educational opportunity is probably the most fundamental and pervasive source of inequality in most other aspects of life. Put more positively, in countries all over the world education is increasingly becoming the major key or passport to life's satisfaction. It is part and parcel of the quality of living. It vitally affects the cultural, social, economic and political status and well being of individuals and nations alike. What is the Government going to do about the report of the Australian Education Council which was publicised in summary only this morning - the report that tells us that there is a need for an extra $ 1,443m over the next 5 years in order to bring education up to some reasonable standard in this country. It was not the fault of the Commonwealth that the results of the inquiry were revealed. They were revealed by the States, and I dare say it was done to shame the Commonwealth into some kind of action. But there is no provision in this Budget and so the delay and the backlog must continue for at least another year. I ask the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  to make available to every member of this Parliament and to the community generally the full report on the needs of our educational system. We are entitled to it. We are members of the taxpaying public. We are members of this so-called democratic society and we are entitled to know what the position is in our schools today, and if there is money to be found to rectify the situation then I think we ought to know about it. 
The most alarming aspect - I will be continuing my remarks on this matter in later debates - of the educational problem is in respect of teachers. The position has become quite desperate. It is all very well for the Minister to say that he is going to make provision for so many more places in teachers colleges or colleges of advanced education but the undeniable fact is that many teachers are leaving the teaching service. As a matter of fact, an estimate shows that 11,500 of Australia's 90,000 government school teachers will resign this year. That ought to alarm any parent. It ought to alarm any responsible citizen. What is to be done about it? Obviously something has to be done to make teaching a much more attractive service and a much better remunerated service than it is. It has to get full professional recognition. I have indicated the dissatisfaction that I feel, and I am sure most citizens feel, about what the Government has not done in respect of social services and in respect of the inequitable treatment it has provided as far as taxation is concerned. 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Army. Some time ago I asked the then Minister for the Army whether he would investigate the possibility of issuing an infantry combat badge to infantrymen who have seen active service. Will the Minister for the Army inform me of the present situation in this matter? If there is to be a general issue of this badge is it intended to issue the badge to those personnel who have left the Service since this matter was first raised? 
I address my question to the Minister for Social Services and Minister-in-Charge of Aboriginal Affairs. I refer particularly to the National Sports Trust Fund for Aboriginals. The Minister will recall that in Townsville we have formed a sporting association for Aboriginals known as the All Blacks Welfare and Sporting Association. The formation of this association has been due mainly to the efforts of a  Mr Norman  Brown. Recently  Mr Brown  applied for financial assistance to enable teams of coloured children to participate in the coming  Softball,  vigoro and cricket competitions. Can the Minister advise me whether or not  Mr Brown's  application has been successful? 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Navy. Recently the Minister and the Chief of the Naval Staff visited North Queensland inspecting. I understand, possible sites for a naval patrol boat base. I ask the Minister whether any decision has yet been made on this matter. 
Has the Minister for the Army seen reports in the Press referring to a statement supposedly made by a senior officer of the Australian Army in Vietnam, in which he took strong exception to remarks attributed to  Senator Wheeldon  concerning the efficiency of the artillery unit there? If so. will the Minister tell me whether he intends to take any action against the officer for making the alleged statement or will he place the blame where it really belongs and take  Senator Wheeldon  to task for making such derogatory remarks concerning one of the most efficient and well disciplined units in the Australian Army? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education and Science. In view of the Government's decision to curb government spending to help ease inflation, can the Minister inform me how this decision will affect the proposed establishment of the Australian Institute of Marine Science at Townsville? 
I refer to the Kerr Committee which was instituted last October to investigate the problems of pay, allowances and conditions of service of members of the Armed Services. I have heard very little of the activities of this Committee since it was formed. Will the Minister for Defence inform me whether this Committee is making progress in its investigations? 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Army, and I refer to the statement made by the Prime Minister last night regarding the future of our forces in Vietnam. I ask the Minister: Firstly, can he indicate the size of the force which will remain in Vietnam after Christmas? Secondly, will the changes proposed in the national service scheme affect national service officer production as a consequence of the reduced time of service? Thirdly, can the Minister assure the House that national service personnel serving in Vietnam will not be prejudiced as to the date of their discharge? 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts and refers to the recent Press notices stating that a report on the Great Barrier Reef has just been completed. ! ask the Minister: Will each honourable member receive a copy of this important report and, if so, when? 
My question is directed to the Minister for National Development. I refer to the New South Wales Grant (Flood Mitigation Bill) 1971. I ask the Minister: Why were the terms of financial assistance confined only to the river system of New South Wales and not extended to include flood mitigation projects in other States? 
There are not many points on which the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh)  and I would agree politically but I certainly will agree with the point he made about pre-school education. There is a definite necessity for the Commonwealth to look seriously at this matter. I would like to discuss a number of issues raised in the Budget but in the time allotted to me in this debate 1 shall confine myself to those issues which I think should have been considered and others which I suggest should receive consideration in future budgets. The first matter I would like to discuss in this respect is financial assistance to local governments. I will enlarge on what previous speakers have said. The time has come when . a long, hard, close look at assistance for local governments should be undertaken by the Commonwealth. 
On this issue I am most certainly not preaching centralisation. On the contrary, I am endeavouring to prove that local governments are playing a much more important role in the development of this country than they have done previously, and that a reappraisal of their work is very necessary. In my opinion, local government is the real government of the people. While we as a federal body must take the responsibility for good business and the development of the country collectively, and while the State governments play their part by managing their State businesses as a whole, it is the local governments which must bear the responsibility for regional development. Because Australia is a big country and areas differ so widely in matters of industry, climate, living conditions, transport facilities, costs of living and many other such day to day problems I am suggesting that a closer look at the system and the problems of local governments must be undertaken and understood before we can develop this country as satisfactorily as we should. 
At State government level there is a growing awareness and at least some recognition of the problems of local government. But just to recognise the problems is not enough. There would be none that could argue with me that the cost of local government service is increasing rapidly and there are none that could argue with me that the sources of revenue available to local authorities are limited. Certainly they receive financial allocations from the State governments and they have access to money borrowed from loan councils and lending authorities, but these days there is no such thing as cheap money. Interest payments and repayments of loans must be met. In order to meet these commitments and to provide and maintain the services which the public demands and is entitled to, it has become necessary on frequent occasions over the last few years - we have all experienced this - to increase rates, thereby placing a further burden and a further imposition on the wage earner and the person who wishes to exercise his inherent right of owning his own home or property. 
There has to be a limit to the frequency of this increased rating. It is the local governments, which in the majority of instances, as we know, comprise men and women working in the honorary capacity of aldermen and councillors, which must bear the brunt of disapproval and not the State and Federal governments, which in my opinion should share the blame if there is any blame to be directed. I know that local government is the responsibility of State governments but I feel that we as a Commonwealth should accept some of this responsibility by including some contribution to local government finances in the annual reimbursement grants to the States. It is worth noting that while the demands on local governments for works, services and amenities are growing at a tremendous rate there has been no corresponding expansion in the range of revenue fields that are available to councils. To meet these requirements local governmets have had to double their loan indebtedness over the last few years. I think it is bordering on the idiotic to imagine that land rates alone can provide the necessary funds for local authorities to meet their repayments and other commitments. 
When the matter of direct financial assistance is raised it may be claimed by the Commonwealth that we cannot interfere in this matter because it is a State responsibility. But I feel that a precedent was created here when the Commonwealth aid roads grant was established. The introduction of the State subsidies system was a worthwhile move. But in nearly all cases this is restricted to specific capital works only, with the local governments having to raise the major part of the cost of these works. 
In speaking of capital costs 1 am reminded of a situation which is very close to me at the moment in which the State and Commonwealth governments may become interested for the benefit of our community. I refer to the flood mitigation project which is at present being undertaken in the Townsville area. We are well aware of the rapid expansion and growth of Townsville over the last 10 years. As the residential areas have expanded beyond all expectation in that time it has become increasingly evident that a programme of flood mitigation must be undertaken if these areas are to be protected should the weather pattern revert to the normal monsoona seasons. The last monsoonal season we had was in 1958. Prior to that it was an accepted occurrence every year. There is nothing to say that the weather will not revert to its former pattern in 1972 and that that pattern will continue for some years to come. Due to the geography of the country it is more than possible that properties and even lives will be endangered should the city experience flood rains. Because of this the local government authority has been forced to initiate a flood mitigation project. This project, which has been commenced, will take at least 2 years to finalise. Such a project is no minor undertaking for a local government authority, especially as all the necessary finance has to be raised through loan channels. 
Earlier this year the Commonwealth introduced flood mitigation legislation known as the New South Wales Grant (Flood Mitigation) Act 1971. Its definitions section states that flood mitigation works means works for the purpose of reducing the likelihood of mitigating the effects of flooding. It defines 'local funds' in relation to a local government authority as moneys of the authority other than moneys paid to it by the State in respect of the cost of the carrying out by the authority of flood mitigation works in relation to a prescribed river. The expression 'prescribed river' meant any of 11 rivers in northern New South Wales. To assist this New South Wales project, which I believe was carried out on the Hunter River, an amount of $9m was paid to the New South Wales Government. 

 Sir, the Government may have thought the construction of a flood mitigation project was important to the Hunter River area, but I suggest that such a project would be just as important to every Australian living in the Ross River area of Townsville. In answer to a question I asked a couple of weeks ago, the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  intimated that there is a possibility that the Queensland Government will also be asking for Commonwealth assistance in relation to flood mitigation projects. If that is so, I appeal to the Queensland Government to get cracking and submit the request for this assistance. Knowing the merits of the case I have mentioned, I am positive the Commonwealth would not refuse it. This would be one positive way in which the Commonwealth could show its willingness to assist with local government problems. There must be many other ways in which the Commonwealth could take a direct interest in these problems for, after all, they are the people's problems. To my mind that is something of which the Commonwealth Government should be ever mindful. It may be that when financial allocations are made to the States a sum could be earmarked for the specific use of local government. It could be proportioned by the States if necessary - 1 do not mind - according to the needs. But whether it is undertaken in this way or not, I feel that the Government has a definite responsibility to the local government authorities and it must find a way to exercise its responsibility. 
I do not think that that would help one little bit. The next thing I would like to mention is the matter of tourist development. Each year I am more amazed that the subject of tourist development does not receive consideration or mention in the annual presentation of our Budget. This industry - I classify it as an industry - is in fact one of our most important foreign exchange earners. As we all know, it is the means of livelihood for many thousands of our own people. This is becoming increasingly evident from the reports of the Australian Tourist Commission. To emphasise my point I could perhaps do no better than quote from the Commission's 1969-70 report, which states: 
In tourism, wc have a success story - as an export earner and as a generator of healthy economic activity at home. It is the Commission's concern that the industry not be taken for granted; that it not be allowed to languish for want of interest and encouragement; that time is too short and the stakes too high for it to be otherwise. 
We read where tourism is one of the largest, if not the largest, businesses in the world. There is an annual turnover of some thousands of billions of American dollars each year. Yet Australia's percentage of that turnover is negligible. It worries me to think that countries like New Zealand and Fiji, to name just 2 of many, have awakened to the fact that the tourist industry is an extremely valuable income earner and are doing something constructive to corner a share of this valuable market. Like other businesses on an international scale, tourism is a competitive business. A country that wants to share its profits must be prepared to compete favourably on such a competitive and lucrative market. We read where spending by domestic and international travellers within Australia amounted to some S2,400m last year. That is quite an impressive figure. 1 fear a lot of the people  who  are responsible for the conduct of the industry could be lulled into a false sense of security by thinking that the industry is quite all right because the turnover is so great. In my opinion it could tend to stifle any critical thinking, which is what we need, and kill initiative when it is probably most needed. We read where Pacific tourism is growing at the world's highest rate, yet this country is way down the list of countries which are taking advantage of this growth. 
We need reminding that the requirements necessary to build a tourist industry cover a great number of services - accommodation facilities, restaurants, hotels, motels,' resorts, railways, air services, coach and rail services, rent-a-car services, boat hire operations and convention facilities, to name just a few. A healthy and expanding tourist industry will mean security of employment for the people engaged in providing those services. I think that Government encouragement is very necessary at this stage, especially in view of the more impressive performances by other countries in the -field of tourism. 
Perhaps one of the most important services in the industry which the Government could encourage is accommodation. This service is vital too a successful tourist programme. It is easy to appreciate that the basic requirements of tourists are food, shelter, satisfaction, comfort, convenience, cleanliness and good services. That is all tourists ask for. Those are their basic requirements. Bui 1 was amazed to read that in the past 25 years only 7 major international class hotels have been built in Australia. I suppose that that is understandable in view of the capital cost involved in building this type of accommodation and the fact that no cheap money is available on the money market to finance such deals, but it is certainly not in our best interests that this situation should prevail today. 
Another important factor which I feel is operating against us is the high cost of travel to Australia. This cost could be reduced. It is possible that this could be done through an increase in charter travel for larger groups of people or perhaps a promotional fare system with the normal scheduled services. No doubt there are other ways in which travel costs could be reduced. However, regardless of which way is chosen, that must be done. We have some unique attractions to offer in flora,' fauna and places. Some of them are world renowned. In my opinion criticism of these places by overseas tourists is justified when one looks at the lack of proper development or the inadequate and haphazard development which has taken place at our resort facilities. 
Feasibility and fact-finding studies by reputable firms have been undertaken and completed many times during the last 10 to 15 years, but I have yet to see any of the recommendations contained in the reports on those studies implemented. I ask: What is the use of paying money to have reports compiled, of gathering all these facts on how to plan and present our attractions in the best possible manner, if we do not act on the recommendations which we receive? The potential, the initiative and the imagination are there, and I believe that capable management is available. But unless we are able to attract money at reasonable cost for development, all these attributes that we have will go for nothing. 
Some 80 countries have overcome this problem to a marked degree. They provide what is called incentive assistance. They have instituted aggressive tourist development policies to encourage this industry's growth and, in my opinion, we must follow their example and in the long term surpass them if we are going to achieve our share of this market. These countries have provided us with examples of how we can give this incentive assistance. We can do it by providing grants, loans, incentive arrangements, the insurance or guarantee of loans, tax concessions, investment allowances, depreciation allowances and, finally and probably most importantly, access to funds from the Commonwealth Development Bank. These are only a few of the measures that can be taken. I have raised this question previously: Why is not the tourist industry in a position to apply for Development Bank funds? I have been told that it is not an industry. Let us classify it as one and get over that hurdle. We are constantly battling to support our rural industries and our export trade, as income and foreign exchange earners - a lot of words have been spoken on that matter today and previously in this House - but, in my opinion, if we do not assist in developing tourism and encouraging its development to the full, we are bypassing one of the greatest income and foreign exchange earners of them all. There is a whole new market to be exploited in our national interest, and the lucrative opportunities in this market are immense. 
I pay a tribute to the Australian Tourist Commission which keeps me up to date on the work it is doing on the international scene, but all of this work can be for nothing if governments - and by 'governments' I mean State as well as Federal governments - do not realise the value and importance of this industry. I firmly believe that if a sound policy for tourist development was instituted and implemented as quickly as possible it would be one of the greatest assets which we would have in the economy of this country. I also believe that to implement such a policy fully and to administer the industry effectively would mean that a completely separate portfolio may have to be created. This industry has a turnover of $2,400m a year and it could be trebled. As has been stated previously, that is not peanuts. I have extreme faith in the growing importance of tourism for Australia and in the people who at present arc attempting to administer it. If its importance is more widely recognised, I am positive that Australia will be the better off because of it. 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. Has he seen the surveys published forecasting trends in the Australian economy in relation to private capital investment? Do those surveys justify the rather alarmist reactions of some commentators? 
My question which is directed to the Minister for National Development concerns the allocation of finance for Queensland's reafforestation programme. As this programme received no special consideration in the Budget, will the Government consider reviewing this important matter in the near future and prior to the 1972 Budget? 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister. I ask whether he is aware of a Press statement made by the 
Leader of the Opposition in which he claimed that the Prime Minister had refused to give him information regarding the Burdekin Dam project in Queensland. I ask the Prime Minister: Did he actually refuse to give the Leader of the Opposition the information he required? Secondly, what is the current situation regarding the feasibility study of the Burdekin Dam project? 
In the short time that I am permitted to speak on the estimates relating to the Department of Education and Science there are 2 matters I must mention which I consider of extreme importance, especially to the people of northern Queensland. The first matter I mention is one raised by the  Chairman  of the Hinchinbrook Shire Council at the recent meeting of the North Queensland Local Government Association and one which I support wholeheartedly. This is the establishment of a research centre to undertake a comprehensive programme of study into tropical agriculture by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. In May of this year the  Chairman  of the Executive of the CSIRO stated: 
Despite the current state of world markets I see merit, for example, if funds were available, In a proposal we have before us to expand our agronomic research in tropical Australia. The time will eventually come when the high rainfall areas of tropical Australia must be used more effectively for crops as well as pasture production, as are the higher rainfall areas of the temperate regions. 
Just a few days ago the Secretary of the Agricultural and Biological Sciences Branch of the CSIRO was reported to have said in Canberra that the CSIRO executive held the view that tropical agronomy research was a matter of priority in Australia. He went on to say that any action on the establishment of this research programme must be deferred until financial resources were available. 
I find this situation extremely difficult to understand because here are 2 capable, responsible and learned men in important executive positions advocating the establishment of such a research centre but we cannot proceed with such an important project because finance is not readily available to commence it. I find this decision completely unrealistic and, I might say, a little short sighted. I make this statement in view of the fact that it is widely accepted that urgent attention should be paid to the maintenance of our rural industries. Sensible exploitation of our agricultural resources should be permitted. I think this is fair enough. In this respect the research work that is performed by the Ingham Research and Promotion Bureau is to be commended and the Bureau congratulated for its efforts. But these people do not possess the requisite technical and scientific knowledge to probe deeply into this subject in order to achieve some definite solution. Neither have they the facilities to do so. But the personnel with the requisite knowledge are available in the Department of Education and Science and their knowledge should, in my opinion, be utilised without any further loss of time. I mention time specifically because given time there is no doubt that we as a people, with the resources available to us, could achieve anything that we desire. 
But while we defer important projects which could place us in the lead on a highly competitive world market other tropical zone countries may not be so inactive and could steal this initiative away from us. The opportunity is there for us to grasp. Sensible productivity planning could lead to the development of a specific profitable rural industry, despite falling prices on competitive world markets. A strong market exists for some forms of primary production. I instance feed grains, oil seeds, pulp fibres, protein meals and meat. Our contribution to the improved quality of these products through intensive research in tropical agriculture would mean a lot to Australia's economy. Already the research stations of the Commonwealth 
Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation in northern Australia have made outstanding progress in improved tropical pastures. Fortunately I am in a position to see what is happening. Outstanding progress has been made and our economy has benefited greatly. The next step seems rather obvious - a research centre to undertake a comprehensive study of tropical agriculture. Such a centre could be established in the Ingham district. I have travelled throughout the north and the conditions in the Ingham area are ideal for such studies. The establishment of such a centre is essential to ensure the success of any future agricultural development in northern Australia. The suggestion that there is a lack of finance to enable the establishment of such an extremely important asset is weak. I wholeheartedly support the submission made to CSIRO by the North Queensland Local Government Association and hope that the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  will give this matter his immediate consideration. " Another matters that bugs me quite a bit is the question of the pre-school education of Australian children. I am interested in pre-school education because I firmly believe that a sound education for our children and .young people is a necessary requirement for Australia's future security. Some years ago,  Mr Corbett,  you will remember that the attainment of a junior standard of education was sufficient foundation for a career for a young person. However in recent years that situation has changed considerably. This has been brought about by the constant changing pattern of world events. The emphasis on education has placed a greater responsibility on the pupil or student. In the technical age in which we live far more has to be learned and absorbed in a shorter time, consequently in my view pre-school education does much to assist the child. Aspects of pre-school education which concern me greatly are that not every child has the opportunity of receiving such education, mainly because there are far too few preschool centres; there is great difficulty in obtaining the requisite staff to increase the number of centres; attendance frequently is on a roster basis and the cost of maintaining a child at a centre in some circumstances 

 20W)/1 -  R.  - 1793 
stances precludes the parent from permitting a child to take advantage of such education. 
During the 1969 Federal elections one of the platforms of the Government's policy was to assist the States with their programmes of pre-school education. However, because of the cutback in Government expenditure on the initiation of new projects, this important matter has been deferred to a future date. I personally believe that this was a wrong decision. As I said earlier, the education of our young people is becoming increasingly important and every effort should be made to prevent any delay in implementing a scheme which would assist pre-school education. Some details have to be considered concerning the success of such a scheme. I have summarised those details and will be as brief as possible. Complete co-operation would have to be maintained between the education departments and the local parents associations. This must be the basis of any preschool system. The education departments, through their various governmental agencies, should provide and maintain the pre-school centre buildings and playgrounds and should staff the centres. The departments should meet running costs, such as the costs of electricity, telephones and water supplies, and should meet the requirements of some consumable material. The departments should provide equipment and furnishings. The organisation of the educational programme should be the responsibility of preschool teachers under the general supervision of regional directors. The parents associations should provide mother-help rosters to assist the teachers. Parents should be encouraged to become part of the life of the centre. For instance, when a child is enrolled his parents should automatically become members of the parents association. This may entail their attending monthly meetings and taking part in the planning of the work of the association, sharing in roster duty and helping in organised efforts arranged by the association to raise finance. My time has expired, but I will raise this matter later. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Corbett)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
What 1 have to say tonight might be regarded as a little controversial in some quarters. But I have a little feeling in regard to the environment. It comes from a study made over the last few years. Within those years I have realised that the people of the world have become increasingly conscious of the environment in which they live and are attempting to ensure that it is a healthy environment for themselves and future generations. Within the last 20 to 25 years the progress in industry and communications and the increase in the number of city dwellers have created a situation in which man has to take a quick, serious look at the environmental problems which he has created and is still creating and which have certainly been to bis own detriment. 
To me, the term 'environment' covers many things which affect our daily lives. They include air pollution, noise pollution, water pollution and food pollution to name just a few - all of which have developed into a major health hazard. For instance, the very air we breath is becoming polluted by the gases and fumes from industry and vehicles in closely settled areas to such an extent that it must be injurious to the health of our population. The extensive use of detergents and pesticides also plays no small part in assisting to create this health hazard. Science teaches us that abundant foliage is necessary to maintain the oxygen content of the air we breath. Yet we have systematically destroyed acres and acres of this growth in order to replace it with dwellings and buildings to increase the size of our cities. Had we been aware of the danger we faced by polluting our environment, this could have been avoided. But 1 feel that it is still not too late. Fortunately, we in Australia are in the position of being able to learn from the mistakes made by other countries and we still have time to plan our living environment accordingly. 
Recently 1 read that authorities in the city of Kokyo in Japan have decreed that school children will spend a week of their school year studying away from the city in order that they may experience the breathing of clean, pure air. This, to me, is a shocking state of affairs and one to which I hope our children will never be subjected. We are in the fortunate position that, if we start our planning immediately, this situation may never need to arise in Australia. It will take a tremendous amount of planning, foresight and money. 
But, to my mind, it must be undertaken as soon as possible if we are to provide the solution to this major problem which, let us face it, will take years to implement. 
This has been a controversial matter at many meetings I have attended; but I still stick to my idea, which is this:  Major centres  should be established outside cities, instead of increasing the populations of our cities, with the green belts being allowed to remain in and around these centres. Within the districts areas should be set aside for industry and planned in such a manner that there is no atmospheric pollution. This is not impossible; it is something which can be done. Methods for the destruction of waste in these towns or centres, call them what you wish, would have to be devised in order to avoid contamination of water and food supplies. Again, it is not a hard task to overcome this problem. I would rather see half a dozen major centres with a healthy environment free from pollution than one major city complete with every known hazard to the health of the population. 
It may be argued that economics dictate the growth of a city. It may be argued that instead of the establishment of a number of towns we have to put all the development into the one centre for economic reasons. But when one sees the evidence of the dangers that are created by pollution in a closely settled city which has been allowed to grow haphazardly - and this is what has happened in every major city in Australia - with no thought at all having been given to the environment, this argument becomes so much rubbish. These problems can be overcome. Engineering technology today with regard to rapid communications between seaport and major centres could do much to overcome the objection on economic grounds. I will not tolerate the argument that we must have a closely settled area close to a seaport because of economics. We have centres in northern Queensland 50 or 70 miles from a major seaport which are still progressing in their contribution to the Australian economy, and the same can be the case in the major cities in the south as well. We are extremely fortunate in that the areas in which we have established these centres still contain plenty of room for expansion. 
I believe also that the establishment of national parks and reserves close to these centres for the preservation of our native flora and fauna and for the use of the people is a necessity. There must be some place where people can go to gel out of the concrete jungle and breathe a little of the pure clean air that is our heritage. We are lucky in that we have the greatest collection of unique flora and fauna in the world, and this should be preserved for the benefit and enjoyment of our own people and visitors. Yet it would appear in many instances that we are determined to destroy this also. Some of my colleagues on the other side of the House who are members of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Wildlife Conservation, which deals with the preservation and conservation of wildlife, have seen this happening. We appear to be determined to destroy our unique flora and fauna to build cities and dwellings. We destroy the flora and force the fauna out of the area. This should not happen. We should be able to enjoy them because they belong to us. 
We have the personnel capable of planning such centres and we have the personnel capable of establishing what is needed in them. As I said before we have the areas in which this development can take place; we now have a Department of the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts; the Minister for the Environment  (Mr Howson)  is currently the Minister at the table. 1 do not see why investigations and feasibility studies for the establishment of these centres along the lines I have suggested, instead of allowing the major cities to become choked, should not be instituted immediately. Let us face the fact that it would be a long, hard and arduous task, but there is no doubt that it must be done in order to preserve our environment and to prevent these centres being allowed to grow in a haphazard fashion. In this way sensible and economic planning can be undertaken so that the best possible results for the preservation and maintenance of the environment can be achieved. We are in the fortunate position that this can be done. We can learn lessons from the mistakes made by other countries. We are still able to do this, if we grasp the nettle and have the guts to do this. It may take a lot of money. This I do not mind. What is money if it means the preservation of our environment for ourselves and for future generations? It can be done. I notice that the Queensland Government has issued instructions to industries to make arrangements to avoid pollution of rivers, streams and land by waste matter. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Cope)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I refer the Minister for Education and Science to the proposed establishment of an institute of marine science in north Queensland and ask: Is the project progressing as originally planned and can he inform me of the current situation regarding the project? 
During recent years much has been said about financial assistance to the States and co-operation with the States on developmental projects, most of which have been in the mining industry or in the conservation of water. But there are other areas of industrial agricultural enterprise which I feel could be investigated by the Department of National Development for the benefit of a community and a State and in the national interest. We also hear a lot of talk about decentralisation which in my opinion plays a vital part in planned development. To achieve this end land made readily available must be used sensibly and long term planning must be undertaken. 
One such industry to which I think more attention should be paid is forestry. It always has amazed me that here in Australia we can grow all the types of timber we can possibly need yet our forests have been allowed to be cut without any replanting programme being introduced. I am afraid that I was one of the people who did this. We now have reached the stage where we are relying more and more on imported timbers. It is true that in the last few years more attention has been paid to this important matter of reafforestation but still not enough to guarantee supplies for future generations. This is why I class it high on my list of priorities in national development. 
For instance, lack of finance has restricted the planting programme in Queensland alone to 10,000 acres annually, and that is for softwoods only. This to me borders on the ridiculous. About 3 years ago I submitted a softwood planting programme to the Department of National Development for implementation in the Ingham district where seasonal conditions are such that softwoods could mature in a peiod of from 10 to 12 years. The head of the Department at that time assured me and the then Minister for National Development that the scheme was feasible and would be economically sound. At a planting rate of 5,000 acres a year we could have developed a plantation of 100,000 acres in some of the best softwood country in Australia. The State Government at that time claimed that it could not handle such a project without financial assistance. Because of its importance to the timber industry and to our economy I firmly believe that the Commonwealth Government could consider this as a national development project and grant it the necessary financial assistance. I will agree with the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  that it is necessary to hobble some Government spending but I do not agree that we should hobble important long term development projects which would be of decided benefit to the nation in years to come. 
I am informed that this reafforestation plan which I submitted, and which would create employment and certainly assist the economic development of the Ingham district, will be implemented one day. My query is when? We have lost another year now and in terms of timber production years of growth matter. A timber nursery is situated not far from Ingham and we have experienced foresters in the area. Therefore it is not a case of the project being held up for lack of skilled labour or free seedlings; it is plainly a case of a decision by the Commonwealth being needed to assist the State in this development. It would be another project aimed at decentralisation, the maintenance of an industry and the development of an area. Sound economic planning for the future would be under way. 
Again talking of long term planning or long range benefits to an industry, we should have learned one very important lesson from the recent period of drought which would have a major effect on the cattle industry if we experience drought conditions again in the future. There is nobody I know of or have read of who predicted the length of time that our cattle and sheep industries would suffer from these drought conditions, especially in the north and north west of Queensland. Twelve years of drought is a long time. We saw the shocking spectacle of many of our breeding stock dying and now we are experiencing the problem of restocking. 1 would say that the cattle industry did not suffer as severely as the wool industry and that it is recovering from the effects of the drought far more quickly. But surely the lesson is there for all to learn. In the event of severe drought In the future we must commence to protect our breeding stock in the early stages. 
The Commonwealth's scheme of financing the construction of the beef roads system in the north certainly assisted considerably in the quick movement of stock from one area to another in an attempt to save them. The Government is to be commended for the implementation of this beef roads system. There is one small problem. If it is recognised by the Department of National Development and overcome, this could go a long way towards saving stock when necessary in the future. 
While this beef roads system is of tremendous assistance, nearly all the roads on the eastern area of the system run north and south. There is virtually no link between the western plains and what is known as the wet belt on the eastern coast. If there were a road linkage from the beef roads system to the high rainfall area where there is excellent grazing and water all the year round, the problem of saving our breeding stock would be overcome without any difficulty. A road link from the Ingham area and another from the Tully area to connect with the nearest north south beef road would open up hundreds of thousands of acres of grazing land which could have a carrying capacity expressed as beasts to the acre rather than acres to the beast. 
If these link roads were constructed stock could be transported from the furthest point in the Gulf country and the western plains to the lush grazing areas in a matter of 3 to 4 days. Our breeding stock would be preserved and upon the cessation of drought conditions the stock could be returned to their original properties and so eliminate the problem of having to restock. Apart from being of tremendous value to ensure the maintenance of the cattle industry during a drought period, these roads would open up a lot more valuable country and could be used also as tourist roads to allow our visitors to see something of the wonderful country and tremendous wealth potential west of the Great Dividing Range. The construction of these link roads would be of decided benefit in the national interest. I ask the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  who is now at the table to give this matter his earnest consideration when the next allocation of finance for beef roads construction is made. 
During the course of this debate I have listened to a tremendous amount of wide ranging ideas, through international policy to home policy. I would like to confine my contribution to our local problems, those a little nearer to home. I would like to discuss the allocation of funds for training Army personnel, both in the Citizen Military Forces and the Australian Regular Army, and with particular reference to the northern Queensland bases. No doubt honourable members are aware that each year the training staffs of the various military units and areas forecast what their training programmes will be and then request the necessary funds from their own command to meet these requirements. Commands in turn make their applications to the Department of Defence through the Department of the Army. In many instances the amounts requested are never provided in full and, consequently, right down the line training programmes have to be revised in keeping with the amount of finance allocated. This 1 know, having had to draw up not so long ago some of these training estimates. It can readily be seen that many an ambitious training programme to maintain the interest and increase the efficiency of serving soldiers, either in the CMF or the ARA, has been reduced to a somewhat monotonous programme due to a lack of foresight in the allocation of finance. 
Areas vary considerably and in some instances, especially in the north, units have to travel long distances in order to participate in collective training. For instance, for CMF task force collective training in northern Queensland, which would be conducted in the Army training area known as the high range area, units of the CMF task force will have to travel from places as far apart as Rockhampton, Mackay, Cairns and Mount Isa, all quite a distance away. Honourable members are well aware that such collective training conducted during the annual camp period is the culmination of the training done by the personnel in their various unit areas and as such is very necessary for the senior staff members, both in administration and training in battle exercises. It has been announced recently that a CMF task force to be known as the 1 1th Task Force will be formed in northern Queensland and will include units as far south as Rockhampton, as far west as Mount Isa and as far north as Cairns. To me this is a tremendously ambitious move and one for which the local area commander and the Northern Command should be commended for attempting. I wish them well. 
It is well known that in the event of any international crisis, if we as a nation are committed to war, the CMF would form the bulk of the Army. With this in mind CMF units should be given every encouragement to keep their training programmes interesting and efficient and to see that personnel comprising these units are not restricted in this regard because of lack of finance for these programmes. I am sure we all feel there is a definite requirement to build up the strength of the CMF in all areas and we can attract recruits and hold them only if the training programme is interesting and satisfying. 
Again let us look at the overall picture. There are many opportunities for diversion for our young men today and if we wish to attract these young men into the CMF, with the CMF being a worthwhile additional interest for them, we have to match these other civilian interests for spare time diversion by making such training worth their while. I feel that the employers of young people could assist tremendously in this regard if the situation were properly explained to them so that if necessary the small amount of additional time off from work to meet a CMF training requirement could be granted. If it was properly explained to the employer that the younger members of his staff would be trained in personnel management, control and administration, which would assist tremendously in building up their confidence to face the future, at no expense to the employer, 1 feel that the employer would become a willing partner with the Army in assisting to build up the CMF both in numbers and efficiency. 
However, this cannot be done if the people who control the allocation of finance keep too tight a rein on the purse strings. I am not advocating that finance be allocated without serious thought. What I am advocating is that the various commands, with their different problems regarding training opportunities, should be studied sensibly and planned for well in advance in order that both the country and the CMF member will obtain the maximum benefit from the money that is spent. In speaking of the training of troops there is another matter which could well bear investigation by members of the Department. It relates to situations where regular Army units are based within or near a civilian community. Co-operation between the public and the Services is a necessity to ensure that goodwill on both sides is maintained and increased because without that goodwill and co-operation from the public the morale of any unit, be it CMF or ARA, must suffer tremendously. It is well known also that for training purposes members of a unit cannot be confined solely to their unit training area but must travel. To do this they use the highways and access roads to reach their training areas. Some of these access roads, naturally enough, are only second grade roads which are quite adequate for the small civilian population that uses them but entirely inadequate if Army vehicles use them to any great degree. I have found this a major cause for concern on quite a number of occasions. When, perhaps due to inclement weather, such a road has been cut up to a degree which causes inconvenience to the civilian population using it, I feel it is the Department's responsibility to restore that road to its former condition. Where there is an Army establishment containing an element of an engineer corps, this restoration can be done by the unit itself, as has been done in the past quite effectively and to the satisfaction of all concerned. But where there is an Army establishment without an engineering component and roads are damaged, this becomes a matter of great concern. 
For instance, where we have an Army establishment which necessitates the use of an ordinary gravel-surface road to maintain communications between it and the highway it is not long before the passage of Army vehicles destroys the surface of the road rendering it an absolute dust menace to the civilian population residing in that area. The civilians naturally enough object to having their houses continually closed against this dust problem, especially in the northern tropical climate. There is nothing more guaranteed to destroy goodwill and public relations faster than for the Services to be responsible for inconveniencing a civilian in his own home. This problem, which occurs in only a very few areas, can be easily overcome by obtaining the co-operation of the local shire council. It would possibly mean that the surface of the road would have to be sealed or oiled, but I will not agree with some who think thae the Department cannot afford it. This has been put to me before. What we lose in good public relations is worth a great deal more than the cost of sealing or oiling a roadway for a distance of 3 to 4 miles. This becomes a matter of co-operation wilh the public. When the planning for financial allocation is made by the Department I strongly suggest that this matter, which may appear very small here but which looms large in many areas, be taken into consideration. The shire councils, I know, would be only too willing to help. As I have said, good public relations between the people and our Services is worth more than the solution of this aggravating problem would cost in cold cash. 
My question is directed to the Postmaster-General. In view of recent comments by representatives of some television stations concerning censorship of television films, can the PostmasterGeneral inform me, firstly, whether such censorship is a statutory requirement and, secondly, whether the Government has given any consideration to a change in law? Some recent pronouncements are inclined to be confusing and if I interpret them correctly I express views which certainly are contrary to them. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. I also claim to have been misrepresented by the Sydney 'Daily Mirror' in an article written by  Mr Jim  Quirk on 15th November alleging that I was believed to be an associate member of a group working within my Party against the Prime Minister. No man or newspaper makes my decisions for me, and like my friend, the Minister for Customs and Excise, I resent the allegation in the article and claim it to be completely untrue. 
 Is  the Minister for Defence aware that a well known radio commentator stated on Sunday night that the McMahon Government and the Labor Opposition had obviously reached a bipartisan consensus on defence and foreign policy? Does the Minister agree with this statement? 
I will be very brief. The honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  is quite right in saying I am most interested in this subject, but he is quite wrong if he thinks that I am happy with the amendment as moved by the Opposition. I have been listening to this debate pretty closely, and it appears that all Opposition members have been doing is fighting for 2 votes from this side of the Committee. I was so disturbed on Thursday that they could possibly have had 3 votes from this side. The honourable member for Dawson knows this. 
Studying the amendment as I have done, and having been in touch with the various people concerned over the week-end; I say that I trust the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  whose assurance 1 have that this matter will be looked into together with the Repatriation Act. The problem worrying the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  has been my problem for a while. I understand that the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  has also received an assurance that Cabinet will study this problem. I have spoken to the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  who is at the table. The Minister has assured me that this problem will be looked at in conjunction with Cabinet. I am waiting for the result of that consideration. 
If the honourable member for Dawson suggests that I will cross the floor and vote for this amendment, he is quite wrong. I think that the assurances that 1 have been given will more than satisfy those people whom the honourable member for Dawson and I know. I pay the Opposition this compliment: I think that it moved its amendment in good faith. This is different from its motive this afternoon in trying to suggest that Government members have not acted in good faith. I do not think that the Opposition has covered the situation. I think that the Opposition and the Government are growing far apart on what this legislation is designed to do. The legislation that is being discussed at the moment seeks to raise the maximum war service homes loan from $8,000 to $9,000. We have really gone far from and wide of the intention of the legislation and the purpose behind its introduction by the Minister for Housing. I will stand by the assurance that I have received from the Minister for National Development and the Minister for Housing who have said that Cabinet will look at these matters. In standing by those assurances, I will not be voting for the amendment. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Customs and Excise. I refer to a recent news report stating that the price of school text books will be doubled for the new school year, the reason being that the Department of Customs and Excise will be applying a 574 per cent duty on them. I ask the Minister: ls this correct? If so, why is such a heavy duty being applied to these text books? 
This Bill relates to a very important subject. I listened with interest to the remarks of the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden).  Unfortunately 1 was quite at loss at one stage of his speech to understand what he meant regarding the penalties outlined in this Bill. I believe that one of the most positive ways in which to destroy a country is to undermine the mental and physical health of its youth. One could classify drug taking as a declaration of war on a country and I believe that the only way to fight such a problem is to declare, war against it 
I was interested in reading the statistics which are available on the . penalties imposed at the moment in this field. I do not know whether the honourable member for Oxley has seen these statistics. The inadequacy of the penalties imposed rather intrigued me. For instance, one fellow was fined $800 for being in possession of heroin, despite the fact that he had previous convictions for drug trafficking. An $800 fine was imposed for the possession of LSD tablets, despite evidence being given of a previous conviction for drug trafficking. A fine of $600 was imposed for possession of hashish, despite 5 separate attempts being made by the person fined to import drugs. He will certainly have another go at it. For the importation of cannabis a $500 fine was imposed. The person fined was allowed to pay off the fine at $10 a week. For the importation of cannabis one person was gaoled for 3) years, despite evidence being given of large scale importations of other drugs. Another chap was released on  a  bond for drug trafficking. Another one was fined $200 for importing. 
The penalties imposed are very lenient indeed compared with the rewards which can be gained from drug trafficking. Let us have  a  look at the money these people can get for trafficking and dealing in drugs. One pound of marihuana can be purchased overseas at a cost of $10. If it were imported here it would retail at $1,000. A dose unit of LSD which is manufactured for 20c and sold wholesale for 50c retails at from $8 to $12. I repeat that the original cost of a dose unit is 20c. A pound of heroin which is purchased for $3,000 overseas would sell wholesale in Australia for $20,000. By adding milk, sugar and caffeine to it one can double the quantity and get 2 Ito of heroin. That 2 lb of heroin could be sold in doses at a net profit of approximately $100,000. The fines imposed matter nothing because (he offenders merely laugh at them and put their hands in their pockets and pay those fines before they leave the court. I believe that the people who do traffic in these drugs deserve a much harsher penalty than that prescribed for at the moment. 
I draw a definite distinction between the pedlars and the users. I wholeheartedly agree with the statement of the honourable member for Oxley that the users definitely need medical rehabilitation. But there is no problem as the Government recognises this fact. However,  I  would draw a definite line of distinction between a user and a pedlar or a user-pedlar. The honourable member for Oxley mentioned alcohol and tobacco. There is a difference between addiction  to  alcohol and tobacco and addiction  to  drugs. The difference is that the alcoholic  or  the heavy user of tobacco does not try  to  induce other people to join him. One will often find the alcoholic on his own in a corner. 1 am talking about the real alcoholic - the cove who is really gone. You will find that that fellow is a loner. Of course, the heavy smoker does not run around trying to induce other people to start smoking simply because he smokes. A drug pedlar is always on the job of inducing others to use the particular drug he peddles and so become dependent, which means another customer for him and consequently more money in his pocket. I believe that there is a distinct difference between the user of alcohol and tobacco and the drug pedlar in this respect. I know that the Minister and his Department have a tremendous problem with the detection of drugs. Our open coastline makes smuggling or the importation of drugs a lot easier than perhaps in other countries; it is comparatively easy. Therefore to my mind we must make the penalties harsher for the offenders we catch. I forget the percentage of possible drug imports that are detected. If I remember rightly it is about 15 per cent. That is not good. We must deter people from illegally importing drugs. They are making huge profits by trying to get this stuff into Australia, and we must try to catch them somewhere along the line. 
The honourable member for Oxley placed emphasis on research. This is ideal, but I think there is a definite and comparative need for education and detection as well as research. If I remember rightly, the honourable member for Oxley placed research first in order of priority, but I claim there is a comparative need for detection and education as well. I will not disagree with the honourable member's statement that the narcotic problem is developing. My word, it is developing. It is developing to a stage where we have to watch it very closely. He mentioned the problem in America and in England and how the authorities in those countries treat the people involved differently. The drug problem is developing to the stage where because of Australia's open coastline, the comparative ease of smuggling drugs into Australia and the huge profits that can be made on this stuff, people from all walks of life are being attracted to dealing in drugs. New and devious techniques arc being devised for distributing the stuff, and consequently this problem will develop further, lt is OK to have the accent on research - I am all for it - but as  I  say, there is a comparative need for detection and education to offset the development of this problem. I feel also that there is a constant need for the people who arc engaged in the detection of drugs to co-operate with other countries which have similar problems and at intervals during a year, say, to visit these other countries and study their technique or, vice versa, have other people come to us. But I feel there should be complete co-operation between other countries and ourselves on the detection of drugs. 
The honourable member for Oxley stated that he had reservations about marihuana. So have I. I have read that for many years countries such as England have been studying this problem to find out whether there are any ill effects from marihuana and whether it is addictive, but nobody has yet come up with anything positive. I take notice of the people from the World Health Organisation who are engaged in this research and who have said that they too are not sure. If they are not sure of the effects of marihuana - this drug, if it be a drug - I too have reservations about it. Until something definite about the effects of marihuana comes up and is published I too, as does the honourable member for Oxley, have reservations about its use. 1 read about 12 months ago in the 'Australian' newspaper, I think it was, that the 5 medical members on the Opposition side had openly stated that there were no ill effects from marihuana and that they would legalise the use of it if they had their choice. Having not read about definite results of any research that has been done into this weed, I was amazed that they could be so definite. Again I read in the Press recently that the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  said that he had used marihuana and that he knows doctors who have used it. I do not know where the honourable member gets the marihuana from - whether he grows it himself, whether he purchases it or whether he has it given to him. But it is still illegal to use marihuana. I would like to ask him later where he gets it. I cannot see how these members of the Opposition can be so definite when the research that has been going on for many years in the countries 1 mentioned has not produced anything definite. So I will reserve my judgment on marihuana until something definite is published. 
The honourable member for Oxley stated also that the approach of penalising people for drug offences has failed in America. Frankly I do not know how he can be so definite about that when we do not know the results of what would have happened had they not been penalised. I have no argument with him when he says that the user needs medical treatment and medical rehabilitation. He has stated that the penalising has failed. I do not see how he can be so definite. As I said, a lot of money is being made by people in all walks of life from drugs. It is interesting to read the statistics of court cases over the last 5 years, to see what these people do for a normal occupation and to see the increase in the incidence of drug offences. Unlike the honourable member for Oxley, who has moved this amendment, I want harsher penalties. 
A study of the seizures of drugs that have been made over the last 5 years indicates that these are necessary. There has been a marked decrease of the seizure of opium in the last 5 years but there has been a marked increase in the seizure of heroin and a tremendous increase in the seizure of cannabis. Thousands and thousands of pounds have been seized. There has been a tremendous increase in the seizure of LSD and other drugs such as morphine and cocaine over the last 5 years. 1 feel that the penalties in the Bill and as outlined by the Minister in his second reading speech are definitely not harsh enough. While I agree with the Opposition statement that the users need treatment, I cannot vote for the amendment because, as I have stated, the penalties as 1 read them in the Bill are still not harsh enough for these characters who would undermine the health, both physical and mental, of the youth of our country. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In view of the deep concern felt by Australia and our Pacific neighbours over French nuclear testing in the Pacific region, can the Minister say whether the French Government has announced that it intends to resume testing in the Pacific in 1972? 
I have listened to this debate so far with a considerable amount of interest because this is one subject that interests me considerably. The approach so far, from what I have heard from the earlier speakers, has been towards land rights. Previous speakers have touched on nothing else. I have attempted to look at this subject objectively and have noted a few questions arising from the de bate this afternoon, from Press statements and from radio statements, that I would like answered. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  spoke about the need for pre-school education for Aboriginal children other than those in the Northern Territory. I wholeheartedly agree with him because there are areas other than the Northern Territory where we have coloured people. 
I agree with the Leader of the Opposition when he says that this matter should be looked at very closely. But he did not explain sufficiently what he would do regarding land for the Aborigines or the coloured people. For instance, he spoke about trust land. The Government has had a good close look at trust leases, trust land and cooperative leases. I would view trust land with some suspicion because there is no flexibility in such a deal. With co-operative holdings there is flexibility. The Government has had a good look at this matter and has decided that flexibility should be achieved. For instance, if this land were given to them in trust and in many years to come, things altered and other people wished to do something different with this land, they would find that it was held in trust and tied to a particular use. Therefore I prefer the flexible course of granting corporation leases. 
The honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  mentioned the health of Aborigines in the Northern Territory and the health situation at the Alice Springs Hospital. I do not think that a $2m hospital for Aboriginal children in Alice Springs is a little thing, but the honourable member for Wills did not mention that. I think he mentioned the preserving of ceremonial sites. If he looked at the Government's policy on this closely he would find that the ceremonial sites were not included in our lease land but were to be preserved. The honourable member for Wills said what the Government should have done, but may I remind him that over the last few years the Government has done more to assist in the field of Aboriginal welfare than has any other government since federation; it does not have a bad record. The honourable member for Wills also asked why Aboriginal people are not allowed to assert themselves and speak in their own right. For goodness sake, if he looked around the other chamber he would find there an Aboriginal chap who has progressed from being a branch member of a political party right through to now being a senator. That fellow has not been hesitant in asserting his own rights. He, along with others, has been encouraged to do so. So there are examples to offset what the honourable member was talking about.  1  hope the Opposition will be able to give me the answers to some questions. Not long ago the Leader of the Opposition made a promise, which has received widespread publicity, that he would grant freehold land to Aborigines. He spoke about it today. But there are a few points that he has not clarified. I would like him to clarify them now - he has the opportunity to do so - and state whether they are Australian Labor Party policy. The questions are simple. For instance, when he mentions land rights for Aborigines does he include Torres Strait Islanders? 
He never mentioned it, and  1  was waiting all afternoon for him to mention it. Secondly, I, as well as our coloured people and other white people, would be very interested to know what restrictions and conditions he would apply before granting land to our coloured people. Thirdly, having granted the freehold land or trust land to the people, would they be allowed to sell it to some overseas investors, or for that matter to some of our own people, who offer them an attractive purchase price? Fourthly, would they be allowed to control all mining rights on this land, and if it was found that mineral wealth existed there would they be allowed to enter into negotiations for mining concessions with overseas organisations if these organisations wished to develop this mineral wealth? 
Fifthly, where would the granting of the freehold land to the coloured people end? I was waiting for some details on this from the Leader of the Opposition today. We all know where it would begin. He told us where it would begin. The Opposition, if it were in government, would be handing out land in all States - that is, if the Leader of the Opposition honoured the promise he made to the coloured people and if he wanted to do this without any strings attached. Would he acquire this land from existing landholders out of Commonwealth revenue if the Aborigines applied for it? Apropos of his statement in this morning's Press, what would he do if they laid claim to that land we know as South Yarra or portion of North Sydney, South Brisbane or Torrens Park? What would happen if they claimed land such as I have mentioned that has historical value? In view of his statement this morning, the Leader of the Opposition would have to recognise and honour this claim. Finally, I ask the Leader of the Opposition: Is what he spoke about today but has not covered fully yet ALP policy on land rights for Aborigines or is it his own thoughts on the matter or something he dreamed up on the spur of the moment for political expediency to gain the support of the coloured people prior to the next election? I think the people of Australia, both coloured and white, would like to know the answers to these  6  questions. I would like the  1-cader  of the Opposition to spell them out loud and clear and leave no possible room for doubt on this score. 
Over the last few years there have been some very bitter denunciations of the Government's policy on Aboriginal affairs - denunciations which are not deserved, as a study of the booklet setting out Commonwealth policy and achievements will prove. Unfortunately in some instances our coloured people are confused about their future. I cannot blame them because in my opinion this confusion has resulted from the actions of moderates, militants and extremists all peddling their own thoughts on reform, lt is interesting to get a whole sheaf of papers on this subject and to see the different thoughts that come from different areas. No wonder the people are confused. We have clergymen, members of the Communist Party writing in the Tribune*, some politicians and university students al) stirring up issues that can be exploited for political purposes. Let us face it; this is done. It is happening, and some of these people say so. I doubt whether in any other country 140,000 people of  a  particular race have ever been subjected to such a mass of conflicting thoughts and ideas. Although some of these people who offer advice may mean well, their advice still adds to the confusion. 
Unfortunately, from this confusion a state of militancy has developed and a revolutionary programme has been suggested. In my opinion this state of affairs is completely and utterly irresponsible, and I am positive that it is not the wish of the great majority of our coloured people. Legitimate reform and assistance could be delayed for years because of this development. I think we should have learnt the lesson that violence is not a long term answer in a particular cause. Promotion of a cause must aim at obtaining the sympathy of the majority of all the people for that cause. Violence or threats of violence will lead only to the alienation of that sympathy. That is simple, and we all know it. In an issue of the 'Tribune' of February this year was the report of a statement by an Aboriginal spokesman for a militant group. This statement was reported in other newspapers also. The sentiments he expressed upset me considerably. He said: 
Revolution isn't going to come without an armed struggle. The point is that we've got to clear the way first to legally carry guns in the Street. Not concealable guns but shotguns and rifles. 
Surely that is not the way to obtain the support of the people. If permits were granted to these people to carry weapons, any other member of the community must be granted a permit also. What a bloody shambles this would develop into! This statement has appeared in the Press quite often yet I have not heard one member of the Opposition speak out against the suggestion. I have, been waiting but nothing has been said. Does this mean that Opposition members condone the use of violence in such a cause? Is it Australian Labor Party policy to support violence in any cause? Why do members opposite not indicate their altitude? They support the Aborigines but no speaker has opposed this particular suggestion. 
It has been reported that the so-called Aboriginal embassy opposite Parliament House is seeking full State rights for the Northern Territory under Aboriginal ownership and all titles for mineral ownership, ownership of all other reserves and settlements in Australia with titles to their mining and mineral rights and mineral and mining rights in certain towns and cities. It is seeking compensation of an initial payment of $6,000m for all other land throughout Australia and a percentage of the gross national product each year. The Government could not possibly agree to such requests because many factors must be considered for the benefit of the nation as a whole apart from just handing out money and land. The Government believes in one Australia and not 2 countries within a country. What bothers trie is that we are reaching the stage when several groups are being formed and the Aborigines are being led along a dead end path. Two separate identities are being created, but this is not on. We do not want 2 countries within a country, but members opposite have been quiet on this aspect. 
If by some shocking misfortune members opposite became the government would they grant the requests that 1 have mentioned? I have referred to these requests because they were publicised after the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  spent some time with the people across the road from Parliament House. I wonder whether this matter was debated with him. He did not say today that these requests would be refused if by some shocking misfortune the Opposition became the government, but I am positive that members opposite would not grant these requests. 1 have queried several matters that T believe should be brought out into the open so that people can know where honourable members stand. In his statement the Minister for the Environment Aborigines and the Arts  (Mr Howson)  outlined the Government's policy on Aboriginal land rights - a policy with which I am sure the great majority of our coloured people will be happy. I know that quite a number of them are opposed to any form of militancy at all and I am confident that they will be happy with this idea of lease land. 
A study of the achievements of the Government since the setting up of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs in 1967 must prove that the Government has not been niggardly or lacking in its approach to the welfare of our coloured people. No government since Federation has done more than this Government has done over the last  3  or  4  years, nor will any government do more in the future. We realise that land right's is not the only issue involved. The provision of education and health facilities, housing and employment must be reviewed and considered. A successful conclusion to these considerations can be achieved only when there is cooperation and trust between the 2 Australian peoples. Separate development can never work successfully. Of that I am positive, and I wholeheartedly support the Government's determination for one Australia for all our people. 
Can the Minister for National Development inform me of the present situation regarding the proposed Commonwealth assistance to the States for re-afforestation purposes? 
My question also is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and I refer to the recent visit of  President  Suharto of Indonesia to this country. Apart from the goodwill his visit generated between our 2 countries and in view of the wide public interest that was shown in trie President's visit, were any tangible benefits gained from the President's visit? 
I wish to bring to the attention of the Government and this House the excellent work that is done by an organisation known as the Australian Volunteer Coastguard Association, in the hope that some recognition will be given to this organisation and some financial assistance afforded to it. There are branches of this Association in every major centre on the coast from Perth in Western Australia to Cairns in north Queensland. As the name implies, the organisation is a completely volunteer organisation. Its aims are to promote safety in the operation, maintenance and navigation of small craft. Its members guard the coast in the most effective possible way, that is, by common sense methods of prevention, education and example. When they are engaged in rescue operations they use their own launches and equipment and meet the subsequent expenses themselves. They also purchase and maintain their own distinctive uniform, which is the same in every branch around the coast of Australia. 
To illustrate the valuable work that they do I need only quote what has been done by the Townsville branch of this organisation. In the first 6 months after this branch was formed it effected 19 rescues. It rescued 19 small craft which had left the harbour either to fish the reefs or on a pleasure run and which had become disabled. On one occasion the members themselves chartered a light aircraft at their own expense to assist (hem in the search for a disabled vessel. This led to the rescue of a husband and wife and 3 small children who were in danger of finishing up on one of the reefs. 
A volunteer body such as this which is performing such valuable service to the community should never have to worry about raising sufficient finance to maintain its operations. Recently the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  announced the establishment of a coastal surveillance service for the protection of our fisheries and to assist with matters of concern to the Departments of Customs and Excise, Health and Immigration. This service will be administered by the Commonwealth Government, which means that it will also be financially supported by the Commonwealth Government. The formation of this service is an excellent move and one that has been badly needed for a long time. I am certainly not knocking it, but if the Commonwealth feels this surveillance is a necessity and worthy of financial support, surely the Australian Volunteer Coastguard Association, which was formed to protect and to save lives, should also merit some financial consideration. After all, if this Association was not active. T would venture to suggest, the Commonwealth or the States would have to accept the responsibility of the rescue operations that the members of the Association perform. I ask the Government to consider seriously some form of financial assistance to help these volunteers to continue their valuable service to the community around our coastline. 
I would like to mention briefly another matter which is of great importance to north Queensland and which T have repeatedly mentioned in this chamber, as has the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson).  It has been the subject of repeated questions to the Prime Minister and the Minister for National Development. It is the matter of the construction of the Burdekin dam in north Queensland. Over the last couple of years I have been told in answer to my questions, as has the honourable member for Dawson, that a joint Commonwealth-State team is making a feasibility study of this project. I would like to know whether the study is still being made or whether it has been completed. If it has been completed, what are the results of this study? If this team has been operating in the Burdekin Valley and making a study of the feasibility of such a project it must surely have realised by now the benefit that such a storage of water would be to a large productive area of north Queensland and the subsequent economic benefit to the State of Queensland and the Commonwealth. 
Townsville and the, district that the dam would serve are developing rapidly and we need this water. We do not need the water for agricultural purposes only, as some may think. We need it for industry and we need water for people. Not so long ago - 1 would say about 12 months ago - the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  made a statement that Townsville was the greatest example of decentralisation in the Commonwealth. I might say that that was one of his very few statements that were completely correct. If Townsville and the district had an abundance of water the development in that area would be even more rapid. I would like to see some positive action taken on the Burdekin project as soon as possible. In my humble opinion and in the opinion of thousands of others - I mean thousands - the Burdekin dam will be built. Such a water storage is badly needed to take care of that area's water problems in the next 50 to 100 years. 
If it is the huge cost of the project that is stifling a decision - I might say that the last estimate for the 4 stages of the dam to be completed was approximately $330m - I humbly suggest that the project should be constructed in stages, each stage being undertaken in 5-year] y periods. Stage 1 has been completed for years. Stage 2 would take care of the Burdekin district's water problem. Stage 3 would go a long way towards solving the water problems of Townsville industries and people. Stage 4 would be the ultimate. I say again that the Burdekin dam will be built regardless, but I should like to know when a start will be made on this important project. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into  the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as  a  public service charged more correctly to National Development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to national development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives of Australia, in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned electors and others respectfully show: 
That the acquisition of the Many Peaks Range on the Townsville Town Common, by the Department of Civil Aviation, for the proposed unmanned radar stations, will, by ground clearance, access roads and construction, most seriously interfere with an area already designated as wilderness in City Council plans. The flora and fauna in the. area are already being studied by students and scientists of the James Cook University and of Townsville schools, and are of particular interest for their variety and diversity. This is the only easily accessible area of this type for study purposes. 
Also the proposed fence will prevent access to Shelley Beach by bushwalkers and tourists, and the recreational value of the area will be lost. 
Your petitioners, therefore, humbly pray that the Parliament of Australia will direct the Department of Civil Aviation to investigate other and less vulnerable sites for this project. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Has the Treasurer seen a report of a speech made yesterday by  Mr Butcher,  manager of the Sydney Stock Exchange? If so, does the Treasurer agree with the assertion apparently made that the action of the Taxation Office during the mineral boom caused the boom to collapse and contributed to the fall of a number of companies? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Housing. Has the Minister seen a recent comment which claimed that many loans to purchase homes were being repaid in less than 10 years instead of advantage being taken of the longer repayment period? Does the Commonwealth's concern with welfare housing suggest that people who do this should be penalised? Does the Minister know of any proposals that would disadvantage them? 
 I have a very definite reason for raising this matter of the production of protein foods - I have seen them and I know that some members of the Opposition have seen them - which have been labelled as synthetic meat because I feel that it is a matter of national importance and one which should be raised at this time. One of the main reasons why I wish to direct the attention of the Government and the public to this matter is the steady encroachment of synthetic materials into our primary industries. I need give but 2 examples which are enough to underline the seriousness of the situation. The first example is the introduction of synthetic fibres for the manufacture of material, which has seriously affected and will continue to affect our wool industry. The other example is the production of synthetic sweeteners, which must have had some adverse effect on our sugar industry. Now the production of what is termed synthetic meat, in my opinion, will have an adverse effect on our meat industry if the increased production of this article is allowed to gain any momentum. Since the end of the last World War there has been a tremendous increase in the production and distribution of synthetic and imitation substances, which through the medium of intensive advertising campaigns the public has been educated to accept instead of the genuine article. In fact in some instances the public prefers the synthetic article mainly, I would think, because these substances can be produced at a much lower cost to the consumer. 
The Australian meat industry is widely known and respectfully accepted throughout the other trading nations of the world, and it is one of the largest export income earners that we have in Australia. Apart from this, and more importantly, it maintains hundreds of thousands of our people in constant employment. Therefore I have no wish to see an imitation product quietly creep into our meat markets and force us to accept a lower distribution of our meats on the domestic and world markets. I am not saying that this could happen overnight, but we all know that once a well advertised product has gained a foothold in the market it is difficult to control its expansion. In all probability it would take some years for a synthetic or imitation meat product to cause any real danger to the industry if allowed to go unchecked, but the danger exists, and in my opinion it is better to offset this threat in the early stages than to wait until we are really forced to do something about it to protect our own interests. 
We all know that proteins are substances which are essential for life and that meat supplies much of our protein requirement in a palatable form. We know that to achieve an adequate diet proteins must be edible and digestible. We are also told that the best sources of the best proteins for this purpose are the normal protein sources such as meat, eggs, poultry, fish, milk and cheese, but there are other vegetable proteins which, while being inferior to those I have just mentioned, could fulfil the protein requirements of the people of quite a number of countries. Among these vegetable proteins, soya bean appears to be the most universally acceptable. I am informed that it is soya bean flour which is the main ingredient in the manufacture of synthetic or imitation meat. In the process of manufacture I believe that it is flavoured, coloured and made up to taste and look like meat, bacon, chicken, hamburgers or other types of meat foods. I am also informed that because the price of the ingredients used would be below that of similar meat products these synthetic meats could be marketed to the consumer at a cheaper price. At the moment, however, the type of industry that produces such imitation meats is in its infancy and the cost of manufacture is fairly high mainly, I would say, because the industry has yet made no definite impact on the meat market. But this is not to say that this cannot happen. In fact I predict that in the near future a gigantic effort will be made by the manufacturers of this product to make a substantial impact on the meat markets of the world. 
I am not saying that these imitation products are not good food. They are. The well known fact that there is a world shortage of protein, expecially among the underdeveloped countries, leads me to believe and confirms my thoughts that a definite attempt will be made to capture a great share of the world meat market. All due respect must be paid to the men who devised this product and to the manufacturers who produce it. I am not for one moment advocating that any attempt be made to prohibit the manufacture of this product, because it could fulfil a definite requirement among the peoples of some of the underdeveloped countries. But what I am advocating is that steps be taken to limit the effect it may have on our own meat market and our overseas meat markets. This could possibly be done by insisting that the product be labelled correctly. That is to say, the label should state that no meat is contained in the article and should make no reference to the word meat'. The product may resemble meat, taste like meat and have a high protein content, but the public should be universally informed, and well informed, that it is not meat. Therefore the labelling of the article as synthetic meat or as an article that is the same as meat, in my opinion, is completely wrong and should not be allowed. No reference should be made to the word 'meat' on the label. I also feel that import restrictions should be placed on this product in order to protect our own domestic market and that more definite meat trade agreements should be established with our customer countries. 
I mentioned that hundreds of thousands of our own people depend on our meat industry for constant employment. I do not exaggerate. There are numerous other industries which the meat industry supports, for instance, the grazing industry, the railways, abattoirs, meat works, processing plants, air and road transport, the steve doring industry and the shipping industry. One could go on and include the butcher shops which deal directly with the consumer. So I do not exaggerate when I say that hundreds of thousands of people are dependent on our meat industry. For those industries to have their production or their distribution rate lowered would be disastrous to our work force, apart from the effect it would have on our national economy. I feel that if the demand for meat were reduced in any way purchasing costs would be increased and, in all probability, the price then would be beyond the reach of our average consumer. I feel also that an increase in production, with a lower consumer cost price, coupled with a forceful advertising campaign showing the many advantages for a healthy way of life, of eating meat would assist tremendously in offsetting any influx on the market of imitation products. 
I do not think it would be difficult to educate the public to the advantages of eating meat, especially if they were informed that the meat proteins were of the highest quality, that meat contains all the minerals needed by the body and that it is particularly rich in iron and phosphorus. It is a natural food and improves the value to the body of other foods. Because it is a natural food people would prefer to eat meat that is free from preservatives or chemicals. Because of the world famine in protein substances manufacturers of the synthetic article could use this known fact to increase their production and make a determined onslaught on markets in the countries that depend on imported products to maintain the protein requirement of their people. The manufacturers of this imitation product have no seasonal problems to concern them such as we experience with our general meat industry. This could lead to their being able to produce a continuous and cheaper product which would be acceptable to the people and it is something which must be countered. 
I have endeavoured to prove that, in my opinion, there will be a threat to the meat industry within the next few years and that there are ways to counter this threat. I have mentioned only a few of the possible ways and means to do this and the repercussions which may be felt if this imitation product is allowed to invade our markets unchecked. Of them all, I think that educating the people in the value of meat as a food, increasing the production and lowering the price to the consumer which would make genuine meat products available to the people to a much greater degree, are the most important ways. I strongly urge the Government to investigate all ways and means of producing a suitable plan to counter any threat to our own market or our overseas market for our great and important meat industry which must be protected from the introduction of spurious, synthetic - or, to use a better word, imitation - meat products. 
I have pleasure in supporting this Bill .which will bring great benefit to my own State of Queensland. Because it is one of the least populated States, Queensland's ability or capacity to raise the necessary finance to continue the extraordinary development that is taking place within that State is limited, and consequently the decision made by the Commonwealth Grants Commission and agreed to by the Commonwealth Government, to assist with the necessary finance, is welcomed wholeheartedly. 
Queensland is probably the most decentralised State in the Commonwealth, and because of this the demand for government services such as schools, hospitals, roads and the like is greater than it is in most States, and consequently the cost of providing these essential services is greater than in other States. Also, the population in Queensland is not as concentrated as it is in other States and this increases the difficulties. 
A significant number of development schemes are being undertaken in Queensland at the present time. These entail the construction of new roads, railways and, in a couple of instances, new ports. To enable the continuity of this rapid development to be maintained, the Queensland Government, of course, must have the necessary finance available, and on this score alone the Commonwealth grant will be appreciated. Earlier I spoke of essential government services that have to be provided to keep in line with Queensland's development programme, and this brings to mind the provision of the very necessary local government services which must also be considered whenever new development takes place. I believe the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  mentioned this last night. I agree with him wholeheartedly. I have mentioned this important matter in this House on previous occasions, and I ask the Queensland Government to consider this matter also when applying for finance under the Commonwealth grants scheme. 
J have mentioned before that I believe the time is overdue for a close look to be taken at the system of financing local government authorities which have to maintain the very essentia) services the public requires and to which it is entitled. We know that the avenues of taxation available to the States are limited, and we know also that the system of rating which local governments employ to obtain finance is one which cannot be used indiscriminately, and that there must be a limit to the rates local government can impose on home owners, land owners and business enterprises. It is normal procedure for rates to fluctuate according to valuation changes, but imposing rate increases to maintain essential services is a method which must be limited to a minimum, lt is with this thought in mind that I have asked the Queensland Government to review the system of financing local government. However, it cannot do this successfully and with justice to local government unless sufficient finance is available to enable it to do so. Consequently, I would suggest that in future when the Queensland Government applies for additional finance to assist in administering the State, it should keep the pressing and mounting problems of local government well to the fore in its thinking. 1 know that other Queensland members are also pleased that the State Government is taking advantage of the finance available through the Commonwealth Grants Commission, especially the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  who in 1964-65 first mentioned the benefits that could be gained by taking advantage of this avenue of additional finance. He is to be congratu lated on his foresight. Again I say that I have pleasure in supporting this Bill and know that nothing but good can come from its adoption. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Defence been drawn to  a  statement made by the Leader of the Opposition on the radio on Monday night, in which he claimed that if Australia were to adopt the Australian Labor Party's policy of abolishing national service it would get a better defence of Australia? Can the Minister say now how the Leader of the Opposition believes the abolition of national service would improve Australia's defence? Secondly, was the Leader of the Opposition correct when he said that the United States will end its draft system next year? 
My question is directed  to the Minister for Housing. Has the Minister seen statistics showing that bank lending for housing is at a record level? Can the Minister say whether he expects this trend to continue in the future? 
With regard to the Opposition amendment moved by the honourable member for Fre mantle  (Mr Beazley),  I notice that it includes the words: 'the possibility that the work of the Institute may be hindered by the pollution of the sea water*. I think that the operative word there is 'may*. I suggest that if honourable members opposite had done their homework, in conjunction with Metals Exploration Qld Pty Ltd which is promoting the Greenvale project, it would have dispelled some of their doubts. While listening to the honourable member for Fremantle I gained the impression - I may be wrong - that had the Opposition nad the responsibility of establishing the Institute of Marine Science it would not have put it at Townsville, for various reasons which the honourable member mentioned. I hope that in the brief speech that I will make on this subject I will be able to dispel some of those doubts. 
Now that all the fiddling about has stopped, it is a pleasure to support the Australian Institute of Marine Science Bill. Regardless of what has been said, this Institute not only will bring prominence to north Queensland where it is to be established but also will add to the prestige of Australia. I think that this was rightly pointed out by the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  earlier this evening. Because of this, it is a matter of sincere regret that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  decided to play politics and, in doing so, stopped the passage of this important Bill through this House some weeks ago. I can promise the Leader of the Opposition that the people of Townsville will not forget it. 
They will not. A marine institute such as the one that the Government is proposing to establish has been needed for some time, as has already been mentioned, and the decision of the Government to enter this new field of scientific research is a welcome one. The work performed by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation has proved beyond doubt that organisations such as this are of tremendous importance and benefit to the development of the nation, and, regardless of the opposition which has been expressed to its establishment. I am positive that the proposed Institute also will prove to be of great benefit to us. 
While the collation of information no doubt will be undertaken at the one centre when the Institute is established, I think that recognition should be made of the valuable work on marine science performed in the past by isolated groups, as was mentioned by the honourable member for Fremantle and, earlier, in the second reading speech of the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  They have contributed greatly to our knowledge of marine matters. It is to be hoped that they will make full use of the facilities that will be available once the Institute is fully established. I could not grasp the claim by the honourable member for Fremantle that the establishment of the Institute would mean putting all of the eggs in the one basket. I do not envisage the staff of the Institute just staying at Cape Pallarenda and operating at the Institute; I envisage field work being done. Mention has been made of the estuary of the river. Certainly the staff will be moving out and doing field work and the centre will be used for the collation of all the information obtained. 
I believe that the Interim Council, which had to study all aspects of the requirements needed to establish the Institute, is to he congratulated. I can imagine that its task was not an easy one. The decisions and observations it made proved that the Interim Council realised the responsibility associated with such a task. But there are some people who deserve no credit whatsoever. Although such an institute is regarded by most people as being a valuable asset to Australia, I am amazed that there are people- fortunately they are few in number - who would wish to knock the idea of it being established in Townsville. It has even been claimed - I have, as honourable members can imagine, been closely associated with this project since it was first mooted - that the proposal was a political gesture. 
An honourable member opposite asked why. If he does not know why, I do not know why he is sitting on the other side of the chamber, lt has been claimed that the proposal was a political gesture. My answer to that is very simple. I do not believe that any government, regardless of its political colour, would be prepared to assist a back bench member by throwing $8m down the drain just as a political gesture. The claim that this Institute is to be established in Townsville as a political gesture is completely ridiculous. There have also been people who have wanted to change the present location because of the possibility of pollution originating from the Greenvale project. I do not know whether those people realise the harm they are doing to the north when they knock a project such as the Greenvale one. It was not just decided overnight to establish a smelter at Greenvale without thought being given to the possibility of pollution being caused by the processing of nickel. The nickel smelting process certainly causes some concern about pollution of the surrounding sea waters. But that matter was taken into consideration when the site at Townsville was decided upon. In fact, I sat in at one of the conferences that discussed the matter of pollution. The Greenvale people themselves have also made a study of the possible pollution problem and have stated that they can overcome it. The Queensland Government took close recognition of possible pollution and how it could be overcome. 
I advise those people who would establish the Institute at any place other than Townsville that the evidence that was presented - I mean all the evidence and not just a summary of it - was taken into consideration when it was decided that Pallarenda was the preferred site. The possibility of pollution from the Greenvale smelter was given attention. Although the laboratory is to be at Pallarenda, the major aquarium facilities are not likely to be located there. The sites for aquariums will be chosen by the Institute's permanent council when it is appointed. I may be wrong, but I imagine that one could be established as far north as Lizard Island and another as far south at Daydream Island. But the major aquarium facilities will not be at Pallarenda. 
Townsville is regarded as being the best site for the Institute because it is essential for reasons of access to have the Institute located on the mainland and not on an island, as some people have suggested, lt is also very important - and I think this point has been overlooked - that the Institute should be established in a university city because it will be necessary for the staff of the Institute to work in close collaboration with the staff of a university, and Townsville is the only university city in the tropics. 
Although the site of the Institute will be approximately 40 miles from the Great Barrier Reef, Townsville is centrally located for reef studies. It is central to the whole reef. It is also a substantial port, as the honourable member for Fremantle mentioned. This is important for the Instiute's future shipping needs. One of the important factors that should be mentioned is that Townsville can provide the support of industry, which is not available in many northern coastal cities, and the support of industry is vital to the operation of the Institute. 
One suggestion which I would ask the permanent council of the Institute, when it is appointed, to consider seriously relates to the commercial exploitation of marine products. There may be times when the council will have cause to recommend certain measures to the commercial world, and should this eventuate I would suggest that the council should seek the advice of a qualified person with an accepted and proven knowledge of commercial matters before making its recommendation. I think that this would assist the council and certainly it would considerably benefit the commercial world. 
The Institute will be an excellent asset to north Queensland. It is just one further indication to me of the important part which north Queensland is playing in the economy of our country. This Institute could also be claimed to be an example of decentralisation, and by that I mean decentralisation of the study facilities. Quite a number of people have come to me and said that they are of the opinion that the Institute should have been established in Sydney, and there are some interesting arguments both for and against its being established in Sydney and not in Townsville. But the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation has proved to be of tremendous benefit to our development, and so will this Institute, although I do not envisage that it will remain in the one situation. It will spread and have branches throughout the whole of Australia. 
The time factor is one of the important considerations, and according to our marine biologists, studies will be undertaken on one of our greatest assets - the Great Barrier Reef, with all its resources. We do not know the extent of the resources for obtaining food and medical products. But the time factor has been mentioned by the marine biologists. They have said that it is most important to get the samples that they may take from the Reef to the Institute or to a laboratory as quickly as possible, and that is why Townsville is the best site for the Institute. The James Cook University is probably one of the greatest investments that we have ever made in northern Queensland. In that university at the present time there are students of marine biology, and this Institute will be a tremendous asset to those people who are studying this subject. . 
I should like to see this project commence as soon as possible. As has been stated by the honourable member for Fremantle and by the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  this Institute has been needed for a long time; it is required for Australia's future development. Not only that, but it will be the means of distinguishing even further Australias contribution to - the sciences throughout the world. The Institute will make it possible to cement further friendship and co-operation with other nations. I do not support the amendment moved by the Opposition because, as I say, the operative word is 'may'. I think that the Opposition could have done a little more homework on this matter. I have great pleasure in supporting the Bil) as it is. I trust that no further nonsense will delay its passage through both Houses. 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Navy. Some weeks ago, I think in answer to a question from the Opposition, the Minister indicated that he hoped to introduce a system whereby naval personnel could get a full discharge by giving 18 months notice. How is this plan developing? How will this affect the numerical strength of the Service, especially of senior personnel? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Defence. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to an address given in Brisbane by the honourable member for St George at a public meeting sponsored by the Queensland Branch of the Australian Institute of International Affairs in which the honourable member is alleged to have said: 
The Government's top Service advisers consider that an all-volunteer Army strength of about 30,000 would meet the current defence requirements. 
They regard a five or six battalion permanent force as more efficient than a nine battalion force diluted with national servicemen. 
I ask the Minister whether the Government has ever had such advice from its Service advisers. If so, does the Government intend to act on that advice? 
I am afraid I cannot agree with my honourable friend from Macquarie  (Mr Luchetti)  when he says that this Government has neglected the families in Australia. I feel sure that time will prove that I am right. It would appear that the backbenchers on the Opposition side are doing the job which the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  should have done in his reply on behalf of the Labor Party to the Budget proposals made by the Federal Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  3 weeks ago. To say that the speech of the Leader of the Opposition was one of the weakest replies I have heard him make to a Budget would be an understatement. We all know that it is the recognised duty of the Opposition party in any Parliament to point out defects that there may be in a statement that is made by a government - that is if there are any - and to outline the remedies that it would apply to these defects in the best interests of a country and its people. But this noticeably was missing in the reply of the Leader of the Opposition the other night.  His  whole hour-long speech was devoted entirely to trying desperately, it appeared, to belittle the Government's proposals for the benefit of Australia and its people. He offered nothing constructive whatsoever. In fact, his whole speech appeared to me to be a deliberate attempt to mislead the people as to the real benefits that will result from the Budget. He specifically attacked the proposals for the reduction of personal income tax, something which affects us all, and tried to sell the idea that it was only a rich man's Budget. But let us have a quick look at the true facts. The rate of personal income tax will be cut by an average of 10 per cent. This means that there will be more money in pay packets from the first pay day in September. The Government has reduced personal income tax as a major step to encourage the consumer to spend more. More spending is what is needed to get the economy moving ahead as it should be to create enough jobs for our work force and reduce unemployment. The tax cuts are not the same for everybody. There will be relatively more for those who need them most. This is quite plain. It has been explained to the Opposition time and time again during the last . 3 weeks, but it is quite obvious members opposite are deliberately avoiding the true issue and placing their own interpretation on the matter, no doubt in the hope that they can confuse the issue in the minds of the electors, so I will endeavour to explain it again to the Opposition. Those who have a taxable income of more than $5,500 will receive a smaller tax cut than 10 per cent. Those with taxable earnings below that figure - that is, the majority of taxpayers - will get a larger tax cut. For example, anyone on a taxable income of $2,000 will find his tax cut by 14 per cent and anyone on a taxable income of $4,000 by about 12.5 per cent. At higher incomes the reduction is less. At $10,000, for example, it will be about 8 per cent. 
Two other important steps have been taken to reduce the burden of income tax, but I have not heard the Opposition mention these. The first step was to raise the minimum taxable income. Previously, anyone earning more than $417 in a year had to pay income tax. Now this figure has been raised to $1,041. In other worJs - to make it quite clear - people earning up to $1,041 will no longer have to pay income tax. 
The other major step taken was to increase dependants allowances in order to help the family man. These proposals will put an extra $565m into the pockets of the taxpayer each year and will particularly help the family man earning an average income. For example, a man on average wages with a wife and 2 children to support, with the increased dependants allowance will gain an overall reduction in tax of approximately 17.5 per cent. 
The proposals put forward in the Budget for pension entitlements also were attacked by the Leader of the Opposition, and in my opinion also unfairly presented by him, so again let us have a look at the true facts. The standard rate of pension for single people will be increased to $20 and the amount for a married couple to $34.50 a week. Since March last year, the standard rate of pension will have been increased by almost 30 per cent while prices have risen by about 9 per cent since that time. This situation in my opinion is only as it should be. 
Another step forward in the pension situation is a substantial easing of the means test. Many other people might now be eligible for a full or part pension. The amount of what could be termed 'free' means without any reduction in the pension is being doubled. This move will especially help those who have provided iu the past for their retirement, but have found their means squeezed by inflation. The Government's intention is to abolish the means lest within 3 years. This must have stung the Opposition. Its last effort on this was in 1969, when it said it would abolish the means test, but it would lake 6 years. It was quite obvious to me at that time that its suggestion was what could be termed election bait, because I feel absolutely sure that it was of the opinion that this Government would never undertake such a move as complete abolition and consequently it felt safe enough to offer such bait. But to keep the record straight, 1 can assure honourable members opposite that this has been our thinking for many years. Before I came to this place 6 years ago - indeed well before then - it was the Government's intention to ease the means test, wherever and whenever possible, with the intention of abolishing it when the situation could afford it. That time has arrived and it shall be done within 3 years. As I have said, how this must sting the Opposition, for it can no longer use such an attractive plum as election bait. 
A major feature of the reply of the Leader of the Opposition to the Budget was the complete omission of any mention of the important matter of defence. This disturbed me, as it should disturb every member of the Australian community. A sound defence system is essential to national security. This is one of the first duties of any government and when the Leader of the Opposition in his capacity as leader of the alternative government neglects to mention this nationally important subject I think it is cause for concern to every Australian, especially as defence matters featured conspicuously in the Budget. Either the Opposition considers it not important enough to mention or it has no definite plans for a sound defence structure. If I remember correctly, the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, that great spokesman on Labor Party matters, quoted defence matters as number 7 on the list of matters which the Labor Party considered as important for the welfare of Australia. If this is Labor Party thinking on national security, it deserves the rubbishing it will get from the Australian people. 
Over the last 20 to 25 years we have had plenty of evidence to point to the kind of demands that could be made on us through regional commitments, and because of this we know that there is a definite necessity to build and maintain a defence structure to enable us to sustain any commitment which would be within our means to maintain. But apparently the Opposition does not see it this way and is prepared to neglect this vital issue by giving the matter of national defence a low priority in the scheme of things. In fact, if we can believe the shadow Minister for Defence, it would reduce the existing structure of the Army and our pool of reserve forces. After listening to and reading his statements made over the last few months, it would appear that he is concerned only with the Army, and he appears to be obsessed with the idea of reducing its strength in regular personnel and trained reservists. The other 2 Services have barely rated a mention. 
Who would be foolish enough to try to predict with certainty what the situation will be throughout the world - and especially in our own region - in 10 years time except the members of the Labor Party who appear to have adopted the thinking that nothing can happen to us, and the devil take any of our neighbours who suddenly find themselves in a hostile environment. This is dangerous thinking, politically, industrially, economically and militarily. For our own security, we must have the capacity to mobilise at extremely short notice, and this we cannot accomplish if our military structure is not there to build upon and if we have not enough trained personnel readily available to attempt to rebuild a substantial structure. 
As far as our Army is concerned, I would remind the Opposition that there is no such a thing as an instant army. The Army should be an integral part of our whole defence effort, which must rely on a substantial trained reserve which could form the framework of a national army if required, and even this, with trained reservists, would take time - time that we could possibly ill afford. But if the Opposition's idea of a completely volunteer army was to be implemented and our pool of reserve troops allowed to be drained to almost something nothing', we would be involved in the greatest shemozzle in all our history, in the event of a national emergency. Without a substantial number of trained reserves, the very important role our Army could undertake in an overall defence effort would be a practical impossibility, and this becomes obvious if one sits down and studies the proposition. 
I firmly believe that the adequate defence of our country is everyone's responsibility. It is a task which should be shared by every member of the community, and I am just as firmly opposed to the Opposition's proposals that this responsible load should be borne on the shoulders of a few members of the entire community who have no alternative but to accept this burden because they are the dedicated regular soldiers. The system under which we operate at the present moment has, in spite of the emotional red herrings that have been dragged across the trail to fool the people, proved successful, and I would say to those members of the Opposition who would destroy this system, if they were unfortunately to become the Government, that a tremendous responsibility would rest on their shoulders, for the price of their neglect of adequate defence for Australia would be our national security - and this is not hard to understand. 
Another important industry affecting the economy of this country, which received favourable consideration in the Budget and which was not mentioned by the Leader of the Opposition in his reply, was the tourist industry. I guess he was too busy dreaming up ideas in an attempt to belittle the Budget to give this important industry any thought at all. This is big business and as such is entitled to receive consideration. Not only is it of great importance to Australia through its contribution to our earnings of overseas exchange and the additional income it generates within the Australian community; as an instrument of goodwill and understanding between ourselves and other countries of the world it is invaluable. It provides employment for many, many thousands of our people. In fact, if 1 remember correctly, one report stated that the travel industry was responsible for the employment of at least 10 per cent of the total Australian work force. Also, again if I remember correctly, in 1971 receipts from people visiting this country totalled SI 50m. But the position could be substantially improved, and it is gratifying to me to see that the Government also is taking note of the fact that this is an important industry to Australia and that it is prepared to assist its expansion. There is a lot of work to be done and a lot of thought to be given to an expansion plan if we wish this industry to reach a desirable and satisfactory position in world wide tourist activities. 
Personally speaking, I believe that the tourist industry should receive more detailed consideration at ail levels of government in Australia in an attempt to ease the administrative problems, including management and finance, which so often prevent tourist development from expanding. I would suggest an even greater step forward which would benefit the industry: Because it is such an ideal overseas exchange earner, because it could be the means of employing many more thousands of our people, because it would generate more internal income within the community and because it is such a valuable avenue to build up goodwill between countries, I would advocate that in the Federal sphere tourism be administered by a separate Ministry, designed to co-operate with State Ministers of Tourism for the country's overall benefit and to co-ordinate tourist activities between ourselves and other countries. It is a great income earner at the moment, it could be greater, and I feel my suggestion warrants consideration even if only because of this fact. 
The Budget presented by this Government has been aptly described by the Press as the 'right kind of Budget', 'steering an intelligent course between generosity and responsibility', and I doubt that anybody could describe it more suitably. Certainly the members of the Opposition in the last few weeks have appeared to be finding it extremely difficult to match the Budget proposals; in fact I am positive they cannot do so without finding themselves beyond the borders of credibility. The amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition offers no improvement; in fact, again I think it is a poor attempt to confuse the issues in the minds of the people. For this reason I wholeheartedly support the Budget as presented, and will have no part of the Opposition's amendment. 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. I ask: Is the Treasurer aware of a statement made last Monday week concerning the supression of migrant employment statistics? If so, will he investigate this serious allegation and inform the House of the result of his investigation? 
Has the Minister for Labour and National Service seen the statement in which some sections of the community are claiming that unemployment in real terms is as bad as at any time since World War II? 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Interior. Can the Minister inform me when the 1972 electoral rolls will be published and ready for distribution? 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Navy. Did the Navy recently arrest 3 Taiwanese fishing boats in northern waters? Were they successful in escaping from naval custody? Have they been found and re-arrested? If not, why not? 
This afternoon I intend to confine my remarks in the debate, on these estimates to the matter of the environment. It is a rather intriguing study which I have commenced just recently, and to me it is becoming increasingly important. Perhaps one of the most significant national developments during the 1960s was the widespread realisation by the public that the quality of the environment in which we live is declining, that the air and waters around us are becoming increasingly polluted and that much of the land upon which more and more of us live, is becoming increasingly congested with mounting burdens of waste disposal and with growing social problems. This awareness gave rise to a deepening public concern for the protection of our natural resources and for the acknowledgement of our social obligations and to an insistence that some action be taken to reverse these, processes of deterioration. 
The responsibility for what has taken place over a. long period of time rests with many men in many places. If one wants to be with it these days the. terms to know and use in daily conversation are 'conservation', 'pollution' and 'ecology of the environment'. Hardly a day goes past in our lives when these words do not appear in the Press, over the radio or other news media. But to know how to use these words and the meaning of them one must first define them. The definition of 'conservation' is 'a preserving from harm or decay, protecting from loss or being used up'. We naturally think in terms of conserving our flora and fauna. In preserving these we also preserve our national heritage, our way of life and the rights of every person in this land to enjoy the beauty of the scenery, the landscape and the natural habitat. We all own these. We all have a stake in these, things and we have a responsibility towards them. 
The next word to define is 'pollution'. This is defined as 'destroying the purity or sanctity of or making foul or filthy', Immediately we think in terms of pollution of water, air and soil. But we, the humans in this world, are also responsible, for polluting the atmosphere with noise. I am told that the level of noise in some of our cities regularly exceeds 85 decibels. I am also told that this is a level widely regarded by doctors as causing severe hearing difficulties. Some of us are also responsible for polluting our minds with pornographic literature and twisting our minds physically and mentally by the use of drugs. 
The ecology of the environment embraces all forms of life and its natural surroundings. It is the study of environments and the interdependence of life that exists in those environments. Some of us may have taken a course in science and will remember the long hours of work over some science project where diagrams were drawn to explain how the plants grew, how the cows ate the plants, how the men ate the cows, and how what was finally left was returned to the plants. This was a simple process which we all understand. But today, with the tremendous increase in scientific knowledge, things are not so simple because the value of this scientific knowledge gained is either not being passed on to the people or, where it is passed on, many of us tend to disregard it. The pace of life which we live nowadays has increased alarmingly. For the great majority of people the tendency is to look for the easy way out for themselves regardless of how it affects somebody else. 
Another factor which is becoming an increasing problem in our environment is the population increase throughout the world. Everywhere one sees evidence of a lack of planning for an increase in population. I call it a lack of planning because it has brought us the major problems of increased crime, vandalism, riots, aud an increase in alcoholism and drug addiction, an increase in emotional and mental disorders and an increase in unemployment, welfare dependency and poverty. I reemphasise the word 'planning' in relation to the future growth of this country, because as our population increases the people must be housed, fed, entertained and gainfully employed. It is not just a case of desiring increased population because the accepted view is that our country is underpopulated. If we as a country are to become a world power with a strong voice in the management of world affairs we must improve the efficiency of the economy we already have and want, and we must make better use of what we possess. I believe that the size and affluence of a country are not pre-requisites for greatness and progress. 
I have mentioned the concern that is evident regarding conservation, pollution and the envirionment. But who is to blame and who will accept responsibility for the situation? We have quite a number of socalled leaders today who persuade people to march through our towns and cities waving banners to declare their right';, privileges and freedoms as individuals. But how many gatherings of the people and marches have we had in this country that are organised to declare an individual's responsibility to his country, his family and perhaps his fellow citizens? I can think of only one, and that takes place every Anzac Day. These people who gather and march in protests and demonstrations against pollution blame everything from government and politicians to big business and advances in technology. They tura on a tremendous show of public sentiment. Everybody has a good day. They finish up tired and happily worn out. They have enjoyed the party. Then they all go home, and the pollution continues. 
I ask again: Who is to blame and who will accept the responsibility for this situation? The answer to this question, as I sen it, is you and I - every person, every single human being. It is not government or big business that is responsible for the destruction of our wildlife and flora which should be preserved. Government and big business are not to blame for the cruelty, apathy, sadistic rowdyism and disregard for the feelings of one's neighbours that we see reported in the Press every day. The answer is that man alone is to blame. Once upon a time he could always leave behind the mess he created and move on to greener pastures. Today there is no place to go, no place to run to. We have run out of green pastures. Therefore, I think it is of extreme importance to our future generations that we as a people do something to conserve our environment, whether we do it individually or collectively. 
In the Book of Genesis we are reminded of this. It says that God created man in his own image and gave him dominion over the fish of the sea, the fowl of the air, the cattle and all the earth; over every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth. He commanded that man be fruitful and multiply, replenish the earth, and subdue it. In my opinion man has done just that. He has followed out these orders implicitly. But in doing so he is well on the way to destroying the only home he knows. We must learn that the conservation of our environment must be a joint venture between man and nature if we are to hand our country and our way of life over to future generations in good order and condition. The challenge of preserving this environment may well become one of man's greatest tasks in the near future. The establishment by the Government of the Department of the Environment is a significant step forward in this direction. The recently announced intention to introduce legislation for urban and regional development is another significant step forward in planning properly for the preservation of our environment. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Defence. Is it a fact that the Government has made a decision not to accept the offer to purchase Phantom aircraft? 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Army. I ask: Because of the build-up in unit strength at Lavarack Barracks are the current Army hospital facilities at Townsville adequate to meet the medical and hospitalisation needs of the task force? If not, Will the Minister tell me what proposals are in hand to rectify the situation? 
I will be very brief. I wish to commend the Government on its move in introducing this legislation. I, together with other honourable members, have been very worried about this anomaly which does exist in the present legislation. I acknowledge that this concern has been shared by the honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Fulton),  the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  and other honourable members. Many Torres Strait Islanders are Australian residents. They are taking their rightful place among us in our society. I could never understand why Torres Strait Islanders shoud be denied the rights of other exservicemen in respect of war service homes. 1 am particularly pleased about the proposal for war service homes grant. This is one area with which I have been closely associated. It has been my pleasure to be here tonight to hear this measure introduced by the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten).  I am pleased to be associated with the legislation that has been presented. I commend the Minister for his efforts. I know that he has been trying to introduce these provisions for a long time. I pay tribute to the officers of the Repatriation Department who have also recognised this anomaly and have worked hard to have it adjusted. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Barnard)  adjourned. 
I intend to confine my remarks to a couple of matters with regard to national development that I feel are important. Within the last few years, much has been said about financial assistance from the Commonwealth to the States, and much has been done by this Government in this regard. Also, there has been much talk of cooperation with the States on development projects, most of which have been in the mining industry, the conservation of water and flood mitigation. But there are other areas of industrial and agricultural enterprise which I feel could be investigated by the Department of National Development for the benefit of a community and a State, and which would also be in the national interest. There has also been a great deal said about decentralisation, and the urban and regional development policy introduced by the Government recently is to be commended in this regard. In my opinion decentralisation plays a vital part in planned development and, to achieve this, sensible use of available land must be made and sensible thinking in the planning for long term projects must be undertaken. 
Combining these thoughts of long term planning, the use of land, planned development, decentralisation, benefits for the community and the State, and national interest, one such industry to which I feel more attention should be paid is forestry. We are extremely fortunate in Australia that we can grow all the types of timber we could possibly need and, in my opinion, we should not have to rely on importing more and more timbers to meet our requirements for this product, lt is a fact that in the last few years more attention has been paid to this matter of reafforestation than ever before, and the recently introduced Softwood Forestry Agreement Bill between the Commonwealth and the States assists considerably. But I think it is still not enough to guarantee supplies of this commodity for domestic use for future generations, and I class it high on my list of priorities in national development. 
The softwood planting programme in Queensland, for instance, has been restricted considerably because of the lack of finance, and 1 feel that while it is considered that reafforestation is a State concern, this will always be the case. I personally feel that it should be a matter of national concern, and not one to be considered for State decision only. While I agree that the State must have the final say in regard to land usage for reafforestation programmes and control of the forests, I am positive that close liaison and co-operation could overcome any problems in this regard and that planting programmes of any respectable size should be classified as national development. 
One of the reasons I would classify it as national development, apart from the milling of the timber, is the possibility of the establishment of pulp mills, combined with other fibres, which could develop into a healthy and prosperous export industry. I first mentioned this some 4 years ago, and submitted a softwood planting programme for implementation in the Ingham district of north Queensland, where seasonal conditions are such that softwoods could reach a reasonable state of maturity in a period of from 10 to 12 years. The submission was investigated and 1 have been assured that the scheme was feasible and economically sound. If this could be developed as a national project, a forest of 100,000 acres and more could be established in some of the best softwood country in Australia. I also submit that this land could be used for other purposes as well as softwood forests. For instance, the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation in north Queensland, in the course of its pastoral research, has, I believe, developed a pasture which can thrive in a forest such as I have mentioned, and I visualise stock grazing on this pasture until the forest reached maturity. So there would be a double use for this land. 
Naturally enough, I do not submit that the whole acreage be planted in the one season, but that a planting programme of so many thousand acres annually be undertaken. 1 submit also that included in this national development project a pulp mill should be established in this district. I am informed that the softwoods, together with the fibres that constitute the cane waste known as 'bagasse', would make a pulp which would be readily acceptable and sought after on overseas markets. The demand for good quality pulp on world markets, I have no doubt, will continue and remain high for a great number of years to come, and the establishment of such an enterprise to my way of thinking would be sound long term economic planning. Apart from this, it would create employment and assist the economic development of the Ingham district, which would be completely justified under the Government's plans for decentralisation and regional development. In the establishment of such a programme there would not be a shortage of labour or materials as we already have the experienced foresters in the area and sufficient tree seedlings are also available. I think it is plainly a case of decision by the Commonwealth, in cooperation with the State of Queensland, to regard this as a completely national development project, which I am sure would be extremely beneficial in the national interest. 
Again, talking of long term planning in the national interest, 1 refer to the beef roads project in north Queensland, which is a national development project. There is no doubt whatsoever that the Government should be commended for the part it has played in opening up our grazing lands in the western country, and for the quick transport of stock through our beef roads system. But there is one addition that could be made to the system which would be of tremendous benefit and improve the whole roads system considerably. In the overall context of the roads system this would be classed as a minor matter, but it is one which, if it were implemented, could be of great benefit, again in the national interest. As it is at the moment, beef roads closest to the western side of the Divide run north and south, and while it is possible in the present system to travel anywhere in western Queensland and the Gulf country, and for some way up the Peninsula, to reach the north Queensland eastern coastline means a long, arduous journey. This matter could be rectified quite simply with the construction of a link road from the Ingham district to the closest north-south beef road across the Divide, and another from the Tully district to that same north-south road. 
A study of a map of the present beef road system and the projected system would show that these short link roads would make a tremendous difference to people and to stock coming to the coastal areas. It would in fact establish 2 means of road communication to the southern part of the State where now only one exists. There would be a coastal route from the north to the south as well as the inland route. I trust that the lesson we were taught during the last great drought period has not been forgotten. I am positive that many of our stock could have been saved if a ready access to coastal pastures had been available. In fact I am sure that we would not have the problem we are experiencing now in restocking if our breeders could have been transported quickly to the coastal areas. Apart from the saving it would create in a drought period, the access to other useful land would be worthy of consideration. At the present moment this would not be possible because of the long, arduous route that has to be taken to reach the populated areas on the eastern coast. It could open up further reafforestation projects and possibly agricultural projects. 
Another thought worthy of consideration would be the splendid opportunity these link roads would make for the tourist industry, lt would be possible to travel through some of Australia's most scenic country and give ready access to the coastal area and our vast hinterland to the tourist. The link road from the Tully district to the nearest beef road would provide a quick means of communication for trade and tourism from the tablelands to the coastal centres and this in terms of domestic economy would be invaluable. In terms of economy in the national interest, the forestry scheme and the link roads system I have mentioned would provide a valuable asset in the long term. The matters I have mentioned earlier such as community benefit, the State and national benefit, decentralisation, planned development, sensible use of land and long term planning are all embodied in these 2 projects. While the forestry scheme for the Ingham district would be a new development, the link roads I have mentioned could be included in the next beef road programme allocation. I do not think the initial cost to implement these schemes would be great, especially in view of the returns that would be made from them. While I consider that the Government has made remarkable progress through the efficiency of the Department of National Development, I would request that these submissions I have made receive earnest consideration in any development plans for the future. 
Can the Minister for Trade and Industry give the House any information on recent trends in the rice industry and on the outlook for world trade in this commodity in the coming months? 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister. I preface it by reminding him that during the election campaign he stated that a Labor Federal government would meet the financial commitment for stage 2 of the Ross River Dam project in Townsville. Does the Prime Minister intend to honour this promise and, if so, will the necessary finance be available on request? 
Firstly I should like to add my congratulations to  Mr Speaker  upon his election to the Chair. I hope that in that job he does not lose the sense of humour that we have enjoyed from him over the last few years. I offer my congratulations to you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  on your election to that position and to the position of  Chairman  of Committees. I know that you will do a good job. I now turn to the Address-in-Reply. One of the most outstanding omissions of Government policy promises in the Governor-General's Speech last Tuesday was in that portion dealing with regional development. Albury-Wodonga was mentioned as a site which would receive attention, but no mention was made of the promised development of Townsville. My remarks in this Address-in-Reply debate will be confined to the subject of regional development and to the statements made on this subject by the present Government during the last election campaign. 
During this campaign much was said about the establishment of regional growth centres in the Albury-Wodonga area and in the city of Townsville in north Queensland. In fact these were the only areas mentioned as being specifically chosen for accelerated growth. This idea suits the people of north Queensland fine, but I would like to know whether, prior to these statements being made, consideration was given to the problems of making Townsville a regional growth centre. I should like to know, and I know the north Queensland people would like to know, whether the Government is honest in its intentions to implement this idea. If so, when is a start to be made? I should like to know also whether this statement about promoting a regional growth centre in Townsville was just another election gimmick to win votes in north Queensland. The reason that the. Government's statement on this matter is suspect is that during the campaign so much was promised to the people in the north that they are now beginning to wonder whether excuses will be found to delay the implementation of all these promises. 
An additional reason which makes the Government's pre-election promises suspect is the purpose of the last Federal Conference of the Australian Labor Party being held in Townsville early in 1972. At the commencement of the conference the Federal  President  of the Australian Labor Party stated that the specific reason for the conference being held in Townsville was to assist in unseating the Federal member for Herbert. During that week Press statements were directed towards just that. In the ensuing period many magnificent promises were made by the Australian Labor Party candidate for the benefit of the area, presumably, as the people were led to believe through the Press, on behalf of the then Leader of the Opposition and the now. Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  As many honourable members will imagine, I was tremendously upset at having to disappoint the Federal  President  of the Australian Labor Party by retaining my seat. This leads to one question. Is the Government honest in its intention to promote accelerated growth in Townsville? If so, has it considered all of the problems that will have to be tackled and overcome before this can be achieved? If so, when is a start to be made? Or was it just another election promise that will be fobbed off with excuses until it becomes another distant memory? If the Government is honest in its intentions would it define, loudly and clearly, its interpretation of 'regional development'? Does this just mean the development of an existing city or the development of surrounding districts as well as the city? It is said that the Albury-Wodonga area will become a planned city in which it will be a delight to live. This may be all right for New South Wales and Victoria but Queensland needs new cities like we need holes in the head because Queensland is the greatest example of decentralisation. This was acknowledged by the Prime Minister when he was Leader of the Opposition. In my opinion the existing cities and towns in Queensland and the districts surrounding them should be considered for development before there is any talk or thought of building new cities. 
Let us look at what the Government has promised to do in respect of regional development. During the policy speech of the present Government prior to the recent elections, these were some of the statements that were, made on this subject: Rebuilding our existing cities and building new ones; promote a massive attack on the problem of land and housing costs; water and sewerage services to all premises by 1978; implement the recommendation that centres nominated for accelerated development be recognised for telephone charging purposes as extensions of the metropolitan area, whereby rentals would be equated and calls between these places and the State capital charged as for local calls; in its first term of office to concentrate initiatives and endeavours in 2 areas, Albury-Wodonga and Townsville; purchase land in co-operation with State and local governments, acquiring rural land before it is zoned and the land then to be released on a leasehold basis; freezing of land prices in growth centres such as Albury-Wodonga; provide money to build homes for 200,000 people on the southern outskirts of Sydney as a planned city, the land to be developed on a leasehold basis and allocated according to needs or ballot. 
These are the policy statements the Labor Party made on this subject during the election campaign. Let us have a brief look at some of them. 
I suppose the rebuilding of our existing cities and the building of new ones is the Government's contribution to the idea of decentralisation, but as I have mentioned Queensland needs new cities like we need holes in the head. What is meant by a massive attack on the problem of land and housing costs I do not know. In my opinion this situation certainly needs some control, but I think it will be most interesting to see how the Government mounts its massive attack on this problem without detrimental effect to complementary industries.. Then I guess the people who live in Camooweal, Cloncurry, Hughenden, Julia Creek and the dozens of towns such as these throughout Queensland and in the outback towns of other States would be most happy to have water and sewerage services laid on to their premises by 1978. During the election campaign and at a Press conference after the election,  the  piesent Prime Minister was most emphatic that Townsville would be regarded as a centre for regional development and accelerated growth, and while I think this is a highly commendable intention. I wonder whether he and other members of the Ministry have thought of the problems associated with this intention. These problems and the methods employed to solve them, providing the Government goes ahead with its intentions, could well become a guideline for centres designated for development in the future, that is, of course, if the Government really intends to proceed with its proposal. 
I mentioned earlier that it was the Government's policy to regard recognised development centres as extensions of the metropolitan area for telephone charges and services. Townsville is close to 1,000 miles from Brisbane, and if the Government does implement its policy it will be interesting to see the effect on the people of Ayr, Home Hill, Ingham, Tully, Cardwell, Innisfail, Cairns, Mount Isa and other such places who will have to pay normal trunk line charges to Brisbane while people in Townsville will enjoy the privilege of being able to make the same trunk call for 5c. There is no doubt that it would suit the people of Townsville, but I would rather the new Government implement this policy than me, for I can imagine some very irate people in north Queensland will be asking why this privilege can be extended to 74,000 people in one centre and not to the whole of north Queensland. 
There is no doubt that the city of Townsville, the second largest in Queensland, is growing rapidly and that this growth has been continuous over the last few years. It has been doing this in its own right and it will continue to grow as the need for expansion arises; but there is one major problem which must be overcome before any talk of accelerated growth can even begin to be considered and this is the problem of an adequate water supply. The normal daily usage for people and industry in Townsville is approximately 15 million gallons. This supply comes from a dam erected in the mountains some 40-odd miles to the north and from weir catchment areas situated on the Ross River. Both these supplies are dependent on adequate rainfall, which is not always assured. Any prolonged dry spell means excessive water restrictions both for people and industry. In fact, the city was limited to a daily usage of approximately 9 million gallons over the last few months. At the beginning of this year the city had only sufficient water to last for 42 days at the rate of 9 million gallons a day. Fortunately there has been sufficient rain since to extend this period. The point I am trying to make is this: Before the new Government can take one step to establish Townsville as a growth centre, it must ensure that there is sufficient water to service this growth. 
I am giving the Government a chance to. get off the very large hook it is on if its supporters would only listen. At the present moment there is a flood mitigation and water storage project being undertaken on the Ross River. If this dam is completed and if there is sufficient rain to fill the dam and keep it filled, it will ease the water requirement situation for a period of only a few years. The complete answer to regional development in this area is the construction of the Burdekin Dam. Whether the Prime Minister was angling for votes I do not know but he stated during the election campaign that this project would be proceeded with. This is easy enough to promise, but the construction of dams is not done cheaply and in my opinion the Burdekin Dam at this stage would cost approximately $400m to complete. Therefore the question arises: will he honour this promise or will it be shelved using the excuse of awaiting definite information on the project? 
The Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson)  made a statement on 1st February that immediate action was to be taken to accelerate the reappraisal of the Burdekin River basin, and that he was shocked at the almost complete lack of action on the part of 
Federal authorities on this matter. He further stated that the evaluation could take several years to complete and that the Prime Minister had made it clear that the resources of the Burdekin basin were vital to the economical development of Townsville. In fact the statement implied that nothing much had been done and that it would be years before anything could be done. 
Yet the 1971-72 annual report of the Commissioner for Irrigation and Water Supply in Queensland stated that work continued on the re-examination of the original scheme based on the Burdekin Falls Dam which was reported on in 1951. Topographic mapping of alternative diversion dam sites was completed and preliminary assessment of storage potential on 2 tributaries was commenced. The Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation completed a preliminary investigation of other dam sites on the Burdekin, and a more detailed study of another site was initiated. These and other aspects of the appraisal have been the subject of further discussions with Commonwealth departments. A joint Commonwealth-State technical working group was formed and commenced preparation of a detailed outline for study which would define the scope and responsibilities for the more detailed work to follow. In view of this report I fail to see how it could be said that practically nothing had been undertaken, and 1 would suggest that there is enough appraisal work completed for the Government to announce whether it intends to commence the Burdekin project and if so, when it would commence. If the Government feels that this scheme would be too expensive for it to implement, let it say so in all honesty. Perhaps then we can provide the answer for another project which would satisfy all of Townsville City's water requirements at a great deal less cost. But this water problem is the first matter that must be considered over and above anything else. 
Another question I have regarding this development is: Does the Government intend to concentrate on the expansion of Townsville itself, or the region around Townsville, which would include the Burdekin, Charters Towers and Ingham districts? My own opinion is that the whole district should be developed if the Government intends to proceed with its idea of establishing regional development. Ingham for instance is an area which could be developed extensively for the benefit of that area and  for  Townsville. If this were accepted there is over 100,000 acres of prime forest land which is ideally suited for growing softwoods. At the moment we import a lot of our softwoods for local use, and yet this area, which could produce millable timber in from 10 to 12 years, is standing idle. Also these softwoods, used in conjunction with bagasse, the fibrous waste from sugar cane milling, could produce a pulp which would be acceptable for export marketing. This would mean the establishment of a pulp mill which in turn would mean continuous employment, both rural and industrial, for quite a number of people. 
If the Government proceeds with the development of Townsville as it says it will in its first term of office, extensions to the port facilities will have to be considered. In the light of any growth these extensions would become a necessity, especially with the expansion of our mineral production. The problem of freight costs both to and from the north will have to be considered if any industrial expansion is to be undertaken, in order for us to compete in all markets and to ensure continuity of northern production. A definite increase in communications will also have to be considered, and by communications 1 mean transport and other services throughout the district. It would mean an upgrading of the road system and the sea and air services, something which could not be accomplished without huge financial assistance. The establishment of an international airport in Townsville is to be undertaken if the Government honours another promise, and this also leads to further heavy financial commitment by the new Federal Government. But please do not misunderstand me on this, because I wholeheartedly support the idea of regional development. But it is my opinion that this development must also include districts as well as cities and towns. The development of a city is useless without the development of surrounding districts. If the new Government is sincere in its intention to promote such development throughout the nation, then I am prepared to support it. But at the present moment, in view of the Government's confusing approach to regional development, I feel it may be some time before we will see any positive moves in this direction. The decision to make an area a growth centre is easy, but the implementation of this decision is going to be far from easy. In all sincerity I ask the Government: Are you honest in your intentions in this matter so far as Townsville is concerned, or are you not? 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Before I call the honourable member for Diamond Valley I point out to the House that this is the honourable member's maiden speech. 
The Opposition has no desire to delay unnecessarily the passage of this Bill through the House. However there are some aspects of the Bill introduced by the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  that the Opposition feels are in need of definite clarification and perhaps alteration for the benefit of all pensioners throughout this country. I therefore move the following amendment to the Bill: 
That all the words after 'that' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: whilst not opposing the provisions of the Bill, this House is of the opinion that (a) the Bill leaves unresolved the Prime Minister's policy undertaking to raise the basic pension rate to 25 per cent of average weekly earnings and (b) the adjustments to the rate of and basis of entitlement for unemployment benefit will disturb economically desirable employment patterns in our society. 
I will be brief in my comments on the amendment. The Opposition is just as anxious to see this Bill pass through the House as is the Government but there are some confusing sections of the Bill which I feel should be cleared up for the benefit of everyone concerned, especially the pensioners themselves. 
The main point of confusion seems to stem from that part of the Government's policy speech made during the election campaign which refers to an immediate increase in pensions and subsequent automatic adjustments twice yearly. Pensioner organisations, pensioner associations and quite a number of individuals have stated their concern to me personally. I feel there must be other people throughout the country who share that concern. I will read the specific part of the policy speech which I think is a little confusing. It states: 
All pensions will be immediately raised by $1.50 and thereafter, every Spring and every Autumn, the basic pension rate will be raised by SI. 50 until it reaches 25 per cent of average weekly male earnings. 
This was stated in the policy speech made by the now Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  This seems to be the confusing part and it has been bothering people who have been approaching me. I would say that very few honourable members have not experienced a reaction from this statement since it became public. The reaction was that the Labor Party would raise pensions by $1.50 before Christmas. The plain impression given by the Labor Party was that if it became the Government it would do that. This reaction was more evident when the Labor Party did form a government. In fact some of the Press mentioned this. The age pensioner could hardly be blamed for thinking that the increase would become a reality because 'immediately' means now. 
The Minister for Social Security and other honourable members will recall that the Prime Minister, quite rightly, during a Press interview stated that this could not be done before the Parliament met and the proposal was placed before the House, because it was necessary to obtain authorisation for such a proposal. The Prime Minister said also that there would be an increase in the autumn, early after the House sat. I acknowledge that this is now being done. He stated also that he never said that there would be an increase before autumn. This is the area where all the confusion is currently arising. I realise that the Prime Minister and the Minister for Social Security intended that there should be 2 increases in a financial year, although the average person regards a year as being from Christmas to Christmas. It was proposed that the first increase would be retrospective to the first pay period after the election. The question has been asked of me: Is this the immediate increase that has been promised and will there be another increase before this spring? In other words will pensioners receive $3 increase over this year, from Christmas to Christmas, or will they receive $4.50? I have no quarrells with the provisions of the Bill, but I invite the Minister to clarify this matter which is bothering to many people. I feel that I know the steps the Government is taking in this matter, but I think it would be an excellent idea publicly to clarify the situation through Government channels. 
I have doubts and reservations as to whether with increases at the rate of $1.50 the Government will be able for some time to raise pensions to 25 per cent of average weekly male earnings. However, I am mindful of the Minister's statement that the situation would be reviewed and alterations made if this result could not be achieved within a reasonable time. If this situation arises, will the Minister consider including provision for an increase in an annual Budget allocation? At present the average weekly male earning is listed as $104, 25 per cent of which is $26. The present pension is $20 and with the proposed increase of $1.50 it will be $21.50. A further increase of $1.50 in the spring would bring the pension up to $23. On this basis it would appear that it will take until the spring of 1974 to catch up with the proposed amount if average earnings remain static - a situation which I doubt very much. Can it be assumed that action will be taken to ensure that the pension will reach the desired 25 per cent by the end of 1974 or perhaps in the Budget of 1975? This seems to me to be an unusually long period to wait before the promise of the Government is fulfilled. 
There are quite a number of other matters which we feel should be discussed and which my colleagues will elaborate later. I raised this one question with the Minister because there have been so many requests to have it clarified. I would like to give the Minister an opportunity to do this because I cannot defend the Government's policy in this respect. To avoid any further complications in this matter and perhaps to clear up the existing confusion in the minds of the pensioners I recommend that the matters I have raised be clarified by adopting this amendment. I have no wish to delay the passage of this Bill unnecessarily, but there are other matters which we feel need attention and which my colleagues will mention. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Luchetti)Is the amendment seconded? 
The Opposition has been aware that the Government intended to set up a committee of inquiry into a national rehabilitation and compensation scheme for Australia and has had the opportunity to read the terms of reference and the composition of the inquiry. The Government has the right to establish an inquiry. The Opposition does not contest that right and, in fact, stands ready to consider objectively any recommendations which flow from the inquiry. However the Opposition makes it clear that whatever social and equity benefits the inquiry may be directed to achieve, the Opposition will not be prepared to accept a back door method of nationalisation of insurance companies in Australia. The insurance institutions in Australia have served Australia and Australians well and should continue to do so. In the first answer he gave to a question in this House in the new Parliament, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  acknowledged without qualification that he is bound by the Platform, Constitution and Rules' of the Australian Labor Party as adopted in Launceston in 1971. I direct attention to paragraph 3 of chapter V of that publication. It is headed 'Economic Planning' and states: 
With the object of achieving Labor's socialist objectives, establish or extend public enterprise, where  appropriate by nationalisation, particularly in the fields of banking, consumer finance, insurance, marketing. .   
The Opposition will not stand by and see the insurance companies of Australia nationalised by any indirect method in the name of social equity. Social equity can be achieved without the destruction of the insurance system upon which millions of Australian policy holders rely. The Opposition looks forward with a great deal of interest to the report of the committee of inquiry. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The Opposition will not oppose the provisions of the repatriation Bills. I personally would not oppose any benefits proposed for repatriation pensioners. I do not think that the benefits contained in the Bills are over generous. I hope that the Government agrees with me and that a review will take place automatically in the near future. I have studied repatriation matters quite closely. Unfortunately, the memories of people, and governments are far too short when it comes to remembering those people who went to wars and returned physically or mentally handicapped. I refer to the totally and permanently incapacitated and others with highly classified disabilities. 
The Second World War has been over for some 27 years and the First World War has been over for 53 years. There are many people still suffering as a result of war injuries who have been suffering for all that period of time. I feel that our memories are far too short in this regard. If the benefits were doubled they would still be far from adequate compensation for those people who suffer. One notices how seldom they complain. It appears that those who suffer most complain the least. It seems to me to be very wrong that organisations such as the Returned Services League, the prisoners of war associations and the disabled soldiers associations have to battle constantly to obtain greater benefits for their members who are incapacitated. As I have mentioned in this House over the years, we should be realistic and honest about this matter. It is the Government's responsibility. Governments should recognise the great debt that this country owes to these men. Without the servicemen who were prepared to do their job at a time of need we may not have been enjoying the life of freedom we enjoy today. 
I realise that the benefits and the pensions payable to ex-servicemen are tax free and that there are other allowances and concessions, but I think that still more could be done. I realise also that the amount of benefits provided is governed by what a country can afford, but it would be wonderful if we could give these people what we think they justly deserve. The increase in the intermediate rate war pension is very welcome to me and to other honourable members on this side of the House. Life is not easy for people who are handicapped to such an extent that they can work only part time. This increase and the increase in the general rate war pension will be of assistance. I believe that the level of 50 per cent of the minimum wage which is aimed at by the Government should be raised to 75 per cent because, in many instances, as the ex-serviceman grows older his disabilities become aggravated or others manifest themselves. Most honourable members who have experience of repatriation cases will know that. An increase to 75 per cent of the minimum wage would give these people a certain measure of financial protection and assistance. I know that there is an avenue of appeal to cover this contingency but I have reservations about the appeal system as it is. It could be reviewed. That matter is not relevant to these Bills and I will have more to submit on it at a later date. 
I was pleased to see that the war widows have not been forgotten in these Bills. I doubt whether many people realise what a great number of these women went through prior to the deaths of their husbands. I know of 3 or 4 instances which bring this matter very close to me. Many of these women have nursed their husbands for years before their husbands died. Their social life was nonexistent. In fact their way of living was completely restricted because they were dedicated to comforting and looking after their handicapped husbands. Mention was made in the second reading speech of the removal of certain disadvantages suffered by dependants of ex-servicemen. I point specifically to that portion that allows dependants to have legal representation on appeals after a claimant dies. 
This is an excellent move and is to be commended. I have no quarrel with the Repatriation (Special Overseas Service) Bill, the Repatriation (Far East Strategic Reserve) Bill or the Interim Forces Benefits Bill. Benefits such as those contained in the Bills are always welcome. 
I must commend the Government for including in the range of benefits, benefits for  members  of the Australian merchant navy and the widows of members who have died as a result of service. Again we tend to forget that these men did a tremendous job, often with no means of defending themselves or without escorts for protection. Australia owes a lot to these men. Let me refer to a matter which has irritated me for years, and that is. the matter of repatriation funeral benefits. The Government has now grasped the nettle and raised the benefits from $50 to $100. I know that this money is to go towards the cost of funerals, but many families prior to the death of the member have been existing on pensions without any other income. Normal funeral costs are between $200 and $300. In many instances dependants have to borrow money to pay the funeral director. In some cases their local sub-branch of the RSL helps towards the cost. Such an imposition should not be placed on these people. I do not care whether there is a means test on this benefit. I feel that more should be done for those dependants who do not have the ready money to pay for the funeral of the ex-serviceman. Such men were prepared to go away and fight, and possibly to die. I think that we who are living in freedom should be prepared to assist their dependants by being generous with the benefits wherever we can and whenever it is necessary. The Opposition does not wish to delay unnecessarily the passage of these Bills. 
by leave- I also have been in touch this afternoon with  Mr Dickie,  the Minister of Housing in Victoria, and I endorse what the Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson)  has stated. 
I commend the Government for introducing this Bill, which I hope will help more people to establish their own homes. Because of this my comments will be brief, as I have no argument against it. I believe that the reason the limit on home loans was first introduced was to allow for a wider distribution of the loan money that was available, but we all know that since then the monetary system has changed and I feel that it is only right that the loan limit should have been raised. The privilege of owning his home is a large part of a man's heritage, and I completely agree with the Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson)  that more avenues should be made available for a man to obtain finance to rear his family in their own home. Psychologically it is a great benefit for a family to have their own home because they are inclined to be much more community conscious, which leads, as we know, to a great deal of desirable parochial pride. 
We talk of living in an affluent society and indeed we do, compared with people in the majority of other countries. Therefore, whenever it is possible to distribute this affluence more equitably throughout the community by easing the restrictions on access to finance to build more private homes it must further benefit this great country that we have. The. Minister stated in one of his speeches that the Government considers that housing is a high priority matter and I look forward to the 
Government offering greater opportunities to the average working man to purchase his own home. I would hope that the intention behind this Bill is designed to do justice. In the same speech that I mentioned the Minister said .that there were many families and individuals for whom it is not the right solution. The Minister for Housing, who is at the table, might explain this statement. I cannot follow it. On the one hand the Government, through this Bill, has placed the Commonwealth Bank back in the competitive housing loan business, because the Government strongly supports home ownership and wants to help needy families; and on the other hand it says that some cases it is not the right solution. I mention this because I hope he can clarify this matter for me. 
I would like to mention another matter also regarding the easing of loan finance for housing. It all sound extremely good to me. But what will the situation be when a person wishes to build his own home? The finance may be available but have we enough tradesmen in the country to meet the demand for home building? I would suggest that the Government may be well advised to look at the trade training system as well as easing the avenues for housing finance. I think that these  2  matters are really compatible. If supply can keep pace with the demand in the home building industry it would be of even greater benefit to the community than just easing the availability of finance. In some areas the housing shortage is acute. This we know. People anxious to build their homes have to wait many, many months before builders are available, and the added cost of building by importing builders, due to the wage structure, makes the cost of building a home prohibitive. This has been proved in north Queensland to a very great extent. 
Under the present Bill I presume that money will be loaned for housing at the current interest rates. A person borrows a certain amount of money from the bank according to the amount he can afford to repay in regular monthly payments, which would include capital plus interest. But we all know that borrowed money has to be paid for and that when money is plentiful interest rates tend to be low and when money is scarce the interest rates are higher. This leads me to ask whether, when this Bill was being discussed, any consideration was given to allowing the borrower any leeway with his monthly repayments in the event of a rise in interest rates. I think we could guarantee that rates will not be lowered. But to the average working man who has borrowed from the bank to build his home and who is repaying the loan to the maximum of his capacity any increase in bis repayments could place him in an embarrassing financial situation. This I have seen, and I hope this matter will be considered in the future. I support this Bill, which I hope will be the means of assisting many more people to build their own homes. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Science, Did he notify  Mr Fabian  Sweeny of Townsville of the decision to choose a new site for the Institute of Marine Science prior to this becoming public knowledge? Did the Minister give this gentleman authority to make a public statement on this matter? While I accept the decision that the radar installation may interfere with some of the delicate measuring instruments used by the Institute, will the Minister when drawing up the terms of reference for the new Bill confine the investigation of other sites to the Townsville area or, if this is not possible, to North Queensland? 
My remarks will be brief. I do not intend to oppose the amendment which will be moved in Committee or the Bill because I think that the provisions of the Bill are very generous. I am sure that they will be acceptable to the Commonwealth employees. The only matter about which I express some concern is that, in my opinion, the Government's proposals may have a chain reaction throughout all industries and throughout all States. 1 realise that the bringing down of this Bill will probably be looked at as being a lead by the Government to industries and to the States for employees compensation. This brings to my mind the flow over that must occur in all areas in which people are employed. For instance, in industry if these generous provisions are adopted there must be an added cost of operations. I am not suggesting for one moment that it would be a bad thing if industry did adopt the provisions of this legislation. I think it would be a darn good thing. But the point is that we must consider the additional costs which could mean an increase in prices with a consequent addition to the inflationary trend. There were anomalies in the previous legislation. That is not news. I remind the present Government that the previous Government had also recognised that there were anomalies in the legislation and that it was committed to the removal of those anomalies had it been re-elected to office. 
I am very pleased to see incorporated in the Bill provision for compensation for employees who are incapacitated as a result of disease contracted in the course of their employment. A number of people in the Commonwealth sphere would benefit from this provision. This is a grand idea and a move in the right direction, especially for those people - I know some of them - who have contracted dermatitis in the course of their employment and have no resort to compensation. I am sure that the automatic adjustments to weekly compensation payments will be extremely acceptable because it will remove a great worry from the recipient of compensation payments. I notice that the principle involved in awarding compensation for partial incapacity is to be retained but the limitation is to be removed. I also notice that the Commonwealth is to provide suitable employment wherever it can for partially incapacitated employees. This is an excellent idea and I hope it will be carried through. There are many people in receipt of compensation who are not completely incapacitated and who feel that they are redundant. If employment could be found for these people they would then become productive, and remain so, in a field of work which suits their ability. This would give them a purpose in life. When one thinks that a 35-hour working week could be introduced into this country, one feels that we will need as many members of the Australian work force as we can possibly get in order to produce. Every person who is productive will help the Commonwealth and will help himself. In this respect I feel that vocational training for the severely handicapped is to be recommended. 1 would like vo see an extension of the training of handicapped people to the provincial cities and provincial towns. It should not be confined to the capital cities. 
I mentioned earlier the additional costs that this legislation possibly could create for industry. I presume that it is the view of the Minister that by stepping up the program for the prevention of accidents in industry this could ease out any additional cost to industry which would be needed to cover compensation claims. I commend this idea. This is an area which needs to be probed very deeply. Any program which may reduce industrial accidents as far as the Commonwealth is concerned is to be commended. I trust that if this program can be stepped up industry generally will cooperate. I mentioned that I would be brief. I do not wish to delay the passage of this Bill unnecessarily. I support the amending legislation. 
We have been waiting rather anxiously for this Bill to come on for debate. I have no quarrel whatsoever with the principle behind the Bill - the principle of making home loans available to serving members of the forces - but I have some reservations about the implementation of that principle. For instance, I would like to see the provisions contained in the Bill directed towards an inducement to serve and not just an inducement to enlist. With that in mind  I  move the following amendment: 
That all words after That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: whilst not declining to give the Bill a second reading the House is of opinion that provision should have been made (a) for the effective period of service to be 6 years, (b) for the concessions granted to single or widowed female members of the Forces without dependants to be granted also to single or widowed male members of the Forces without dependants and (c) for amendments to be made to the principal Act in respect of the title to the dwelling-house, unit or lot to enable the serviceman to borrow on second mortgage and give valid security to the lender". 
In speaking to the amendment, I remind the Government that the provision of finance to members of the Services at such a low interest rate in order to assist them to build a home is not a new idea. It was commenced after the First World War and it has been operative ever since. It is not a concession that should be taken lightly either by the recipient or by the Government. Over the years it has come to be regarded as some form of consideration given by a grateful government for a member's personal contribution to the defence of his country. Eligibility was confined to those members who volunteered to serve their country anywhere the government directed them to serve. In the latter period when national service was introduced eligibility was extended to those national service personnel who were allotted to overseas service. 
In this Bill the Government again has extended eligibility to those personnel who complete 3 years effective service. This is quite a commendable thought, but such a short period as 3 years raises some doubts in my mind as to whether the Government really means this to be a concession to Service personnel or whether it is just a recruiting gimmick. We are all aware that the strength of the Army, for instance, will be depleted by approximately 4,000 within 12 months when the serving national servicemen take their discharge, and we are all aware that the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  and, in fact, the Government itself will be over a barrel if they cannot maintain Army strength at a reasonable level by their proposed volunteer system. But I fail to see how the proposal of a 3-year effective period can help the Government to achieve its aim or help the Services in any way. It may, to put it bluntly, mean more bodies for the Services. But does the Government want numbers only, or an effective defence force? For a long time I have considered that the Labor Party's defence policy has been suspect in this regard. If by the introduction of this Bill the Government hopes to entice young men to join the Services and if after 3 years service they give the Services away and walk out with a concession of $12,000 at the lowest interest rate in the country, then the Government deserves to be censured for not maintaining an adequate and effective defence force. 
I wonder whether the Government has considered just what 3 years service means in regard to contribution to the defence of this country, especially on a volunteer system. It takes just on 12 months to train a serviceman to the stage where his work as part of a team can be classed as productive in the defence structure. The remaining 2 years, minus leave periods, travelling time and discharge procedure period, means that effective service would amount to approximately 18 months. How can the Government expect to maintain anything like the respectable defence force that is vitally necessary for this country when the numbers of serving personnel are well below a satisfactory level and there is every possibility of a great number of Service personnel coming and going who have enlisted just to take advantage of the $12,000 loan at a subsidised interest rate? It could well be that a number of them would continue to serve on after 3 years service, but it could also be that the young fellow would enlist just to take advantage of a concession that is available to no other section of the community. There is a possibility that the 3-year limit could lead to abuse of this great concession. The very fact that there could be a constant turnover of personnel taking advantage of the 3-year service decision in order to obtain a service homes loan must be extremely frustrating to the Service chiefs who are worried about maintaining a sound defence structure and arc doing the best they can under the present Administration. What are the feelings of those personnel who completed effective service prior to 7th December 1972? Why did the Government not consider them when it  so  generously handed out the opportunity to obtain a home loan to those national service personnel who decided to accept the Government's offer to serve on and complete their obligation? I think it would be interesting to find out how many of them who were serving on 7th December 1972 were discharged 3 to 6 months later. 
If the Government is so concerned about maintaining an effective defence structure, as it would have the people believe, and wishes to improve conditions of service in order to retain personnel in the Services, why has it not given any thought to that very important person, the Citizen Military Forces member? I would have thought that when the Government was considering making the provision of a service homes loan available and deciding that 3 years effective service was sufficient for a Regular soldier, some thought would have been given to those citizens who voluntarily devote their time to assisting in the defence of this country. This Citizen Military Forces member plays an extremely important part in our defence structure, and his contribution to such a cause should be recognised and rewarded in some definite manner. I know that the pay members of the CMF receive is tax free. In fact I know it very well, for I was privileged to play quite a big part in having this concession granted. But we must remember that they devote their spare time and energy to the defence of this country purely in a voluntary manner. One could say that they are men with a mission, their mission being to play their part in seeing that this country has an adequate defence force. But if, as the Minister for Defence has stated, he intends to improve the conditions of service for CMF personnel in order to boost the strength of that organisation, I feel the inducement be has offered to regular soldiers after 3 years effective service should also be offered to the CMF member. 
I do not suggest that. 1 hasten to assure the Minister for Housing  (Mr Johnson)  who is sitting at the table, 3 years part-time service should qualify the member for a war services homes Joan, but I do suggest that some period of effective service could be considered in order to allow the member to become eligible for the concessions mentioned in this Bill. In my opinion this could also help in some measure to remove the thought that such an excellent concession as the $12,000 low interest rate loan is a discriminatory one in favour of a very small section of the community. I offer this thought to the Minister and the Government in all seriousness, for in my opinion not enough consideration is given to the value of the service that is provided and performed by CMF personnel. 1 have mentioned that a period of 6 years effective service in lieu of 3 would be of more value to the Services. The 6 year period has been recognised as an effective period for quite some time, and even the Government itself has chosen to regard the 6 year period as being a requirement for the $1,000 bonus to serve on. I submit that Australia would be better served in the maintenance of a reasonable defence force by adopting the amendment recommending that 3 years effective service be altered to 6 years. 
Wilh regard to the provision in the Bill that this concession be granted to single or widowed female members of the forces without dependants, 1 think this is an excellent suggestion, but I fail to understand why the Government did not take the logical further step and include male members in the same category. These female members in my opinion are entitled to the concession, but why the difference between sexes? I suppose all of us know some ex-service member who because of inclination or war wounds do not marry. But this does not stop them from being first-class citizens. I feel there should be no discrimination between the sexes as far as this concession is concerned and I ask the Government to extend the Bill's provisions to include these male members. There would not be a great number affected, but let us face the fact that there are some people affected who deserve this concession. 
Paragraph (c) of the amendment (c) deals with the eligibility of a serviceman to borrow on second mortgage, and this is something I know a bit about. In my opinion this should have been considered many years ago. There are many people - in fact I would go so far as to say there are honourable members in this house - who have never been able to take advantage of a war service homes loan because of cost and family commitments which in many instances dictate the opportunity for a member to take advantage of the loan. The Government has stated on many occasions that it desires to help the man with a young family, and if it means what it says here is an opportunity to help the serviceman with a young family. 1 feel there would be no loss to the Government if it considered this amendment favourably, and it certainly would make the task of purchasing a home a lot easier for the serviceman. The details of the second mortgage proposition I leave to my friend and colleague, the honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer),  and my other colleagues who follow me in this debate. In the interests of the serving members of the forces, and those people who in the future will become serving members, I submit these suggestions for consideration by the Government. 
As I stated in my opening remarks, I have no quarrel with the principle behind the Bill, but, to ensure that this principle is strengthened in the interests of members of the forces, I recommend that the amendments is submitted be adopted by both sides of the House. In conclusion may I add that quite a number of ex-servicemen are affected by this legislation and I request that it be allowed a quick passage through both Houses in order that the serviceman who is waiting to benefit by the provisions intended will not be disadvantaged. 
I move: 
That the following new clause be inserted in the Bill: 7a. Section 20 of the Principal Act is amended by adding at the end thereof the following sub-section: "(4) Subject to this Act upon receipt of an application in writing from an eligible person, who is a person entitled to the special rate of pension payable under the first paragraph of the Second Schedule of the Repatriation Act 1920-1973, the Director shall make an advance to that person, for the purposes specified in paragraph (f) of sub-section (1), of section 20 of this Act.".'. 
This motion may sound complicated and it probably is difficult to read. Very briefly - and J intend to be extremely brief in my remarks - the amendment means that any mortgage on the home of a totally and permanently incapacitated member of the forces may be taken over by the War Service Homes Division when that member has been unable to take advantage of the war service homes loan although he is eligible. That is ali that the amendment means. The explanation is brief and simple. The purposes of the amendment is to help those totally and permanently incapacitated members who get into financial difficulty and who have never been able to take advantage of the war service homes loan. I commend the amendment purely for the purpose of helping those people. 
I ask the Minister for Defence whether there is any truth in a statement which was made in the news this morning that it is possible that the Citizen Military Forces will be disbanded. 
The Housing Agreement Bill, after study, is one of the most unusual pieces of legislation on housing that I have ever seen. I say it is unusual because I believe that this is the first time that a housing Bill which affects all States has been introduced without any agreement being reached between the States and the Commonwealth prior to its introduction; more especially so when all States were unanimous in their views against a specific clause in the Bill. Yet that clause still remains in the Bill. It is also unusual because while the Minister has been at great pains over the last few months to inform us that he and the Government are adamant in their intentions to foster opportunities for home ownership this Bill deliberately places restrictions on home ownership. I am well aware that the Minister has a great desire to ensure that an adequate number of low rental homes are made available to those people who are on low incomes. He is to be commended for his admirable desire. But in introducing this specific Bill I feel that he has in his haste in doing so without allowing the States a reasonable time to study it allowed his desire to overrule an intelligent approach to the balance between the important subject of home ownership and low rental accommodation. 
The States are extremely important contributors to ideas on housing which would be of benefit to the communities within the States. Yet on this occasion some State Housing Ministers did not receive a copy of the draft agreement until  48  hours prior to the Bill being introduced into this Parliament. This procedure allowed no time whatsoever for objective study of the proposed legislation by State Cabinets or committees. Therefore, it is no wonder that the States are unhappy with the Bill in its present form. In those unhappy States I include States with governments of the same political persuasion as the Federal Government. 
It is quite apparent that clause  19  of the Bill - especially sub-clause  (1),  which places restrictions on the sale of commission or authority houses - is the one to which the States are objecting. The Government's intention to ensure that a certain percentage of commission homes are available at a low rental seems rather superfluous when one considers the policies of most of the States on this matter. The selling of commission homes and the provision of commission homes at a low rental to people on low incomes has been the established practice of the States for a considerable time - in fact, since the commissions or authorities were established - and I can see no legitimate reason why the Commonwealth should buy in at this stage and attempt to dictate to the States on a matter on which, through established practice, they conform with the principle expressed by the Commonwealth Government. 
Then there is the matter of the Government's proposed needs test. The introduction of this part of the Bill leads me to believe that the Minister for Housing is completely unaware of the States' policies with regard to the selling or letting of commission homes. I suggest that the Minister has not visited the States and personally discussed this matter with the relevant Ministers but has done a paper study, which is never entirely satisfactory when compared with a personal practical examination; or perhaps he has taken just one State policy as an example. I say this because it is quite possible that in his own State commission homes could be classed as being oversold and there could be a big demand for low rental homes in his electorate of Hughes and the adjacent electorate of Reid. As a consequence of this, the Minister may be under the impression that the situation is the same throughout the country, and perhaps this has led him to introduce this needs test and restriction clause. I suggest this as a possibility because I am sure that if the Minister had taken the opportunity of closer liaison with the individual State Ministers this Bill would have been introduced in a different form. 
The Minister and the Government have no monopoly on the princip'e of home ownership and the adequate provision of low rental accommodation for people on low incomes. We on this side of the House have been conscious of this need and, in conjunction with the State governments, have acted upon it. Let me refer to just one example of our policy of strongly advocating home ownership. I use one State as an example rather than use my own State which is in the same category. In Victoria when the Labor Government was in power prior to the present Liberal Government, a total of 15,000 commission homes were constructed. Up to the time the Labor Government was defeated it had sold only 52 of those 15,000 homes. It had allowed ownership of only 52 homes. Since the present Government was elected in Victoria it has constructed a total of 57,000 commission homes and has made 34,000 of them available for home ownership. I suggest that this is quite an impressive record which could not have been achieved without the assistance of a Commonwealth government that was dedicated to a policy of home ownership. 
I know that Prime Minister Curtin and Prime Minister Chifley had firm ideas on home ownership when they were in power and that they introduced measures to assist the States in this matter. However, the first housing Bill that this Labor Government introduces puts a restriction on the States' authority to allow home ownership for sections of their residents. On the basis of the figures I have quoted alone, it can be seen that with a restriction of 30 per cent placed on commission accommodation available for home ownership, the people of Victoria, just to mention one State, will be worse off if this proposed restriction becomes law. The Minister claims that the 30 per cent restriction on house sales is a concession. He could have in mind the speech he made on 16 January this year in which he said: 
I also propose that the sale of new homes built by the State Housing Authority after June 30 next be severely restricted, if not entirely prohibited . . . 
If this is in his mind I suggest that a 30 per cent restriction is a concession, but it is not a concession when the actual figures from the States are taken into consideration. 
The Bill contains other clauses which could be looked at and the subject matter of which could be improved. This also leads me to think that this Bill was thrown together with undue haste and with not enough thought being given to detail, such as whom it would affect and how it would affect them. For example, clause 16 deals with eligibility for allocation of housing. I will not discuss the categories of people eligible, as they are in the Bill for everybody to read. However, I ask the Minister: Why not include a single person with a dependent mother or father and a single person who has to accept responsi bility for younger brothers and sisters? Surely these people could have been considered when the eligibility clause was drafted. Clause 16 (1) (b) states that eligibility extends to an aged person or an invalid who is the breadwinner for him and his wife. They are eligible only if their income does not exceed 60 per cent of average weekly earnings. Yet a younger couple - maybe one or two years younger - can have an income equal to 85 per cent of average weekly earnings and still be eligible. This is unfair discrimination against an aged couple. Why not place all people affected on the limit of 85 per cent of average weekly earnings? 
Clause 19 of the Bill deals with the disposal of a dwelling by a purchaser. In my opinion it places an unfair limitation on the purchaser. There are other important circumstances in which a purchaser should be permitted to dispose of his dwelling. Again this leads me to believe that the Bill was thrown together in undue haste and without any constructive thought being given to it. Why should not a purchaser be allowed to dispose of his dwelling in the following circumstances: In the case of death, by the provisions of a will or under the appropriate laws governing succession or intestacy; in the case of dissolution or breakdown of a marriage, by the property passing to the appropriate spouse who may or may not already be a joint purchaser; pursuant to the order of a court in divorce proceedings; on transfer or removal of the purchaser to another town for reasons of employment; or for any other reason of a non-voluntary nature considered equitable by the housing authority? I do not think that those circumstances are unreasonable and I ask the Government to seriously consider including them in the Bill. 
Clause 27 provides for a loan to a home owner for the purchase of a new or previously occupied dwelling not built by a housing authority. Why not extend these conditions to enable a current borrower to obtain finance for additional accommodation for a growing family or aged parents or in some other similar circumstances? Again, I do not think that this request is unreasonable. 
So I could go on making suggestions to improve many more sections of the Bill. I call it an unusual Bill and it certainly is but there are other honourable members who wish to speak after me. To my way of thinking my suggestions on these clauses would make the Bill more acceptable to the States, but in my opinion and in the opinion of the States the most upsetting portion of the whole Bill is that clause which restricts the States to allowing only 30 per cent of commission or authority homes to be allocated for home ownership. I believe that an agreement between parties or authorities means a partnership. But this is no partnership agreement. When all States have registered their disapproval of the 30 per cent restriction on home ownership, for the Federal Government to go ahead and ride roughshod over their combined protests to me is a complete dictatorship and a determined effort by this Government to undermine the authority of the States. 
The Opposition agrees with the States that if restrictions are to be placed on the sale of commission homes or dwellings then 50 per cent is a more realistic figure than 30 per cent for home ownership, and it is in this regard that I will move an amendment at the Committee stage. I commend to the Government for consideration the suggestions I have made for improvement of the Bill. They relate to only a few of the clauses that could be improved. 
As we are taking the 3 Bills together, I refer to the Bill which is designed to withdraw the grant of $2.75m a year to the various housing commissions or authorities. I fail to see why this concession should be withdrawn at this time under the present circumstances of the Housing Agreement Act 1973. When 1 say 'the present circumstances' 1 mean that this draft agreement has not been ratified by the States. This grant of $2.75m has been of great benefit to the States and consequently of benefit to our own people and, in my opinion, to withdraw a benefit from the very people that this Government says it wishes to help is bad business and can only do the Government harm. I have yet to be convinced that the States will benefit from the proposed withdrawal of the grant of $2. 75m and the proposed increasing flow of finance at a highly concessional rate of interest. I would suggest that the proposed date for the Act to come into operation - that is, when it receives royal assent - should be altered to coincide with the coming into operation of the Housing Agreement Act. I do not think that this would create any hardship for the Government and it would cer tainly save a little of the Government's face with the State governments. 
I move the following amendment: 
In paragraph 19.- (1.) of the Schedule, omit '30', substitute '50'. 
I do not intend to speak to this amendment as I spoke about it last night. I commend the amendment to the Committee. 
I have been waiting for a long time to see this legislation before the House. I would add with certainty that so has every member of our defence forces. While I appreciate that this legislation has been introduced and that the Government is trying as best it can to improve the retirement benefits available to servicemen, the manner in which it has gone about its task and the methods it has adopted to achieve the aim of providing greater benefits leave a lot to be desired and, in lots of instances, have added to the confusion which already exists in the area of retirement benefits. Recently, during the passage of the Housing Agreement Bill, I had occasion to take the Government to task for what I called its undue haste in framing legislation which created uncertainty in its interpretation. I now make that charge again with regard to the defence forces retirement benefits legislation that is before the House at present. 
I believe that these measures are the result of a fourth attempt to produce legislation which can reasonably be understood. If that is so, I would not like to try to interpret the first three attempts. The Joint Select Committee on Defence Forces Retirement Benefit Legislation - the Jess Committee - from its very first meeting stressed the necessity for simplicity in the framing of any new legislation on this matter. The final report of the Committee stressed the need for simplicity. The Minister for Defence, Minister for Navy, Minister for the Army, Minister for Air and Minister for Supply,  (Mr Barnard)  mentioned during his second reading speech the necessity for simplicity. I think I can quite rightly say that the Minister has not read the draft legislation but has merely made comparisons with the Committee's recommendations if he thinks that the legislation in its present form is simple legislation. The Jess Committee, as the Minister well knows, set out to devise a simple scheme which servicemen could understand, and I believe it succeeded. But when translated into the present legislation its recommendations are on the way to becoming incomprehensible. Legislation which cannot be understood by those who are required to administer it or by those who will benefit from its provisions should never be allowed to be brought before the House until it has been made tidy. In this instance I think the Minister has been very remiss. 
The whole reason why the existing legislation is in such a confounded mess is that the original legislation has been continually patched up by amendments since its inception in 1948. To continue this patching up process must only add to the confuson of the serviceman. I know that the Minister has said that it is impossible to repeal the existing legislation as it now stands because of certain complexities. But I would remind him that on his own admission the Government has been dealing with this matter since 22 December last year. Surely since that time something more definite than this legislation could have been produced so that servicemen would easily understand what is being afforded to them. In fact, I think it was the Minister's responsibility to ensure that this was done. But how could this be possible, how could simplicity of understanding be achieved, when the Minister permitted the exclusion of Service representation from the drafting committee? Surely the inclusion of Service representation during the drafting stages is a basic principle to abide by, for servicemen understand the problems of the Services far better than do their civilian counterparts in the Department of Defence. 
Since the inception of the DFRB scheme in the late 1940s our defence force has been integrated with the Commonwealth Public Service, which I think is completely wrong. The defence force and the Commonwealth Public Service are 2 major but entirely distinct arms of our national government service and to continue to link those 2 organisations together can only add to the confusion and dissatisfaction which this integration has already caused over the years. In my opinion there can be no escaping from this confusion and dissatisfaction until the link between the DFRB scheme and the Commonwealth Public Service superannuation scheme has been severed. 
Some aspects of the legislation lead me to believe that there must be a lack of communication between the Minister and his departments, for it would appear that this legislation is the end product of rather indecent haste. While the Minister is to be commended for wishing the legislation to be introduced and accepted as soon as possible, surely he could have supervised its construction to the extent that a clear and concise definition of the retirement entitlements of servemen was produced. There must have been a lack of communication, otherwise why would the Government have introduced in the one session 2 Bills which are completely different in relation to the benefits applicable to payments to widows? A widow who is receiving benefits under the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill is far better off than a widow who will be receiving benefits under the proposed DFRB scheme. I would recommend to the Minister that he study the anomaly I have just mentioned and make adjustments because in my opinion there has certainly been a discrimination against the serviceman's widow. My colleague, the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer),  will enlarge on this matter during his contribution to the debate and make the situation even more clearer to the Minister. I think that the presentation in the one session of 2 Bills that deal with this matter in such a vastly different fashion is a situation which is most extraordinary. 
I wish to draw the Minister's attention to another extraordinary portion of this legislation. The Minister has stated emphatically that no serviceman will be disadvantaged by this legislation. The Committee was most adamant that no serviceman would be disadvantaged. Yet there appears to have been a curious departure from this principle in clause 25 (2) (d) (ii), which deals with early retirement and states that a person:   . . who, on his retirement, had not attained the retiring age for the rank held by him on  30  September 1972, but in respect of whom the Authority is satisfied that, but for the enactment of this Act and the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act 1973, paragraph 39 (2) (b) or (c) of the previous Act would, on his retirement, have applied. 
I think that the Minister will find that the operative words there are 'but for'. I would suggest that the Minister for Defence study this in conjunction with clause 25 (1) and sub-clause (3) for it is my interpretation that some hundreds of service members could be penalised by the inclusion of these words 'but for', which would deprive them of the right of making an election referred to in sub-clause (3). I would most certainly appreciate the Minister's clarifying this situation. 
There is yet another grey area in this Bill which is the position regarding those members who have frozen their contributions and those who have not. Clause 25 could be interpreted as imposing discrimination between these groups of members. If my memory serves me correctly, the Service representation agreed that the basis of determining whether or not a detriment existed should be the same pension percentage of pay as if the individual being considered had not frozen his contributions under the old Act. An interpretation could be made that he would be denied the opportunity to purchase back service and denied opportunities under sub-clause (3) of clause 25. If this is so, the 'no detriment' principle would be useless and clause 25 of the Bill would not be translating policy decision into law. 
Sub-clause (4) of clause 25 needs a more satisfactory definition, for it states: 
Where the Authority so determines, an election under sub-section (3) is of no effect unless the person making the election pays to the Commonwealth a contribution under this section of such amount as the Authority determines as being appropriate . . . 
The wording 'of such amount as the Authority determines as being appropriate' could mean any amount, and I would suggest that the serviceman would require a much clearer definition than this to avoid the determining of amounts prescribed by the Authority becoming suspect. Another portion of the Bill which I doubt will be accepted with any joy is that portion of clause  8  which states that there will be a Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Authority which, 'subject to the directions of the Minister, shall have the general administration of this Act'. I fail to see why, once the Authority has been established, the Minister needs to start directing it according to what he may wish. The Authority will have the references under which it will operate and I see no reason whatsoever for the Minister to buy into its activities unless the Authority specifically asks him for advice. I have a reason for saying this. It would seem that the Minister is loath to delegate some of his responsibilities, but I think I can assure him that the Authority as described is quite capable of doing its job and there will be no need for him to make it subject to his direction. The situation could get into an awful muddle if we had a Minister who insisted on directing the Authority's activities. I would remind the Minister that if there is any direction to be given it should be given by the Parliament. This clause  8  could mean that Parliament could be by-passed and the law administered by one individual. 
I am sure that the concerns I have expressed have arisen from the fact that there was no Service representation involved with the drafting of this Bill. I know that some drafts were submitted to the Service departments for comment and, after studying the Bill, I feel positive that many of the comments which I know were made are not included in this Bill. They may be kept for later amendment; I do not know. But Service personnel have no union to represent their interests and it is my firm opinion that any future amendments that are made or, in fact, the drafting of a new Act after the old one is repealed, should not proceed until Service representatives have been consulted and invited to assist in the drafting. I am sure that if this is done we will have a complete and entirely comprehensive Bill. 
If the views of the Services are pushed into the background on a matter such as their own retirement benefits scheme, I hate to think what will happen with the proposed reorganisation of the defence forces. A government which seeks to reform legislation for the benefit of a section of the community as important as our Service personnel should not have to be reminded of the importance of communication with that section of the community. I also feel that the Minister has failed to appreciate the mood of Service personnel regarding this matter. If he had, I am sure he would have produced a much clearer and more comprehensible Bill which could have become the new Act - something that was simple and able to be understood by everybody. 
The fact that the Government has accepted the recommendations of the Jess report means that most of the policy work had been done by that Committee and I can see no good reason why we cannot have a new Bill completed and presented to the Parliament during the next session. If this matter is placed on a low priority drafting because it may be thought that the introduction of the present Bill may satisfy our servicemen, the Minister will be regarded as having no concern whatever for the serviceman's welfare. It may be a big job - I do not doubt that for one moment - but I suggest that the Minister has access to enough Public Service personnel and machinery to tidy up this Bill and get the job completed for introduction next session. 
Finally, may I say that I regard it as a privilege to have served on the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Legislation Committee and more than pleased to have our recommendations accepted, and in some cases improved, by the Government. The previous Government - the one in which I served - is in my opinion not without blame in regard to the introduction of this Bill, but that is history and the ball is now in the present Government's court to complete this important matter. The Opposition has no intention of opposing the Bill and trusts that it gets a quick passage through this House and the other House. There will be no amendments. The only request I make is that the suggestions I have made and the suggestions that will no doubt be made by other speakers receive the Government's consideration. 
The other Bills I recognise as purely machinery Bills and they, too, will not be opposed. I realise why the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits scheme for the Papua New Guinea Forces - that is another Bill that should have been introduced years ago; it is time it was introduced - is a funded scheme whereas the previous Government's scheme was non-funded. I believe that an agreement has been reached with the Chief Minister on this matter so that there will be no upset with its Public Service and police force when Papua New Guinea finally gains its independence. In conclusion, I should like to take the opportunity to thank the members of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Board for their patience and assistance over the last few years with my queries on DFRB matters. In my opinion, their task in implementing the old Act has not been easy and I trust that the new Act, which I hope the Minister for Defence will introduce next session, will make their task a lot easier. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Northern Development. I ask: What provision was made in the Budget for the Minister's area of responsibility for northern development and what new decisions has the Minister been able to persuade his colleagues to support? 
My contribution to the discussion on the Budget recently introduced by the Government will be confined to just a few sections of it because of the time factor, but I will be entering into the debate on other important issues introduced in the Budget when they are presented as proposed legislation. To say that this Budget is a disastrous one as far as beneficial effects on this country and the Australian people are concerned, and that it foreshadows other disastrous measures which the present Government administration will introduce, is in my opinion an understatement. I see it as the first move to implement Labor Party objectives to nationalise financial institutions and as many industries as possible. For this reason I support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden).  There appears to be particular emphasis on discrimination against the rural sector of our community, regardless of what a previous  speaker  said in favour of the metropolitan areas. I suppose, when one considers that these metropolitan areas supported the Labor Party to an extent sufficient to put them in government, it is perhaps only natural that they should receive priority consideration. I personally think that this shows the weakness of the Government. It was not strong enough to overcome this desire to bestow favours and introduce measures which would be to the benefit of the whole of the community, especially a community as important to our maintenance and development as the rural community. 
One of the features of the Budget in my opinion was the Government's attitude to northern development. Northern Australia contributes greatly to our national economy and to our State economy, and there is in this area a tremendous amount of room for expansion and development which could only increase its contribution to the national econ omy. When the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  announced that there would be a separate portfolio for nothern development. I accepted his announcement with a great degree of anticipation. The Northern Division of the Department of National Development, which previously handled northern affairs, did a great deal to developing the north but I imagined that a specific department being established for this purpose, controlled by a Minister who could devote all his time to this area, would mean great changes in northern expansion with ultimate benefit to the nation. The people of the north were quickly disillusioned on this score. The Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  has the say on northern mining activities. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  has the say on beef and wool production in the north. The Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  has the say on the expansion of the road system in the north, and the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  has the say on any development of our northern cities and towns. This leaves our Minister for Northern Development responsible for only the sugar industry. Whilst this industry is extremely efficient and certainly is an asset to our economy, it does not warrant the appointment of a Minister specifically to handle it. I would say it would be extremely frustrating to the Minister for Northern Development to go more or less cap in hand to the other Ministers to request consideration of expansion of our mineral activities, road systems, port developments, cities and towns, and beef and wool production. It would almost appear that the portfolio of Northern Development was created as a lolly for the present Minister, in order to keep him quiet. I can assure the Government that this does not suit northern Australia. We want to develop this area. We want to see it progress as quickly as possible. But how can this be achieved with so many Ministers having a hand in making the cake, and all of them with different ideas as to what the ingredients will be? In my opinion, and in the opinion of many northerners, the establishment of a Ministry for Northern Development under the present system of administration was a farce and an exercise in appeasement, without any real purpose. 
Read the Budget,' said the Minister for Northern Development in answer to a question I asked him regarding what finance had been allocated for northern development. I have read the Budget. I had read it before I asked him the question. The only outstanding feature in it was an allocation of $200,000 towards a feasibility study on the Burdekin Dam project, and even that allocation was not a clean and concise one. The string attached to this was that the State also had to supply $200,000 towards this project before it could get off the ground. So if the State cannot afford to allocate $200,000 in this year's State Budget, the project will he shelved again. Yet this is the Government that promised to make an immediate start on this very important study. I repeat that in my opinion and the opinion of many others the creation of a specific Ministry for Northern Development was a farce and an exercise in appeasement. Unless the Government can show that its intentions are honest and sincere in this matter it will stand condemned as far as the people of northern Australia are concerned. 
Another issue which should receive serious consideration is the Government's attitude towards housing. The attitude of this Government towards the housing situation would be one of the clearest examples we have had so far of a centralist power attempting to dictate to  the States and telling them how to run their own business. Because of the existing problems of housing, the Government has seized the opportunity to try to nationalise this industry, regardless of the consequences to people. Shortly after honourable members opposite became the Government they made a great show of expressing their concern at the housing problem in all the States, and with a great fanfare - I remember it so well - announced that $6m would be allocated to the States for emergency housing. Queensland's share of this allocation would have built approximately 30 houses  -  30 houses spread over the whole of the State to ease what the Government called a crisis in housing. 
Then we saw the spectacle of the Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson)  haggling with the States over what houses they would be able to build for sale or rental. Is it any wonder that the States objected - even those States presided over by a government of .the same political persuasion as the Australian Government? Does the Minister honestly think that he can solve the problem of housing from his Canberra office, or from his Sydney office, by laying down one hard and fast rule, which does not take into consider ation the particular problems of the particular State? Does he not realise that housing problems in Queensland, for instance, are different from those in Victoria and that this situation applies to all the States? Is it any wonder that the State Housing Ministers have objected strongly to being dictated to, especially when the Minister must realise that there are differences in requirement? 
Is it any wonder that they would not sign a Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement which did not allow them flexibility in working out the problems peculiar to their own States? I would suggest to the Minister, to help him avoid any further embarrassment in this matter, that he pay attention to the requirements of each particular State and allow them the flexibility they require in the allocation of funds for particular housing purposes. This is the only way in which he can achieve harmony and mutual co-operation with the States. If he desires to see more rental accommodation become available there are ways and means to prevail upon the States to reason in this matter. But why aggravate the situation by declaring that a certain percentage must be available for rental and a certain percentage for sale, when surely he must know of the differences in requirements? Why attempt to bludgeon the States into submitting to his hard line policy by threatening them that the rate of interest on housing loans funds would be increased if they did not submit? That to me is an incredible situation and one which should not be tolerated by the States or by the people. 
While on the subject of housing, may I draw the Minister's attention to one important aspect which is adversely affecting quite a number of people and one which the Minister appears to accept as a matter of course. This in the matter of defence service homes. I do not know whether the Minister is aware of this, but it has been put pretty definitely to me that defence service homes or war service homes loans, as we knew them, are becoming dirty words in a number of localities. The staff who administer this section of the Department of Housing are to be commended for the job they have done and are doing under legislation that should have been reviewed years ago. In this respect I cannot and will not attempt to absolve from blame the previous Government, of which I was a member, for not reviewing this legislation and updating it to conform with current circumstances. But I do question this Government and the present Minister for allowing it to continue, especially in view of his statements that young people would be encouraged to purchase their own homes and his introduction of legislation to ease the qualifications of eligibility for servicemen to take advantage of the defence service homes loans. Recently a number of servicemen and ex-servicemen have said to me: 'The Government thought it was giving us a big deal by raising the amount of the loan from $9,000 to $12,000, but try and get it if you can - if you are prepared to wade through a swamp of red tape.' 
I do not know whether the Minister realises that over the last 2 years sales of houses have become fiercely competitive, and a person wishing to sell a home is not prepared to wait up to 3 months or more for ex-servicemen to obtain the $12,000 loan, or even approval of the loan, to purchase the property. There is always a purchaser with easier access to finance waiting. I know of service personnel who, as a consequence of this delay, have been placed in a most frustrating position - being refused the opportunity of buying the home they would like because the vendor would not wait until the Department had made the necessary investigations and processed them before making a decision on approval or otherwise. In a recent instance one serviceman with 20-odd years service has been placed in the embarrassing situation of being told 'nothing doing' when he mentioned he would be using a war service homes loan to purchase a dwelling that was on the market - and not once, but 3 times. Others have been told by real estate agents that their chances of getting a vendor to. wait until the Department paid up are extremely slim. Others I know, to obtain the dwelling that would suit them, have in desperation, by-passed their opportunity to obtain a Service loan and saddled themselves with the greater interest repayment from finance companies or banks in order to secure the deal. These examples, of course, have applied where the dwelling is already established. 
But consider the case of a serviceman or ex-serviceman who wishes to build a new home. After his eligibility has been established following his application - which in some circumstances according to the locality in which he lives may take anything up to three or more weeks - his land has to be inspected when an inspector is available. Then follows the submission of plans, etc. Once all this procedure has been followed the builder can commence the job. When the dwelling is completed it is again inspected, when an inspector is available, and provided his report is approved by the architectural staff of the department the conveyancing staff deals with it, and details of insurance, etc. are completed. Then comes the big moment: Payment is made. Add a few grey hairs to the serviceman caused by anxious weeks of waiting for approval and the pestering of the builder for his money - because he has to meet his commitments also - and it is no wonder the serviceman by-passes his opportunity to take advantage of the low interest loan to avoid the worry to himself and his family. How about the worrying procedure of obtaining bridging finance? What are the Minister's comments regarding a young serviceman's situation when approval to build has been given but final approval after the dwelling is completed has been denied because of a builder's fault, and even though the builder has agreed to rectify the fault, the Department still says no? Has the Minister ever thought of the situation in which this particular serviceman has been placed and has he any thought as to how to assist him in such a hopeless situation? 
I fully appreciate the reasons behind the original legislation and the procedure adopted to implement it - the protection of the applicant and naturally the protection of the Government's equity in the deal. I also fully appreciate the efforts of the departmental staff in implementing the legislation and the consideration they have given to all applications, but, while the system worked well in previous times, the additional workload imposed on the staff by present day circumstances must have repercussions all along the line until it finishes in the Service applicant's lap. I hope the Minister is aware of the fact that because of the relaxation of eligibility the department can expect many more than the normal number of applications in the future. 
There is an answer to this, if the Minister and the Government are prepared to recognise it. The Government has not been hesitant in spending the taxpayers' money like a drunken sailor if it thought the occasion warranted it, regardless of consequences. So I would suggest that it allocates funds through an avenue that would be beneficial, both to the Service community and the staff. I suggest to the Minister that regional offices of the Department of Housing be established and so geared that they can deal with applications for defence service homes loans on the spot, and do away with the necessity of forwarding all applications to a capital city for processing, which in some instances could be more than 1,000 miles away. When I speak of gearing these regional offices to process applications I mean the complete processing whereby the regional officer is empowered to make decisions regarding' approvals and to make the necessary loan payments to builders or financial institutions. 
I fully realise the staff requirements for such a proposal but the satisfactory result of establishing such offices would more than justify the additional costs. There is a way to do it which could reduce a considerable amount of the additional cost. But this system must remain an exercise for the Minister's thinking, for I do not intend to do his thinking for him. This will be part of my policy when I present it. But I can assure the Minister that if he does not come up with the answer to this problem when I know there is an answer, when we are the Government I will. 
The other subject of the Budget I would like to remark on is the increase in pensions. I remember well the times when the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden),  after the previous Government had announced details of pension increases in the budget, would describe the then Government as mean and miserable men. But let us have a look at what his Government has done with pensions. It promised it would raise pensions by $1.50 in the spring and autumn of each year, until the pension reached 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. When I made the point last session that this $3 a year raise would never reach the desired percentage the Minister stated that if necessary the Government would make a special allowance available so pensions could reach the promised amount. He has had 2 opportunitites to do this, once during the last session and again in the Budget allocation. But so far this has not eventuated. Recently he again made the statement that special consideration would be given to pensioners if the SI. 50 increase was not sufficient for the pension to reach 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. The Minister must know that with inflation of food prices as it presently is, Si. 50 does not amount to much, but still no consideration of increasing the pension to the promised amount has been indicated. So I now say to the Minister that because the pension still remains well behind the promised 25 per cent of average weekly earnings, his Government is a collection of mean and miserable men. I have great pleasure in supporting the amendment proposed by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden).  I think it would add some sense to what I consider is a disastrous Budget. 
First may I state that the Opposition will support the principles contained in this Bill. I have no desire to oppose the benefits that this Bill proposes for the repatriation pensioner. However, there are some portions of the Bill that I question and some suggestions that I have to offer which I feel could be advantageous to all repatriation pensioners. The first clause I would question is the one which does away with the special compensation allowance which is provided to the general rate pensioner. I would imagine that quite a number of honourable members in the House, including those on the Government side, would have received letters objecting to this move which is proposed by the Government. This special compensation allowance was introduced by the Gorton Government in 1968 when it was felt that there were a number of repatriation members in a specific category whose particular disabilities deserved compensatory payment. Consequently the Government of that day decided to ease the financial problems of these people and to pay them $6 a week in addition to their normal 100 per cent rate pension. It has been a very satisfactory arrangement for members in this category even though it caused some comment as it was thought at the time that it could discriminate against members in a lower category of pension payment. 
The Government now intends to dispense with the special compensation allowance. So far I have not seen a satisfactory explanation of that action, except that the Government might think that it puts all pensioners on a more equitable basis. That may be so in the thinking of the Minister for Repatriation  (Senator Bishop),  who authorised the move, but in fact a pensioner on the 100 per cent general rate who is receiving the compensation allowance because of special disabilities does not benefit one little bit under the proposed legislation.  His  present pension is $16 a week. With the special compensation allowance he gets $22 a week. This Government in its generosity is awarding him $3 a week increase in the basic rate pension, bringing his payment to $19 a week, but is reducing his compensation allowance by $3 a week which means that he gets the same weekly amount of $22 that he does now before this legislation is passed. 
In the autumn of next year again the generous Government will give him an increase of $3 a week in his basic rate but it will take away from him the remaining $3 of his compensation allowance so that by Budget time next year members in that category will be receiving the same weekly amount that they now receive. If there is any generosity in that thinking I would like the Minister to explain it to me. I do not know why the Government singled out this particular category of repatriation pensioner to discriminate against unless it is because it is the easiest category in which to save money. I repeat that people receiving the special compensation allowance were granted the payment for a special reason in the first place. In my opinion it should have been paid many years before. 
Some pensioners receiving the special compensation allowance have facial disfigurements. Others have lost a limb, while others have physical disabilities which in some instances have altered their whole way of life. It is all very well to compare general rate category pensioners with other pensioners and to say that the Government would like to see all repatriation pensioners treated in the same way, but it is not as if the disabilities can be cured or will improve. They will always be the same and even though the war has been finished for a considerable time these people still deserve the greatest consideration. It astounds me that the Government chose to save in this way. According to the Press about $18m a year will be saved by penalising about 27,000 seriously incapacitated former .servicemen to whom this country should be exceedingly greatful. If the Government wants to save money as badly as that in the repatriation field why does it not investigate the system and penalise those people who take advantage of it? We all know that there are some who do that. I think an explanation is due from the Minister to the Parliament and the nation, and particularly to the 27,000 repatriation pensioners who are effected. I earnestly request the Government to reconsider its discriminatory . decision to cancel the special compensation allowance. 
I remind the Government that the principle that is fundamental to the repatriation system is compensation. This philosophy is universally accepted. Citizens who have defended their country in time of war by serving in the armed forces should be assured by the Government that they shall adequately be provided with compensation for Serviceconnected disabilities and with satisfactory facilities to assist their re-establishment in civil life at the completion of their service. The first principle of compensation should be considered when dealing with repatriation pensioners receiving 100 per cent general rate. Whilst I suppose I possibly could have moved an amendment to this Bill to attempt to adjust this allowance, I felt that more explanation as to the cause of this withdrawal was required and that a request to the Minister would be complied with for serious reconsideration of its deletion. 
On the subject of benefits for repatriation pensioners and for those members who, incidentally, for the first time, will be applying for compensation benefits due possibly to some disability suffered during the War and manifesting itself because of age and time, we all know the procedure. The person applies to the Repatriation Commission and the Commission either allows or disallows the application. There is an avenue for appeal, of which we are all aware, and eventually the applicant has the opportunity for an appeal to a tribunal. These appeals concern the benefits paid to an applicant and also a person applying for a review of his case. This tribunal area is one that interests me most at the moment. When an applicant reaches the appeals tribunal the onus is on him to prove that his disability is in some way connected with his war service. This may be fine where a member has served in units that were able to maintain complete medical records but not all units - such as my own, for instance - were able to keep records. Consequently, a person applying for benefits is, in some instances, put in the embarrassing position of being told that his disability could not possibly be attributed to war service when he knows full well the facts of the case. There have been occasions when I have known of actual cases and have been at the scene at the time a person received a wound, the evidence of which was never recorded in a medical history sheet. Fortunately I have been able to substantiate the appeal later. There is no blame attached to the units for this because the circumstances at the time did not permit a record to be kept. 
Honourable members know of this situation, but when the member appeals to the tri bunal to have his disability recognised is it not right to assume that he should be treated with courtesy and dignity and not treated as if he were some loafer who wanted to get something for nothing? Are the tribunals not established to employ reason and justice in their findings? I think the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  would agree that tribunals are established for this purpose. Why do so many complain of the treatment they receive at the appeals tribunal hearings when they apply for increased benefits or for benefits for the first time? I believe the Minister for Defence and one senator have received complaints about the attitude adopted by a tribunal  chairman.  I am led to believe that the Minister for Repatriation  (Senator Bishop),  after investigating these complaints, stated that there was nothing he could do because the  chairman  was a government appointee, and, as such, would have to complete his term of duty in this regard. When one is dealing with repatriation members - people who may be relying on the pension they hope to get - this seems to be a lot of nonsense. If a government appointee is not performing his task to the satisfaction of the Government why cannot he be dismissed or replaced? I will not accept that the Minister for Repatriation can do nothing about this situation. Frankly, I think there is a lot he could do if he so desired. However, I am perfectly willing to hear the reasons why he will not. 
This is not just one isolated case. There must be other cases, because I know of instances where members have come back from interviews and have complained of the treatment they received. In the last couple of months one member told me that he was going to Brisbane to be interviewed about having another disability accepted. He came back and stated to me that he did not receive much satisfaction from the tribunal.  His  words were: 'I'm not a dog, I don't want anything for nothing and I'm not a bludger. I just want to know if Repatriation can help me.' As I have said, these men who were prepared to offer their lives in the service of this country are entitled to be treated with dignity. I ask the Minister for Defence in his capacity as representative in this House of the Minister for Repatriation to pass on my comments to the Minister in the hope that in future the tribunal chairmen will adopt a more reasonable attitude. This is a disturbing matter for quite a number of people and one that I think could be cleared up without any problems. 
Another matter affecting repatriation benefits and pensions is the persistent rumour that this Government will dispense with the Repatriation Department and will integrate it with other departments. I think that this would have a great bearing on repatriation benefits. Although the Minister for Defence introduced the Bill relating to benefits, the rumour persists in Sydney, Brisbane and north Queensland. I do not know about the other States at the moment. I can only assure all recipients of repatriation benefits that the Repatriation Department will not be dispensed with and integrated with other departments such as the Department of Social Security or the Department of Health when the Liberal and Country Parties are returned to government. I have queried this rumour. During a recent discussion between  Sir Arthur  Lee, who is the national  President  of the Returned Services League, and the Minister for Defence the Minister is reported to have said that, as far as he personally was concerned, the Repatriation Department would not be done away with. I was more than surprised to find that some members of the Government were considering this proposal and that this prompted the question. 
The Repatriation Department has done and is still doing a great job in assisting our returned servicemen. It is not what the Minister personally thinks that bothers me; it is what the Government thinks that is disturbing me. I spoke to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  on this matter because I was quite worried about it and I thought that it was rather serious. He was as surprised as I was when he heard about it. He assured me that this was certainly not the thinking of the Liberal Party or of the Country Party and that he would support me in any move I made to retain the Department in its present form. I know that there was talk early in the piece about using the repatriation hospitals to assist the public hospitals. Provision for this is contained in the Bill. It is something with which one could not quarrel. In the event of an emergency or a serious overcrowding situation no-one could object to such a move. The repatriation hospitals are doing a specific job for a specific purpose. There is no objection to their being used otherwise, provided that this specific purpose is not disturbed because the men and women whom the Repatriation Department was instituted to assist have, through their actions in defence of this country, earned the right to receive this assistance. Whilst I would endeavour to streamline the administration processes, the Repatriation Department will remain as it is when the Opposition becomes the Government. As I said earlier, the Opposition supports the principles contained in the Bill. It certainly has no desire to oppose the benefits that the Bill proposes for repatriation pensioners. I ask the Minister for Defence to pass on these suggestions to the Minister for Repatriation. 
Tonight I do not wish to speak at any length in this debate. But I hope that what I do have to say will register with the Postmaster-General  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  and with honourable members on the Government side of the chamber. In the speeches I have made in the House since the commencement of this session, I have condemned the Government's Budget as a disastrous one. I have listened to the interjections from Government members more or less intimating that I did not know what I was talking about, and was foolish to say that the first Budget introduced by this Labor Government was a disastrous one. Unfortunately for the Government, in this debate I inform it that the first casualty of its shocking increase in postal charges will take effect as from 1 October. 
There has been lots of sniping from this side of the chamber at the Postmaster-General regarding the charges he has imposed, or that the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  has imposed on his behalf, and he has shrugged them off as perhaps being of no account. But I wonder whether the Postmaster-General actually realises the damage he has done to country areas by the proposed increases in charges. When I say: 'Increase in charges', I mean the overall increase in charges. I am not dealing with one particular charge. I know this matter has been pursued by my colleagues in the Australian Country Party and I have heard a reaction by members of the Government more or less intimating that what we were saying was not correct. But I would like to tell the Postmaster-General of his first casualty, and I hope he and the Government and honourable members who sit on the Government benches are proud of themselves over this. 
In the city of Innisfail in North Queensland a daily paper named the 'Evening Advocate' is produced and has a steady circulation of 16,000 subscribers. The 'Evening Advocate' has been in business for many years and is consistent in its presentation of news value and advertising - so much so that, as I have said, it has had a steady subscription over the years of 16,000, because the population is static and there is very little development in the area. In making the statement that the Postmaster-General made after the introduction of the Federal Budget, I wonder whether he knew what he was doing to newspapers that faithfully serve a district as the 'Evening Advocate' has done in the Innisfail district of North Queensland. This newspaper is printed 5 afternoons a week. Because of the increase in charges that the PostmasterGeneral has indicated this small daily newspaper, which does such a wonderful job, faces the prospect of suspending publication. It will be forced to do so on the 28th of this month if this legislation goes through. This decision was forced upon the paper by the increase in postal and telecommunication charges that will operate from 1 October next and which makes the operation of this daily newspaper financially impracticable^ The PostmasterGeneral said that concession charges to Press, broadcasting and television organisations in respect of telegrams, telephones and telex calls and the lease of private telephone lines would be discontinued from 1 October, but I wonder whether he really knew what he was doing to districts such as the Innisfail district. 
This small daily newspaper which serves a useful purpose will be out of business because, if it continued to present its daily publication of existing overseas cables and interstate and intrastate news services, it would mean an increase of 1200 per cent in its annual charges for news telegrams. The editor investigated the possibility of limiting its expenditure upon telegrams, to present its daily intake of telegraphic news, to 100 words daily in order to keep in production, but this could mean about 16 lines of type, which is completely ridiculous. The proposed rise in newspaper postages established another increase cost for a newspaper whose income is more or less static in a community in which no marked new development is proceeding, but in which this paper is still very welcome. 
The 'Evening Advocate' operates in circumstances which are rather unique in the Australian newspaper world. There is no other town in the Commonwealth of similar size to Innisfail which has a daily newspaper. The city of Innisfail is situated geographically, to put the House in the picture, between Townsville, which prints the Townsville 'Daily Bulletin' which is one of Australia's best equipped and outstanding provincial newspapers, as honourable members know, and Cairns, where the 'Cairns Post', which is a subsidiary of Queensland Newspapers Pty Ltd is published. All daily newspapers in Queensland are published in the morning, with the exception of the Innisfail paper, which provides an evening service to its district population over many areas. One of the reasons why it has been able to survive is that it meets the intensive competition of the big morning newspapers with an afternoon publication and has maintained supremacy as a local advertising medium. Furthermore, the 'Evening Advocate' enjoys a popularity in the district which is proved by the fact that 3 successive rises in the price per copy to its readers have not reduced sales in any way. Apart from this advertising patronage, sales have been maintained despite the necessity to impose higher charges in this regard. 
Papers such as the 'Evening Advocate' are of great importance to a district, regardless of the feelings of the Postmaster-General, his departmental advisers or members of the Government. Because of the present Government's actions in regard to increased postal charges, this important little daily is to be buried. I would say that the Government would shed no tears about this, shrug its shoulders and more or less say that that is too bad that this is part and parcel of the deal. Apart from the fact that this paper has been operating and serving the needs of the community for so long, the staff will have to find other jobs and the district will be left without a medium voice. This newspaper, which the people of Innisfail have been proud of and which the owners and editor have been proud to use as a medium to serve the local community, will be buried on 28 September because of this Government's ruthless actions. I hope that the Postmaster-General and members of the Government are proud of themselves and I hope that they sleep on 28 September knowing that when this daily paper, which has fulfilled such a need for a district over a long period, is buried 16,000 subscribers in a district will hate the Government's guts for it. 
On the surface this Bill appears to be a mechanical one and could be classed as an enabling Bill - that is,, on the surface. But I feel it should be looked at more deeply, especially the background that led to its introduction. In his second reading speech the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Bryant)  said that the Australian Government would assume ultimate responsibility for Aborigines and would establish a Ministry of Aboriginal Affairs, with offices in each State to give the Commonwealth a genuine presence in the States. This could be interpreted in many different ways as far as officers to staff them would be concerned, and I will deal with that matter later. 
I have no quarrel with the provisions contained in this Bill, which is to facilitate the transfer of State officers to the Australian Public Service, because I believe that an officer is entitled in all fairness and justice to have his rights and privileges protected. The Minister has said that the State departments responsible for Aboriginal affairs have received an increasingly large part of their funds from Commonwealth grants and that they have channelled a substantial proportion of these funds through other departments in areas such as health, education and housing. He also stated that this involves duplication of effort between the Australian and the State authorities, which leads to confusion. But I ask the Minister in this respect: Does he intend his Department to take over the State departments in areas of health, education and housing, eventually or does he expect the States to continue administering these responsibilities as far as our coloured people are concerned? My concern is that there are so many cloudy areas, so much that has not been explained and I feel that these matters should be clarified completely. 
In his second reading speech the Minister mentioned the consultative committee which he established early this year. I would like to know whether this body is to have an established office in each State, which it will staff? In fact I query the capability of this committee, which was organised by the Minister shortly after he took office. I query its capability to speak on the welfare of all Aboriginals and Torres Strait Islanders, seeing that virtually all of this committee was nominated by the Minister and drawn from the ranks of the Federal Council for the Advancement of Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders, except for a few other reputable people, who, in the opinion of a number of people, were appointed for window dressing purposes only. 
Recently again we witnessed a high pressure public relations activity leading up to the proposed development of a so-called elected national Aboriginal consultative committee. I ask the Minister whether he hand picked the organisers of this committee, for again there seems to be a large number of members of the Federal Council for the Advancement of Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders appointed as such, and this organisation, as we all know, was presided over by the Minister. 
Have these organisers been given the choice of selecting their own enrollers to move around the country enrolling only those coloured people who wish to be included on a roll to vote, or are all coloured people being given the opportunity to enrol. Are these organisers and the enrollers being paid, and if so, by whom, and how much is it costing the community. I think everyone is entitled to know, seeing that the taxpayers' money is involved. Are these organisers and enrollers eligible to bc candidates for this election to the consultative committee? If they are, would it not be reasonable to assume that they are being paid by the Government through the Minister to do their own campaigning and the preparation of this specific electoral roll. 
Are the public servants who are expert in this field, be they State or Federal, supervising this exercise? If not I feel that our coloured community in this country is being badly served, instead of assisted, as it should be. From some of the comments I have heard regarding this enrolling procedure, I feel that the Minister has embarked on a course of procedure which could be called a little irresponsible which must be costing quite an amount of public money, in order to achieve the establishment of a committee that will completely belong to the Minister and therefore, I say, it could never be truly representative of the feeling of the Aboriginal and Island people. I have no doubt the Minister will reply to the effect that this particular exercise will mean that the Aboriginal and Island people will be free to determine their own future. But this I doubt very much. 
I have heard also that the Minister intends to establish centres in some of the major cities, in Queensland for instance. Does he intend to staff these centres with State or Federal officers. How many does he anticipate being employed in this capacity and what if he gets no takers from the State Public Service to transfer to the Australian Public Service? Will he continue to employ these State employees in these centres if the State governments agree? If some do transfer, will they be known as his departmental officers? Does he intend to staff these centres with coloured people only and employ his departmental officers in another capacity? If so, in what capacity? There are so many loose ends associated with this changeover. It sounded simple when we first heard of it. I think it only right that the Minister should outline his ideas more clearly. 
Is it his intention to have these officers regularly visit all centres. If it is, may I ask if he has yet received permission for himself or his officers to visit Yam Island in the Torres Strait Group, the elected  chairman  of which stated that he was not prepared to accept an offer of money on behalf of his people in return for allowing the Minister or his departmental officers to visit the island as the opportunity arises. 
Will the Minister's departmental officers, be they State or Australian Public Service, be engaged in the development of the proposed turtle and crocodile farming planned for our coloured people? This additional economic avenue for development in my opinion is to be commended. I presume it will be owned by the Australian government. But if his departmental officers are to be so employed, to whom do they answer - the Minister or  Senator Georges,  who I believe has been appointed  chairman  of the board of directors of this project company, replacing a  Dr Bustard,  who was until recently  chairman  of this board. Why was  Dr Bustard  replaced? I would say that he would have more expertise in this direction than  Senator Georges.  But will the senator, as an elected member of this Parliament, be in a position to handle and direct finance and staff for this project, or will the Minister or his officers handle this, as they should. I cannot explain the move. I do not know the reason behind it, but I would say that it requires an explanation. 
If this is the case is one permitted to ask: Will  Senator Keeffe  get the next berth in the next project? 
In his second reading speech the Minister also said that the responsibility which the Australian Government seeks is responsibility for policy planning and co-ordination. How does he tie this statement in with his earlier statement in the same speech that the Government would assume the ultimate responsibility for our coloured people. It would appear from reading his speech that the major function of caring for our coloured people will still be left as a State responsibility. Would the Australian Government attempt to get the credit for it? The wording is too loose in my opinion and it should be tightened up. 
Again in his second reading speech the Minister kept referring to the fact that there has been ready agreement in some States and that in a number of States there has been extensive discussion on a matter contained in this Bill. In some States it would be necessary for us to work out with the State authorities the best means of proceeding. We have only 6 States. How many are involved? Which are the States with which we are having trouble. I presume by his statement that all the States do not agree. I would have thought that the Minister would have tidied this matter up before the introduction of this Bill. 
While I have said that this is a mechanical Bill, which deals with a Public Service officer's entitlement to have his rights and privileges protected, I think I have pointed out that there are a few cloudy issues associated with its introduction, which concern every Australian, but more particularly the Aboriginal and Island people. I would suggest that in order to avoid any queries regarding the Minister's administration of his important office he should deal more openly with the public and advise them fully of his intentions and plans for the welfare of our Australian coloured people. I think the first step towards this could be achieved by the Minister if he answered some of the queries I have raised today. I repeat that the Opposition will not oppose the passage of this legislation because it serves to protect the rights and privileges of the Public Service. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the previous Government proposed establishing a rehabilitation centre at Townsville, that certain Commonwealth land had been set aside for this purpose, and that cost estimates had been prepared. 
If these are facts, does the present Government intend to continue with this important project; if so, when. 
MrHayden - The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Yes. The target date for completion of the Centre is 1976. 
I have mentioned previously when I have been speaking that the implementation of the Government's policy to assist our Aboriginal and island people does not appear to be clearly defined. 1 repeat this again. There does not appear to be any clearly defined policy, or should I say clearly defined method of applying the Government's policy of assistance to the Aborigines. The only way that people can gain information as to what the Government is doing in the field of welfare for the coloured people is by reading the newspapers, and one reads that so much money has been allocated for this purpose and so much for that purpose. It appears to be a piecemeal type of administration, and I think one could be forgiven for asking for a clear definition of the method by which the Government intends to implement its policy. We could say that the former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs was leaning towards having a clear definition of policy, but unfortunately time was against him in the 10 months he occupied that office. However we could see this happening. It must be done first. This is the first step in administration; otherwise, as I mentioned, it becomes piecemeal. 
I understand that last night  Senator Georges  outlined certain matters quite clearly. If the information he gave to the Senate is correct he is to be commended for doing so. Where the responsibility in the situation he raised lies 1 do not know. All I hope is that this situation will cease. Again in trying to follow the policy of the Government over the last few months in this matter one could be forgiven for asking whether the previous Minister - we hope that the present Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  will - really sat down and analysed the Aboriginal people themselves and their background prior to any decision -being made to allocate finance in the different areas affecting the coloured people. For instance, does he realise - I hope the present Minister will; in fact he will have to - that they are very different from ourselves as far as present and future needs are concerned. I have worked with them and lived among them for many years and know this to be a fact. We place an emphasis on saving for security in the future and we are concerned with our future needs. The coloured people's concept of saving is not the same. They are concerned with the present and the past, and future requirements very seldom enter into their thinking. Our emphasis is placed on the individual, individual competition and personal effort. The coloured people's emphasis is on group goals and very seldom on the individual. Co-operation is their main theme for living, where competition is stressed in ours. Their efforts are directed towards communal activities, with special emphasis on the welfare of their children and their aged. Their idea of group co-operation instead of individual effort is one which should be considered most seriously when thinking in terms of education and trade training. 
Will the new Minister consider the child at school who by instinct tends to progress along with the group, and yet may have the ability if he used personal individual effort to learn faster than the others? These are matters which I feel are most important when thinking in terms of assistance to our coloured people. The primary aim of any government is to assist these people, but in my opinion the methods employed to do so must be clearly denned in every area of welfare. We read a lot about malnutrition and how this is caused through lack of utilising the proper foods available and in the method of preparation, and in fact a lack of knowledge of the foods that are available to assist in rearing strong and healthy children. Our reports in this same area tell us that there is a definite lack of knowledge regarding proper hygiene and matters of health. 
For all the money that has been spent over the years on these matters by having our white people move amongst these coloured people to instruct them in the proper use of foods and matters of health and hygiene, this problem still persists - and therefore, to my way of thinking, it is not being tackled correctly. If after these years there has been very little improvement, then there must be something wrong with the method employed. In this regard I would like to see this finance directed towards the training of coloured people chosen from all the areas in which they live, so that after their training is completed they could move among their own people and be readily understood, to teach them this desirable know ledge on matters of malnutrition, health and hygiene. I realise that this would not be done overnight, but I am sure there would be many coloured people willing to undertake such training in order that they could pass this knowledge on to their own particular tribe or group. They would listen and absorb this knowledge passed on to them by one of their own people, in preference to being instructed by our white people, because there still exists that area of suspicion and distrust towards the white people's intentions. 
The field of education needs particular study. We know that all degrees of education are available to coloured students, but we also know that not many of them - very few in fact - avail themselves of these opportunities. This could possibly be tied up with what I have mentioned previously regarding their inherent belief in group co-operation. It is generally recognised that the coloured people in Australia progress quite well until they reach the age of 12 or 13, and then the desire for knowledge, especially in the males, appears to wane, and they lose interest in their education. The scheme that was introduced of allocating finance to a coloured family for every child that attended a secondary school offset this to some extent, but I know that in some instances the child only attends secondary school in order that the family gets the benefit of the finance, and not because of any desire to further his education. This outlook could stem from the Aboriginal's outlook towards work, which is different from ours. We regard work as a necessity, which must be done. The Aboriginal regards work as just an activity of living and not as a necessity. And again their idea of group living does not lend itself to the child making an individual effort, and he cannot be blamed for this, but this certainly is one matter which must be looked at when thinking in terms of education for our coloured children. 
I have given a great deal of thought to methods of overcoming this problem of a desire to work in groups instead of working as individuals as far as education is concerned, and I have advocated previously the establishment of trade training centres for coloured children only. There is no doubt that they make excellent tradesmen when they put their minds to it, but we seldom find the young coloured person taking advantage of trade training in technical schools - possibly again because of their thoughts on individual effort. I am sure that trade training centres established to train coloured youngsters only in the various trades such as motor mechanics, plumbing, carpentry and the like, would be successful. It has been particularly noted that they prefer to play sport together, and, as a completely coloured team, co-operate with each other and do extremely well in competition with other teams, and therefore I think one could safely assume that if they do their trade training together this also would pay off. It would give the young person the confidence needed to compete on the labour market with other white tradesmen. I am positive, too, that there would be no problem in obtaining adequate staff to train these young people, both male and female, in the particular trades they want to follow. It would also give them some goal to work for instead of being confined, as they are now, to labouring jobs only. Australia will need as many tradesmen as it can get for quite a number of years yet, and this is one area of assistance which could prove valuable for them in the future. They would also feel they were part of their country's development and share in it. 
Another area which could be explored to assist the coloured people is the establishment of community centres, complete with trained welfare staff, again comprising coloured people, who would run these centres and be available for advice on matters dealing with health, hygiene, social welfare and job opportunities. These community centres could provide relaxation and recreation, meeting places, special classes for the production of native artifacts, and kindergartens. In fact they could be the hub of their communal life. My time has almost expired but I have a few more ideas on this matter. I hope that the new Minister for Aboriginal Affairs will give my suggestions the same attention as did the previous Minister,  Mr Bryant. 
There will be no opposition to this Bill going through the House because there is a definite need for finance for the States to proceed with their plans for welfare housing. We feel, however, that there are details which should have been finalised some time ago, and no doubt they would have and could have been finalised if the Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson)  had been able to get the States to agree to the States Housing Agreement Act. That Bill still has not been ratified by the States, and it should bc obvious to the Minister that a little rethinking was needed regarding the details concerned in it. We well remember the battle that went on between the Minister and the State Ministers for Housing regarding his ideas on the percentage of homes for rental compared with the percentage of houses for sale, and that even Premiers of States of the Minister's own political persuasion were against his ideas on this matter. I have no doubt that they still are. 
I have no quarrel whatsoever with the Minister or the Government on their ideas about the desirability of increasing the number of dwellings available for low rental, but I do quarrel with the Minister over his being so adamant about the percentage of homes for low rental that he wishes to force onto the States. The requirement for each State is different. I have said before and say again that the States know the requirement of their own people best and are in a far better position to make the decisions on what numbers of dwellings would be available for rental and for sale. Also, how docs the Minister know that the situation would not change, in which case no doubt we would then have to go through the procedures of altering the percentage? Surely, if he does not trust those ministers of Liberal Party or Country Party persuasion to do the right thing by the people in their respective States, he should at least be able to trust those Ministers of his own particular political persuasion with regard to State housing. 
If the Minister had sought the co-operation of the States, for a review of their priorities for low. rental accommodation in an effort to obtain some standardisation of priorities throughout the Commonwealth I would probably have agreed with him. But it appears as though the Minister wants to have all the say regarding what percentage of homes should be available for low rental and for sale. Looking at the statements that have been made over the last few months and the ideas about which the Minister has spoken, I doubt whether he really has any idea of the individual requirements of the States. I say that I doubt whether the Minister would know for this reason. Recently the Minister made a public statement regarding homes built by the Queensland Housing Commission and private contractors for use as married quarters for Army personnel in Townsville. I doubt whether the Minister has ever seen or inspected them. If he has I stand corrected. His statement has angered a number of Army personnel and certainly angered the civilian population of Townsville. 
Last week the Minister for Defence and  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Barnard)  visited the Army installation in Townsville and made a statement to the effect that the married quarters for serving personnel, which we know were built by the Queensland Housing Commission and some private contractors, were su'b-standard. That was bad enough as it was not true, but the Minister for Housing supported this statement during a talk-back program on a Townsville radio station. He was contacted by telephone from the station and in reply to a question from the interviewer  he  intimated that the married quarters for Army personnel were sub-standard insofar as there were no fans, no fly screens and no blinds supplied with the homes. 
I have news for the Minister and for the  Deputy  Prime Minister. I heard the program. The Minister for Housing certainly put himself completely offside with a number of Army wives who rang the station later to refute his statement that the quarters were sub-standard. I also refute his statement for I know that the Army quarters are equipped with fans, fly screens and  Venetian  blinds. I can vouch for this because it was my representations to the then Minister for the Army and the then Treasurer that made the fly screening of these quarters possible. While there was some delay in the supply of blinds at the outset every home is now equipped with them. The fans are of the oscillating type and can be wall mounted or portable. To support my statement 1 have here the latest Army Journal which states that accommodation for all Army personnel at Townsville has fans, screens and blinds. If the Minister for Housing had said  J.i&amp;t  some of the quarters allocated for Royal Australian Air Force personnel needed attention I would have agreed with him. Some of those homes are still not equipped with blinds and are still without sewerage facilities. If he had said that he and the Minister for Defence would see that these RAAF quarters were brought up to the standard of Army homes and other RAAF quarters as soon as possible, I would have supported him all the way. But his statement that Army quarters were sub-standard was a reflection on homes occupied by civilians in the Townsville area, which they do not accept. 
Th&lt;? Army quarters are built on land the same size as those residential blocks that are available to civilians. While there could possibly have been some variations in the designs, the homes are well constructed and well serviced. There are thousands of Townsville people living in similar accommodation. The Townsville City Council has standard building regulations which do not permit buildings of substandard design to be erected. An apology to the Army personnel and the civilians of Townsville would be in order and might undo some of the damage to public relations that the Minister for Housing and the Minister for Defence have caused. They have caused a lot of heartache among serving personnel. I stated that because, as I said earlier, I doubt whether the Minister for Housing knows of the States' requirements or what was going on in the States. When he makes such statements regarding the Service quarters I doubt his ability to lay down hard and fast rules to the States for low rental public accommodation or purchase when he does not understand the Service housing situation or the States' requirements. 
Another factor which leads me to this belief is that according to the latest statistics Australia's housing problems do not relate to any overall shortage of housing units. If I remember correctly the statistics show that some 300,000 dwellings are unoccupied for some reason or another. Yet we have thousands of people on low incomes who cannot obtain suitable accommodation. This leads one to ask: Is this because the rentals or purchase prices of these unoccupied dwellings are beyond the means of low income earners or is it in fact a distribution problem, meaning that the unoccupied dwellings are in areas where work is not available to the low income earner, or is it a problem of transport facilities or charges? It is possible that a low income earner may obtain a dwelling in an area where transport facilities are either not available or the charge for them is beyond his budget means. If this is so, would there not be a case for a subsidy for transport charges? The Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement should be the main means by which government funds are provided to assist low income earners to obtain housing facilities of a respectable standard. But areas in which to build these homes are becoming further and further away from the industrial areas where these people are em- / ployed. In some instances the transport charges, as I have mentioned, are a big factor in the weekly budget. 
Another means of assistance to these low income earners which could be considered is a rent subsidy scheme for those who for some good reason or another do not wish to purchase a home. Assistance by way of rent allowance is available to pensioners at the moment to the extent of $4 per week. Perhaps this could be extended to some members of the low income group as many of them, because of the long waiting lists for public housing, are able to afford only very low quality accommodation in the private housing sector. Some form of rental allowance could be considered in these circumstances whereby on the family income a low income family could rent good quality accommodation. The Services have a subsidy scheme which enables members to obtain sufficient respectable private accommodation when married quarters are not available. So it is not as though the investigation of such a scheme as I am suggesting could be classed as a precedent. 
The Government, through the Minister for Housing, has expressed a desire to assist families on low incomes with their housing problems. I also have expressed that desire previously. I have also mentioned that according to the information available there are quite a number of unoccupied dwellings that could be utilised for these purposes. But a quick and thorough investigation should be undertaken to see whether this proposal could be implemented. If it could it certainly would ease the housing problems of low income earners. Investigation could be organised in co-operation with the States of these points: Areas where these unoccupied dwellings exist; transport facilities and charges to the closest industrial area to such dwellings; the possible subsidy of transport charges for low income earners; and a possible extension of the rental allowance to some members of the low income group. These investigations could be carried out quickly and simply in co-operation with the States and would certainly help a lot to overcome the problems of the low income earners. 
This is another reason why I say that the Minister should not have laid down a hard and fast rule for State housing commission homes to be made available for rental instead of providing an opportunity for purchase. Any form of housing objective cannot be achieved until all the facts of each State's requirements and an understanding of the situation are known. I ask the Minister whether, in order to achieve some definite method of assistance for the low income earner to obtain accommodation of a respectable standard in the shortest possible time, he will consider my suggestion of an investigation along the line? I have mentioned. As I said earlier, the Opposition does not want to inconvenience the States any further with their welfare housing problem, and we support the Bill before the House. 
Is the Minister for the Capital Territory aware of recent reports that some servicemen who have let their houses whilst on transfer from Canberra are being required to discharge their Commissioner for Housing mortgages within a period of 28 days? Are those reports correct? Has there been a change of policy on this matter? If so, what is the policy and does it affect only servicemen or all Commonwealth public servants on transfer from Canberra? 
asked the Minister for Air, upon notice: 
What was the number of discharges of Air Force personnel from 7 December 1972 to 31 August 1973 in each of the following categories: 
termination of service engagement, 
on retirement, 
at own request, 
medical and 
for disciplinary reasons. 
What was the number of accepted enlistments for the Air Force during the same period. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
What sums were expended on Aboriginal welfare from the day the previous Minister took office to 31 August 1973 in each of the following categories: (a) projects, (b) housing, (c) land, (d) sporting associations, (e) sporting activities, (f) education, (g) health, (h) personal loans or grants and (i) other. 
 I should like first to remind the Government that the first principle of repatriation is compensation, and that there is a responsibility on governments to recognise that an individual's service in the armed forces in the defence of his country is worthy of compensation when, as a result of that service, he suffers some disability. I mention this as a lead-up to what I have to say later. 
Unfortunately, as the period of time from the end of the war becomes greater people are apt to forget that there are some members of the community who remain handicapped and will be constantly suffering, regardless of the time that passes since they received their disability in war service, and that that will remain so until death claims them. People may forget such a man, but governments should not. Although I appreciate that since the repatriation system was introduced in 1917 extensions and modifications 'have been made to the original provisions of the scheme by successive governments, I feel that periodical reviews of those provisions and their administration should continue to be made. Medical science has improved greatly since the inception of the repatriation scheme, and is continuing to improve. This could mean that a particular treatment that 20 years ago was regarded as the best possible treatment might now be outdated and that a different type of treatment, recently innovated, might be better for the patient in question. This could mean the recall of a number of patients to hospitals to receive that modern treatment. But I am sure that the beneficial result to the Repatriation patient would more than compensate for any additional administration or finance involved. 
Briefly, what I mean to suggest is that wherever there is a possibility of a Repatriation member being relieved of any suffering through receiving modern treatment for his disability, that treatment should be given regardless of cost. I also mentioned that a periodical review of the administrative system was necessary. While I appreciate the efficiency of the departmental staff, there are times through no fault of their own, when the administrative work load becomes very heavy, and besides inconveniencing the staff, inconvenience must flow on to affect the Repatriation member. This should not be allowed to happen. A member's business with the Department should be completed as expeditiously as possible with as little inconvenience as possible. Again, I mentioned earlier that the first principle of repatriation is compensation. But some people's idea of compensation is different from others, and this needs to be clearly defined. There are those who think that monetary compensation alone is sufficient. But I think that this is a negative approach. Rehabilitation must play a big part in compensating an individual who has suffered some disability in the service of his country. Successful rehabilitation of an incapacitated member can mean a lot to that member's dignity and pride and could be the means of enabling him to become a useful member of the community and of greater assistance and value to his family. 
That could be. Where it is possible a member should be encouraged to avail himself of the opportunities of modern methods of rehabilitation and be assisted by the Government to do so. Successful rehabilitation in lots of instances could give a number of Repatriation members a new or greater interest in life and a reason for living. While this is being done to some extent at the present time, the scheme could be expanded, and as well as those members affected, the country would also benefit. 
One other matter which could be given consideration .deals with the situation where a member appearing before a commission or a tribunal has his claim rejected and is informed of the reasons for the rejection by mail or is told in some other way. Now, the Government proposes that the tribunal or the commission must give him reasons for the rejection of his claim. I am of the opinion - and that is my problem - that where a member has a terminal disease, a problem of mental health, or some incapacity due to previous venereal disease infection, the reasons for his claim's rejection as not being due to war service should be guarded, coded or clouded in some way - I do not care how it is done - in order to avoid embarrassment to his family. 
Unfortunately, in 10 minutes which is all one is allowed in this debate one is not able to deal adequately with all relevant matters. Another very pertinent point I would like to raise dealing with the treatment of Repatriation pensioners is the method of deciding just what a Repatriation member's worth is in the way of pensions. Under existing arrangements the establishment of rates of pension appears to be extremely complex and, even after this has been decided, any increases to pensions are left completely to the whim of governments according to Budget requirements. In other words, a Repatriation member gets an increase in his pension if the Government of the day regardless of its political colour thinks it is politically expedient for it to do so. I cannot help but feel that in many instances the real reason for the member receiving the pension has been forgotten, and the increase, or the size of the increase, is made according to what the Government of the day will think is popular in order to angle for the ex-servicemen's vote. I have felt this for many years and I still feel it. This arrangement must conflict with the principle of adequate compensation, and payment to incapacitated servicemen should be removed completely from this parliamentary scene and the subsequent dispute over it between Government and Opposition eliminated. I can see no. reason why a fixed relationship between, say, the special rate pension and the minimum wage - this matter has been raised before, but this is my feeling - could not be made, with the general rate and other pension rates being adjusted proportionately. These compensation payments could be adjusted automatically with changes in the minimum wage, and always effected as soon as administratively possible. 
We know there are different degrees of disability. But if the special rate pension was related to the minimum wage rate, at least it would be a base to work from. We know that all special rate pensioner disabilities vary. Some such pensioners can undertake some form of employment, while others cannot. This we know. All of us have seen examples of it. With the introduction of the rehabilitation scheme that I mentioned previously, it could be possible that some of the special rate pensioners could be permitted to undertake some form of employment to bring their income up to a reasonable living wage. But in the case of a special rate pensioner not being able to undertake any employment whatsoever because of his physical disabilities an employability allowance equal to a percentage of the minimum wage could be paid. This is in respect of the case where there is no possibility of the man being rehabilitated or undertaking any form of employment. 
If there were to be any restrictions on this pension, I would say the employability allowance would only be payable subject to the amount of any income from other sources. But where encouragement is given for the special rate pensioner to receive rehabilitation treatment for his physical disability, and where possible to assist the member to perform some type of employment, I would say that this would be gladly received by Repatriation members in that category, for I am sure - I know this from speaking to many of them - they would rather do this than receive any employability allowance. 
Unfortunately, the time allotted to me has nearly expired. I wish to mention one point in conclusion. I hope that I can complete my remarks on this matter as it is something which disturbs me greatly. This is to do with hearings at tribunals. I believe that members of a tribunal should accept the evidence that is placed before them, treat it impartially and with justice, and should be allowed to make their decision without interference from any person or persons outside the tribunal. I have reason to believe - I have been informed - that there are members of the House of Representatives and members of the Senate who have been in touch with chairman of tribunals and/ or advocates prior to a case being heard. I believe that more will be heard on this matter later. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)  - Order! The honourable member's time, has expired. 
I preface my question to the Minister for Northern Development by saying that the Prime Minister has informed me that the matter of finance for stage 2 of the Ross River dam project in Townsville is subject to investigation by members of his Department. Will the Minister have this investigation completed as soon as possible so that an early decision can be made? I remind the Minister that continuity of employment is the main purpose. 
 I appreciate being able to speak on the Estimates for the Department of Northern Development. This is the first time that we have had a specific estimate for a Department of Northern Devel- op ment, and it allows me the opportunity of mentioning a matter that I have been following closely for a number of years. It is nearly 6 years ago that I first advocated for the Ingham district in North Queensland, a reafforestation scheme which could prove of benefit to the north and to Australia's economy generally 6 years of feasibility studies and correspondence between State Ministers and Federal Ministers. I submit the proposal again today as one in which the present Federal Government could well become interested as a national project, and which would benefit our domestic paper industry in the future. At the time I first proposed this scheme, I mentioned that there would be a definite requirement for paper pulp for many years to come. This statement has been proved correct in the light of the alarming paper-pulp shortage throughout the world. Had we the foresight, Australia could have developed an industry that would have filled our domestic requirements and gained us important overseas markets. 
Since the present Government has occupied the Treasury benches much has been said about decentralisation and urban and regional development. I have no quarrel with these policies but, in my opinion, decentralisation plays a vital part in planned development, and to achieve this sensible use of available land must be made and sensible thinking in the planning for long-term projects must be undertaken. Combining these thoughts of long-term planning, the use of land, planned development, decentralisation, benefits for the community and the State and the national interest, one industry to which I feel more attention should be paid is forestry. This should be high on the list of priorities for national development. Unfortunately the softwood planting program in Queensland, for instance, has been restricted considerably by the lack of finance, and although I appreciate that reafforestation is a State concern, unless the Australian Government can reconsider its approaches to State forestry allocations, finance will always be the problem, and the situation regarding insufficient softwood forests to meet our requirements will remain the same. 
I mentioned the district of Ingham as a site for a reafforestation program for northern development for the following reason: The State Government already has a softwood nursery and some plantations in the Kennedy district just north of Ingham. This establishment is highly successful, but there is a definite need for expansion. The climate is such that softwoods can mature in a period of from 10 to 15 years and to ensure that this industry is viable and really worth while a project of planting would have to be undertaken on a major scale. This would require a fairly large amount of land. In this respect 100,000 acres are available in the Ingham district, which could be utilised for such a reafforestation scheme. As I mentioned earlier, the climate is such that there could be no doubt that softwood would flourish in this area. 
Looking at the project in the light of longterm planning, I believe that when this timber is approaching maturity a pulp mill could be established and this, combined with the waste fibres from the sugar industry, known as bagasse, would produce a paper pulp that would develop into a healthy and prosperous industry, both for the domestic and the export markets. Coupled with this reafforestation project, another industry could be developed, which would be of decided benefit to our economic activities. I refer to the export beef industry. Northern Australia produces the major portion of our beef industry's exports, and further development could be nothing but good. The reason I couple the beef industry with reafforestation is that recently the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation in North Queensland, in the course of its pastoral research, has developed a pasture which thrives in a forest such as the softwood forest project I mentioned. Store cattle could be brought from the western districts and fattened for the export market with no difficulty whatsoever. As the Ingham district is within striking distance of the largest of our export meatworks, this reafforestation scheme could fulfil a double purpose. 
The previous Minister for National Development was keenly interested in this scheme, but it was realised that the State Government would decide whether such a scheme was satisfactory to it. In the past Commonwealth assistance towards reafforestation has normally been in the form of finance for plantings between what is known as base-year acreages and annual plantings. For instance, the Queensland Government would finance plantings of 4,060 acres, making a total of 9,700 acres. Unfortunately there was reluctance on the part of the States to allocate sufficient funds for their share of these plantings, and consequently the Commonwealth's financial allocation was reduced. I am aware also that the selection of areas to be planted under any program is a matter for decision by the appropriate State, and in Queensland the State Minister in charge of forestry regards the possibility of planting starting in the Ingham district as a sound investment. However, the problem of sufficient finance being available from the State's Treasury is such that the acreage of plantings would not be great, and it is because of this that I suggest to the Minister for Northern Development that a reafforestation scheme of the size I have mentioned be undertaken as a national development project by the Australian Government. The opportunity exists for a project of national importance to be developed in the north, and I think it is plainly a case of a decision by the Australian Government in co-operation with the State Government of Queensland, which could establish a paper pulp industry and expand the beef industry. This would certainly prove of benefit to the national interest for many years. 
Another extremely important aspect of northern development that will have to be faced up to by this Government in the near future is that of water conservation. For far too many years this matter has just been talked about, and although I concede that some important feasibility studies on this subject have been undertaken, nothing positive has developed. In the southern areas of Queensland we have seen the establishment of the Fairbairn Dam at Emerald and the Bundaberg water conservation project; and in central Queensland we have had the Fitzroy basin investigation. However, too little has been done to increase the water supply for agricultural development and pasture improvement, and in the interests of industry and people in an areas that could be developed for the benefit of the State and the nation. I speak now of water conservation in the Burdekin basin, which also would provide sufficient water for the expansion of industry in Townsville and District. Again I realise that the final decision on the location of an area for water conservation rests with the State, but I feel that if the Federal Government were to display sufficient interest in the project as one that would benefit the national interest, the Queensland State Government would be more than willing to listen. For many years the construction of the Burdekin Dam in the interests' of water conservation has created a great deal of controversy, and I cannot help but feel that it is lack of foresight that has prevented this dam from being constructed. If this project had been established when it was first brought to the attention of governments, north Queensland would be enjoying the benefits of such water storage at the present time with resultant improvement to our economy. But from the latest reports it would appear that the establishment of this water storage project is as far away as ever it was. 
But supposing this is the case as far as the Burdekin is concerned, I can see no reason why other water storage projects should not be constructed. One of these projects, which has already received a favourable report and which could be within the financial capabilities of the State and Federal governments, is the Urannah Dam scheme. This scheme is well known to the Minister for Northern Development who, I am sure, realises its potential. This project, small as it may be in comparison with the size of the Burdekin scheme, would fulfil a great need for the agricultural and pastoral industries in the Burdekin basin, and would probably also assist in overcoming the problems of water shortage for people in Townsville. 
No longer will I accept the reasoning that the Federal Government has to wait for the /State Government to make its bid on priorities for water conservation. If this Federal Government is honest in its intention to develop the north - and it has appointed a Minister solely for this purpose - the initiative rests with the Australian Government. 
asked the Minister  for  Navy, upon notice: 
What was the number of discharges of Navy personnel from 7 December 1972 to 31 August 1973 in each of the following categories: 
Termination of service engagement, 
on retirement, 
at own request, 
medical, and 
for disciplinary reasons. 
What was the number of accepted enlistments for the Navy during the same period? 
The Opposition does not intend to oppose the passage of the States Grants (Aboriginal Advancement) Bill (No. 2) 1973 through the House, but while agreeing with the principles involved, we hold grave reservations about how the large sum of money that is involved will be used to the best advantage for the benefit of our coloured people. The reservations we hold have been caused by the recent allegations of misuse of public funds set aside for the welfare of Aborigines and islanders and by the report of expenditure which was tabled on 11 October last by the former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. 
Over the years during debates on the issue of Aboriginal affairs I have consistently directed my remarks to constructive criticism and never to destructive criticism of the Minister's or Department's management and planning programs. But at this time I have some specific queries to raise. In raising these questions I also refer to the previous Government's administration. While I do not exempt that administration from blame for some lack of supervision of proposed projects and programs, I blame this present Government for allowing the lack of supervision and direction to continue. 
In fact, the situation, according to the report tabled by the former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, appears to have deteriorated still further in regard to systematic project planning, programming and the control of finance. I base these assertions on items of expenditure in table 4 of the former Minister's report which, in many instances, shows a surprising lack of detail. Because we are dealing with public moneys which are supposed to be expended for the benefit of our coloured people, this lack of detail is, I feel, a cause for grave concern to this Parliament and needs to be corrected as soon as possible. 
To illustrate my concern, I shall mention a few of the items from the table to which I previously referred. It is noted that an Aboriginal legal service exists in all States, and various amounts are shown as operating expenses for the legal aid services. For instance, the amount is $110,000 in New South Wales, $118,000 in Victoria, $122,500 in Queensland, $127,000 in South Australia, and in Western Australia, under the heading 'The New Era Aboriginal Fellowship Incorporated', which I presume supplies legal aid, an amount of $110,000 is provided. An amount of $100,000 is shown for the Northern Territory, and under the heading 'National organisations legal aid scheme, initial costs' an amount of $7,479 is provided. An item which interests me greatly is the provision of $50,000 for the operating expenses of the Tasmanian legal aid services. I was under the impression that there were no Aborigines in Tasmania. But if there are, the number of Aboriginal residents in that State cannot be great, and I think this amount which has been spent on legal aid services needs to be accounted for. Overall, a total of $644,970 was spent on legal aid, and there is no mention of how this huge amount was  spent. Again this emphasises the lack of necessary detail in the expenditure listed. I shall refer to a few extracts from the various State tables which, in my opinion, show the necessity for a detailed investigation into moneys allocated and the control and supervision of such expenditure. 
In New South Wales, for instance, the Armidale Women's Rugby League Football Club - purchase of sports equipment, $548. I should like to know: Who do they play? Next is the purchase of Glenairy and Sunnyside, $130,000. I presume that these are properties? What were they purchased for and how is the project progressing? Purchase of building for use as an Aboriginal club, $250,000, and towards operating costs for the 1972-73 financial year, $20,000. Where is this building and how is it progressing? Breakfast and preschool cultural program, $12,470. What is that? Is it for actual meals supplied or is it a radio program? In Victoria the Aboriginal Advancement League operating expenses, $11,632. How is this amount accounted for? Nindethana Theatre Company - cost of producing play and rent of theatre, $800. Working expenses in production of play, $4,660. Was the play a success? Were there any door receipts taken to offset these expenses? 
In Queensland the provision of caravans and associated facilities for Redlynch Aboriginals $32,500. How many caravans? Are they to be used as permanent dwellings? Would it not have been a more responsible action to provide $32,500 worth of permanent housing? Special work project at Mornington Island, $15,455. Special work project at Aurukun, $15,128. What are these special work projects? Have they been successful? Born Free Club, Brisbane - purchase of capital equipment, working fund for club program and part payment of operating costs, $9,800. Was the spending of this money controlled and was it spent to the best advantage? A recent news report classed this club as a hovel of filth and a degrading place for Aboriginals to sleep in. Another item is salary for Pastor D. Brady for a period of 6 months, $4,800. I heard Pastor Brady had retired to live at Palm Island some months ago. If this is so, what work is Pastor Brady doing to warrant such a huge salary? Promotion of sports carnival at Mount Isa, $5,000. Were any gate receipts taken to offset this expense? To establish a bus service on Palm Island, $6,500. Knowing Palm Island as I do, I ask: Where does this bus service operate to and from on Palm Island? Are any bus fares charged to offset operating costs. Torres Strait, Wolfram Pty Ltd, manager's salary and operating expenses, $20,000. Is this project productive? Have there been any financial returns from this project? 
In South Australia, cost of running shearing and wool handling school at Point Pearce, $7,800. Has this project been successful? Who receives the training at this school? Aboriginal Cultural Centre of South Australia - operating costs, $13,000. Is this project worth while? Just what happens at the cultural centre? Is there any possibility of this centre yielding any return? Purchase of 7-ton truck and portable electric welder for water drilling project, $10,000. Who purchased this plant. Is it a successful and a profit making project? That is what Opposition members want to know and it is what the Parliament wants to know. Special work projects at Ernabella, $62,000. What are these projects? How are they progressing? Reafforestation project, $10,000. Equipment for irrigation, $5,000. Where is this project located? What types of timber are being cultivated? When did the project start? How big is the project? Council of Aboriginal Women of South Australia - operating costs, $12,000. Just what does this council do to merit such expenditure? 
In Western Australia, Aboriginal Advisory Council operating costs were $22,000. What does this council do to merit such expenditure? Expand social welfare program in the Kalgoorlie area, $17,600. What was actually done for this sum of money? How did the Aboriginal community benefit from this expansion. Esperance Carrying and Parcelling Company wages, transport costs and truck, $11,000. Who controls this company? Is there any financial return from this expenditure? Mirama Council, Kununurra - purchase of 2 vehicles for use by community, $13,000; purchase of garden equipment, fencing and vehicle, $6,500. Who maintains these vehicles? Just what are they used for? Development purposes, Panter Downs, $32,500. Does the Minister know what these development projects are? I would bet he does not know. Development of Yandeyarra, $110,000. What is the progress report on these enterprises? Western Australian Museum - cost of erection of 3 storehouses and maintenance of 9 others, $12,000. Storehouses for what and how does this benefit the Aboriginal people? Surely this is not too much to ask. 
In the Northern Territory there are too many items of expenditure to be covered in the time available. For instance, to name just a few, $36,800 to purchase two bakeries. Who do they bake for? For the purchase or development of cattle properties, $1,893,977. Have these projects been investigated to ensure that they are viable propositions? I have not heard them referred to in this chamber. How about a progress report on these enterprises? That is not too much to ask. Institute of Aboriginal Development in the Northern Territory, $204,829. What function does this institute perform to warrant such expenditure? To the Tiwi Development Company, operational capital, $5,000, and to Tiwa Tours, $30,000. Just what return can be expected from these enterprises for the benefit of the Aborigines to warrant such expenditure? 
For national organisations - to applied Ecology Proprietary Limited, $430,000. We are aware of this and we have been through" it in the Senate and in this place. Salary and expenses for credit union trainees, $22,000. Pilot project at Jigalong, $8,600. Are these projects viable and of value for the assistance and welfare of the coloured people? Who authorised the expenditure of $35,000 to hold a national seminar of Aboriginal arts, $23,500 to stage the 1973 national Aborigines Day celebration and $19,000 for the October football carnival? I have only touched on some items of expenditure in the various States? I have not mentioned grants to sporting clubs and the like which apparently are handed out quite liberally. But is there any supervision or control to ensure that such grants are used as intended? 
I have mentioned before that the Government's policy on Aboriginal welfare is a piecemeal affair, with no apparent direction or control and I think, the report tabled by the former Minister proves my contention. Public money has been used and should be accounted for. According to the report and what was said at the second reading stage of this debate direct responsibility for its use appears to be completely lacking. Does the Minister direct the expenditure of all public moneys paid out on behalf of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, or can a member or members of his Department authorise payments without discussion with the Minister? If this is the case it should be stopped immediately. Is the Minister completely in the picture in regard to all this expenditure? The Parliament is responsible for the expenditure of public moneys, and I request the Minister to acknowledge that this Parliament is entitled to know the full details of all projects, programs and requests for assistance. 
If I knew, I would not be asking. In this way all the Parliament would be aware of what is happening and would be able to ensure that finance would be expended in the best interests of our coloured people. 1 think the Minister should be a lot happier under such an arrangement, for he would have the backing of all the Parliament for the various projects he desired to undertake on behalf of our coloured people. 
In previous debates I have mentioned what I think is a definite need in the field of Aboriginal welfare. I refer to the planned establishment of community centres - something that I did not notice in the tabled report of the former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Finance allocated for such purposes certainly would not be wasted. I know that in the building of these community centres there would be no lack of support from the coloured people who on many occasions have stressed to me the desire for such a set up. In fact, if my Party had continued in government after the last election I know that a community centre would have been established in Townsville by now. The establishment of these community centres where people, especially the Aboriginal women, could meet regularly would be a tremendous help to them. At the moment, no matter what town or city one visits - apart perhaps from the capital cities - where coloured people live one will find them gathering in parks because there are no premises available to them. I commend this idea to the Government as one which could be started immediately. 
There is another very sensitive area in which the Government should clearly define its policies, that is, the area of housing. This is a particular problem which I hope the Minister can appreciate. In this instance I am not talking about the tribal Aborigines who wish to live in dwellings of their own design, but I am speaking about the fringe dwellers, as we call them, and those who rent premises in a town or city. Again I refer to the fact that our coloured people have a communal idea of living - an idea which we could not and would not tolerate but one which we must try to understand on their behalf. For instance, some State governments have the idea that by purchasing a home in a residential suburb in which the residents are white people, the integration of such living would overcome a lot of the characteristic problems between the coloured people and the white people. This is not so, and has proved to be a tremendous, failure in the centres of which I am speaking and of which I know. I am hoping that these governments will realise this before they purchase more homes in such circumstances. 
In lots of instances the coloured people are embarrassed and their white neighbours are also embarrassed because mainly the white people do not understand the communal way of living of our coloured people. It is an accepted fact among them that if a couple occupies a house their friends and relatives are entitled to occupy the house also if need be. This may lead to overcrowding, which creates embarrassment for the landlord and the coloured tenants. Again where the tenants of a house are coloured, sometimes they have no idea of maintenance and this again leads to a problem between the landlord and the tenant which eventually leads to eviction orders and a certain amount of friction between the coloured people and the white population. They have stated to me often - I mix with them quite a lot and I see them every weekend - that they do not want to live like us but they will live with us. I think that this is a pretty fair assessent 
In this area of housing problems for the coloured people in a white community I suggest that a suburb of neat, tidy dwellings with all the amenities and services be established solely for the coloured people, who would enjoy living together, would still be part of a community and would still play their part in the development of a city, town or area. Then they could indulge in their own ideas of recreation and relaxation in their own centres without any interference from the white population who have their ideas of relaxation and recreation according to what they themselves desire. This is a problem which, in my opinion, could easily be overcome by the establishment of a suburb specifically designed for our coloured people, with nouses, streets and all the amenities and facilities that go with suburban development. I would like to see it tried. I am sure that it would not be long before we would find that they would take pride in the appearance of their suburb, which would have its own community centre and community services. They could indulge in the specific way of living that they want, without hindrance to anybody else, and yet they would still be part and parcel of a community. 
I commend this idea to the Minister as a starter. I commend the other ideas I have suggested for some time because I feel that policies directed toward something definite to assist the coloured people would mean a lot more to them than just the handing out of money in a fashion without system, rhyme or reason and which is starting to antagonise the white community. At the moment our coloured people do not know what they have got, where they are going or what they can expect. I am positive that everybody would appreciate and would put their whole support behind a definite, sensible policy which was strictly adhered to.  (Quorum  formed) 
I ask the Prime Minister whether he has any news for the people of Townsville regarding the Ross River Dam project. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
What was the number of discharges of Army personnel from 7 December 1972 to 31 August 1973 in each of the following categories: 
termination of service engagement, 
on retirement, 
at own request, 
medical, and 
for disciplinary reasons. 
What was the number of accepted enlistments for the Army during the same period. 
Yesterday the Minister for Social Security answered a question regarding the Government's intention to raise the subsidy limits on aged persons homes and hostels. 1 ask the Minister: Will the Government also consider raising the subsidy limit on aged persons nursing homes and those under intensive care? 
The Opposition supports this legislation, namely, the Repatriation Bill and the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Bill, and has no desire to delay its passage through this House. However, I again express my disappointment that the special compensation allowance is to be abolished. I seek the assurance of the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  that this particular category of repatriation pensioner will not suffer financially. I agree with the decision of the Minister for Repatriation regarding the payment of board members for a specific period not exceeding 2 years as I know that this matter has caused problems in the past. I agree with the decision that their salaries and those of the members of the assessment tribunals will be determined by the Remuneration Tribunal. I would appreciate it if the Minister would advise me how, under the present Government, members of the repatriation boards will be appointed and of any details of their specific duties. As I said, the Opposition has no objection to this legislation and, accordingly, will assist its passage through the House. 
My introduction to this matter of public importance on the failure of the Government to implement its 4 main policies on housing for the benefit of the Australian people is not a frivolous undertaking but pinpoints one of the more serious of the Government's administrative failures since it became the Government. At the outset let me state clearly that I do not doubt that the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  has been attempting to do something about this situation, but it is the manner in which he and the Government have approached the problem, which affects so many Australians at present and will do so in the future, that has the Opposition concerned. 
Might I remind the Government and the people of Australia that the Australian Labor Party went to the polls in December 1972 with 4 main policies on housing. I will discuss these policies as I mentioned them. Firstly, the present Government said: 'We will reduce inflation in Australia'. There is no doubt in anybody's mind that inflation affects housing policy. Let me again remind the Government and the people that since December 1972 the Government has converted a 4.7 per cent inflation rate into one of 14 per cent, and that probably will rise to 20 per cent by the end of this year. There is no doubt in my mind that the Minister, in his reply to me, will state that his Government inherited a problem in the sphere of housing, but after 15 or 16 months these excuses are becoming more than just a trifle weak. What his Government inherited was a very healthy economy which should have helped the Minister come to some positive decision on short, medium or long-term planning to ease the housing situation, but the Government's failure in this regard together with a tremendous increase in inflation rates adds up to failure No. 1. 
The Government during its election campaign said: 'Labor will deliberately plan to reduce interest rates wherever practicable'. Might I remind the Minister again that he is very fond of saying that his Government ls a low-interest government. This has been a thread throughout all his statements on housing. This, of course, everybody knows to be completely incorrect. Interest rates are the highest we have ever known, and the Minister and his Government must realise that it was the introduction of higher interest rates that accelerated the housing crisis as we know it today among middle and low income earners. Thousands of young home seekers who had their approval for loans and who were waiting to start building, were priced completely out of the market by the higher interest rates that were imposed by this Government. This is not a fallacy; it is a fact that can be substantially proved. The additional moneys that the young home seekers would have had to pay each month because of the introduction of the higher interest rates made it impossible for them to continue with their plan to own their own home. This I claim to be failure No. 2. 
The Labor Party's policy speech prior to its becoming Government included this promise: We will make a massive attack on the problem of land and housing costs'. The answer to this problem was given by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean),  who has publicly stated that in 1973 land and housing costs rose by 20 per cent, and by other prominent Government men, including the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  who have promised housing interest as a tax deduction and have said that through this means the people of Australia "buying homes would be saving money. This statement also was entirely incorrect. Building authorities have stated through the Press that of all the people in Australia who will be seeking to acquire homes this year fewer than half will be able to do so because they have been priced out of the market - and they have been priced out of the market because of inflated costs in 1973. We should remember the words of the Treasurer that the cost of a house has gone up 20 per cent, which means that the cost of what was formerly a $20,000 home, which would be just a modest type if home, has gone up to $24,000 and the cost of what was formerly a $25,000 home has gone up to $30,000. So as a result of the actions of the Government in relation to interest rates and its ignoring of the inflationary trends, the people of Australia will have to pay much more for their houses and certainly will not be saving money. That I classify as failure No. 3. 
Let us deal now with the fourth policy promise of the Government on housing, that is, the tax deductibility of interest rates. The Government has increased interest rates by an average of 2 per cent. Most loans for the purchase of a home from a society or a banking institution extend over a period of 25 years. So it is not hard to imagine how much extra the action of this Government in raising interest rates has cost the average Australian who is seeking to purchase his own home. Let us take a simple example in this respect. The Government has said that the scheme is an attractive one. It looked as though it was when it first appeared in the Press. The Government has stated that those people who have an actual income of S4,000 a year will get a tax deduction of 100 per cent of their interest rates. That sounds good. 
But the average weekly income of a man earning $4,000 a year would be approximately S77. Anyone who knows anything about the borrowing of money for the purchase of a home knows that the only loan which would be made to a person who is earning $77 a week, on the basis of a maximum repayment of a quarter of his weekly salary, on $19 a week, would be approximately $10,000, which in my opinion would be enough to build only a decent sort of garage. From where does the Government expect this sort of person to obtain the other $10,000 to $14,000 to build a home? Does it expect him to save it from his earnings of $77 a week? 
Let us take the case of a husband and wife who both work. If he is in receipt of the average wage the husband would be earning approximately $6,500 a year. Let us say that the wife earns $4,000 a year. The combined income of the husband and the wife would then amount to just over $10,000. That would be their actual income. What would the Government do by way of the granting to them of a tax deduction? If the husband and wife earned $10,000 between them they would be able to get a rebate of 40 per cent of their interest payments. That means that the husband and his working wife will have to pay about $320 a year in higher interest rates and will get a rebate of $230. That, the Government claims, is saving money. So much for the statement of the Treasurer and the Prime Minister that home owners in future will be saving money. 
The only people who would be likely to benefit from this tax deductibility scheme are those who are higher up on the income scale. In fact, it offers a considerable inducement for those people to start to trade in houses. I am surprised that the Government should bring in this sort of scheme without first explaining it properly. It will be of the greatest value to those who have recently obtained loans. A person with an old loan would be better off starting again, either through trading or expanding to a more expensive house, which would also be eligible for tax deductibility under the Government's present scheme. I cite that as failure No. 4. As a matter of fact, one very well read and respected newspaper has called the last named housing policy I have mentioned 'Gough's tax lurk'. 
Everyone will remember that in the first few months of the present Government's administration there was a tremendous flurry regarding housing. Investigating committees were formed and statements were made as to what would happen to ease the situation. We well remember the ill-feeling that was created by the Federal Government among the States over the Commonwealth-States Housing Agreements loans. I am not going to repeat what has been mentioned before in this respect. We know that task forces were instituted by the Government to investigate all manner of things dealing with housing. Since the initial excitement has died down we have heard nothing about what these task forces or investigating committees have achieved. At one stage I asked through the Press for a 5-year investigation to be conducted into all aspects of the housing industry and the association of government, including the State goernments, with the industry to find a reasonable basis from which to launch a program that would assist. It was very gratifying a fortnight later to hear the Minister for Housing and Construction suggesting a similar scheme, only on a 3-year basis. 
There is no denying that Australia does have a crisis in housing which has been equalled, if my memory serves me correctly, only by the crisis in the immediate postwar period. It has become apparent that the Government's intention is to dampen down the demand in order to control the housing problem. This it has done successfully, but by doing so it has not solved the problem in any way. It may have dampened down the demand but the need is still there. If the dampening down of the demand (had been made in order to give the Government a breathing space and to try effectively to assist the industry it would have been understood if the Government had come up with a successful or satisfactory answer to the problem. But the price of homes and of the land on which homes are built has increased by thousands of dollars in the last 12 months. I feel that this has been brought about largely because the Government has failed to take any positive action. 
I am a bit concerned about whether the Government has heeded the advice that has been given to it by organisations involved in the building industry. For instance - I mention this quite sincerely - a survey was undertaken during January 1974 by one of the largest and best known organisations in Australia that embraced contractors in every State throughout the housing, home units, flats and commercial, industrial and civil engineering sectors of the industry. It sought opinions on the state of the industry during the December 1973 quarter and on the outlook for the March 1974 quarter. The survey was done in co-operation with the Master Builders Federation of Australia and the Australian Federation of Construction Contractors. The results of the survey could be summarised as follows: Builders reported a sharp decline in the availability of housing finance in the December quarter. The level of inquiries by home seekers during this quarter fell to well below the level of the September quarter. There was a sharp decline in the proportion of home builders expecting to commence more houses in the current quarter. There was a reported decline in working capital. Credit facilities declined in the December quarter. 
All categories reported an increase in the availability of labour, especially unskilled labour. However, many builders were reporting shortages of reliable and skilled labour and sub-contractors. There was a continued shortage of materials in the December quarter. Structural and reinforcing steel remained difficult to obtain, while there was some improvement in the availability of bricks and timber. There was a feeling that because of the Government's actions the crisis would increase rather than the demand be moderated. There was a genuine feeling running throughout the survey that the maintenance of stability within the industry for the second half of 1974 would depend upon the response of the Government and the action taken by the Government towards the situation in the next few weeks. It was reported that the cost of servicing a new loan, because of the creation of higher interest rates and the increase in the qualifications required before a loan is approved, has caused a downturn in demand. The survey concluded that for those reasons forward work can be expected to decline. Yet the need still remains. 
Let us do something about it. I know that the Government has been meeting with the industry at quarterly intervals and at times more frequently, but surely some notice should be taken of those people who comprise the housing industry and who are in a position to advise the Government. I know that the Minister realises that the need for home building is very real. After inheriting a healthy economy the Government has proved, over the last 15 to 16 months, that it would like to have the control of all housing concentrated in Canberra. In other words, the nationalisation of the housing industry, housing finance corporations and other institutions which will have a severely detrimental effect on our way of life will find no support whatsoever from the Australian people. 
asked the Minister for Northern Development, upon notice: 
What is the current state of progress of the feasibility study being undertaken by the Government on the Burdekin Dam Project. 
I too should like to thank the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  for bringing on this Bill and allowing the opportunity for it to go through this House and to let us get on with the job. As I promised, I shall talk for only a few minutes. The Townsville people and the local authorities affected will of course be pleased that at long last finance for the construction of stage 2 of the Ross River Dam has been granted by the Government. But it amazes me that this legislation has taken so long to be introduced into this chamber, despite my repeated requests for advice and action during the whole of last year. 
One particular portion of this Bill which causes some dissatisfaction among local people and authorities is the amount the Government is granting. I mention this because during the election campaign of 1972 statements made by the then Labor candidate in my electorate and the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  gave the impression that all financial commitments for stage 2 of the dam's construction would be met by the Federal Government. Therefore the decision that only $2. 56m be allocated was a disappointment to many of the people of the north. Also, if the money had been allocated when I first requested it, the dam and the flood mitigation project would have been completed this year as the construction teams could have continued operations directly after the completion of stage 1. 1 explain to the House, to the Prime Minister, to the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson),  to the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)-  and, I thought, quite reasonably and lucidly- that once contractors and sub-contractors working on the project were disbanded after stage 1 it would take some time for them to be assembled again to commence the necessary work on stage 2. This is time we can ill afford considering the fact that the prime purpose of the whole dam was to protect the city of Townsville from floods. 
After experiencing some heavy monsoonal seasons and knowing the damage that they can cause to the city, I had no desire to see the completion of the dam delayed to any extent. But for some reason the present Government chose to ignore this and has left the allocation of finance until this time. It will take some time for stage 2 to get under way and the delay by the Government in allocating the finance was not warranted. I would have thought that the concern expressed by the Prime Minister and other Ministers who visited the city of Townsville regarding the nomination of Townsville as a growth centre would have spurred them on to earlier action. 
The completion of stage 1 has already proved beneficial to the city. I fail to understand why they did not realise that stage 2 was definitely necessary, for the water impounded by stage 1 has meant more water for industrial and individual purposes. This is the first year for many years that residents and businesses in Townsville have not experienced water restrictions. It was interesting to note in the second reading speech of the Minister for Northern Development that he considers Townsville a city of considerable importance, not only to the north but to Australia generally. He repeated again that Townsville has been selected by the Australian Government as a growth centre. Considering this recognition I would have thought that the Government would allocate more than a mere $2.56m for the construction of the dam to show that it actually backed up its recognition of the city as a growth centre. 
It was also extremely interesting to note that the Minister stated: 'The growth of the city owes much to Australian Government decisions'. He mentioned such projects as the defence installations, the university, the Marine Science Institute, the prospective provision of an international airport and the grant of $ 1.5m in 1973 towards the cost of constructing stage 1 of the dam. But I remind the Minister for Northern Development that every growth project he has mentioned, including the grant of $1.5m, had been authorised by the previous Liberal-Country Party Government and in fact all his Government is doing is implementing decisions made by the previous Government. The Minister stated that his Department and the Department of Urban and Regional Development are working in close consultation on regional growth centre matters. If this is so, how about the Minister for Northern Development obtaining from the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  an idea of what is planned for Townsville as a growth centre? I can assure him that we would all be extremely interested. Up to date there has been a lot of talk about it and apparently nothing concrete in the matter of growth proposals has been arrived at 
Whether this $2.56m, which was the sum decided upon some 12 months or more ago, would be a fair share of the costs to be met by the Australian Government is open to question. I say that in view of the sharp escalation of construction costs. In view of this I ask the Government to keep its options open in this matter and to give some consideration to any request for additional financial assistance to meet these escalating costs because in view of present inflationary trends- to which we can see no end at the moment- there is no doubt whatsoever that the cost of construction of stage 2 will be much higher than that originally planned for some 18 months ago. I welcome the introduction of this Bill and have no wish to delay its progress through this House by further discussion. I wholeheartedly support it. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Defence. I refer to the annual pension adjustments for pre-October 1972 for Defence Forces Retirement Benefit pensioners. This matter has not been fully implemented and the necessary Government decision has been dragging on for some time. When can we expect a definite Government decision on these adjustments? Will the increases still be back-dated to July as promised? 
-I have no wish to oppose this Bill. There are a couple of pertinent suggestions which I would like to make and which Will take only a few minutes. The purpose of this Bill, as I understand it, is to be commended. It is to extend the period laid down in the Act from 30 June 1974 to 3 1 December 1974 in order to overcome the delay in the construction of beef roads due to the heavy flooding experienced in Queensland earlier this year. I should like to know- I ask the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson)  this question- whether this Government will be making further finance available for the beef roads program after 3 1 December 1974. 
I have always been a very keen supporter of the beef roads program which was introduced by the previous Government, as the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  stated. I have always regarded this as one of the most progressive benefits introduced by a federal government to assist Queensland, the beef industry and the people of the outback who contribute to the industry. The beef industry was one of Australia's greatest export income earners and I am confident that, despite the recent setback, it will be so again. For this reason I appeal to the Government to continue with the beef roads assistance plan in order to maintain this important export income earning industry. 
One of the highest rates of exports of beef would be through my electorate. It is to the advantage of North Queensland. This satisfactory state of affairs has been assisted considerably by the construction of beef roads which has enabled livestock to be transported quickly from the grazing lands of the north-west to the processing works at the various ports. In order to maintain and improve the industry this situation must be allowed to continue. To enable this to happen, appropriate finance for road maintenance and the construction of new roads must be made available from Federal resources. I would recognise this as proper usage of taxpayers' money for the benefit of the nation's economy. 
I mentioned construction of new beef roads. I remind the House and the Minister for Northern Development that some time ago I submitted a plan for 2 new beef roads that would assist considerably in the transport of stock from the north-west to the eastern seaboard. I mention it again to the Minister in order that he may see the logic of this reasoning and assist in implementing this new program as soon as possible. The closest beef road to our eastern pons runs north and south on the other side of the Great Divide. Access to these ports is by highways at the northern and southern ends of the road. While this is a great improvement on the situation that existed prior to the beef roads being constructed, transport of stock could be made simpler still and could guarantee the stock arriving at the processing works in even better condition. The situation is wide open at the moment for the construction of 2 new beef roads to achieve this end. A link road from the Ingham district and another from the Tully area to join the north-south beef road would make this possible. 
Apart from speedier transportation of stock in this green belt there is plenty of land which could serve admirably as holding areas, which in turn could ensure that stock arrived at the processing works in prime condition. Apart from benefiting the beef industry, these 2 link roads would give access to thousand of acres of fertile country that could be utilised for a variety of agricultural purposes. Also they would give access to land which could be used for reafforestation, and goodness knows we have neglected this aspect of our natural resources long enough. And again, these link roads could be of real value to the tourist trade. Instead of tourists having to be restricted to the north-south highway on the eastern side of the Divide, scenic circuits would be made possible by using these roads. In fact, development of a number of types would be possible just by the construction of these roads. The beef road system in Queensland is without doubt one of the most useful developments we have gained, but it could be made more useful still by the addition of these two short roads. I ask the Minister in all sincerity to make a close study of this suggestion and if there is any further information that he may require I would be only too happy to supply it. 
The Minister mentioned in his second reading speech that the Australian Government has pledged its assistance to Queensland in its flood restoration efforts and has adopted a positive and constructive approach in this matter. I am extremely pleased to hear it, for he would be well aware of the damage caused to Queensland's beef road system by the unusually heavy and long monsoonal season we experienced late last year and early this year. And if I read the signs correctly, we will experience a similar situation this season. In my opinion finance spent on the restoration and the maintenance of our beef road system is certainly not wasted and does much to maintain the industry and our economy. As the Minister well knows, north and north-western Queensland contribute a large share towards the nation's economy and this effort must be sustained. This Bill may, as the Minister states, deal with a minor amendment to the Act, but there is nothing minor about our beef road system and if, as the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  has stated, the Australian Government wants more say in the use of finance for the construction of roads, I suggest he can cut his teeth on the suggestion I have just made regarding these link roads leading from the Ingham and Tully areas. I am delighted to support this Bill. 
-I sympathise with the back bench members of the Government having to defend the shocking Budget introduced by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  on 17 September. There certainly is not much in it that they could point to with pride and honestly say that it would help cure the nation's economic ills. It is the first annual Federal Budget I have ever heard of where, within a week of its introduction, the Government back bench members have sought to have some of its provisions adjusted or deleted because of the disastrous and unjust results they would have on some sections of the community. In fact, within 2 days of its introduction responsible Labor leaders were saying that an interim Budget would have to be introduced within a few months to off-set the economic problems created by this Budget. This is a sad state of affairs which is certainly being reflected throughout the entire country among all sections of the community. 
One of the most frightening aspects of the Budget is that it appears to make no provision whatsoever to ease the unemployment situation which is increasing rapidly. Even the leaders of the Labor movement seem to think that there will be massive unemployment by the end of the year and in the early part of next year. Apparently the Government thinks so as well, for we have been advised that a Regional Employment Development Scheme Committee, consisting of 
Government Ministers, has been formed to try to off-set the unemployment problem. We have been further advised that they have met and are providing finance for local government projects in order to employ some of these unfortunate people who have been thrown out of work. 
Some examples of their decisions are as follows, and they intrigue me: In Bega for the extension of the Cooma Creek plan they expect to employ 20 persons; in Maitland for the extension to the community centre they expect to employ 4 persons; in Lismore for tree planting and construction of public facilities they expect to employ 14 persons; in Benalla for footpath, kerb and channel construction and showground improvements they expect to employ 26 men; in Devonport for clearing of bushland and development of parks and the elimination of potential fire dangers they expect to employ 25 men; in my own city of Townsville they expect to employ 19 persons on a drainage project. Nineteen persons will be employed, when the figures as late as Monday last were 860 males and 440 females out of work. These figures are expected to increase, and then of course will be augmented by the school leavers in November. 
I have no quarrel with the idea of a regional employment development scheme; in fact I applaud the idea, but might I suggest that it does not go far enough. I say this to prove my point: The Government appears to be prepared to spend a few hundred thousand dollars or $Xm to ensure employment for a short period for a very small percentage of people out of work, but is also prepared to spend $1.8m on unemployment benefits each week to help the greater percentage of people out of work who do not even have to work at all but can go on drawing this sustenance for as long as they wish, providing they fill in the requisite forms. This situation applied even before the sharp increase in unemployment we have experienced since this Government came to office nearly 2 yean ago. The point I am making is this: It is quite clear that the Government recognises that local governments need financial assistance to implement such projects that would benefit their respective communities and it is equally clear that the Government has decided that if they are to assist financially those out of work they wish this assistance to be productive, hence the formation of the Regional Employment Development committee. But why do they hesitate and help only a few? Why do they not allow all the finance they are prepared to spend on unemployment to be productive? 
In the financial year 1973-74 the amount spent on unemployment benefits was $58.2m, or an average of $ 1.1m each week. In July this year the Government spent $5.3m on these benefits and in August this year the outlay was $7.2m, or $1.8m each week. It is anticipated that the September figures will show an outlay of almost $2m each week. While this money is serving a useful purpose it is not productive but could be made so. If the Government is prepared to help a few unemployed people through its regional employment scheme by offering them useful employment, why does it not gainfully employ all people who are out of work and receiving unemployment benefits? They could be usefully employed two or three days a week in making a worthwhile contribution to the community. I am sure that all local governments would welcome the opportunity of such a work force for local projects. It would mean that local governments would be able to commence and finish necessary projects which they have had to shelve because of lack of finance. It would mean an easing of the demand for increased rates to meet the loan moneys required for these projects. 
I am sure that the great majority of those unfortunate people who have been forced out of work would appreciate earning money instead of receiving a hand-out from the Government. It would certainly make those people who do not wish to work earn the money they receive. In other words, no work no pay. The millions of dollars that the Government is prepared to pay out through unemployment benefits and under its regional employment scheme would be productive. After all, it is taxpayers' money. Everybody who pays tax contributes to these funds and I am sure they would like to see such outlays of finance used productively. Speaking of finance being used to good purpose, if the Government would restrain its eagerness to spend millions of dollars on overseas art works, at least until we are in a better position to afford them, and use such money for the advantage of our unemployed people, it would be doing this country a service. If the Government must spend millions on art works, why not purchase such works from our local artists and not fill the pockets of some overseas artists? I get a bit touchy when it comes to a matter of spending millions of bucks on art works. 
Two very important projects which come immediately to mind and which could be undertaken through the scheme I have mentioned are reafforestation and necessary work on river trust projects. I note that the Regional Employment 
Development Committee would give sympathetic consideration to projects which would contribute to permanent employment. The two projects I have mentioned would do just that. For some years I have been consistently advocating a program of reafforestation for the Ingham district for in that area there are approximately 100,000 acres of land ideally suited to the growing of soft woods. In that climate trees would mature in ten or twelve years. The pulp, with the waste from our northern cane mills, would help considerably in overcoming the paper shortage which is world wide and which will remain so for a long time. The clearing, planting and subsequent care of the plantation could well be undertaken by those people who, unfortunately, at present are unemployed. As well, this reafforestation would be an economic asset to the Ingham district and to north Queensland. 
Work undertaken by river trusts is another important and nesessary task, especially in the matter of conservation. During the monsoonal season the rivers in the north are subject to heavy flooding and severe damage results, especially in the gouging of the river banks which results in untold damage to surrounding farmland. Areas affected by heavy flooding have to be strengthened and often rebuilt. This is constant work. Those people who have been forced out of work could be usefully employed on this type of work. This would certainly ease the burden on those local governments which have to be concerned with this type of conservation. These are only 2 projects which come immediately to mind. Undoubtedly local governments could produce many more which would be of value to the community. However the main purpose is to keep our unemployed people active and productive. They are unemployed through no fault of their own and if the Government's policies have caused this problem the Government must accept the responsibility and do something constructive about it. Time itself is not the solution. It will take action, and immediate action, to solve the unemployment problem. 
Another item in the Budget which is causing much dissatisfaction throughout the community in the north is the reduction in the education allowance from $400 to $150. Why this reduction? I know that the Government is money hungry, but why penalise parents who wish to educate their children at private schools, to get it? Is the Government doing this simply in order to have another crack at the private school system? Why should parents not have the right to educate their children at a school of their choice without being penalised? Every taxpayer who has a child attending school has $250 added to his taxable income. Are the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  and his advisers aware of the cost of outfitting a student these days? I doubt it, and I doubt if much thought was given to the repercussions flowing from such an unjust reduction in the education allowance or to the people who will be adversely affected by it. 
It could also be claimed that little thought was given to the effects of the proposed tax on unearned income on the great number of people who do not deserve such treatment. If the Government is determined to destroy the incentive of people to save, it could not have chosen a better way to do it. It is refreshing to know that supporters of the Government are taking a stand against such imposition. I should have thought that in view of the promises made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  during the election campaign of last May this Budget would certainly be directed at solving the problems of inflation and unemployment, but it is not. If the Government intended it to be so, it has either hidden its solutions among the jumble of words or it is waiting for time somehow to cure our economic ills. I can assure Government supporters that time is thenworst enemy because the longer they govern the bigger the mess. 
During the May election campaign the Prime Minister told the people he had inflation by the throat. He said it had been reduced and was no longer a problem. He also promised full employment. He said that employment and inflation do not march side by side. In one sense he was right; they are not marching, they are galloping, and the Government has dropped the reins. He gave a pre-election promise that inflation would be reduced to 8 per cent by the end of this year. He even repeated that promise early in this Parliament. Perhaps he meant that 8 per cent was half of what it would be. If this Budget is an indication of how to stall inflation, 8 per cent will be only a third of what it could be by the end of the year. Inflation and unemployment have both been ignored apparently to serve the Government's own peculiar purposes. The Australian people do not deserve this type of treatment. 
I see no mention of the Burdekin Dam in the Budget. I thought that this important project would have received a high priority in the provision for water conservation. I am not the only person to say this project is very important; no less a person than the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson)  also thinks so. I remember in June 1 970 his saying: 
The Burdekin River development is vital, not only to the important towns and hinterland of Bowen, Home Hill and 
Ayr but it is an essential pre-requisite for the growth and expansion of Townsville, the most important city in northern Queensland. 
Later in that statement he said: 
In terms of the cost of gross storage capacity per acre foot the Burdekin Dam is an outstanding proposition. 
I wholeheartedly agree with him; he has never been more right. I know that a study of the Burdekin Basin is proceeding at present but surely enough favourable studies have been made over the years to warrant an immediate start on the project. This area grows the richest sugar cane and the best rice in the world, but it is a dry belt and water is the lifeblood of the district. I am aware that recently the Government allocated $3m towards the cost of construction of the Clare Weir, but it will be two or more years before this can be of any assistance to water supplies- 2 years of wasted time because the main dam could have been commenced, saving money and time. The dam will serve a multitude of purposes. It will provide for hydro power, flood and drought mitigation and an umlimited water supply for people, industry and agriculture. At the present rate of growth the Ross River Dam will be sufficient for Townsville 's needs for between five to eight years. But what then? Will the people have to experience water restrictions for six to nine months each year when only a few miles way the Burdekin dam could supply sufficient water to serve cities, towns and farmlands in an area almost as large as Victoria? I say to the Minister for Northern Development and to the Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass):  Get the Government cracking on the Burdekin Dam project. If they do, I promise to have a statue erected to each of them for their efforts. I would even do the same for the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  if he also pulled his weight in the matter. 
Looking at the Budget in an overall context, I think that the best possible thing to do would be to scrap the lot and to start again. In this way, it may be possible for the Treasurer and his advisers to introduce a Budget the provisions of which would contain some semblance of sanity, responsibility and justice. I support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Did he state when introducing the Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits legislation that the scheme was bound to have some defects and that he would be willing to look at any anomalies. 
If so, will the Government appoint a joint committee of members of Parliament to inquire into the anomalies and inequities that have resulted from the legislation and which affect some thousands of ex-servicemen. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the surplus amount of moneys obtained from the previous Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund. 
) Will this amount be transferred to the present Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Fund. 
3 ) If not, is it his intention to distribute the surplus among those service members who contributed to the DFRB Fund. 
If not. what does he intend to do with the surplus. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Defence. I preface it by referring to the meeting I had with the Minister last week regarding the dissatisfaction expressed by a great number of ex-servicemen with their retirement benefits. When, as the Minister suggested, Senators Devitt, Maunsell and myself, the remaining members of the Jess Committee, compile appropriate terms of reference adequate for a committee of inquiry into the situation, will he prevail upon the Prime Minister to appoint as soon as possible a joint party committee to investigate the dissatisfaction expressed? 
-I do not desire to detain the House for very long but I would like to make a couple of points on this Bill. This Bill, as has been stated, covers a wide range of repatriation benefits, which is as it should be. The benefits it contains are in my opinion sound ones. I have no hesitation in giving it my support. There is one provision which I am delighted to see is to be included in the Repatriation Act. In my opinion it should have been included in the Repatriation Act years ago. I refer to the provision to extend medical and hospital treatment to all Service personnel who were prisoners of war for any condition from which they suffer. There is no doubt that many of these people suffered abnormal hardships during their term as prisoners of war. A disability from which they now suffer may not have been apparent at the time of their discharge but could have become apparent some years later as they approached middle age. In many instances it has been impossible in the past under those circumstances for an ex-serviceman to relate the disability or condition to his war service. Consequently repatriation benefits have not been available to him. Now, according to my understanding of the Bill, it will be necessary for the ex-serviceman only to prove that he was in fact a prisoner of war. 
While that is a step in the right direction, I would have liked to have seen the provision extended a little further. Let me explain what I mean. The Government has recognised that a prisoner of war would have suffered abnormal hardships and privations and has extended to such a person the right to medical and hospital treatment for the condition from which he suffers. Am I to understand then that heart conditions also will be accepted? If so, why not go a little further with this benefit and accept heart trouble as being a war caused disability in relation to a prisoner of war, thereby entitling him to a repatriation pension for his condition? 
It is more than possible that the time spent in a prisoner of war camp and the hardships endured would have some bearing on a heart complaint that could manifest itself in later life and which was not apparent in the early years after discharge. Naturally no medical records would have been kept during the time such a person was in a prisoner of war camp. We all know how difficult it is to relate war service to heart trouble experienced by an ex-serviceman when he reaches middle age, especially when no record of treatment for heart trouble was recorded during his war service. I feel that prisoners of war should be given the benefit of the doubt and that their condition should be accepted as war caused, thereby making them eligible for a repatriation pension. As we have gone as far as accepting any condition as rendering former prisoners of war eligible for medical and hospital treatment, I feel that we could go just a little further and accept heart conditions suffered by prisoners of war as making them eligible for a repatriation pension. The extension of the acceptance of cancer for free medical and hospital treatment to cover all ex-service personnel is also to be commended. I know that it will mean quite a lot to a number of people. 
I notice that the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  foreshadowed in his second reading speech that a provision would be introduced in the future to regard ex-servicemen of British Commonwealth countries as eligible for Service pensions after, of course, a continuous period of residence in this country. I suppose that the Government realises that by introducing such a provision it will find it most difficult to exclude the members of the forces of other allied countries from this benefit, especially if they have also fulfilled the requirements for a Service pension on the same basis. I have noted that the Minister said in his second reading speech that this matter will be looked at later, but I think that the Government would find it a little difficult to exclude them when it brings in such a provision for members of British Commonwealth countries. I should also add that it was a provision which I included in the Liberal-Country Party's repatriation policy when I was shadow Minister for Repatriation and which would have been implemented by this time if the Liberal-Country Party coalition had won office at the last election. 
There is just one other point I wish to make. I agree with the remarks of the honourable member for Cook  (Mr Thorburn)  and the honourable member for Indi  (Mr Holten)  on the proposal that the Tribunal should notify an exserviceman of the reasons that certain decisions have been made. That is something on which I have been a bit keen for quite some time. But I should warn the Government at this stage that the introduction of such a move could be detrimental to some ex-servicemen. For instance, there may be an ex-serviceman who wishes to keep from his family the nature of a particular disease from which he is suffering. Information about his disease could reach his family through the correspondence that would come from the Tribunal to him explaining the reason for the decision being taken. I would like the Government, through the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation  (Senator Wheeldon),  to watch this aspect and to make it a case of the decision being given where the ex-serviceman asks the reasons for it to be given. In other words, let the exserviceman himself make the decision as to whether he wants to be notified the reasons. I think that might save a lot of trouble on some home fronts. I commend that thought to the Government. I have no desire to delay any longer the passage of this very important measure through this House. Accordingly I record my support for the Bill. 
-I think the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  was properly critical of those who sit in the north-west corner of the chamber, because I think he will find that that is where he sits. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  -Order! The Committee will come to order. This is a very serious business. We are discussing hundreds of millions of dollars. 
We are not discussing hundreds of millions of dollars. That is my grouch. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- The proposed expenditure before the Committee is at least $38m. 
Once again adequate appropriation for northern development appears to have been disregarded by this Government which purports to be such a champion of development for the north. Last year, if I remember correctly $200,000 was allocated and this was designed to be used for one purpose only- that was the feasibility study of water conservation in the Burdekin Basin. The Department of Northern Development and the Department of the Northern Territory are without doubt the runts in the litter when it comes to allocating finance for development in the northern area. The Government appears to forget that the north contributes more than handsomely to the national economy, and as such should be fostered and treated accordingly. I am informed that there are 104 people working in the Department who are supposedly responsible for the overall development of the north. Under the circumstances and looking at the appropriation for the Department of Northern Development, I think one is entitled to ask what all these people do to assist in development. In fact, when one considers the appropriation amount and this Government's lack of appreciation of the north, it is difficult to take its northern development policy seriously. When the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  won his seat at a byelection in 1966, the then Labor Opposition pledged the creation of a ministry for northern development, and in fact included that pledge in the platform of the Australian Labor Party a year later. That portion of the platform read: 
Labor believes that the development of the whole of the north is both necessary and urgent, therefore the whole attention of a Minister be devoted to it. 
I wonder how many times since then the Labor Party has regretted its burst of enthusiasm, for the necessity and urgency of northern development appear to have been forgotten by this Government, especially when one takes into consideration the appropriation figures. If the Government is doing anything at all, it must be doing it in a very quiet way, for we seldom hear or see any evidence of it, except perhaps the recent statement concerning Pilbara, which could develop into something worthwhile if substantial investment is forthcoming. Of course, the old chestnut of the steel mill at Bowen has been dragged from the embers again and tizzied up a little to make it more palatable or believable. I will believe this is a goer when I see construction commencing. There is no doubt that this would be an asset to the north, but too many words have been spoken about it over too many years with no positive action. 
The present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  criticised the attitudes of previous governments to northern development. He said: 
For Australian governments in the past northern development has always been a somewhat remote and peripheral concern. 
Now today, having a look at the Government's priorities, I say to him that his Government's attitude to northern development is somewhat less than one of remote and peripheral concern. I do not think the Prime Minister can deny that this Government is southern oriented and that it will not spend money in the north when it can be used to greater political advantage in the south. The only regions to which the Government appears to be paying a little attention are the Burdekin basin, Pilbara in Western Australia, the Bowen basin in Queensland, Mount Isa in Queensland and the Kimberleys in Western Australia, and the attention paid to some of these appears to be becoming a little dulled by this Government's attitude to foreign investments and to State's rights. The Ord River project appears to be sick, our beef export industry is in the doldrums and we have lost the British contract for our sugar exports, although this may not be a bad thing for a while, as Britain will now have to buy at the world market price for sugar but only until the European beet sugar production takes over; and then what happens to our British market? The Department should be out drumming up markets for our beef and our sugar and ensuring that our products in the mining industry can be marketed freely and are not hampered by the Government's narrow policy on mining. 
The Government's idea that we can say to Japan 'Buy more of our meat or we will not supply you with mineral materials' is nothing short of resources blackmail which I doubt very much will be acceptable to Japan. Who could blame her in those circumstances if she purchased her mineral requirements elsewhere? We can hardly blame the Department of Northern Development for this, because when one looks at the responsibilities of the various Ministers one finds that the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  has all the say in meat and wool production, the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  has all the say in regard to the mining industry, the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  has all the say in regard to our road system in the north, the Minister for Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass)  has most of the say in this area, and the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  no doubt has most of the say in any development projects which may be proposed for the north. Therefore we find our Minister for Northern Development left to concern himself with only the sugar industry, and this of course cannot be his complete concern, because the Queensland State Government has the say as to what happens in that industry. 
But no matter who has what say in which area, the Government should be bending over backwards to maintain the north's contribution to the national economy and should be giving serious thought to further developments in that area to increase the north's financial output and allowing the Department of Northern Development enough money to spend to do it on a big scale. In 1972-73 export earnings from northern sugar exports were about $250m and the northern beef industry contributed $230m to export earnings. The mining industry has also contributed handsomely. But in recent months we have seen a slump in meat exports. Whether it be the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson),  the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  or the Minister for Agriculture I do not care. Somebody should be out there drumming up the business to take up the slack in this great industry and to increase our future beef exports. 
We also read that Australia could be in dire straits within 20 or 30 years in regard to an adequate supply of water. This problem could be overcome to a great extent by harnessing the waters of the Burdekin and Herbert River basins, which could possibly supply half of Queensland with water and cheap hydro-electric power. Whether this is the responsibility of the Minister for Environment and Conservation or of the Minister for Northern Development does not really concern me. What does concern me is that somebody should be doing something about it now and finances should be allocated to do it. 
There are many ways in which development projects could be established in the north if this Government were really interested, and I mention reafforestation, to name just one. This could be undertaken on a large scale in areas of the north where softwoods mature quickly because of the climate. The establishment of such a project on a large scale, which has been proved feasible and viable, would overcome any paper shortage that we may experience and the paper pulp industry resulting from it would become another great export income earner for the north. It has been asked quite often whether other departments are incapable of liaising on northern projects without a northern development department and whether it is true that other Ministers in various portfolios make the decisions on any matters affecting the north and not the Minister for Northern Development. I do not care. All I am concerned about is, as I say, that the Government is southern oriented politically and it should drop that stance. This Government's hardhearted attitude towards the north which, as I have said, contributes largely to our economy, is to be condemned and it is high time the Government gave politics away and put its priorities in proper perspective for the benefit of the north and of Australia and allowed sufficient finance for this to be done. 
-Like the honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes),  I support this Bill. There are a couple of comments I would like to make about it. This Bill is long overdue and, as far as I am concerned, is most welcome. Why it has taken the Government so long to introduce it I shall never know because to my way of thinking it is a simple, straightforward and, incidentally, important enough matter to warrant earlier action. When the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  introduced the pension increases for defence force retirement benefit recipients 17 months ago he explained that those increases were an interim measure only and, in keeping with his promise, when he introduced the new Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits (Pension Increases) Bill indicated that the increases would be automatic annual adjustments. Seventeen months later we are still operating under an interim measure and a permanent method of adjustment of ex-servicemen pensions is still being investigated. 
I wonder whether the Minister and his Department know that many ex-servicemen depend to a great degree on their pension to meet their living commitments and they have needed this increase. To have kept them waiting for 4 months or more to receive it seems to me to show a definite lack of concern for this section of our community. It is all very well to say that the increases will be backdated to the first pay period in July, welcome though that is, but there was no need to embarrass for so long a period the ex-servicemen who depend on their pensions. I cannot accept the excuse put forward by the 
Minister for not introducing permanent adjustment arrangements. He said that all retired government employees should receive comparable treatment and that this is the Government's aim. I have no quarrel with that suggestion but I do not accept that the matter is so complex that it cannot be implemented without further inquiries. How much more time does the Government need to bring in the required legislation? It has been fiddling around with this matter for approximately 18 months, trying to say that DRFB pensions will be the subject of automatic annual adjustments and not the subject of special legislation introduced each year, and which will be introduced at the Government's convenience. The Minister informed us that legislation will be introduced next year to provide for the future permanent methods of adjustment but, in view of the messing about that has been going on in regard to this matter since May 1973, I will believe it when I see the Minister introduce it. 
The matter of pension increases is not the only one which is vexing me and service personnel who retired prior to 1 October 1972. For instance, there is the surplus of funds mentioned in the fourth quinquennial report. At the last time of asking, the Minister informed me that the actual amount of surplus had not been decided. Yet the report indicates that on the basis of the old Defence Forces Retirement Benefit Fund the surplus of assets over liabilities is $3,065,000 in respect of pre-1959 pensioners, $11,828,000 in respect of pre-1959 contributors and a net deficiency of $544,000 in respect of post-1959 contributors and pensioners combined. If that information is available, surely it would not be too difficult for the actuary to arrive at an exact figure and surely it would not be too difficult for the Government to decide what to do with the surplus. Will the Government distribute the surplus among the contributors, as has been done previously, or will it sock it away in Consolidated Revenue? I remind the Government that this is contributors' money that it is fiddling around with. If the Government were to repeal the old Act and place every recipients of a DFRB pension under the new benefits scheme I would understand its wanting to put the surplus in Consolidated Revenue. But if it intends to retain the old scheme the surplus should be distributed among those who have contributed. How much more time does the Government need to make up its mind? 
Does it need another year or two, if it is still the Government? I can assure the Minister and the 
House that when we return to government there will be an end to this procrastination. 
As I said previously, many anomalies exist under the old DRFB scheme which are vexing the retired servicemen and of which I know the Minister is conscious. I well remember the Minister when he was in Opposition saying how he had plugged for a joint select committee to be formed to investigate the old scheme and to come up with a new, simple, straightforward scheme. Therefore he must be aware of the anomalies that still exist in the old scheme. But now the boot is on the other foot. Is he content with the old scheme as is, now that the then Opposition is the present Government? An investigation by a joint committee into the anomalies that exist is required just as much as it was necessary previously. In fact, in the light of the new scheme benefits, it is even more necessary now. If the Government is fair dinkum in its expressed concern for the welfare of these exservice pensioners it would have that joint committee on the job now. I mentioned the boot being on the other foot. Now I am plugging for that committee to be formed as the Minister did. The terms of reference for the committee will be on the Minister's desk this week. I am sure that if the Minister really wanted to do so he could persuade his colleagues that such a committee is warranted, for they too must know that the situation applying to DFRB pensioners warrants investigation. I will go even further and inform the Minister that, when we become the Government, that joint committee to investigate the anomalies existing now in the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act will be formed immediately. We are committed to this; it will be done. I have no desire to delay the passage of this Bill through the House. As I said, I welcome it. I know that pensioners and recipients of ex-service benefits will welcome it also. It has been delayed long enough. Accordingly, I support the Bill. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
As the Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits legislation introduced by him in 1973 included the recommendation that annual adjustments would be made to pensions received by members covered by the legislation to offset rises in cost of living, and as the scheme became effective as from 1 October 1972 and no adjustments have been made to date, when will the adjustments be made, and will they be retrospective. 
-Can the Minister for Defence tell me the amount of surplus funds in the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund? If so, what does the Government intend to do with the surplus? 
-These Appropriation Bills and Supply Bills deal in part with the allocation of funds for the Department of Defence. The finance sought under Appropriation Bill (No. 5) is to cover payment to Papua 
New Guinea for the purchase of defence assets, salaries and pay, and to cover general price increases. It is a worthy enough request but one which I fear the Government submits without any degree of enthusiasm for the defence problem. Regarding general price increases, the statement made yesterday by the Minister for De- . fence  (Mr Barnard)  that in 1971-72 the defence allocation was $ 1,200m and that this financial year, 1975-76, it will be $ 1,800m, leaves me cold. The allocation for defence will have to be greater than that to meet the escalation of costs. In fact the Government is hardly increasing the defence vote at all; it is only trying to keep pace with rising costs. 
It is common knowledge that our defence capacity is of grave concern to the people of Australia because this Government has allowed it to run down at an alarming rate since it took office. What we should be doing is debating an Appropriation Bill, for many times the amount that is presently requested, aimed at attempting to restore our defence creditability. In the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence there is a paragraph which states: 
It would 6e in Australia's interests to support Papua New Guinea in the event of an external threat to that nation's security. 
If this Government persists in allowing our defence capacity to deteriorate at the present rate we could finish up with a capacity inferior to that of Papua New Guinea. 
In order to curtail expense in the area of defence this Government has reduced the training flying hours of our operational aircraft, it has reduced the sea-going time of our naval vessels and it has allowed the Army to continue using outdated and outmoded equipment. If the Government is so keen on saving money in this area I suggest that it do away with half of the civilian empire it has allowed to build up in the Department of Defence. It would be most interesting to know the present ratio of civilians to Service personnel in the Department today. The report from the Senate Standing Committee which I mentioned previously states: 
Over the last few years, the percentage of defence funds available for equipment procurement has declined. In the case of the Army vote, for example, the proportion allocated to acquisitions has dropped steadily from 2S.S per cent in 1968 to an expected 10.2 per cent this year. 
The Committee is quite right when it views this with disquiet and recommends that defence expenditure be increased to replace ageing and worn equipment and the introduction of new weapons to meet operational requirements. 
These are not my words; they are the words of the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. From evidence presented to the Committee it is apparent that increased expenditure on arms and equipment could be justified. Yet we have no request for additional funds for this purpose in these Bills. I presumerather, I hope- that the Government intends to do something about this matter in the Budget allocation but in the meantime the Services are supposed to soldier on with what they have. 
The Government does not appear to be concerned about the time lag between ordering equipment and its delivery. In fact it appears as if the operational state of our forces does not concern the Government one little bit. I see no request in these Bills for funds to assist the Army Reserve. Again, the report I mentioned states: 
The reserve forces are of fundamental importance to the nation's overall defence capability. . . . Most reserve units are scarcely viable at the present time. 
Surely, in view of the Committee's report, which the Government has had for some time, this Reserve needs financial assistance and needs it now. I would have thought, in view of the present Asian situation, that this Government would have become a little more defence conscious and sought funds to bolster our defence capacity as soon as it possibly could. By that I do not mean that the Government should be pushing panic buttons but it should have some regard for the time factor involved. I hope that the Government will give the needed consideration to a much greater defence allocation in this year's Budget. Even if it does, it has lost the advantage of a 4-month period, which means a lot, between the time of ordering and the time of delivering by not requesting such funds now. 
I also note that in these Appropriation and Supply Bills $15m is sought to meet increased requirements for advances under the Defence Service Homes Scheme. This is to meet the increases in loan moneys and the liberalisation of eligibility conditions. I have no quarrel with that request but I question the fact that the request for supply to continue to finance defence service homes satisfactorily was not made prior to this time. I say this because I believe that the Government has been negligent and completely irresponsible in this matter. Only this morning I was informed that the Queensland branch of the Department of Housing and Construction had run out of money to lend for the purchase of defence service homes. I believe that it is informing applicants that authority will be granted quickly to the applicants to obtain bridging finance from the banks until such time as the Department obtains enough money to take over the mortgage. What a magnificient gesture this is from the Government. The Government is committing its current applicants for service homes loans to 1 1% per cent or 12 per cent interest rates instead of the normal 3% per cent interest. There are applicants for loans who have received approval to build and have had their dwellings half completed. They are now being told to apply for bridging loans. What will happen if these people cannot meet the heavily increased interest rate commitment? What will happen then? Will the building be left half finished or will the builder have to wait a further couple of months or more for payment? Already there are applicants who have been waiting since early February for payment. The big question is how long the administration will take to get more finance into the service homes loan pipeline. I believe that the Government should be severely chastised for the fact that there is no more money available for war service homes loans in Queensland and for allowing this situation to occur. Of course, the problem could be overcome quite easily if the Treasurer's advice were accepted and more money was printed in a hurry. After all, the only additional costs involved would be the cost of paper, ink and a bit of oil. 
I question again the fact that there is no request in these Bills for finance to construct more married quarters for Service members. I hope that it is not because the Government thinks it has sufficient finance to cover the present needs in that area or that there are sufficient quarters at the moment. If that is so, I suggest that the Government has another look at the situation and does it quickly. The report from the Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, to which I referred previously, states that the Committee is disturbed about the current quality and quantity of Army housing, and there is no doubt that there is a serious shortage of married quarters in a number of areas. In fact, 26 per cent of serving soldiers are actually on the waiting list and it is possible that a soldier may wait 2 years before being allocated a quarter, especially if he is on a low priority. I know that each year funds are sought to cover the personnel on temporary rental allowance to assist them in meeting rents on private houses, but this should in no way detract from the urgency of the need to build more Service quarters. I am also aware that the Government plans to overcome this housing deficiency over a 5-year period, but in view of the fact that this shortage is of such considerable importance I would have thought that the Government would have sought some finance to commence the scheme as soon as possible. I am also aware that some married quarters, mainly those constructed prior to 1966, are regarded as sub-standard and that a program of upgrading has been commenced. But there are still a great number which are regarded as unsatisfactory and there is an urgent need to upgrade them. Again, I would have thought that the Government would have given this matter high priority and requested funds to keep the program going. If it made a sufficient allocation for this purpose in the last appropriation, I would suggest that the upgrading program has become bogged down and would be worth while investigating; that is, if the Government intends to improve the conditions for Service personnel, and who knows that? 
Under the terms of the Commonwealth-States Housing Agreement, the Commonwealth advances money to the State housing commissions for the purpose of constructing dwellings for rental to serving members of the defence forces. There is nothing wrong with that situation, but has the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  or the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson),  or any other Minister for that matter, ever seen a suburb of housing commission homes that have been allocated to serving personnel? If they had seen them and taken some notice I think they would have wanted more value for Commonwealth funds. There is a sameness about these homes that is depressing. There is practically no relief in the designs, nor is there much relief in the colour scheme. The houses are built so close together that it is difficult for a family to obtain much degree of privacy. But the present Government is not solely to blame for this; previous governments must also share the blame. But I do hold this Government responsible for allowing the practice to continue. If the Federal Government is prepared to allocate funds to State housing commissions for Service housing then surely it is high time it insisted on a variety of designs to eliminate the distressing monotony of designs that exist at the moment. At one time I produced to the Minister 20 different housing designs that could be utilised in the construction of Service quarters, all for the same price that is being paid at the present time, but the designs were not accepted because the State governments would not accept the different designs. Surely we can lift our thoughts above the tented encampments, where all the tents are the same, all tents are in line and equal distance apart? In fact, the Minister would be doing the Service personnel a great favour if he insisted on variety in housing for future construction. 
I mentioned that over one-quarter of our Service personnel are awaiting quarters. Now is the time that the Government should be requesting funds to speed up its program of building, especially when unemployment is so high and tradesmen are looking for work. The Government is asking for $22m for food aid, $43m for the Shipping Commission, $335m for health insurance, $33 m for Darwin compensation, and so on up to $2,600m. But not $ 1 is being sought to relieve the requirements of Service personnel for married quarters. I sincerely trust that this Government will have sense enough to look at the problems that I have presented tonight and rectify them in the annual Budget. 
I have promised to be brief in my remarks tonight in order to allow some other honourable members to join in this debate. I will confine my remarks to the Repatriation Acts Amendment Bill 1975. However, first I would like to make a brief comment, further to what previous speakers have said, on the statement by the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Oldmeadow)  during this debate that, in his opinion, the final abolition of the means test should be over a period of 5 years. I also noticed in the evening papers that the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  has made similar suggestions to the Cabinet. This is in complete contrast to Government policy which is that the means test be abolished in the life of this Parliament. I suggest that it will be very difficult for the honourable member for Holt to explain to his electorate- if his and the Minister's suggestion is adopted- that because of its maladministration of the economy this Government cannot keep its promise to abolish the means test completely in the life of this Parliament. 
To revert to the Repatriation Acts Amendment Bill, I commend in particular the increase in pension rate for war and defence widows. I do feel, however, that consideration should have been given to increasing the rate payable to the wife of a special rate or a totally and permanently incapacitated pensioner and, in fact, the wives of all general rate pensioners. It has always seemed an odd thing to me that while we increase the pensions of the TPI pensioner, the intermediate rate and the general rate recipients, we have never increased the allowance that is payable to the wives affected. Surely, if it is felt that it is necessary to increase a repatriation pension in order that a member may meet additional increases in the cost of living, it would be reasonable to assume that the allowance paid to the wife of the member should be increased also. I am not saying that this Government is fully to blame for this situation. Previous governments also have neglected this. I ask this Government -if it is still the Government when next there is a review of pension rates for repatriation membersto give consideration also to increasing the members ' wives ' allowances. 
I notice that the Bill also provides for the abolition of the means test for those repatriation and service pensioners aged 70 years and over. In his second reading speech the Minister stated that this will go a long way towards the Government's objective of abolishing the means test for all service pensioners aged 65 years or over. Whilst I applaud this move, I would ask for the Government's further ruling on this matter. The reason for my request is this: The service pension, which we know is equivalent to the age pensionin fact it is the age pension but it is granted to those ex-servicemen who have served in a theatre of war and is commonly known as the burnt-out diggers' pension- is payable at 60 years of age. The service pensioner gets the advantage of a pension 5 years prior to his civilian counterpart. This is compensation for his service in a theatre of war. While he can receive this pension at 60 instead of 65 years of age, I notice that the means test abolition is applied under conditions similar to those applying to a civilian age pension. For instance, the means test will now be abolished at age 70. We hope the age will be further reduced to 65 next year- that is, if the idea of the honourable member for Holt does not get through. This means that while the exservice member is entitled to receive an age pension at 60 years, the abolition of the means test does not apply to him under the present Bill until he is 70 years of age. If the ex-service member is entitled to a pension, as compensation, 5 years earlier than his civilian counterpart, why then is it that the abolition of the means test is not comparable? It almost appears that the payment of a service pension 5 years earlier than normal was resented and that no further consideration of compensation will be given. 
I ask that the Government consider this question of the abolition of the means test for exservicemen as a principle of compensation. I ask that it consider applying this abolition in the same manner as entitlement for Service pensionsthat is, where the means test will be abolished at 70 years of age for civilian pensioners then the means test abolition would apply for Service pensioners aged 65. When it is abolished for pensioners aged 65 then Service pensioners should have a means test abolition at 60 years of age. 
-This is according to the principle of compensation. I have said before- I take the point that the honourable member for Kalgoorlie has made- that this Government is not fully to blame for this situation. Previous governments are also to blame. But this Government is in the saddle now and I am asking the Government, when it next considers this matter- if it is still the Government- to take into account these matters. I also welcome the fact that disability pensions, when regarded as income in the assessment of a Service pension, will now have an amount of 50 per cent of pension disregarded for this purpose. This will mean a great deal to a number of ex-service members in the community. 
I also notice that this Bill will extend Service pension eligibility to ex-servicemen of Commonwealth countries other than Australia. This is more than welcome to me. As a previous shadow Minister for Repatriation I had included this as part of our repatriation policy. It is pleasing to note that this Government also thought that this was important and has adopted the idea. I have no desire to delay the passage of this Bill through the House any further. As I have promised to make my remarks brief, I add my support for the Repatriation Acts Amendment Bill. 
Will the Minister for Defence inform the House of when he proposes to announce the permanent methods to be adopted for adjusting defence force retirement benefits pensions and defence force retirement death benefits pensions? What will be the effective date of any adjustments that may be made? 
-I am wholeheartedly in favour of the concept of the Great Barrier Reef being declared a national marine park. But I have some reservations regarding the machinery necessary to achieve this as outlined in the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Bill 1975. To my way thinking there are some provisions of the Bill that should be more definite and explicit. Some are too loose, leaving them wide open for misinterpretation. As the Minister for the Environment  (Dr Cass)  said in his second reading speech, the Barrier Reef is a vast collection of islands and coral reefs extending some 1900 kilometres along our northeastern coastline. But I notice that it is intended that only sections of this area will be proclaimed as a national marine park- at least that is how I interpret the Minister's second reading speech and the Bill. The Minister certainly used a broad brush method- there is no doubt about thatwhen he said: Some zones will be set aside for tourist development, shipping, fishing and other appropriate uses. 
I should like to know why only portions of the Reef region will be declared a marine park. Why not declare the whole of the Reef- its entire length and surrounds- as a marine park? I know that this would make the people of north Queensland a lot happier. Declarations of sections of the Reef for scientific purposes could still be made. I have a reason for suggesting that. The entire coastline of north Queensland depends completely on the protection of the Reef from tidal surge and any wave activity from the Pacific Ocean. From Cooktown in the north to Rockhampton in central Queensland there are a number of coastal cities and towns which are only a few feet above sea level. This includes such cities as Cairns, Townsville and Mackay. Any profound interference with the structure of the Reef could be disastrous. That is a point that is always with us in north Queensland. 
A further important reason for the declaration of the whole of the Reef as a park was raised by the Minister when he said: 
Marine ecosystems, especially the rich inshore parts, are vital to the survival of many species- including man. 
While I have no doubt that those areas not declared a park could come under some sort of surveillance, authority to arrest and prosecute offenders would be restricted. So I ask again: Why not declare the whole of the Reef area a marine park and not just portions of it? Another matter which causes me concern is the wording of the Bill in regard to co-operation with the State of Queensland. Queensland has a big stake in the Barrier Reef in many quarters- tourism, fishing and scientific research to name just a few. The wording of the Bill in clause 8 is a good example of the reason for my concern. This clause states definitely that the appointed authority can 'enter into contracts' although there is no mention of the kind or type of contracts. This must lead to an open-ended- in fact wide openinterpretation. The authority can also 'occupy, use and control any land or building owned or held under lease by Australia and made available for the purposes of the Authority' and most important, can 'acquire, hold and dispose of real or personal property'. This to me is too much licence to give to any government alone, let alone any constituted authority of 3 men. Yet the Government tempers the blow by stating in clause 8 (3) that the authority has power to perform any of its functions in co-operation with Queensland, with an authority of that State or with a local governing body in that State. If the Federal Government were fair dinkum in its desire to co-operate with Queensland why is not the wording in the Bill: 'The authority will perform its functions in co-operation with Queensland . . .*? Clause (2). of Part IV of the Bill states: 
The Minister may enter into an arrangement with the Queensland Government for not more than 3 persons nominated by that Government to be appointed members of the Committee. 
And again in clause 42 ( 1 ) the Bill states: 
The Australian Government may make arrangements with the Queensland Government for the performance of functions and the exercise of powers under this Act - 
I should like to know- perhaps the Minister might explain to me- what this word 'may' means? Does it mean that permission is granted such as in the sentence: 'You may do this'? Or does it mean that the Government might or might not do something? The wording makes for loose interpretation. There is nothing definite about co-operation with Queensland. I mentioned before that Queensland has a big stake in the Reef and this loose wording is not good enough. Why not substitute the word 'will' for 'may*? Then Queensland could be sure of cooperative action and the intention of the Federal Government would not be suspect. 
I notice that the Reef Consultative Committee will consist of a member of the Authority, 3 members nominated by the Queensland Government and not fewer than 12 other members, making a total of 16 members. I notice also that the members shall be appointed by the Minister. That wording in the Bill is definite enough, so why not make it all definite? The proper formation of this important Committee is a must. I counsel the Minister- as the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  and the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross)  have mentionedthat the members be chosen carefully and to the best advantage. I hope that these positions will not become another case of jobs for the boys. The members should have expertise in matters affecting the Reef. There are men in the north, one I can recall in particular, whose knowledge of the Reef and its waters, the currents etc., have received world wide recognition. There are professional fishermen who have spent a life-time studying the habits of fish in Reef waters. There are many other men who have spent many years making a study of the Reef. These are the people who should serve on such a committee. Their knowledge would be of tremendous advantage to the Authority. 
Also, the Bill states that a member may be a representative of an authority or organisation. I hope this includes local government authorities. I think it is most desirable that local councils or shires which have a common interest in the Reef should have representation on the Committee. In Part VI of the Bill titled 'Administration' considerable emphasis is placed on the policing of the parks and zones. In my opinion this is one of the major matters of importance in the legislation and every facility should be made available to allow the inspectors to carry out their tasks of policing the area thoroughly. It is an extremely large area to cover and in lots of instances the Reef is not easily accessible from the mainland. Therefore some form of air surveillance may be necessary in conjunction or cooperation with fast patrol launches. But I stress that co-operation with the Queensland State Government in policing the area is a matter of major importance. 
One of the clauses of the Bill that really interests us in north Queensland is clause 38, which states that there will be no drilling or mining allowed in an area designated as a marine park. I go all the way with this. But earlier I mentioned my concern at only portions of the Reef being declared a marine park, according to my interpretation of the Bill. If this is so, will drilling and mining be allowed in those areas not declared? I think this is another excellent reason why the whole of the Reef area should be declared a national park. This would certainly tighten up the looseness of this clause of the Bill. 
It has been said, and I think mentioned also by the honourable member for Brisbane, that the Reef is in more danger from passing oil tankers because of the possibility of oil spillage than it would ever be from drilling operations. Well, this could be so, but I do not think we could afford to take this chance; nor do I think that we should ever consider permitting drilling to be carried out. To assist in avoiding the possible spillage from tankers which have run aground on the Reef- a few ships passing through have run aground- I would suggest that one of the primary tasks of the proposed Authority would be to define clearly and to mark a navigational passage through the Reef waters, which would assist considerably in eliminating the possibility of a tanker striking the Reef. In that event the owners of any tanker found proceeding outside this clearly marked passage could be lawfully prosecuted. 
I notice in clause 66 (2). that regulations may be made to regulate or prohibit in the marine parks the use of nets and fishing apparatus, etc. I trust that it will be remembered that there is a big fishing and prawning industry in the north that uses the waters of the Reef extensively. Any restrictions on this usage could have an adverse effect on that industry. This also reminds me that there are many people who fish the Reef waters for recreational purposes. This recreation is traditional in the north. Again, I trust that this activity will not be restricted in any way. 
I have mentioned my support for this Bill, but I strongly urge the Government to consider the alterations that I have mentioned in order to make this Bill more definite in its intent. I have mentioned also that the Queensland State Government has a big stake in the protection of the Reef. Consideration of closer co-operation between the Commonwealth Government and the Queensland Government should be of major importance. Any amendment that may be moved in an endeavour to guarantee this cooperation will receive my wholehearted support. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
Clauses 1 to 9- by leave- taken together. 
I ask the Minister for Defence: When can we expect him to inform the House of the amount of surplus moneys in the old Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund and of any arrangements that have been made for the automatic adjustment of defence force retirement and death benefits pensions? 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Social 
Security and Minister for Repatriation and Compensation. As the important Toose report is long overdue, can the Minister advise when the report will be completed and tabled? 
-During the Budget debate on Wednesday of last week I took extremely strong exception to some remarks made by the honourable member for Burke  (Mr 
Keith Johnson) concerning soldiers and their role in the community. He said: 
I know, honourable members know and those who are listening to this debate know, what is the role of a soldier. So it is not surprising that the honourable member should object that money should be spent out of the national Budget on such things as culture and recreation. What do soldiers know about culture? What do soldiers know about quality of life? It is the role of a soldier to kill people rather than to make sure that they have a good life. If someone can show me that the role of any soldier in history was to preserve life I would be pleased to hear about it. 
-The honourable member for Burke who, I believe, is 46 years of age and would have been a teenager during the Second World War and should have been quite old enough to realise the magnitude of the debt that the country owed to the soldiers who helped to keep it safe from foreign invasion at that time. 
I informed him I was going to talk about this. If the honourable member lived in an area which contained a number of servicemen and their famines he would know that their contribution to the quality of life is great indeed. He would find them active members of Parents and Citizens Associations, youth organisations and kindergarten associations. In fact, he would find them on any committee designed to improve community living. 
And certainly Legacy, as my colleague reminds me. It might also amaze the honourable member for Burke to know that there are many soldiers who do appreciate the arts and if it came to a showdown about the knowledge of culture and the arts he would be left for dead. If the honourable member had taken the trouble during his adult life to study history, especially our own, he would have found that there were many soldiers who contributed greatly to the culture of their country. If he had studied defence matters more seriously and in depth he would know that the primary role of the soldier is the protection of his country and its people. To achieve this he is taught to kill, among other things, because without this skill his role as a protector is as nothing. 
I am not talking of those armies whose governments give them licence to butcher unarmed and innocent people. I am talking of those armies of soldiers similar to our own who, at the request of the government of the day, offer themselves in combat to protect their country and its people from a foreign control- and that includes the protection of the honourable member and his family. The profession of arms is an honourable one. The members of that profession are not morons or mongrel dogs, as the honourable member appears to suggest. If he were to study military history and matters of defence as I have suggested, I am sure he would regard the role of our soldiers in a different and far more understanding light. If the honourable member for Burke spoke in ignorance or the heat of the moment, I can forgive him for his outburst. If he did not, I cannot forgive him his castigation of our soldiers. I have spent some time in the period allotted to me in this Budget debate in answering the honourable gentleman, but as far as I am concerned it had to be said. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  and other Government Ministers and supporters who have spoken in this debate so far have really gone to great lengths to convince everybody that this Budget they introduced will be the cure for our economic illnesses. They claim that if everybody pulls with it everything will be rosy once again, just the same as it was before they took over the reins of administration, when inflation was low, unemployment figures were low, our dollar had real value, and the business world was operating with confidence. We in the Opposition and members of the business community and economists know better. 
Members of the Government, from the Prime Minister down, are trying desperately to sell this Budget to the people as the only way to regain economic stability. Politically they cannot afford to produce yet another disastrous Budget. We in the Opposition would be failing in our duty to the people if we did not explain to them that there is another way and a better way to regain stability. The Government is insistent that everybody take note of what it claims to be the good measures in the Budget and the excellence of the tax reforms that it has introduced, and it stresses the cut that it has made in Government spending as if it were some tremendous personal sacrifice; but what it has played in a very low key- in fact I have not heard a note played yet- is the tremendous increase in the outlay to cover unemployment benefits. This is a situation which it has brought about itself through its own mismanagement, which created record unemployment in the first place. This increase is shown in the 1974-75 auunal report of the Department of Social Security. 
In 1972, the year this Government took office, payments for unemployment benefits were $25,996,506. In 1973, when the Government was happily displaying the ring of confidence as far as the unemployment situation was concerned, payments jumped to a record $46,552,939, the highest since 1956. Then in 1974, when the Government was still saying unemployment would be a thing of the past, payments jumped to $58,245,85 1. At the end of the 1974-75 financial year the depth of the Government's mismanagement of the economy was really highlighted. Payments for unemployment benefits increased to $251,740,069. For a Government that boasts how keen it is on making records, it should be really proud of this one. It is a whizzer and a record it can claim all for its very own. No other government since Federation has come within a bull's roar of this record. But the tragic part of it all is that this expenditure of approximately $5m a week is unproductive. It is a dead weight around the neck of the taxpayer which will get heavier as the results of this Budget are felt and unemployment increases. 
I notice, too, that the Regional Employment Development scheme which the Government so proudly presented as the great relief for unemployment, is to get the axe. In present circumstances no new payments are being approved, but we are told that $ 135m is earmarked to meet schemes already approved. Only because of the RED scheme the unemployment figures would have been frightening before this, and at least the outlay on this scheme has been productivework for money received. But it is still only temporary relief, even though local government authorities have benefited from it. 
Speaking of local government authorities, I see that our generous Government is providing unconditional financial assistance to local authorities totalling $79.9m. The Treasurer must have been scratching around the bottom of the purse for this one. It is a pity he could not find $100,000 tucked in a corner to make it the round $80m. But this may have resulted in the Prime Minister having to forego one of his sight-seeing tours overseas, and that he would not tolerate; or we might not have been able to afford to purchase another painting, and that would not be tolerated either. The whole community benefits from assistance to local government, and that is what makes it so tremendously important. Every man, woman and child in the community benefits from it, and it is necessary that problems of local government be studied seriously and that realistic decisions regarding assistance be made. If I remember correctly, there are 900-odd local government authorities in Australia. If they all sought a share of the $80m, that share could not be considered as excessive. So we are still in the same old position of local authorities having to slug the community through increased rate charges to maintain and provide essential services. There is a limit to what the community can pay in rate charges and many, if not all, local authorities are finding it extremely difficult to remain reasonably solvent. 
In the Budget Speech the Treasurer proudly said that since coming to office the Government had taken a great stride forward in the field of social security and welfare and that now it must take stock of its progress and consolidate its gains. Heaven help the country if it consolidates its mismanagement and its record for increasing inflation and unemployment. There is a way the Government could improve the situation if it were game enough to have a go, a mover that would earn it a pat on the back instead of a kick in the tail of the community, a chance for the media to praise it instead of criticising it. 
The Government has granted $80m for financial assistance to local authorities, which is insufficient to meet their needs, but at least the outlay will be productive. There is $135m in the bin for the RED scheme, most of which I hope will be allocated to local government projects. This outlay also will be productive. I do not think there is any chance that the payments for unemployment benefits will be less than the $25 1 .75m paid out last financial year. If the Government sticks to its record-breaking run, much more will be paid out; but let us be charitable and keep the anticipated payments to a round figure of $250m. This outlay is unproductive. It buys us the reputation of being a country where a great number of our people can live reasonably without working. This is a reputation we have no cause to be proud of. Many of our unemployed people want to work, they need work but unfortunately there is a great number who are content to drift along as they are. While they receive money to live on for nothing, they will continue to be so. 
The Government is outlaying $80m which will be productive, and over three times as much which will be unproductive. So why not give the $250m to local authorities and allow them to take up the slack of unemployment on necessary community projects? This would make a sum of $330m provided to local authorities, and if the Government wished to include the $135m earmarked for the RED scheme it would make a total of $465m being distributed to local authorities, the amounts being distributed according to the number of unemployed people in the areaand every dollar productive. I have no doubts about local governments, the Commonwealth Employment Service and the Department of 
Social Security being able to co-operate and make such a scheme workable. In fact I am sure it will be welcomed. I know local governments would welcome such a move. It would ensure continuity of necessary local works without having continually to borrow money for this purpose. It would ease the burden on the ratepayer. The taxpayer would be happy knowing this money was productive. The community would benefit considerably and the genuinely unemployed person would feel happier earning his benefits instead of receiving a handout. For those who did not want to work there would be no handout. 
The suggestion I have made no doubt will conflict with the ambition of the Government to create a welfare State where the majority of the people are dependent on handouts from a socialist government. As I said previously, if the Government is game enough to have a go it would be applauded for doing so. It may not be another record, but it certainly would be an achievement of some note. Speaking of achievements reminds me of the burst the Prime Minister gives us at the end of a session on the achievements of his Government over the period. He has consistently claimed records of achievements, but it is becoming increasingly obvious that there are a number of records credited to his Government, under his leadership, which are the greatest ever in our history but which he is not game to claim. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has mentioned these and I should like to emphasise them, especially as this Budget probably will add to the Government's record-breaking run. The Prime Minister; can claim the record for the greatest number of unemployed under one government in Australia's history. Since he has been in control he holds the record for the highest inflation rate we have experienced. He holds the record for the highest interest rates ever imposed on our people. 
This is the Prime Minister. A record number of small companies and businesses have gone bankrupt under Government policies. Members of the Government have given us a record Budget deficit to overcome. They have paid a record amount of Australian taxpayer's money for the purchase of a painting. The Prime Minister can claim to have had a greater number of overseas jaunts at the taxpayers' expense in  2Vi  years than any other Australian Prime Minister. The Government wm receive a record amount of money drained from the taxpayers in one financial year since Federation. It has had a record number of Treasurers in  Vh  years of government. I am very pleased that I am not playing in the Government team, even thought it is the greatest record-breaker we have ever seen. 
If the Government feels that the reforms it has introduced balance the records it has established it is living in the dreamtime and it is time it came back to reality. Members of the Government through their mismanagement have made themselves extremely unpopular with the business community. They have made themselves unpopular with a number of trade unions which they profess to represent. They have made themselves unpopular with our financial institutions because of their desire to control them. They have made themselves unpopular with all branches of industry. They have made themselves unpopular with our defence Services because of their attitude to defence. When their tax reforms take effect they will have made themselves unpopular with all our taxpayers. 
For the final crunch, the crunch that really puts them in the slot marked 'unwanted', thousands upon thousands of secondary school students hate them, as far as a youngster is able to hate, because of their foolish, narrow-minded decision to disband the Army cadet corps. There is movement in every State through the whole of the country's cadet corps to stop this. If the Government has not yet realised that this Budget will do nothing towards its being recognised as a responsible government I would suggest that members of the Government switch on, for the message is there, loud and clear, for them all to hear: Get out before you make a bigger mess of this wonderful country. I support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition. 

 Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 

My question is directed to the Minister for Defence. I preface it by informing the Minister that in May of this year in answer to a query the former Minister for Defence said- I believe that he was referring to the 'no detriment' clause in the Jess Committee report- that amending legislation to the Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Act of 1973 would be introduced, allowing serving members of the forces who had previously frozen their contributions to buy back those frozen contributions. I ask the Minister: When can we expect this amending legislation to be introduced? 
-After the present Government took office in 1 972 1 consistently made representations to  Mr Barnard,  the previous Minister for Defence, regarding the injustices and anomalies suffered by ex-members of the Services which became evident during the hearings conducted by the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Legislation which was known as the Jess Committee, which injustices I hoped the Government would attempt to overcome. The Jess Committee, which was established under the Gorton Government, comprised members of the Senate and this House who were members of all political parties, including the Australian Democratic Labor Party which was represented in the Senate at the time. Briefly, the Committee's job was to investigate the old Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act which had become very complex in terms of administration and if necessary to introduce a new scheme based on simplicity which could be understood by all ranks. Many injustices, anomalies and inequalities in the old complicated system were brought to light during the course of public hearings. Unfortunately they still exist. A new scheme was devised for personnel serving on or after 1 October 1972 which, while it simplified and improved retirement benefits for serving personnel, did nothing for those members who retired prior to October 1972. Members who were classed as pre.nineteenfiftyniners were particularly affected. 
That briefly is the result of the Jess Committee's findings. Having served on the Committee with the previous Minister for Defence, I was aware that he knew of those anomalies, and I had a number of personal discussions with him on the problem. While he admitted that problems did exist for the personnel who retired prior to October 1 972, nothing has been undertaken to adjust them. There was also an amount of correspondence between the previous Minister and myself regarding the formation of a joint parliamentary committee to investigate the problems, and the Minister was the recipient of a number of questions from me during question time on the matter. None of these elicited positive action. At one time we reached the stage where the Minister asked me to submit terms of reference for such a committee and in conjunction with the remaining members of the Jess Committee,  Senator Maunsell  or the National Country Party, and  Senator Devitt  of the Australian Labor Party, I submitted such terms of reference as we felt were adequate to cover the situation. These in turn, I was informed, were forwarded to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  for his consideration. Again the answer to the suggestion of the establishment of such a committee was a positive 'no'. What the Government is frightened of, or why it should hedge around this matter, I do not know. It is a case of justice being done, but justice is being entirely disregarded. 
The terms of reference submitted at that time to the then Minister for Defence were compiled after studying correspondence from individual ex-servicemen and ex-service organisations detailing some of these anomalies, which incidentally amounted to quite a number. It was concluded that a joint committee, formed to enquire into these matters, should not be hampered or restricted in any way, that the situation should be tidied up once and for all to the satisfaction of all ex-servicemen and ex-service organisations concerned, and that no one group of exservicemen should be excluded from investigation. The terms of reference were as follows: To establish, first, whether there are any anomalies, inequities or injustices suffered by beneficiaries under the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act of 1948-1973 who retired prior to 1 October 1972; and, secondly, what measures should be taken to correct the anomalies, inequities or injustices, if any, revealed by such inquiry. It was felt that these terms of reference would cover the full field of dissatisfaction, and the main thing as far as I was concerned was that party politics would play no part in settling the problem. 
Unfortunately again the Government, through the then Minister for Defence, refused to cooperate. I can only assume from the persistent refusals by the Government to have such an investigation, and knowing that the then Minister knew of the particular problems, that a bureaucratic wall has been set up to oppose the recommedation. It may have been felt that the old scheme was adequate or that there was a possibility of ex-service personnel obtaining greater benefits than other categories of government employees. If that is so I assure the House that I will demolish that wall when the Opposition is returned to government. It is not as if there was anything to fear from such an investigation. On the contrary, it could possibly be of some advantage to future government schemes. 
Since the adoption of the Jess Committee report in May 1973, when the then Minister for Defence publicly recognised that anomalies existed, this Government has been asked to implement its promise to provide for the automatic adjustments of retirement pay for exservice members. Although I have received continual promises that this would be done we are still awaiting the introduction of applicable legislation to amend the Acts. Also under the new Defence Forces Retirement and Death Benefits Act, any surplus contributions made by serving members in excess of 5.5 per cent of pay are being refunded. The surplus amount of moneys in the old DFRB fund is still being held. Why this is so I do not know. We cannot even obtain the information as to the actual surplus amount in the old fund. Surely after 2 years the Commonwealth Actuary should be in a position to inform the Government what the amount is. 
I again ask the present Minister: What is the surplus amount in the old DFRB fund? Is it the Government's intention to distribute this amount amongst those who made the contributions or does the Government intend to put the surplus into Consolidated Revenue? I am sick and tired of asking these questions and receiving no definite response. I put the questions to the Minister once again in this grievance debate. Answers given to me by the previous Minister that individual cases claiming injustice would be investigated were both ludicrous and foolish. There are not just a few cases to be dealt with. There are hundreds and hundreds of them and it would take a separate division in the Department to place these cases into categories and deal with them as the Minister suggested. A committee of investigation of the joint Houses, established by the Government as an extension of the Jess Committee, is the only possible solution and the only way in which satisfaction can be obtained. In this way justice will not only be done; it will appear to have been done. 
I speak now on completely non-party lines when I say to the present Minister for Defence and to the Prime Minister that we of the Opposition can see the need for such a joint party committee of investigation. The Returned Services League can see it. The Regular Defence  Forces  Welfare Association can see it. Hundreds of exservicemen can see it. Ex-members of the Jess Committee, which included the previous Minister for Defence, can see it. Why then is this Government so blind that it cannot see the need? Maybe it does not wish to see it. I will not accept the excuse of the present Minister for Defence in regard to the delayed legislation that this Act is closely allied to the Superannuation Bill and because that legislation was rejected nothing can be done about the Defence Forces Retirement and Death Benefits Act 1973. That is completely wrong. They are both completely different Acts. Once again I submit my request to have this committee of investigation established and ask that the present Minister for Defence give his earnest consideration to the matter. 
-The only answer I can give to the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr McKenzie),  who feels that his Government is creating some record, is to refer him to my speech on the Budget. The Government has created some records in its time- some beauties- and some that no other government has achieved. I refer the honourable member to that speech. 
Approximately 3 weeks ago the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Senator James McClelland)  made a public statement which gave cause for grave concern among the community. Whilst I commend him for his honesty, if the figures he cited prove to be correct the Government should hang its head in shame. The statement read as follows: 
The Minister for Labor.  Senator J.  McClelland, confirmed the unemployment crisis by firmly predicting that 400 000 Australians would be out of work in the new year. 
This is a shocking situation to look forward to and an embarrassment to the Government which was so adamant that the Budget recently introduced would go a long way towards curing our unemployment problem. This promises to be a pretty bleak Christmas for many of our people. The annoying part of it all is that it need not have happened. When this Government took office it charged into its policies of reform like a team of wounded bulls. It spent money as if there was no limit to the source of supply. No planning or forethought was given to the results of such a mad spending spree. Only now is the Government trying to save something from the wreck of a bruised and battered economy for which it is responsible. 
With the prediction of 400 000 unemployed in the new year the Government needs the services of the Wizard of Id to help it save something from the wreck. The payout for unemployment benefits in the last financial year, according to the annual report from the Department of Social Security- this can be checked by the honourable member who is interjecting - was $25 1,740,000-odd. The payout for the previous year was $5 8m. With the unemployment figure reaching 400 000 we can expect this payout in unemployment benefits to double, which is not a very pleasant prospect for the people of Australia. It has been extremely interesting over the last  2Vi  years to listen to various Government supporters- both Ministers and backbencherswhen the economy first started to go bad, stating that they had inherited the mess from the previous Government. May I remind them that when they took over from the previous Government the inflation rate was low, our dollar had real value, the business world was operating with confidence, our balance of payments was healthy, unemployment figures were low and there was plenty of money in the bank. 
In just  Vh  years this situation has been completely reversed- a fact which does not give the Australian people any degree of joy. The 
Government also blamed the overall situation throughout the world when things became tough. May I remind honourable members opposite that it is their own maladministration which has caused this. In 1971 Australia ranked fourth in the national prosperity stakes, behind the United States of America, Switzerland and Canada. Today we are ranked ninth, and it is predicted that we are still on the slippery slide. In the rest of the Western world last year unemployment was cured. On 2 occasions this week I have heard the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  say that our unemployment position was similar to that in comparable countries overseas. While the rest of the Western world cured its unemployment last year we increased ours. Only one other country beat us and that was tiny Denmark, which also has a government with socialist ideas. 
I mentioned earlier that the Government was keen to introduce its policies as soon as it possibly could. Surely it could have learned a lesson from Britain with its huge unemployment problem and its huge payout of unemployment benefits. Surely it could have learned how the policy of socialisation robs the people of ambition and initiative and makes them completely subservient to the government. This Govenment with its record dole payments has placed us in a unique category among the countries of the Western world for we are enjoying the reputation of being a country in which one can live reasonably well without working. How long the taxpayers in this country will tolerate that situation remains to be seen. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)-I  think that the matter of unemployment comes within the Department of Social Security and that the question of social security benefits is a matter for the Department of Social Security. The honourable member for Herbert is in order on that point. 
I for one object to the fact that some of the tax I pay will go to keep in idleness some person who boasts that he has no intention of seeking employment but is content to draw unemployment benefits from the Department of Social Security. Recently we saw the embarrassment of this Government when it was brought to its notice that many people who were not entitled to unemployment benefits were receiving them. We have seen interviewed on television groups of young people who have stated openly that they are quite satisfied to exist on unemployment benefits and who are enjoying the life of Riley while others work to keep them in such a state of bliss. We have seen this Government embarrassed by reports that people who are working are still receiving unemployment benefits. We have heard of others who, through the use of fictitious names, draw more than one benefit from different centres. I have had cases in which young people have approached me with cheques for unemployment benefits received from the Department and saying that they had notified the Department they were working, but were still receiving cheques. They had brought them to me to return them and to beg the Department to stop sending them. These are the honest ones. How many dishonest ones are there who help to increase the payment of benefits to $25 lm? Surely this must be a good enough reason for a review of the administration within the Department, to offset these anomalies I have mentioned. This is taxpayers' hard-earned money the Government is fiddling with, not something that grows on trees for free. 
During the Budget debate last month I made a suggestion to the Government which would stop all this nonsense. I mentioned that the pay-out figure in unemployment benefits was unproductive and a dead weight. I mentioned that many of our unemployed people wanted to work. I mentioned that $80m only was allocated for local government projects, which was productive money, and that if the Government was keen on assisting local governments and ensuring that moneys paid out in unemployment benefits were productive, it could allocate the $2 50m- it will be more this financial year- also to local governments and allow them to take up the slack in unemployment. This would ensure the continuity of necessary local works without having to borrow money for this purpose. It would ease the burden on the ratepayer. The taxpayer would be happy knowing that his money was productive. The community would benefit considerably. The genuine unemployed person would feel happier earning his benefits instead of receiving a handout. For those who did not want to work there would be no money. It would stop the duplication of unemployment benefits to the one person, and I am positive that co-operation between local governments, the Commonwealth Employment Service, and the Department of Social Security would make such a scheme workable. If the figure of those unemployed reaches 400 000 as predicted by the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Senator James McClelland)  the pay-out for benefits will be enormous, and the administration of the Department made more difficult, due to these increased numbers. The strain on the administration could be overcome by the co-operation of the three departments concerned in the suggestion that I have just made. The Government would be satisfied that local government projects and essential services were being maintained, and the money it was outlaying would be productive. 
-Just referring for a moment to the speech of the Minister for Defence  (Mr Morrison),  if he thinks that we have adopted the Australian Labor Party's policy on defence he flatters himself considerably. I am pleased that the Minister mentioned school cadets in his speech. My allotment of time in this debate will be confined to that portion of the defence allocation where the Government intends to reduce expenditure as from 1 January next year. No doubt the Government has considered this in its estimates but what I wish to point out is the value of what the Government will be losing compared to the money that it hopes to save. It was, I think, on 28 August this year that the Government made an announcement in this chamber through the Minister for Defence that, without exaggeration, sent shock waves through a large section of our community and brought immediate discredit upon itself, the depth of which, regardless of what the Minister says, is still being determined. The Minister announced that the Government had decided to disband the Army Cadet Corps in December 1975. Since then we have seen the announcement that the Air Training Corps and the Naval Cadets are also to be disbanded. 
What the Government hopes to save by doing away with our cadet training system is a very small drop in the defence finance bucket and the matter is worthy of reconsideration. For instance, it would be interesting to know what the Government hopes to save by disbanding the Naval Cadets. I am under the impression that the majority of units are fostered by the Navy League, and the cost of the salaries for instructional staff would be minimal. In fact, I should like to know whether it is possible to disband the Naval Cadets without legislation to do so. Still, that is something for the Minister to worry about. The Minister stated that he fully appreciated that the abolition of the cadet scheme which has been in existence for over 100 years would come as a disappointment to many of the boys concerned, their parents and their schools. I inform the Minister that this would be the classic understatement of the year. In one blind swipe the Government has killed a tradition established and respected in this country for over a century. I will not accept the reasoning that times have changed and the need for such a system of training is not warranted. Times have changed- there is no doubt about that- but the requirement for such a system of training, especially in this age in which we are living, when the need to mould our younger generation in sound moral and physical principles is becoming greater, is of the utmost importance. 
Over the period of time since the school cadets were established I doubt whether one would find many men who had undergone that training who would not admit that it had been of value to them. The Minister mentioned the disappointment of the cadets, the parents and the schools concerned. But for his information I inform him that these are not the only people who have expressed disappointment. Many, many people who have no connection whatsoever with the cadet training system have expressed dismay and disappointment that such a decision was made. Communities are proud of their school cadets. The training is recognised as not being a completely military activity but, to quote one newspaper, it is regarded as a youth activity with a military flavour. 
-That is all we will have left if the honourable members opposite keep going. The Minister expressed the view that this decision would be accepted by those who are genuinely concerned with the need to protect our national interests by ensuring that defence resources are not used for activities which do not contribute to our defence capability. Does he mean by this that those who would maintain our cadet scheme are not genuine in their concern for our defence interests or is he referring only to the number of Australian Labor Party supporters who place national defence in a very low priority in the scheme of things? And how does he arrive at the conclusion that these activities have not contributed to our defence capabilities? Over many years our Citizen Military Forces have contained a high percentage of members who, at the conclusion of their cadet training and after leaving school, have enlisted in the citizen forces because of the interest engendered in military activities by cadet training. If he cares to study the intakes of personnel at Duntroon, Point Cook and Flinders, he will find that a worthwhile percentage of those personnel received from their cadet training their initial inclination to choose the Services as their careers. 
The Minister stated that he made this decision on the recommendation of the Department of Defence, which assured him that the cost effectiveness of the school cadet scheme could not be justified. My answer to that is that if this Government had given the defence of this country the priority thinking it should have given, if it had maintained its promise during the 1972 election campaign that the defence allocation would be nothing less than 3.5 per cent of the gross national product and if it had ensured that the Services were not scratching at the bottom of the bin for funds, I am positive that the recommendations that he states have been made would not have been made and our cadet system would have been maintained. 
This leads me to the statement by the Minister that the 330 regular Army personnel directly concerned with the training of our Army cadets will be free to engage in other military activities when this scheme is abandoned. I do not know for sure how much the Minister knows about the value of the work performed by the instructors of the Army, Navy and Air Force cadets. At a guess, I would say not very much. For many years I have had the opportunity to study their work. The value of their teachings went far beyond that of any military significance. They taught these lads the principle of leadership, the value of discipline, the ability to work as a team, the capacity to give and to take orders and above all the principles of self-respect, dignity, loyalty and pride which are associated with personal and material maintenance and the membership of a worthwhile organisation. 
These men are respected by the cadets who seek the advice of their instructors both on and off the parade ground on all sorts of matters. This is one aspect- a very important aspect- of cadet training which will be lost when the scheme is abandoned and which the innovation of adventure clubs will never replace despite the Minister's assertion that it will. I wonder whether the Minister is aware of the duties performed by these cadets and the worthwhile part they play in community activities. Because of the time factor I cite the activities of just one army cadet unit in a year. The school cadet band is part of the Anzac Day march and services each year. It also features in the activities of the annual show. They provide the catafalque guard at the Cathedral each ANZAC day morning. They provide services, activities and expeditions for members of the Duke of Edinburgh scheme and can boast of many successes in this area. During the national canoeing championships held in the north earlier this year this cadet unit installed, serviced, manned and dismantled the communications system that was so much a part of the championships and helped considerably in their success. 
Apart from community activities, the individual acquires the ability to read a map, use a compass, is taught survival, the proper care and cleaning of weapons, and one very important thing- respect for and common sense in the use of weapons. Several of the senior members of this unit, who will be leaving school at the end of this year, are already contemplating the Army as a career. Two of them have already gone through the introductory stages for acceptance to the Royal Military College at Duntroon. This is only one unit and a brief summary of one year's activities. This worthwhile scheme is something this Government wishes to destroy because it says it is too costly. As I mentioned earlier, if the Government had allocated sufficient finance for the maintenance of our defence Services from the time it took office there would have been no talk of disbanding the school cadet system. I suggest to the Minister that this decision is worthy of reconsideration before it is too late. If the Government continues with its decision, it must stand condemned for it. As one of the larger daily newspapers has put it bluntly, regardless of what the Minister for Defence may do he will always be remembered as the Minister who killed our cadet training system, and in so doing also destroyed a great Australian institution and tradition that has existed for over a century. 
-In speaking to the estimates for the Department of Urban and Regional Development I confine my remarks to the problems of financing the defence service homes loan scheme- problems which this Government appears to be experiencing and which should not have happened. I know this is a comparatively new responsibility for the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren),  but the responsibility is nevertheless his. 
In April-May of this year the Government introduced Appropriation Bill (No. 6) which, among other items, included a sum of $ 15m to be supplied to meet the Government's commitment under the Defence Service Homes Act. In speaking to that Bill I mentioned that the sum was completely insufficient to meet requirements and that this lack of foresight on the part of the Minister would create nothing but hardship for a great number of applicants. On 22 April this year in reply to a question from the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  regarding the administrative delays in completing payments for approved applicants the responsible Minister went into a great song and dance act about how the $1 15m which had been made available for the defence service homes scheme had been expended due to the Government's improvements to the scheme and that it was requesting $ 1 5m to meet any delays in payments. 
I have no quarrel with the measures which the Government introduced to improve the scheme. In my opinion they were worth while and necessary. But I questioned whether the amount of $15m was sufficient, as the Minister claimed, to make the scheme operative in an effective way. He stated in his answer that it was possible that a continued demand on the scheme could raise further problems and that the Government would have to face up to that situation if it arose. To me that was an admission that the Government was applying a bandaid dressing to a problem which was becoming increasingly obvious and that it was a hasty patchwork decision to get it over the immediate hump in the road with no regard whatsoever for future hazards. It has become perfectly clear that what I predicted was correct: The amount of $15m was entirely inadequate. 
The Budget allocation now shows a complete disregard for this problem. We are now faced with the mess of hundreds of applicants for defence service home loans being left completely out on a limb, embarrassed and frustrated, with no prospect of the situation improving in less than 12 months. I think the attitude which the Government displays towards ex-servicemen and servicemen in general is indicative of its feelings in this direction. It could not care less. As a consequence some applicants are facing extreme financial hardship and others have become so disgusted that they have given up the idea of owning their own home through the scheme and are still being forced to pay for rented accommodation, which is a complete contradiction of the purpose of the Act. The opportunity for those people who are eligible under the Act to apply for and to receive a defence service homes loan is a right under law which was made by previous Parliaments and upheld by this Parliament. There is a moral issue involved as well as an obligation on the part of this Government to fulfil that right. 
It is not good enough for the Government to say that it will grant approval for approved applicants to obtain bridging finance until such time as it can pick up the tab. During that period, when they have to pay the excessive interest rates on bridging finance, extreme financial difficulties are being experienced by a number of ex-service personnel who entered the scheme in good faith and with a complete trust in the Government's integrity. That trust has been completely betrayed. I could cite many examples of that betrayal but to present an idea of what I mean I shall cite the following cases in which approval to build has been granted with instructions to proceed with the building. The dwellings were completed in June, the applicants are still waiting to occupy the dwellings and the builders are still waiting for their money. Those people have been informed that no money is available to meet the commitment. I ask in all sincerity: How long can this shocking state of affairs be tolerated? 
On 14 May, in reply to a question from the honourable member for Ryan  (Mr Drury),  the Minister who was then in charge of the defence service homes scheme stated that some May and June cases which were due for settlement in those months would be deferred until after 30 June and that others which were due for settlement then could not be effected until July. That appears to be a completely misleading statement because the cases which I have mentioned which were to be finalised in June have been told that no money is available. It is all very well for the previous Minister to state at that time that he regretted the inconvenience and the hardship which had been caused. That is an easy apology to make, but how does he feel now that the results of his maladministration of the scheme have made the situation more serious as far as approved applicants are concerned? Because of the change in portfolios he may feel immune to any criticism. But how does the Minister who is presently responsible for the defence service homes scheme feel about this matter? Is he satisfied with the situation as it is? Is he happy about the fact that the Government cannot meet its obligations regarding defence service homes loans? 
The expression of regret for inconvenience and hardship will not be accepted in this instance and it is no use whatsoever to claim that the Government will meet its obligations regarding moneys in ten or twelve months time. It would be interesting to know whether the present Minister considers the inclusion of defence service homes loans in his area of responsibility as only a very minor responsibility of his portfolio, considering the Minister's preoccupation with his ultraexpensive dream of growth centres such as Albury-Wodonga, Bathurst-Orange and a couple more. I would say that that is so. If that is so, I inform the Minister that his priorities are out of keeping with reality. It would be very nice and no doubt very comforting to think that some growth centre in future may be named Urenville but in the meantime, while that dream is being pursued, hundreds of ex-servicemen and their families are being forced to accept financial hardship because of this Government's lack of foresight and its maladministration affecting the defence service homes loans scheme. 
I have nothing but the greatest praise for the departmental officers who are engaged in attempting to sort out the mess and to satisfy indignant and very worried applicants. I am in close touch with them all the time and, believe me, they are very worried. The Government should not have placed them in that position. It must be humiliating and embarrassing for those officers to try to explain away the Government's failure in this area. I speak of those people who deal directly with the applicants and the public, the servicemen themselves. It may be a fine legal point to claim that the Government has not abandoned its commitments to defence service homes loans applicants but will meet its commitments some time in the future. The all important word is 'when'. 
I think in those cases in which approval to build has been given, in which the dwellings have been completed and in which the Government's financial obligation has not been met there is a case of misrepresentation and false pretences for the Government to answer. The Government's administration of the defence service homes loans scheme has been clumsy and inadequate and I suggest that it move at all possible speed to correct the latest injustice which it has inflicted on the approved applicants before the situation and the Government's credibility and integrity deteriorate even further. 
I have no desire to delay the passage of this legislation through this House. I wish to speak exclusively to the Repatriation Acts Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1975 which I support. I should like to take the opportunity to reply to the remark just made by the Honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  when he appealed to us to appeal to our Senate colleagues to pass the Budget Bills. I suggest that if he were to appeal to his Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  to name the date of the general election he would get the Budget through tomorrow. I support these amendments to the Repatriation Act which I regard as completely machinery measures, but there are a couple of points I should mention. I will take only a couple of minutes. I trust that the Government does realise that the greatest threat to pensions as far as the recipients are concerned is inflation. Therefore as I see it, it is the Government's responsibility to ensure that the erosion of the value of pensions does not occur. This could be achieved by constant checking by the Department of Social Security and if necessary more frequent increases being granted to meet the rise in costs or- I suppose this would be the best idea of all- for the Government to introduce policies that would control inflation and not increase it. 
I was disappointed that the general rate pensions did not get a run in these amendments. I think they deserve it. I shall certainly be looking forward to the legislation proposed to be brought in early next year to adjust them, as the Minister has promised. The Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart),  in delivering his second reading speech, spent considerable time heaping praise on the Government for what it had done. In my opinion it has done no more than it should have done. I have no desire to delay things any further. I support these amendments to the Repatriation Act. 
I ask the Minister for Defence whether he has seen the article in yesterday's  Australian Financial Review  in which it was stated that a 38 000-man Australian Army was aimed at. Can the Minister indicate the validity of this report and inform the House whether an increase in the size of the Army would mean a reduction in the amount available for equipment for the Services? 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the 3 measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
-A quorum has been called for. Ring the bells.  ( Quorum formed) 
Labor Parry and the way in which its members are divided amongst themselves that they cannot come into this chamber - 
-Is the amendment seconded? 
Sitting suspended from S.S9 to 8 p.m. 
-I rise tonight to speak on the Repatriation Acts Amendment Bill in this cognate debate. I regard this Bill as a machinery measure I shall not take many minutes of the House's time. I wish to make only a couple of comments on the Bill. The Government's proposal to update the repatriation benefits in line with the movements in the consumer price index is certainly welcome. It should never be forgotten that the first principle of repatriation is compensation and that there is a responsibility on governments to recognise that an individual's service in the armed forces in the defence of our country is worthy of compensation when, as a result of his service, this individual suffers some disability. Unfortunately as the length of time from the end of a war becomes greater, people are apt to forget that there are some members of the community who will remain handicapped because they received thendisability during service and that this condition could remain until death claims them. People may forget this, but governments never should. 
I know that for some years, as the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Newman)  explained in his second reading speech, the main repatriation pension rates have been increased twice a year. The policy of the Government to continue this situation in line with the consumer price index changes is to be commended, but when these increases are to take effect unfortunately is left completely to the whim of governments. There have been instances over the years- I go back quite a few years- where the increase in benefits has not been allocated for some time after a rise in the consumer price index. This has caused quite an amount of hardship in a number of instances which reacts adversely against the repatriation principle of compensation. It appears to me that when any rise in the consumer price index is known at each six-monthly interval, it would alleviate a certain amount of hardship for a number of repatriation pensioners if the increase to their pensions could be allocated immediately. I am referring now of course to suggestions that I have made previously that automatic adjustments to repatriation pensions in line with consumer price index changes should be introduced. As shadow Minister for Repatriation at the time of the 1974 elections, I had the privilege of including such a clause in our repatriation policy. I am well aware that this suggestion of automatic adjustments will be considered by the Minister. But he must do this in conjunction with the recommendations of the Toose report on the inquiry into the repatriation system. I am confident that the Minister will decide on a system appertaining to the payments of increased repatriation pensions that will be acceptable to everybody. 
Again I note that the proposed increase will bring the special rate pension to $78.85. This is not enough. For some time I have been advocating the establishment of a fixed relationship between the special rate- the totally and permanently incapacitated pension- and the Commonwealth minimum wage. This I also included in the repatriation policy of 1974. But I know that the Minister will be studying this in conjunction with the recommendations of the Toose report. I am also heartened quite a little by the Minister's statement that he has requested the views of major ex-service organisations on recommendations in the Toose report. Within these organisations there are men of wide experience and discernment in repatriation matters and their opinions could assist the Government considerably. 
I listened tonight to the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  when he mentioned matters of repatriation policy. He also mentioned what the previous Labor administration had done for repatriation people and said that it had done so much. I was quite proud of the honourable member because in a number of instances the Labor administration had adopted quite a number of the items that I had included in my 1974 repatriation policy. So I was very proud of him tonight when he did mention this. As I say, I regard this Bill as a machinery measure only. Again, I welcome the announcement of the increase in pensions and trust that this Bill will have a speedy passage through both Houses. I support the Government's proposals. I most definitely oppose the Opposition's amendment. 
-Can the Minister for Defence inform the House of the present position regarding the updating of the defence force retirement benefits pensions? 
-Has the Minister for Defence seen the Press report that claims that the Government has reneged on its promise to reintroduce the school cadet training system? Is there any justification for such a report? 
-Can the Minister for Defence give me any information regarding the amount of surplus in the old DFRB fund and whether it is the intention of the Government to distribute any surplus among the contributors? 
-I think this can be decided during the second reading debate. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
-1 join in this debate for the express purpose of recording my pleasure that the long awaited adjustments to the pensions of recipients under the Defence Force Retirements Benefits Act and the Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Act will now be undertaken. I commend the decisive and speedy action of the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  and the Government in having the unjust situation that previously existed in this respect rectified after only 4 months in office. Many recipients of pensions under the defence force retirement benefits scheme depend entirely upon their pensions as their source of income, and the delay in the adjustment of those pensions has caused unnecessary hardships in quite a number of instances. The failure to recognise that as a fact and to effect the necessary adjustments will stand recorded to the everlasting discredit of the previous Labor Administration. It is not as if it was unaware of the situation because on quite a number of occasions I brought this matter to the attention, both publicly and privately, of  Mr Barnard  and  Mr Morrison  when they were successive Ministers for Defence. I also appreciate the Government's attitude in making the adjustments retrospective. I am well aware that its actions in this respect will ease the financial hardship suffered by a number of recipients because of the unnecessary delay in making adjustments. 
One very important matter remains to be resolved with regard to the DFRB and DFRDB pensions; that is, the making of automatic adjustments to those pensions. I was pleased to hear the Minister say in his second reading speech that the present adjustment is an interim measure only and that it is the Government's intention to have a permanent method of updating and making adjustments to pensions or benefits received by recipients under the 2 Acts. I trust that we will see this happen in the very near future. I regard this as a machinery Bill. For that reason I will not take up any more of the time of the House except to say again that I wholeheartedly commend the speedy action of the Minister and the Government in this matter and recommend that the passage of this Bill through both Houses of the Parliament be effected as quickly as possible. 
I address a question to the Minister for Repatriation. Not having had an opportunity to study completely the new Medibank system, I ask: Will repatriation pensioners be disadvantaged in any way under the new system? 
-I will not take any notice of that. There is no substance in the point of order. 
-My question is addressed to the Minister for Repatriation. Is it true that repatriation pensioners in future will have to pay for their medical prescriptions? 
-Has the Prime Minister seen reported statements by the Queensland Premier that some of the funds allocated to defence should be made available for housing? Will this suggestion be considered? 
I, too, regard the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund (Distribution of Surplus to Pensioners) Bill 1976 as a machinery measure, and my comments will be very brief. I commend the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  and the Government on their prompt action in dealing with this matter of the distribution of the surplus funds under the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act. It is a matter with which the previous Labor Administration could have dealt, should have dealt, but neglected to deal. It could have cleared up this situation at any time during its term of office, but it chose not to do so. It is not as though the money involved is government money; it is money which belongs to the contributors under the Act. For 3 years we waited for action on this matter; for 3 years I pressed for the distribution of this surplus. I think that the previous Government's failure to ensure that these contributions were refunded was a further indication of its indifference to the Services and to the men in the Services. 
-No, you did not. The fact that the compound interest component of the accumulated amount will be included in the amount available for distribution will, I am sure, indicate to the personnel of the Services, both retired and still serving, that this Government does concern itself with matters affecting the defence Services. I again commend the Minister and the Government for introducing this measure so speedily. I trust that the Bill will have a swift passage through both Houses. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
What are the costs involved in supplementing Commonwealth cars with taxis during the shuttle services for Members? 
What are the reasons for employing taxis on the shuttle service when Commonwealth cars are standing idle? 
How can the taking of taxis away from public taxi ranks for shuttle service work be explained in the light of his recent statement that the Government will seek to encourage the availability of more taxis in Canberra? 
-I think there has been a little licence so far in the debate. There is no substance in the point of order. 
Now I come to what was said by the former Minister for Urban and Regional Development, the honorable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  in a most emotional speech. He said that the national heritage had been downgraded by years of neglect and that this would continue under the Liberal-Country Party Government. I find that in the 1974-75 Budget proposals he and his Department were asking for $73m to set up the Australian Heritage Commission. 
-Can the Prime Minister say whether the Government has made a decision to maintain a separate Department of Repatriation? Does the Government intend to make any changes in the responsibilities of that Department? 
-Firstly, when speaking to these estimates I would sincerely like to congratulate the Government on its decision to place all those affairs related to the ex-service communities under the one administration which will be the new Department of Veterans Affairs. 
I must correct that-not all ex-servicemen's affairs but most of them. This is something I have wanted for a long time and it has come to pass. The Defence Forces Retirement and Death Benefits scheme still remains in the Defence Department and I am hopeful that in the near future it, too, will be administered by the new Department. I am speaking to the Repatriation estimates. In the near future there will be a new department, and in answer to the interjection from the honourable member, this has been a long desire of mine. I know I can speak on behalf of the Returned Services League of Australia and the Australian Services Council in offering congratulations to the Government on its decision. 
The establishment of the new Department of Veterans' Affairs will make no difference to future estimates of expenditure for repatriation, defence service homes or the Australian War Graves Commission. In fact, I have no doubt it could mean less cost in future expenditure because of the streamlining of the administration which must occur under the one command structure. I would like to pay tribute to the administrative staff of the Repatriation Department which is an efficient and dedicated team, as are members of other departments handling exservicemen's affairs. This is without question and I know that the staff can be welded into the one great team which will be of benefit to exservicemen. The establishment of the new department of Veterans' Affairs is of historical significance and again I congratulate the Government on its decision. 
In the Repatriation estimates I notice that finance has been allocated for expenditure on medical and hospital benefits. But looking at the amount that is allocated, I feel that no provision has been made to include hospital and medical benefits for all ex-servicemen and women. I say this because this is Government policy. It was also the Labor Government's policy, although it did nothing about it. I realise perfectly well that the implementation of this policy would require additional finance. At the present time we are undergoing an economic recession and the necessary finance is not available. However, to assist in implementing this policy affecting these ex-servicemen and women, I suggest that this policy could be introduced at regular intervals on a priority basis as finance became available. The priorities I suggest, and which the RSL has researched and agreed upon, are as follows: Firstly, ex-servicemen and women suffering from vascular disease; secondly, ex-servicemen and women suffering from arthritic disease; thirdly the dependent wife and children of a totally and permanently incapacitated pensioner who is also in receipt of a part service pension; fourthly general rate pensioners of 70 per cent or more; fifthly, ex-servicemen and women suffering from other chronic complaints; sixthly, all returned exservicemen of World War II over 60 years of age- and that is a bit of a plug for me; seventhly, all other returned ex-servicemen and women from World War II; eighthly, all ex-servicemen of 70 years of age or more - 
I will remember you next time I am sitting in the chair. 

 Mr DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Lucock)Order! I suggest to both sides of the chamber that members cease interjecting and commenting across the chamber. It is not helping as far as the quorum is concerned. It is not helping the Committee.  (Quorum formed) 
Finally, the ninth matter in the list of priorities is ex-servicemen and women in receipt of a tapered service pension. If this policy was progressively introduced according to the priorities I have suggested, and as finances permitted, this Government would have honoured its promise to extend hospital and medical benefits to all ex-servicemen and women at a rate it could afford and to the satisfaction of everybody. Nowhere in the estimates could I find a specific amount allocated to nursing homes subsidy. It may well be that there is one and I have missed it, but I still believe that this is one of the most critical areas of need in social welfare. 
A recent survey of nursing home charges indicates that in New South Wales, which I use specifically as an example, the average cost of nursing home accommodation is approximately $120 per week. In the case of the ex-service community this creates excessive hardship for the service pensioner as well as the age pensioner. The veteran, of course, who needs nursing home accommodation as a result of war caused disabilities, has his charges met by the Repatriation Department, but should a service pensioner, or for that matter an age pensioner have occasion to be accommodated at a nursing home, that person is in real strife. The pensioner under the new Budget arrangements receives a weekly amount of $43.50 a week. If he is entitled to receive fringe benefits, the Health Department pays $64.40 a week by way of subsidy. To relate this to the average cost of $120 a week means that a sum of $12.20 must be found from some other source. It either comes from relatives, from some welfare organisation, or, as in the majority of instances, it comes from the pension of the patient's spouse. 
Not only does it leave the pensioner patient with no income at all; it leaves the pensioner's spouse with $12.10 less in the weekly pension on which to live. I feel most strongly that this creates an unacceptable level of hardship. I know that the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  is well aware of the situation and that at the present moment a committee of review is considering this matter to attempt to rectify the situation. May I suggest that the circumstances of each nursing home be reviewed independently. Some circumstances differ. I know this is so in north Queensland. I would ask that the committee produce its findings and recommendations as soon as possible because each week that passes sees a continuation of this unnecessary hardship for the Service pensioner and the age pensioner. 
Thanks to my friend the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage),  who drew attention to the state of the House, I have run out of time, but in the very near future - 
-In speaking to the estimates on the Department of Primary Industry- I do not have much time- there is one section which I believe should be given immediate attention. The results of such attention I am sure would benefit the industry as a whole, would increase our export earnings and would provide lucrative employment to quite a number of our Island and Aboriginal people at very little cost to the Government. The section of primary industry I refer to is the fishing industry. In his address to the South Australian Fishermen's Cooperative Limited last month, the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  mentioned that the fishing industry needed to expand and develop to meet changing market conditions. He also mentioned that the value of exports in 1975-76 was a record $80m but there seemed to be a situation in the fishing industry of inability to supply. This may be so with the normal, ordinary fish product. 
There is one product which we have not touched or harvested for many years. This product is in abundant supply and the Asian countries would provide an excellent lucrative market. I refer to the beche-de-mer industry or, as it was commonly called in Australia, the trepang industry. Some years ago this was a thriving industry but bad harvesting methods forced its closure. Now Australia is in a position to re-open this industry and, providing the harvesting methods are controlled, there is no reason why it should not be an economically viable concern for many years to come. 
It has been brought to my notice that Russia recognises the food value of the trepang and is constructing a sea-food farm in Peter the Great Bay on the Soviet Pacific Coast to breed this sea slug for food production. Sri Lanka is also entering this field. I believe we should enter this particular field of trade for these reasons: Firstly, the trepang is easily assimulated in the Asiatic form of diet, giving much needed protein; secondly, it is easily distributed in Asian countries for it does not have the complicated chain of distribution such as meat, which requires refrigeration, and there is much more protein per lb retained because of the drying process; thirdly, Australia has the largest trepang fishing grounds in the world which are at present lying idle; and fourthly, new markets would be created, where at the present time we do not supply protein food. 
In the speech I referred to, the Minister also stated: 
In an effort to stimulate fishing activity and to ascertain what new fisheries resources there are in waters up to 200 miles from the Australian coastline, the Government in the August Budget provided $20,000 for exploratory projects off South Australia, Tasmania and Victoria. 
May I suggest to the Minister that here is a ready-made project in our northern waters that needs only a little effort to make it a going concern and an excellent export income earner. 
Funding for the marine biology section of the James Cook University and the Australian Institute of Marine Science to research all aspects of this project, especially sensible management of harvesting, would not be great. I believe funding should be provided immediately. Capital cost outlay to establish this trepang fishing industry could be undertaken by private enterprise, and I am reliably informed that there are some organisations willing to do just this. It would also mean that quite a number of our Island people would be employed, for they are recognised as expert trepang divers. 
Some Asian countries have already indicated that they will place orders for this product immediately fishing commences. I suggest to the Minister that inquiries begin immediately to reopen our trepang fishing industry. I know it would be worth while, and I would be only too happy to supply the Minister with any further information on the marketing of this product that he may require. I mentioned earlier that finance had been allocated to research the expansion of the fishing industry, but nowhere in the Estimates can I find any allocation for the preservation of the industry as it at present exists. I refer to the depletion of particular species of popular eating fish that inhabit the estuaries of our northern waters, for which there is always a ready market. There are many reasons for this depletion, and I feel it is time we thought seriously about aquaculture to preserve these species of fish and ensure a continuity of supply. 
My time for speaking in this debate has almost concluded. I suggest that the Minister or his departmental officers liaise with the Queensland department concerned to investigate the desirability of establishing such an aquaculture centre as soon as possible. This would be a really worthwhile project and would cost the Government very little. It could be considered over and above the expenditure in these estimates. Such a centre would involve the re-stocking of all our estuary streams with fish for which, as I said before, a ready market is available. 
Before I finish I should like to record my thanks to  Mr Keith  Bryson, a world-wide known authority on northern fisheries, for the information he has supplied to me on the beche-de-mer industry and for his outstanding efforts on behalf of the fishing industry in north Queensland. I appeal to the Minister for Primary Industry to investigate this branch of primary industry. If his officers have a look at the matter they will find no problems in regard to the co-operation of the northern people. I know that it would be a worthwhile project. Incidentally, I can supply the Minister with information on orders, already committed from Taiwan, China, Singapore, Hong Kong and many other Asian countries, just as soon as this industry commences. I commend the suggestion to the Minister. 
Consideration interrupted. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drummond -Order! It being 10.30 p.m., in accordance with the order of the House of 18 February 1976, I shall report progress. 
Progress reported. 
-My contribution to this debate will deal with the Repatriation Acts Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1976. 1 intend to be very brief as I do not wish to delay the passage of this very important Bill through the House any longer than necessary. It is sufficient for me to say that the proposed increases in repatriation pensions are most welcome, covering as they do the totally and permanently incapacitated pensioner, the intermediate rate pensioner, the general rate pensioner, the war and defence widow's pension and the Service pension. Perhaps the most important section of the Bill is that which provides for the automatic adjustment of repatriation pensions twice yearly, in May and November, in accordance with the increases in the consumer price index. The records will show that the automatic adjustment of pensions is something I have been trying to promote for some years. The previous Labor Administration would not accept the proposal in its entirety, and each question on the matter that I put to the Minister of the day received a negative reply, and well I remember it. 
I commend the present Government for its acceptance of the proposal of automatic adjustments to pensions and for the promptness with which it has introduced the necessary legislation. The important part about it is that it will serve to take all pensions- both those dealing with Service personnel and those dealing with personnel on the civilian side- completely out of the political arena. Never again can the matter of pension increases become a bargaining point to win votes from the electors during a pre-election Budget or at election time, a procedure which I believe reduces the dignity of the pensioner quite callously and unnecessarily. I first brought up the matter of automatic adjustments to pensions in order to stop the practice of making pensioners political footballs during my maiden speech in this House nearly 10 years ago. It is with a tremendous amount of satisfaction that today I support the Bills presently before the House and again congratulate the Government on introducing them. 
I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: At the recent South Pacific Forum meeting did all countries agree to the establishment of a 200-mile exclusive economic zone? Will Australia act unilaterally before the next conference on the Law of the Sea Convention? 
-My question which is directed to the Minister for Defence is on the same subject as the question asked by the Leader of the Opposition. Has the Minister seen the article referred to? If so, can he add anything to what the Prime Minister has already said? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Defence. I refer to further allegations made in the  Bulletin  this week regarding security leaks. I ask: Does the Minister stand by the assertion made by the Prime Minister and himself that there has not been any improper disclosure of classified documents initiated since November 1975? 
-I present a report from the House of Representatives Select Committee on Tourism. The report states that the Committee has been unable to complete its inquiry. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I seek leave of the House to make a short explanatory statement. 
-I will be brief in my comments as I have waited a long time for this Bill to be introduced and I shall not detain its passage through this House for any longer than is necessary. During his second reading speech the Minister Assisting the Minister for Defence  (Mr McLeay)  said 'the adjustment provisions incorporated in the Bill are detailed and complex'. That would be the understatement of the year so far, but as long as the provisions correct the injustice that ex-service pensioners have suffered for so long I am satisfied, and I know that they wm be too. 
The Bill provides for pension increases to be retrospective from the first pay day in July 1976. 
That, as I understand it, is the 13.4 per cent pension adjustment factor for 1976-77 according to the consumer price index movements. As I further understand it, on the first pension pay day of July this year there should be a further percentage increase according to the CPI movements up to March of this year. If my understanding is correct, this will bring the ex-service pensioner up to the automatic adjustment level of Commonwealth Public Service pension beneficiaries. I may add that it is not before time because for many years the ex-service pensioner has been neglected as far as adjustment provisions have been concerned. Ex-service pensioners have always been the last group to receive adjustment benefits, yet a great number of them fought in 3 wars for this country. That is a fact that governments have been inclined to overlook. 
I also note that the Minister stated in his second reading speech that 'the Government is currently considering a number of beneficial variations to the existing legislation arising from a general review of the revisionary benefits structures of the DFRB and DFRDB schemes'. He is getting as complex as the Bill. This is interesting and welcome news as far as I am concerned, for my own report on the subject will be completed by the end of March. I have no doubt that it, too, will contain matters for review. Perhaps they also could be studied with the Government's review. At long last, after all these years, we have a government that is prepared to consider the problems of the ex-service pensioner, and I commend it for that. I welcome this amending legislation and trust that it gets the speedy passage through both Houses that it deserves. 
-I present the minutes and proceedings of the Select Committee on Tourism relating to the report which I presented to the House yesterday. 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister. Has the honourable gentleman seen reports of a statement by the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions describing the rise of 6 per cent in the consumer price index as disastrous? What would be the effect on the economy if that disastrous increase in the CPI were to be passed on by the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in higher wage costs to industry? 
-Has the Treasurer seen reports on the flooding in north Queensland as a result of Cyclone Otto? Is he aware of the extent of the damage caused by the cyclone in the Townsville, Ingham and other areas in north Queensland? Is the Government able to provide any assistance to the areas affected? 
-My purpose in speaking in this Address-in-Reply debate is to bring to the attention of the Government the extremely serious situation which has arisen from the recent flooding in north Queensland. This situation concerns the extraordinary damage caused to our road system in the north. I call it extraordinary because I have not seen damage like it for many years. Normally we expect some damage and erosion each year due to the severity of our monsoonal season but this year it was certainly more than we expected. In fact, I anticipate that the cost of repair to our road system, when an assessment can be completed, will be far beyond the amount able to be subscribed by local government, the State Government and the Federal Government under the present system of funding. 
North Queensland 's economy depends almost entirely on a serviceable, adequate road system. I am well aware that other areas of the nation are in the same situation. But in the north, that dependence becomes vital during the cane harvesting season which, I might add, commences in June. The recent heavy flooding experienced in the north has resulted in washaways, bridge damage, landslides and road deterioration which, to restore even some semblance of serviceability, will tax very heavily the resources of local government and State Government instrumentalities. Without urgently required Commonwealth assistance it could result in the dislocation of road services and usage over a considerable period of time. 
The road systems in the Townsville, Ingham, Tully and Innisfail districts have suffered extreme damage. I can speak with authority on this matter as I have had the opportunity of studying this damage. The extent to which the roads have been damaged has to be seen to be realised and understood. Over the last 2 weeks I have presented a number of petitions from residents in those areas who are extremely concerned about this problem and, I might add, their concern is illustrated by the fact that during the 10 years that I have represented the electorate of Herbert this is the first time I have received petitions from these people regarding the state of our roads. I believe that their concern should be recognised and I also believe that it should become the concern of the Government, both State and Federal. Last week I presented to this Parliament a petition containing 6587 signatures, belonging to residents of Townsville asking that the Federal Government take immediate steps to assist in the maintenance of the road system in that city and district. The rapidity of the deterioration of the roads during this current wet season has been alarming. It has also created a hazard for the motoring public. This has led to a series of very serious accidents. The damage has become so extensive that the local councils, despite their all out efforts, are finding it extremely difficult to maintain an effective repair program. When this matter first arose I decided to investigate it to find out what the problems really were. My investigations into the problem have shown that the current wet season we are still experiencing is not the only cause of road deterioration. 
For 15 to 20 years Townsville has experienced a period of accelerated growth. The demands on the road system have increased accordingly. Normally the construction of the road system would be satisfactory and would incur no unusual problems, but the city of Townsville has been built on clay-based soils and salt pans, and this factor, coupled with seasonal, high intensity rainfalls has caused problems with construction and maintenance which I am positive are not duplicated anywhere else in Australia. For many years local government and the State Department of Main Roads could cope with the road maintenance problem but in latter years, with the increasing volume of traffic, allied with the rapid growth of the city, the maintenance problem has become extremely acute. Unlike other areas and because of the unstable foundation of the land on which the city was built, deterioration of roadways is more rapid and maintenance costs are much higher. While it is said that hindsight is perhaps the better sight, if governments of years ago could have foreseen the growth of Townsville as we have seen it, more suitable foundations could have been laid which would have eased the maintenance costs we are experiencing today. It would have meant more construction capital outlay but the people would have reaped the benefit of it today. However, that was not done and consequently we face the immediate problem of urgent road maintenance and insufficient finance to manage it. 
Townsville is the second city of the State of Queensland. It is recognised as the fastest developing area in Australia, even outstripping Canberra over the last 2 years. Yet it has the worst road system because of the reasons I have mentioned beforehand. The national highway north and south of the city is a complete disgrace. For the thrill of a lifetime I would like to see- I go even further still and invite- members of the departments, both State and Federal, which are responsible for our road system to drive a car along the northern highway in the tourist season when the roadways are cluttered with caravans. That would be the thrill of a lifetime. To the best of my knowledge, only one Minister responsible for our road system has ever tried it and that was Charlie Jones, a Minister in the Labor Government. Believe me, he was not impressed. Maybe if he had lasted long enough in the saddle he would have done something about the situation. But that again is extremely doubtful, for southern interests always seem to get the biggest slice of the cake, even though the north provides the lion's share of the State economy and contributes handsomely to the national economy. 
-The honourable member for Kalgoorlie can have a burst about the west later. I agree that the west needs roadways, but we need them urgently in the north at the moment. I want it to be understood clearly that I am not playing politics; nor am I saying these things to make some political gain in the electorate. My colleagues to the north, south and west of me are similarly concerned with the problems associated with road damage. But what I want understood is that there is a specific case for special consideration for road reconstruction and maintenance in north Queensland at the moment. 
I am well aware that the Federal Government increased the level of Commonwealth funds for roads. I am well aware that the Federal Government provided $ 100m in addition to the previous allocations for 1975-76 and 1976-77, just as I am aware that the State Government's contribution to road expenditure is declining. In this regard I share the Commonwealth's view that State governments also have a responsibility to make funds available for roadworks. As far as Queensland is concerned, that share of funding should be increasing, not declining as the figures show. However, this should not deter the Federal Government from taking a special interest in northern Queensland's road problems. May I suggest to the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon),  who, I know, is very concerned about the serviceability of our road structure and who, despite our difficult economic situation at the present moment, in my opinion is doing a remarkable job with the allocation of funds for roads, that he send a responsible officer from the Department to examine the situation as I have outlined it in the areas which I have mentioned and to talk to local shires and local councils to obtain a first hand report of a situation which is cause for extreme concern in northern Queensland. When my claims have been substantiated, and if special funds are allocated to assist our road maintenance program, can those funds be channelled directly to the local governments concerned? I am sure I would become exceedingly angry if even 1 c of that allocation were to be inadvertently diverted to some other area. 
I believe we were greatly honoured recently when  Her  Majesty the Queen chose to visit us and to open the Second Session of the Thirtieth Parliament during her Silver Jubilee year. I have great pleasure in supporting the motion moved by my colleague the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Groom). 
My question is directed to the Minister for Defence. Has the Minister seen the article in the  Australian Financial Review  of last Tuesday week referring to service pensions and the service retirement scheme? If so, what is  the Minister's reaction to the article, which I found particularly offensive and misleading? 
I do not wish to detain the House very long. This Bill can be classed as a purely machinery Bill which puts into effect those matters foreshadowed by the Government in December of last year. It establishes the Defence Service Homes Corporation as the body to administer the Defence Service Homes Act and also effectively brings the complete administration of the Act under the one umbrella, the Department of Veterans Affairs. This is something I have been advocating for a number of years. I forget the number of departments that war service homes or defence service homes schemes have been operating under since their inception many years ago. This must have created an amount of frustration and administrative difficulties which should never have arisen. I have previously paid tribute to the good work done by the staff under these conditions and I do so again now. I can also add that it is good to see that the defence service homes scheme has been brought home under the administration of ex-servicemen's affairs, where it always should have been. I also commend the establishment of the Defence Service Homes Trust Account which I feel will assist the administrative process considerably. 
However, there are still a few matters concerning the Defence Service Homes Act which must be looked at closely and in my opinion adjusted by amendments as soon as possible. Foremost of these matters is the clause relating to eligibility for a defence service home which was introduced by the previous Labor administration. Briefly, and without going into detail, it extended the eligibility conditions to include those serving personnel who had completed a minimum of 3 years effective service, and it did not matter whether the servicemen had done overseas service. In my opinion this legislation completely destroyed the original concept of eligibility for a war service home, which was compensation for active service overseas in the defence of this country. If the Labor administration of the time introduced this measure as a recruiting aid, it failed miserably. What it did do was to create such a heavy demand on finance for a war service home that the waiting time to finance a loan had to be extended to 11 or 12 months. This, as we all know, has created unnecessary hardship for all eligible servicemen. I would like to see this part of the Act amended to alter this 3 year eligibility clause. If the Government wishes to include years of service as an eligibility factor and a condition of service, I have no objection providing it is done on a priority basis, where those personnel who have taken part in overseas service and who have left the Services have top priority. This should also relieve the waiting time for loan settlements. 
As I said I do not wish to detain the House very long. I trust the Government will consider the suggestion I have made and introduce an amendment to the Act to implement my suggestion in the very near future. I wholeheartedly support the amending Bill now before the House. 
-The proposals outlined in the Repatriation Acts Amendment Bill 1977 are indeed welcome. They are important measures and should assist in greater efficiency in administering the Act. What also pleases me is the fact that the proposals were developed from the conclusions and recommendations of the independent inquiry into repatriation conducted by  Mr Justice  Toose.  His  report is one of the most meaningful I have ever read. Veterans' organisations were consulted for their opinions before the amendments were decided upon. This latter point is in keeping with government policy which I introduced in 1974 that no changes would be made to the Repatriation Act without prior consultation with ex-service organisations and which we have adhered to since then. The honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  mentioned repatriation boards. It is gratifying to see that arrangements are made for returned service organisations to be represented on the boards and to be known as services members. To me, this representation is extremely important. I stress the point with all ex-service organisations that when they draw up a list of names for submission to the Repatriation Commission in order that that body may choose the services members, the list should be compiled carefully and the names submitted should be given the most searching consideration. I say that because it is necessary if the ex-servicemen appearing before the board are to receive fair and just consideration. 
The clause which states that a board shall consult and co-operate with the Commission is an important measure and must assist in determining the merits of any appeal. The decision of the Government to discontinue the present system of appointing boards on a State basis with activities limited by State boundaries, which I always thought was damn stupid, and to replace this system by appointing boards at large with no territorial boundaries is, I feel, an excellent one. The decision to vary the constitution of the boards or, in order words, rotate the membership of them must serve in the better interests of the working of those members. This will add to the knowledge and experience of board members which must reflect to good advantage in the understanding of the claims before the board. I am pleased to see that neither the Minister nor the Commission is authorised to direct a board with respect to its consideration or determination of a particular claim or application. This has been spelt out very clearly in clause 15 (5) of the Bill. While I doubt that this practice ever took place, some people were of the opinion that a Minister could influence the decision of a board. As I have said, I am very pleased that this misconception has now been dismissed loudly and clearly. 

 Mr Justice Toose was correct in his findings that many claims in the past have been presented in an inadequate fashion, as the honourable member for Prospect also said, resulting mainly from a misunderstanding of section 47 of the Act. Iii some instances this created a feeling of distrust and injustice towards members of a board by some claimants. The proposed section 47 contains provisions for the benefit of the doubt and onus of proof which previously led to varying interpretations of these important measures. I still say that it was a most unsatisfactory situation. The amendment to this section will rationalise and simplify the benefit of the doubt provision. The fact that the board must be satisfied beyond all reasonable doubt that insufficient grounds exist for the granting of a claim lifts a great cloud from the board's process of determination. The way I read it, a claim will succeed if, after weighing all the evidence, a state of doubt still exists. 
It is also particularly gratifying to see that in future boards will take into account any difficulty which may exist because of the lapse of time between service and the lodgement of a claim and accept that there is a possibility that medical records may never have been kept or may have been lost according to circumstances and that witnesses may no longer be available or a claimant may not have reported a disability during service. These situations have arisen as most of us in the House know. In fact, in my own unit it was practically impossible to keep adequate or up to date medical records in the early part of the war. The clarification of this part of section 47 will ensure that, in future, claimants can be assured that justice will be done. I have a great deal of pleasure in supporting the Repatriation Acts Amendment Bill 1975. 
I refer the Minister for Defence to the Treasurer's Budget Speech in which the Treasurer stated that defence expenditure for 1977-78 would represent a one per cent growth in real terms. Is the Minister aware of the criticism in the Press and by the shadow Minister for Defence that this is mythical and patently false? Will the Minister explain the basis of the Defence estimates for 1977-78 to clear this matter up once and for all? 
-(Herbert)-by leave-I wish to make a statement on behalf of the Select Committee on Tourism on an issue which has been generating a great deal of publicity in recent months. The particular issue is that of advance booking airline charter flights to and from Australia. The last 30 years have seen many changes in the nature of airline operations. International air travel is no longer restricted to a small elite and is now a method of mass transportation. The United States-Europe route has developed from being exclusively a series of scheduled flights at one price. The introduction of economy fares was followed by advance booking affinity group charters. A more recent introduction has been the walk-on walk-off service, where tickets are purchased at the airport on the day of departure and in-flight services are kept to a rninimum. 
The system at present operating to and from Australia is mainly that of scheduled services. In May of this year a  Mr Laker  of Laker Airways Ltd appeared before the Committee and outlined his plans for an advance booking charter operation between Australia and Europe.  Mr Laker  proposed 104 flights each year between Australia and Europe. He has made a submission to the Department of Transport outlining his plans but has yet to make a formal application. The Australia-United Kingdom fares suggested by  Mr Laker  are significantly below the lowest presently available to the general public, that is, the advance purchase excursion fares known as APEF offered by Qantas Airways Ltd and British Airways. He has proposed a $530 offseason return fare in contrast with the present $850 APEF fare, and a $834 high season fare compared with the present $ 1 1 50 APEF fare.  Mr Laker  claims that his fares would create a new category passenger and create a new segment of demand. He argues that the market from Europe which he would be tapping would be people planning to stay one to two weeks in Australia the holiday pleasure market. 
Qantas has appeared before the Committee on two occasions. In January of this year it outlined the possible effects of increased charter flights on the scheduled services between Australia and Europe. Qantas concluded that the transfer of a significant number of passengers to charter services would leave insufficient traffic to justify the continuation of scheduled services between Australia and many countries in Europe. 
An alternative was for a strict ceiling to be set on charter capacity and to provide a limited number of charters only in the two largest markets of Sydney/London and Melbourne/London. At a later hearing earlier this month Qantas stated that it would be possible for either Qantas or its charter subsidiary Qantair to mount advance booking charters between Australia and Europe with a range of prices similarly attractive to those being quoted by Laker. Qantas noted however that a lot more analysis was required before specific rates could be suggested. 
The Australian Tourist Commission and many other witnesses who have appeared before the Committee have suggested the introduction of more charter flights to Australia. The introduction of more generally available charter flights between Australia and Europe would probably have some effect on scheduled services as well as increasing the number of travellers to and from Australia. However, neither Laker nor Qantas has provided satisfactory estimates of the effect of low price charters on overall demand. The Department of Transport acknowledged that tourist travel to Australia by air would be affected by the cost of travel and the level of transport services provided. In evidence given prior to the appearance of Laker the Department claimed that the lowest possible fares will be most likely achieved by scheduled carriers using price differentiation. The Department suggested that it would be virtually impossible for a charter flight operator to better the $850 fare. 
The Committee's attention has been drawn to a September 1973 report by the Sub-Committee on Aviation of the Committee on Commerce of the United States Senate on Inclusive Tour Charters. The report noted: 
At that time, 1966, the effect of the Inclusive Tour Charters on the total air transport system was unknown, and the restrictions were designed to prevent the impairment of scheduled service. The Committee believes that experience since that time has indicated, however, that charter competition is not nearly as great a threat to scheduled service as was once thought. 
That Committee suggested further liberalisation or charter flight rules subject to a monitoring by the United States Civil Aeronautics Board to ensure that essential scheduled services should be maintained. The report also noted: 
The Committee recognises that until there has been some actual experience with one stop Inclusive Tour Charters the Board will have no empirical basis for determining whether there are markets in which restraints should be imposed. 
Our Committee believes as a first principle that promotion of travel to and from Australia can only benefit from the availability of cheaper air fares. Further, none of the views so far put to the Committee on the disadvantages of charter flights of the type proposed by Laker have been substantiated by experience. This Committee considers that there is a strong case to be made for the introduction of advance booking charter flights between Australia and Europe along the lines proposed by  Mr Laker.  This should be on a trial basis of two nights a week for up to two years. Longer term arrangements would need to be determined in the light of the experience gained during the trial period. This experience would include the influence on real consumer demand and the effect, if any, on scheduled services. I thank the House. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Has the Prime Minister seen reports that inflation is now well into the single digit range? If this is so, what effect does this have on the economic outlook? 
-On behalf of the Select Committee on Tourism, I present the interim report of the Committee, together with the minutes of proceedings. A limited number of copies is available from the Table Office and copies have been placed in the Parliamentary Library. Additional copies will be available for general distribution in the near future. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-by leave-Since it was first appointed in December of last year, the Committee has become acutely aware of the problems and potential of the Australian tourist industry. One hundred and sixty-two witnesses representing 73 organisations have appeared before the Committee. Twenty-seven public hearings have been held in 14 cities around Australia and the transcript of these hearings now runs to almost 5,000 pages. Because of the calling of an early election it has not been possible for the Committee to conduct all the hearings it had planned or to present a final report. This interim report covers a number of the issues which have arisen during the course of the inquiry. 
The Committee found that, whilst there is a general acknowledgement of the economic importance of tourism, there are few statistics which indicate that importance. The specialist advisers to the Committee,  Dr Pigram  and  Dr Cooper,  prepared a paper for the Committee on the economic significance of tourism to Australia. The estimates made by the advisers are more in the nature of indicators of magnitude than absolute distributions of economic activity. It was estimated that the contribution of tourism to gross domestic product in 1974-75 was $3,300m. In addition to its direct effects, tourism also has indirect effects on the economy. In 1974-75, governments are estimated to have gained 172m in indirect tax, $165m in company tax and $355m in income tax. The advisers also estimated the multiplier effects of tourism. For every dollar generated by tourism a further 25c is generated in the rest of the economy. Similarly for every two direct jobs in tourism one further job is created and an increase in tourism turnover of $10,000 creates 1.2 1 jobs. 
It was estimated by the advisers that tourism provided direct fulltime employment for 263,000 persons and indirect employment for 136,760 persons. Tourism also makes a significant contribution to Australia's balance of payments as well as increasing the community's knowledge of Australia and the Australian heritage. There is no hard evidence available as to the benefits of holidays to community health and welfare. The Committee recommends that the Department of Health should make a study of this matter. 
The tourist industry can play a positive role in regional development and decentralisation. It is a relatively low cost industry with distinct growth prospects. The motor vehicle is expected to remain the dominant mode of transport and retain its 90 per cent share of recreational trips. The role played by the air transport mode is expected to increase while that played by sea and rail transport will decrease. The role of the Australian Tourist Commission was considered by the Committee. The Committee attaches considerable importance to that organisation and trusts that it will be given sufficient funds to promote Australia effectively overseas. 
The Committee has commented on the need to create an awareness of the holiday opportunities available to Australians within Australia. The Committee is aware of a proposal by the Australian National Travel Association for a government industry program to generate employment in national tourism areas. Representatives of that organisation appeared before the Committee on 20 October ana were questioned on the proposal. The Committee sees considerable merit m the proposal and recommends that should the industry commit itself to raising $2m over two years then the Commonwealth Government should grant $2m over two years to the Australian Tourist Commission to allow it to conduct a joint promotional campaign with the Australian tourist industry. The Committee supports the view that visitation to environmentally significant and sensitive areas should be controlled and in some cases restricted. It recommends that the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development identify those areas requiring long term management plans to protect them. 
The Committee sees a need for the registration of travel agents and recommends that the Minister for Industry and Commerce introduce legislation to register travel agents. The problem of seasonality is one in which little progress has been made in recent years. The Committee recommends that each State and Territory should establish committees to consider the introduction of staggered holidays. During the course of the inquiry particular reference was made to the training needs of the industry. The Committee recommends that a survey of the training requirements of the industry needs to be carried out as soon as possible. 
Many of the submissions received by the Committee referred to the problem of penalty wage rates. The Committee notes that wages and conditions are determined within an industrial framework which includes the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. The Committee has recommended that the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations establish a tripartite working group to consider the terms and conditions of employment within the industry and that any changes agreed to by that working group be submitted to the Arbitration Commission. There are a number of financial incentives where the tourist industry is at a disadvantage when compared with other industries. The Committee recommends the introduction of a depreciation allowance for income producing buildings and amendments to the investment allowance and export market development grants scheme. Recommendations have also been made in relation to access to finance, the Brisbane airport, regional routes for domestic airlines and intrastate pick-up and set-down rights for longdistance coaches. 
As it has not been possible to consider all the parts of the terms of reference nor all the issues raised during the course of the inquiry, the Committee recommends that it be reappointed in the next Parliament and given access to the records of this Committee. The Committee welcomes the establishment of the Travel and Tourist Industry Advisory Council and recommends that its membership be announced and its first meeting held as soon as possible. Should the Committee be reappointed it recommends that the Minister for Transport make available to it the reports of the steering committees of the Department on international civil aviation policy and domestic air transport policy. In conclusion, the Committee considers the long term future of the industry is a prosperous one. I also pay tribute to the cooperation the Committee has received from the State governments, Commonwealth departments and the industry. 
Finally, I would like to pay a sincere tribute to the members of the Committee, especially my  Deputy Chairman,  the honourable member for Lang,  Mr Frank  Stewart, whose assistance to me personally has been invaluable. And to the secretariat of the Committee  Mr Phil  Bergin,  Mr Alan  Kelly,  Mrs Anne  Marie Nagle and Miss Virginia Greville, I would say a special thanks. The Committee members and the staff have worked over and beyond the normal work of committees, and I would like to record my appreciation of their co-operation. 
-I appreciate the opportunity to address the House for a few minutes. As previous speakers have mentioned, for health reasons I am not seeking re-endorsement for my seat of Herbert. This will be the last time that I can enjoy the honour and the privilege of speaking in this famous chamber. I have been very conscious of the privilege extended to me by the people in the federal seat of Herbert, in electing me in the last S elections which have covered 1 1 years. To be their representative has been a privilege of which I have been extremely proud. During those 1 1 years I have enjoyed the friendship of honourable members on both sides of this House and in the Senate, and your friendship,  Mr Speaker.  I should like to stress how much I have appreciated those friendships. I should like to think that we can continue them in the future. 
I also offer my special thanks to the staff of Parliament House- the attendants, the clerical staff, the drivers, the stewards and waitresses, the girls in the typing pool, the girls on the exchange, the Library staff, the  Hansard  staff, Gordon Pike and his team, and in fact aU those people who are engaged in the daily operation of running this Parliament House. I have appreciated their constant courtesy and their willingness to assist me at all times more than mere words can describe. To the various Ministers' staffs and the departmental officials and the staff of the whips' offices over the 1 1 years that I have been worrying them with my famous maul a Minister day that used to happen once a fortnight, I say thank you kindly for your valuable assistance to me and my electorate.  Mr Speaker  and members of the chamber, I wish you aU the best of luck in the forthcoming election, but more importantly I wish you all the best of health in the coming years. I have always regarded it as a great honour to serve in the Federal Parliament of this great country, an honour that comes to relatively few men among our Australian people. I sincerely thank you all once again. 
