Where did the rest go? 
I ask specifically: Who gave the order for the withdrawal? The reply I received to the question I directed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Army said in part: 
The troops were withdrawn only after their allotted tasks had been completed and the remaining tasks were well within the capability of State relief organisations. 
That is not true. Their job was not completed in the area. The answer went on: 
When Army assistance was no longer required clearance for withdrawal of the Army relief was given by the local State emergency committee representative. 
I say that the withdrawal took place in spite of the protest of the local representative. I know this because I was there at the time. I immediately rang Canberra seeking to delay the Army's withdrawal. I contacted the Army office here and was told by a lass who answered the telephone in the Department of the Army that everyone was at lunch. When I insisted that there was an emergency and that the Army ought not to leave the area she went so far as to seek out a person to whom I spoke. He said he would try to put through a stop order and would let me know in due course.I am still waiting. 
Perhaps  Senator Greenwood  will agree to consult with the Minister representing the AttorneyGeneral. The matter rests with  Senator Greenwood.  He may then ask leave of the Senate to alter his amendment accordingly. 
You should seek leave. 
 I will protect you,  Senator. 
Government and the present Administration have failed lamentably to inform the people of Australia on this issue. That is why we have lost the propaganda war both here and in the United States - because the people have not been taken into the confidence of the Government and properly informed. I can recollect one pamphlet of some value which was put out by the Department of External Affairs. It was quite factual. But when I made inquiries about the possibility of getting a supply of those pamphlets for distribution I was told that only a limited number had been printed. Is that evidence that there is extravagance in the expenditure of money on literature and other publications for the purpose of aiding the Government? As 1 said at the commencement of my speech, the Democratic Labor Party could not support the proposed amendment because it is feeble and puerile. 
ls leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
 The proposed amendment seeks the details of how the reserve is to be invested, not the amount of it. 
Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
 The question is: 
That paragraph (h) stand as printed in the Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 28 and 29 agreed to. 
 Order! In conformity with the sessional order relating to the adjournment of the Senate, I formally put the question: 
That the Temporary Chairman do now leave the Chair and report to the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. (The Temporary Chairman having reported accordingly) 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
Proposed new clause 19b. 

 Senator MCCLELLAND (New South Wales) 1,3.171-1 move: 
After clause 19, insert the following new clause: " 19b. After section 3? of the Principal Act the following section is inserted: - 
(I.) Where a claim by a medical practitioner has been disallowed in whole or in part under sub-section (I.) of section thirty-four of this Act, the medical practitioner may, within twenty-one days after receipt of notice of the disallowance, appeal lo the Supreme Court of the State or Territory in which the medical practitioner resides against the decision of the Minister disallowing the claim.  (2.) The Supreme Court of each State is invested with federal jurisdiction, and jurisdiction is conferred on the Supreme Court of each Territory, to hear and determine appeals under the last preceding sub-section.  (3.) The Minister shall be the respondent in the appeal. " (4.) Upon an appeal under this section the Court shall have regard lo the evidence before the Committee of Inquiry and the report of the Committee.  (.5.) If the Court is satisfied that the medical practitioner has, in respect of the medical services specified in the report of the Committee, been guilty of failure to discharge conscientiously his obligations under the agreement entered into with the Director-General under section thirtythree of this Act, it shall dismiss the appeal but, if not so satisfied, it shall allow the appeal and set aside the decision of the Minister.  (6.) The Court may order either party to pay costs to the other party.  (7.) The jurisdiction conferred by this section is exerciseable by a single judge of the Court, whose decision is final and conclusive.   (8.)  A medical practitioner is not liable under section thirty-four of this Act to pay an amount to the Commonwealth in pursuance of a decision by the Minister disallowing a claim in whole or in part until the expiration of the period within which the medical practitioner may appeal against the decision or, if an appeal is instituted, until the determination of the appeal.'.". 
The proposed amendment relates to the provision of an appeal by a medical practitioner against a decision of the Minister to disallow a claim in connection with the pensioner medical service. The sections of the Act relevant to this amendment are 34, 35 and 37. Section 34 refers to the disallowance of claims on report of a committee of inquiry. The section provides:  (1.) If a Committee of Inquiry established under Division 2 of Pan VIII of this Act reports that, in its opinion, inthe circumstances of a particular case, a medical practitioner- 
should have been, or should be, paid an amount or a rate less than the amount or rate of fees or allowances prescribed by the regulations; or 
should not have been, or should not be. paid any amount, in respect of medical services specified in the report, the Minister may, in accordance with that report, disallow, in whole or in part, a claim by that medical practitioner in respect of those services. 
The amount that is then determined by the Minister as being liable to be repaid by the medical practitioner is then recoverable as a debt due to the Commonwealth. Under the existing arrangements no appeal is exercisable by a medical practitioner against such a determination by the Minister. In examining the absence of an appeal by a medical practitioner against a decision of a Minister in respect of a disallowance by the Minister of a claim as a result of a report by a committee of inquiry one goes 10 section 35, which states: 
The Minister may, after investigation and report by the appropriate Committee of Inquiry 
reprimand the medical practitioner; or 
terminate immediately the agreement entered into with the medical practitioner under section thirty-three of this Act 
The agreement referred to relates to the pensioner medical service. If the Minister does take such action then under section 37 the medical practitioner has a right of appeal from the Minister's decision. Sec- tion 37 (1.) states: 
A medical practitioner affected by the termination in pursuance of section thirty-five of this Act of an agreement entered into under section thirty-three of this Act may appeal to the Supreme Court of the State or Territory in which the medical practitioner resides against the decision of the Minister to terminate the agreement. 
Many medical practitioners claim that it is unfair that there is no method of appeal against decisions of disallowance which might be recommended by the committee or decided upon by the Minister. The committee of inquiry conducts its hearings in camera and I understand that there is some disputation, or there has been some disputation, as to whether a doctor appearing before the committee is entitled to legal representation. The Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  has said in another place that he has had discussions with the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Hughes)  in an endeavour to find some appropriate form of appeal to a court in a case where the committee has found that particular medical services provided for should not have been claimed. The Minister has also indicated that because these committees of inquiry are conducted on a doctor to doctor basis and this system is the one most favoured by the medical profession therefore to bring in a judge on appeal not only on medical matters but also on legal matters will further complicate the situation. 
I point out that already in relation to the immediate termination of the agreement or reprimand of the medical practitioner the medical practitioner has a right of appeal to the Supreme Court. We are also suggesting that so far as section 34 is concerned on the disallowance of claims on report of the committee of inquiry there should be a right of appeal to a court. We say that because this is recognised by the Government under section 37 if the doctor, in connection with the disallowance of a claim, thinks that there has been a miscarriage of justice, this could quite easily be overcome by a right of appeal to a Supreme Court being vested in this case. We believe that it is in the interests of justice that this amendment be carried and I have therefore moved it on behalf of the Opposition. 

 Senator Dame ANNABELLE RANKIN (Queensland - Minister for Housing) [3.27] - I have listened with interest to  Senator McClelland  and the points he has raised concerning the amendment which he has placed before the chamber. In replying on behalf of my colleague the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  whom I represent here, 1 inform the Committee that the Govenmcnt must oppose this amendment but it is sympathetic with the objective which is sought by the Opposition and will certainly, after it receives the report of the Administrative Review Committee, give further consideration to the question whether it is practicable to find a form of appeal to a court or. alternatively, to an administrative tribunal in these cases. On coming to that point 1 think. 1 should go into more detail as indeed the Minister himself did. The Minister has been examining the question of an appeal against the reduction and disallowance of claims under the pensioner health medical service for some time and he has had many discussions with the Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes)  and the medical profession in an endeavour to find some appropriate form of appeal to a court in these cases. However, he has pointed out, and very clearly, that the principal difficulty is that the committee system itself provides for the examination of the conduct of a medical practitioner by his peers and it is considered that mis is the system most favoured by the profession generally. He also said that the provision of a right of appeal to a court would involve both legal and practical difficulties. 
Let us first look at the legal aspects, lt must be kept in mind that a judge could not make any judgment on the correctness of the committee's recommendation or on the decision of the Minister to disallow or reduce claims in accordance with the report of the committee without calling expert witnesses to give evidence as to the necessity or otherwise of the visits made to the pensioner patients. There is the undesirable feature thai particular cases would be examined and pensioners could and probably would be called upon to give evidence. In both cases there could be a serious intrusion - I think everyone will appreciate this - into the privacy of the doctor-patient relationship. A/so, as the decision of the Minister is based on the Committee's assessment of the level of services necessary for the medical needs of the patient a court would not decide an appeal without calling expert witnesses to inform it. 
The most important practical considerations - as compared with legal ones - involved in providing an appeal to a court are that if an appeal to a court were provided it would be difficult to get suitable medical practitioners to serve on the committee and a medical practitioner would be unwilling to serve if he knew that the judgment of the Committee could be examined and questioned in open court. The appeal to a court against termination of a doctor's agreement to participate in the pensioner medical service is provided in the National Health Act, but in very few cases is the agreement terminated. Since the pensioner medical service was introduced there have been only 12 cases which represent  1%  of the total of the cases examined. The effect of that proportion of cases going to court will probably not discourage medical practitioners from serving on the committee, but if this became the rule rather than the exception the Minister feels quite certain that it could discourage them, lt may be equally difficult to obtain expert witnesses to testify in open court against fellow practitioners who were willing to serve on a committee, and in any case the criterion laid down in the proposed amendment, that the court should consider whether the medical practitioner has been guilty of failure lo discharge conscientiously his obligations under the agreement entered into with the Director-General is inappropriate and inadequate. 1 am so advised by the Government's legal advisers. 
The committee may recommend disallowance of a claim on the basis that a doctor was being over conscientious in providing more services than were necessary for the medical needs of the patient. The State branches of the Australian Medical Association did not unanimously support he concept of appeals against decisions based on the committee's recommendations. The only State branch of the AMA which has had very much to say about this matter at all is the New South Wales branch. The debate on this Bill, concerned as it is wilh the major changes in the medical benefits arrangements, does nol seem to me to be the appropriate time to consider the complex question of appeals against decisions made in relation to the pensioner medical service, lt could well be possible to develop a system of appeals lo an administrative tribunal or to the proposed Commonwealth superior court. A committee known as the Commonwealth Administrative Review Committee has been established with terms of reference which include consideration of the jurisdiction to be given to the proposed superior court to review administrative decisions. The report of this Committee may well express views concerning administrative appeals otherwise than to a court, and in the Government's view it would therefore be advisable to await the report of the Committee. That is a point which J want to stress again. I conclude as I commenced by saying that the Government must oppose the amendment but it fully sum.pathises with the objective sought and will certainly, after it receives the report of the Administrative Review Committee, give further consideration 10 the question as to whether it is practicable to find a form of appeal to a court or. alternatively, to an administrative tribunal in these cases. 
I wish you would all address yourself to the Chair and not to each other. 

 Senator Dame ANNABELLE RANKIN (Queensland - Minister for Housing) [8.32] -  Senator Greenwood  raised 2 points before the suspension of the sitting which I said I would answer. He mentioned that section 80 of the Act applies only to the cancellation or suspension of an organisation and not to an application for registration. That is correct. However, on the introduction of the new health benefits plan all existing organisations will have to apply for registration to operate from 1st January 1971. If any application for registration is refused, either in respect of the whole organisation or in respect of an organisation's operations in a particular State, the Bill provides in clause 53 (7.) that the application will be treated as a cancellation of registration. In this event the organisation will have the same right of appeal to a Supreme Court as would an organisation whose registration was cancelled or suspended. I think that answers the queries the honourable senator raised and in relation to which we had a little crossfire before the sitting was suspended. 
The honourable senator also expressed doubts regarding the intention in the drafting of the amendment, lt is true to say that to require the Minister to act by regulation would be ineffective. As I have pointed out already the Governor-General, not the Minister, makes regulations. Regulations cannot grant something; the granting of something is an act carried out by a person. 
I think that covers the point he raised.  Senator Wright  and  Senator Byrne  both enlarged very splendidly on this aspect when replying to the queries raised by the honourable senator. I say again that the Government opposes the amendment. 
Question put: 
That the clause proposed to be left out  (Senator McClelland's amendment)  be left out. 
ls it relevant to the amendment proposed bv  Senator McClelland? 
ls the honourable senator dealing wilh the whole of the clause or wilh a sub-clause? 
Is it the will of the Committee that we consider both amendments together? There being no objection, that course will be followed. 
Is it the will of the Committee that both amendments be taken together? There being no objection, it is so ordered. 
Question put: 
That the amendments  (Senator Devitt's)  be agreed to. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
After clause 2, insert the following new clause: 2a. Section 12 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting the words "and such allowances (if any) as the Governor-General determines", and inserting in their stead the words "as the Parliament provides, and such allowances (if any) as are prescribed, but until the first day of January, One thousand nine hundred and seventy-one, the Commissioner shall be paid such remuneration (if any) and such allowances (if any) as the GovernorGeneral determines".', and 
After clause 3, insert the following new clause: 3a. Section 23 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting sub-section (3.) and inserting in its stead the following sub-section: "(3.) The Director shall be paid such remuneration as the Parliament provides and such allowances as are prescribed, and on such other terms and conditions as are prescribed, but until the first day of January, One thousand nine hundred and seventy-one, such remuneration, allowances, terms and conditions shall be as are prescribed.".'. 1 think that  Senator Murphy  has put the case regarding these amendments andI hope that the Committee accepts them. 
 Senator Drury,  as the mover of the motion do you wish to reply? You will not be closing the debate. 
 Order! There being 26 ayes and 26 noes, the question is therefore resolved in the negative. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
-I  would like to get this formalised.  Senator Drury,  do you seek leave to amend your amendment, as suggested  by  Senator Murphy? 
 Senator Murphy,  as it seems to be your intention to take all the proposed amendments together, I suggest that you seek the leave of the Senate to do so. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
General Business taking Precedence of Government Business 
Is it the wish of the committee that requests Nos 1 and 7 be taken together and that requests Nos 2 and 3 be taken together? There being no objection, that course will be followed. 
Request Nos 1 and 7 - 
Request No.1. 
In clause 5, at end of the clause add the following paragraph: "(c) by omitting from sub-section (4.) the words  other than an attendance at which an examination of the patient's eyes is made in consequence of which spectacle lenses are prescribed'.". 
Request No. 7. 
In the proposed Schedules, First Schedule, after Division 13. insert the following new Division: "Division . 14 8289 Refraction performed by a registered optometrist 1.10'. 
Second to Seventh Schedules (inclusive), at end of each Schedule insert in the first column the number '8289" and inthe second column the amounts '1.60', '1.30', '0.95', '0.09', '0.90' and '1.10'. respectively. 
 The result of the matter raised  by  Senator Dame  Annabelle Rankin is that she  has  asked that the division  be  called off and that further consideration  be  given. Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 Senator Dame ANNABELLE RANKIN (Queensland - Ministerfor Housing) - by leave - I move: 
That the request be not pressed. 
In doing so, I would like to make these points: 
Request No.1 is for the deletion of the long standing provision that Commonwealth benefits are not payable for a consultation at which an eye specialist prescribes spectacle lenses, while request No. 7 proposes the payment of Commonwealth and fund benefits at the rate applicable to a general practitioner consultation for refraction tests carried out by optometrists. The provision not to pay benefits for eye specialists in these cases was first included in the National Health Aci in 1953 as a result of strong objections by the optometrical profession to the proposal to pay Commonwealth benefits for sight-testing examinations if they were carried out by medical practitioners. As the Act now stands, therefore, optometrists arc placed on the same footing as ophthalmologists so far as Commonwealth benefits are concerned, in other words Commonwealth benefits are not paid for any al tendance al which spectacles are prescibed either by an optometrist or ophthalmologist. This is regarded as an equitablesituation for the two professional groups involved. 
However, if request No. I relating to ophthalmologists were agreed to in isolation, ophthalmologists wouldbe placed in an advantageous position as comparedto optometrists and it would be. of course, a logical extension to extend the payment of benefits to eye refractions carried out by optometrists. At first glance it would seem that request No. 7 would bring about parity between the professions and provide a solution tothe problem. But I would point out to honourable senators that one only has to look at the proposals in more detail to see that this is not the case. Taking New South Wales as an example, the position would be that patients who visited an ophthalmologist would receive Commonwealth benefit of $4.25 and fund benefit of $4.25, a total of $8.50 from a common fee of $11.00. while optometrists' patients would receive$2. 30- $1.10 Commonwealth and $1.60 fund benefit - towards the usual charge of $8.50. Thus a person visiting an ophthalmologist would only pay $2.50 while a person visiting an optometrist would pay $5.80. 
There is sizable expenditure involved in the proposed amendments and on a point of principle the Government is concerned at the effect on budgeting that is involved in proposals of this nature. The estimated cost to the Commonwealth of paying the benefits for these services by both doctors and optometrists is estimated to be$2m but, as I have already explained, the 2 professions would still not be in an equal position. To provide Commonwealth benefits to optometrists equal to that proposed for ophthalmologists would cost the Commonwealth some S4m. Insofar as fund benefits are concerned the payment of fund benefits for optometrists services - they are already paid for ophthalmologists - would necessitate an increase in the rates of contributions to most funds, if not immediately, then after a short time. 
As I indicated in my opening remarks, the Government is not prepared, nor is it reasonable to expect it to do so, to change a long standing policy of this kind without having an opportunity for investigation of the proposed change in detail along with questions of a similar nature, such as the provision generally of ancillary medical services under the health benefits plan. As I have advised honourable senators, a full scale review of ancillary services is proposed by the Government with the ultimate aim of bringing legislative proposals before Parliament. The Government is fully aware of the merits of the case and because of this and the sincere desire to ensure the best overall conditIons an overall review is essential before ad hoc decisions can be taken in  specific  areas of ancillary services. We must determine priorities in this area. Who can decide objectively at this point of time whether benefits for patients who have- had spectacles prescribed should be provided before benefits for patients receiving other costly health services such as physiotherapy and home nursing. For these reasons the Government is not prepared to accept these amendments. 
 Is  it the  wish of the Committee that amendments Nos 3 and 8 be taken together? 
This  matter comes within my discretion. I propose to divide the question into 3 parts. The first is that all of the Senate amendment No. 10, excluding paragraph (b) of proposed new clause 25, be not insisted upon; the second is that paragraph (b) of proposed new clause 25 be not insisted  on; and the  third relates to the alternative amendment. 
Question put: 
That all of the Senate amendment No 10, excluding paragraph (b) of proposed new clause 25, be not insisted upon. 
Order! We are in Committee and the honourable senator must address himself to the relevant clause. 
 Senator, do  you mind if we deal with the amendments separately? 
There being no objection, leave is granted. 
Order! I do not uphold the point of order but I accept  Senator Murphy's  motion. 
Question put. 
 Order! I have been examining the principal Act. I think,  Senator Bishop,  that you have been straying slightly from clause 15 but I seem to detect that perhaps you are preoccupied with clause 16 and you may wish to debate clauses 15 and 16 together. 
 Senator Cavanagh,  do you yield to the Minister? 

 Senator CAVANAGH (South Australia [5.0 a.m.] - No. There is great acclamation in the chamber that justice has been granted on this occasion. There are times when even a Minister has to take some notice of democracy. I hope we still have some democracy left in Australia, although tonight's proceedings would not resemble it too much. 
Order!  Senator Murphy,  your remarks do not relate lo seel ion 109. 
Over the years costs of proceedings have been very serious matters because the bills have amounted to tens of thousands of dollars. I think the unions are quite justified in their complaints. They say that in future costs should not be awarded against them and they ask - I think it is a reasonable proposal - that the orders which have been made already should not stand. This issue came to a head last year in the O'Shea case. There is no doubt that that was a case of very great injustice to the trade union concerned. The matter was discussed at some length in the Senate. I had a close understanding of that case. 
Il was very noticeable that, once the tacts started to emerge in the Senate, the Govern-' ment retreated. I recall the horror and astonishment of Government senators when they learned the real facts of the case and how the trade union involved itself in proceedings in the High Court in an endeavour to support awards of the Commission. The union involved itself in very heavy costs. lt had to pay fines and costs in the Commonwealth Industrial Court. 
The Commissioner described the situation as being so unjust that it could not be allowed to continue and he deleted the bans clause. Notwithstanding this, in a situation of real merit the trade union was subjected to heavy lines and costs. Why, in justice, should the fines and costs against that trade union continue to stand? The same applies to other trade unions. If in fact (here has been an abuse of these proceedings in the past - that is generally conceded and is a pretty charitable way of stating the position - that abuse has led to an awareness that this law should be changed and the trade unions have been driven to a position in which they say that they are finished with this provision and that they will not pay the fines and costs. What is the Government doing if it leaves that provision in the law other than forcing a confrontation? 1 1 is as if the Government is determined to produce industrial strife by leaving that provision in the Act. It can mean nothing else. If what was happening was wrong, if there was abuse - that seems to be generally conceded - and if these orders were made in the course of that abuse of these powers, which even in the Government's view were intended to be used sparingly and in exceptional cases, in that the powers in fact were used as a most common means instead of conciliation and arbitration being used and resort was had constantly and abusively to these exceptional powers, why should the fines and costs that were imposed stand? 1 believe that there is a very strong case, not only from the point of view of the trade unions but also in the national interest, for seeing that the slate is cleaned and thai we do not leave a situation in which this provision can be used to provoke an industrial upsurge. The position of the trade unions has been made clear. 1 can only see that the 
Government intends to leave a situation in which there can be a provocative course embarked upon, a confrontation and an industrial upheaval all over the country if an attempt is made to enforce payment of these fines. If the Government does not intend to enforce payment of the fines, why does it not take this provision out of the Act. If the Government does intend to enforce payment of the fines, it knows that it will produce an industrial upheaval. I suggest that the commonsense course and the course that is consonant with the national interest is to delete that provision and to insert the proposal mode by the Opposition, which will have the effect of ending the orders and costs that have been made. 
by leave - I wish to make a statement in relation to a matter raised earlier today by  Senator Cavanagh  in connection with the conduct of Estimates Committee A. I wish to make the following information available to the Senate as part of my role as  Chairman  of Estimates Committee A. It relates to the examination of the estimates of the Department of Supply. On 1 7th September questions were asked by  Senator Young  and  Senator Murphy  of the Minister of Supply  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  who was present for the examination of the estimates of that Department, for which he holds ministerial responsibility. The Minister was not able to give a specific answer to 4 questions asked by Senators Murphy and Young. On my suggestion he acceded to the request that he provide information in answer to the questions asked by those 2 honourable senators. Estimates Committee A resumed its hearing on 13th October. At the conclusion of the examination of the estimates of the Department of SupplyI called for the papers containing the information which the Minister for Supply, who also is the Leader of the Government in the Senate, had promised to provide to the Committee. In reply to  Senator Murphy,I  ruled upon the incorporation of these matters in Hansard. I said: 
There is nodifficultly about getting the explanations I have referred to attached as an annexure to Hansard but interleaving them withthe questions is the problem. 

 Senator Murphy then asked: 
Is it possible at thestage thatthose items occur or to include a notation to see further references later on? 
I replied as follows: 
I can only give the undertaking that I will do the best I can. The explanation I give is that within the mechanics of the Hansard procedure I will attempt to get these incorporated in the best possible way in which reference can be made to them by the reader of Hansard.  Senator Murphy  raised the question earlier about the green folder issued by the Department of Supply. I do not know whether this can be incorporated in Hansard. Perhaps it could be made available bythe Ministerto the Senate. 
Following this undertaking that I gave to the Committee and to  Senator Murphy  as it appears on page 142 of the Senate Estimates Committees A, B and C Hansard published for Thursday, 13th October, there is incorporated, beginning at the second' column on that page, the information provided by the Minister of Supply in answer to the questions asked by Senators Young and Murphy. This information is available to the readers of Hansard as undertaken Referring now to the supplementary matter which I find was not able to be annexed or included in Hansard, the' Minister gave the following undertaking: 
I would not want it incorporated in Hansard but 1 think we should make it available so that when we go back into the Senate it will be available.I will undertaketo table that. 
conclude therefore,  Mr President,  by saying that the fullest of information was divulged. It has been made availableto the Senate in Hansard and it is available to the general public who wish to read it. 
by leave  -  I move: 
That leave be granted to the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange to meet during the suspension of the sitting of the Senate this day. 
I should like to make a brief statement to the Senate. There is some doubt in my mind as to the relevant standing order relating to the silting of the Estimates Committees this morning and that relating to the Estimates Committees which, as noted on the notice paper and the paper listing the order of business, are to meet this afternoon at 4 o'clock. Secondly, the senators who are members of the Select Committee and are able to take part in its deliberations, if leave is granted, are not required to be in attendance on the Estimates Committees which propose to sit this afternoon. Thirdly, I have 2 witnesses from Sydney, the examination of whom has not been completed. Senators surplus to requirements of the Estimates . Committees, as it were, meeting at 4 o'clock this afternoon, if leave is granted will be able to continue their examination of the witnesses, who may then be permitted to return to Sydney. I ask leave of the Senate for this Committee to sit. 
 There being no objection, leave is granted. 
Order!  Senator Cavanagh,  I am always willing to protect senators' rights. 
Are there any requests? I call  Senator Georges.  This lime he did not have to attract my attention by declaring his intention to speak. 
Order! In conformity with the sessional order relating to the adjournment of the Senate, I formally put the question: 
That the Temporary Chairman do now leave the Chair and report to the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. (The Temporary Chairman having reported accordingly.) 
Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
We now come to another section of the Estimates. If it suits the convenience of the Committee I suggest we take the following together: Divisions 370 to 374; Division 755- Administration of the National Service Act; Division 75(5  -  Post Discharge ReSettlement Training; Division 757  -  National Service-Vocational Training and Technical Training; Division 758  -  Commonwealth Hostels Ltd - Buildings, Works and Equipment - Exmouth Guest House. There being no objection, that course will be followed. 
Iclaim to have been misrepresented by  Senator Keeffe.  I ask for leave to make a statement. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Laucke)  - Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 Senator Sir MAGNUS CORMACKSenator Keeffe made an accusation that as the  Chairman- 
The honourable senator made a statement which lakes the form of an accusation that as the  Chairman  of the Senate Select Committee on Securities and ExchangeI was recreant to my duty in that I made a public statement saying that the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange would not. investigate the Minsec affair, if I may express it that way. As I recollect it, the first news of the Minsec crash appeared on 4th February when I was at sea. Upon my return from sea on 8th February I was contacted by the Secretary of the Committee. .I dictated to him over the telephone a statement which was subsequently read hack to me. The statement was issued and most of the reputable newspapers of Australia printed it in full. I ask for leaveto read the statement that was published. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT - Is leave granted? There being no objection. leave is granted. 
It is in these terms: 
The  Chairman  of the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange,  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack said today that the Committee would he examining the activities of Mineral Securities Limited, its subsidiaries and those connected with it. The Committee has already requested the  Chairman  of the Sydney Slock Exchangeto keep it informed of all developments and has been in daily contact with the Exchange. However, he said it should not be assumed that the Committee's intention was formed only last week as a result of the events which then occurred. It  has been obvious that the Committee's, terms of reference would lead  it  to examine the methods and financing of the large corporate traders  in  the secutities markets.  In  previous statements the Committee has outlined a programme indicating that it would look at such particular activities. 
I  wishto emphasise, however,'  Sir Magnus  said,that while the Committeeis fully aware of the importance of this matter, its function is  only to look at specific events as examples of what may occur, for the purpose of deciding whether to recommend legislation. The Committee does not have an executive function. It will not investigate, for example, for the same purposes as an investigator appointed under the Companies Act. It is not its functionto formulate a detailed report on the activities of particular companies'. I  went on to  say:  . . the Committee would be examining the matter mentioned in the coming months inthe normal course of its work. It should not be assumedthat all evidence would be received in public hearing. The Committee is concerned to conduct its deliberations in a way that would avoid any adverse impact on current market conditions. 
The Committee reassembled as soon as the Senate reassembled and examined the Minsec matter. I was authorised by the Committee on 18th February to issue the following Press statement: 
The  Chairman  of the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange.  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack, said in Canberra today that, following meetings of the Committee, it had been agreed thatthe Committee would proceed forthwithto investigate those activities of the Minsec group which falls within its terms of reference. 
Those are the only public statements I have issued. I claim to have been misrepresented by  Senator Keeffe  andI should be grateful if he would indicate any change of attitude. 
by leave - As honourable senators will be well aware,I am  Chairman  of the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange, which was appointed pursuant to a resolution of this chamber. As the Senate is the House of the States, I have always considered it appropriate that, in dealing with references to the Committee by the Senate. I should consult with the sovereign Stales in relation to matters on which there may be some dispute as to jurisdiction. 
This morning, as a result of a resolution by the Select Committee on Securities and Exchange.I made a public announcement to the effect that it was the intention of the Committeeto call 4 witnesses front Western Australia. I made this announcement shortly before the adjournment of a meeting of the Committee at one o'clock this afternoon. At five past one this afternoon I received a telephone call from the Attorney-General of Western Australia in relat ion to the area of jurisdiction.I then mads a public statement at a quarter past two t h is afternoon which I consider it is proper that I should report to the Senate. I said that after considering a request from the Attorney-General of Western Australia at five minutes past one the Committee had decided that it would not now require the attendance of certain witnesses tomorrow. I went onto say that the Committee would later announce whether it would call the witnesses at a later date. 
In consultation with the AttorneyGeneral of Western Australia. I added the following sentence: 
The Attorney-General of Western Australia and the  Chairman  of the Securities and Exchange Committee of the Senate of the Commonwealth of Australia agree that this action is without prejudice to the powers of the Senate. 
That is the end of the statement. I move: 
That the Senatetake note of the statement. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Willesee)  adjourned. 
by leave - I move: 
Thai so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange sitting during sittings of the Senate this day. 
I owe the Senate an explanation for this motion because 1 know how sensitive the Senate is to the matter of a committee sitting while the Senate is sitting. Indeed I am sensitive to it myself so that makes me all the more concerned to inform the Senate of the circumstances which have caused me to ask for leave and to propose the motion that  I  have proposed. Pursuant to a resolution of the Committee last Thursday, a quorum of the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange proceeded to Western Australia in order to examine some witnesses to lest against evidence which we had derived during the week. It was hoped at that time that this evidence would be concluded by last night, Monday, and that the senators would be able to return to their duties in the Senate today. As a result of some unexpected evidence I informed the Acting  Chairman, Senator Sim,  that the Committee should remain in Perth and take that evidence, and that later in the day I would seek permission of the Senate for the Committee to sit. As it is past the hour when the Committee is able to sit without leave of the Senate, I telephoned some half an hour ago to  Senator Sim  and stated that the Committee was not to sit under any circumstances until such time as the Senate had considered and agreed to my proposal. 
There  is an additional piece of information which I think is relevant and which I believe the Senate should know. One of the terms of reference that the Senate imposed upon the Committee was to examine the problem of insider trading. Insider trading has been tested with witnesses over a period of 7 or 8 months. Most witnesses have replied to questions relating to insider trading in much the same terms that the late  Senator Coolidge  of the United States used when he was asked his opinion of sin. He replied briefly that he was against it. We were interested in the problem of insider trading at the time of the Poseidon matter and pursued it, but unfortunately the scent had gone and the tracks were blurred. In the case of the Leopold matter which is topical and which is before the Committee at present, I feel that it is important that the Committee should follow this through to attempt to discover the extent of insider trading, if there were any, and the extent of insider knowledge. I commend the motion to the Senate. 

 Senator Sir MAGNUS CORMACKNo. A quorum of the Committee consists of 3 senators. For reasons of expense, flexibility and the fact that 2 members of the Committee live in Perth the Committee resolved that a portion of it, which in fact constitutes the Committee under Standing Orders, should seek and take this additional evidence in Perth. So there are 3 senators in the service of the Senate at present in Perth awaiting the permission of the Senate to pursue their inquiries this afternoon. Does that clear the specific point for the honourable senator? 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
by leave  -  I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange silting during the sittings of the Senate this week. 
Sir,I seek the indulgence of the Senate in proposing this motion - with great humility, I might add - because I know thatI am imposing upon the generosity of the Senate which approaches these matters, as I mentioned yesterday, with careful scrutiny and some doubt. I indicated to the Senate yesterday the reason why I sought leave to propose the motion that I proposed and to which the Senate agreed. For this my Committee is extraordinarily grateful. The Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange, under the acting chairmanship of  Senator Sim,  sat in Perth yesterday. The Committee has now returned to Canberra. At 10.15 this morning a full meeting of the Committee was held here and the report of  Senator Sim,  as Acting  Chairman, Senator Wheeldon  and  Senator Rae,  who were in Perth, was presented. The matters that they have disclosed to the full Committee this morning are of such order and importance that 1 felt compelled in the interests of the Committee and in the interests of the Senate to ask for this further indulgence. I hope that honourable senators will grant this further privilege. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I present the report of Estimates Committee A on the additional Estimates for the year 1970-71. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
Order! I remind the honourable senator that he is straying a little from the Clause. My predecessor in the Chair ruled against  Senator Little  and said that he must relate his remarks to the clause. I am applying the same rule to the honourable senator. 
The TEMPORARY CHAIRMANOrder!  Senator Canvanagh  has the call and he should be heard in silence by his colleagues. 
The Bill gives to the Attorney-General power to institute proceedings for offences under the Act. Clause 23 gives that power. The only exception is an offence under clause 16. An offence committed under that clause can be proceeded with without the authority of the Attorney-General. Those who break into offices, such as those who broke into  Senator McManus's  office, will be brought before the court and those about whom some arresting officer has some reasonable apprehension that they will cause damage in an office such as  Senator McManus's  office will, with the authority of the Attorney-General, be prosecuted. Those who break into Jim Cavanagh's office will, without the approval of the Attorney-General, be not prosecuted. That is the intention of the law. The only clause which gives the law enforcing authorities power to proceed without referring to a political authority to say whether politics should be played or whether proceedings should be instituted for a breach of the law is clause 16 which relates to a person causing actual bodily harm to another person or causing damage to property to an extent exceeding $200. That clause relates to protected premises or to a pro tected person. Offences under that clause would be like the normal assault charges or the normal damages cases. 
There is a complete set of laws for the purpose of instituting prosecutions. Recently Commonwealth law has been extended to make State laws applicable on Commonwealth property. Recently the Seat of Government (Administration) Act was amended to cover the citizens of Australia. There is no valid reason for this law, other than to create a fear that already has my Democratic Labor Party friends and the most backward section of my Liberal Party friends in a state of hysteria because of the impending threat of foreseeable demonstrations in which their offices will be invaded, their homes invaded and their lives endangered. The magnanimous Minister said that the Government will not enforce the clauses of this Bill any more than it will enforce the penal sections of the Arbitration Act or the National Service Act. He said that that was not the Government's intention. The Government's intention is to create fear. Having created that fear, before an election the Government will threaten to use this legislation. The Government will use it at election time. The Attorney-General, upon advice from the Cabinet, will say who will be prosecuted and who will not. This legislation is the greatest political stunt that has been pulled in Australia. We have sufficient legislation. The Government is creating a scare. By creating a scare it takes the eyes of the Australian public off the atrocities in, off the bad legislation in relation to and off the murder and rape of Vietnam perpetuated by the Government at present. 
If the Committee is agreeable,  Senator James  McClelland may move to another seat, if the honourable senator who normally occupies that seat is agreeable to vacating it for the time being.Is there any objection to the honourable senator changing his seat? There being no objection, the honourable senator may move. 
Would  Senator Murphy  be agreeable if we got through the Committee stage and argued this question at the third reading stage? 
Order! I ask the honourable senator to explain it to the Chair. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be left out  (Senator Milliner's amendment)  be left out. 
by leave - I wish to make some preliminary remarks before I make the generality of the statement which the Senate has been kind enough to allow me to make. I must say this in explanation: The Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange sought to produce an interim report prior to 30th June, but there were technical problems involved in this. Therefore, the Committee felt that it was proper that a general statement reporting the activiies of this Committee be made to the Senate before it ended its autumn session. As I read the statement I shall make some interpolations which I hope honourable senators will make in the copies which are now being distrbuted to them. The full statement will appear in the daily Hansard. 
The Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange, established by resolution of the Senate on 19th March 1970, feels that it is in duty bound to report to the Senate before the retirement of present senators on the progress made by the Committee. Since its first meeting on 21st April 1970, it has met on 58 occasions, 18 of which have been private executive meetings of the Committee. Evidence has been taken at 40 meetings held in Canberra, Perth, Sydney and Melbourne. Seventy witnesses have given evidence amounting to over 6,000 pages, of which about 1,600 have been 'in camera'. It has been our deliberate policy to draw witnesses from most sides of the financial and commercial sectors of Australia, including representatives of the various regulatory bodies. I am glad to say that we have been most successful with this policy. In particular we have had willing co-operation from stock exchanges, stockbrokers, company registrars, unit trusts, mutual funds, financial journalists, company secretaries, accountants, directors of public companies, geologists, engineers, life officers, shareholders and the universities. 
Hundreds of letters and submissions have been received from private individuals and professional bodies throughout Australia. Furthermore, leading overseas financial organisations and individuals have approached us to seek an opportunity to express their views on the matters we are investigating. For many months now one of our consistent problems has been how to attend to these submissions and inquiries, and especially ot decide which matters should be given priority. Our resources of time, people and money are understandably limited. But there can be no better indication of the interest in the Commit tee's inquiries and the seriousness with which Australians and overseas investors rate the matters being looked at than the high and rising level of inquiries which we receive each day. I need not remind you,  Mr Deputy President,  that the terms of reference under which this Committee was set up have charged us to work in an area of our community that is crucial to the future growth of the Australian economy, for it is through the securities market in the wider sense that the financial savings of Australians and overseas investors are marshalled and then allocated both to growing companies and to government. 
Australia is one of the few countries in the world which possess securities markets where public companies can raise a substantial part of the long term financial resources they require for capital formation. These resources are gathered from thousands of individuals here and overseas either directly or indirectly through many financial institutions. In this process the stock exchange play an important role; it follows that much of our attention has been focussed on their operations. In particular, it is the stock exchange which have the public responsibility of running an ordinary share market in Australia. In view of the serious failures in recent months in the various Australian securities markets, the view has been expressed to us that our Committee could, in the short term, conceivably precipitate further harm which might outweigh the long term benefits which we hope will follow from our work. That is not our view. And the evidence that Australia still has, fundamentally, strongly based securities markets is being demonstrated by the continuing high level of capital inflow and the high level of capital expenditure by public companies financed in particular from capital raisings. The flow of financial savings through our various institutions continues to expand. Stock exchange turnover is well down, but our view is that turnover in these markets in recent years has been well above trend. 
The foregoing facts encourage us to pursue with vigour our inquiries in the hope that the abuses and malpractices which are now well known to us and which have led to grave distortion of the financial system, with privileges to few and losses to many, will be brought under more effective control in the future. We continue to find major weaknesses in the present regulatory system - in the concepts of what the various regulatory bodies are trying to do; in the powers of these various bodies; in their reporting and policing functions, and in the provision of adequate information to the investor rather than to the insider. But although there is a side of the Australian security markets which is particularly depressing I should like to say that the Committee is encouraged by the evidence, slowly mounting, that a public debate is beginning in Australia on the nature and extent of the abuses within the security markets. We are particularly pleased that the debate should be concentrated more and more on just what would be a desirable regulatory system. 
The Committee of which I am Chairman is, I know, currently thinking out its own position on this matter. I would like to stress that the Committee is looking to the years ahead;  it  is important to begin a discussion of this regulatory problem from some assumption on what kind of securities markets Australia should be striving for in the coming decade. Our studies show clearly that regulatory systems can have a major impact on many aspects of the functioning of securities markets. They can influence the nature and extent of abuses and malpractices; but they can also influence the fundamental structure and organisation of these markets. Both influences must be considered. 
If there is one theme that constantly recurs in our investigations,  Mr Deputy President,  it is that one must not look at one aspect of the securities market in isolation from the rest of the market; we are dealing with one large, integrated market for securities, in many respects a market becoming increasingly linked to overseas capital markets, and within that system Stock Exchanges in Australia, e.g., are but one part of a much wider picture. In thinking of an efficient regulatory system one must understand the implications of these trends. In order that the public understanding on these matters may be a better informed one, we are pressing ahead in the coming 4 weeks with a further series of hearings. Following those, the Committee's present intention is to prepare as speedily as reasonably possible a report on its findings with recommendations to present that report, together with the public evidence, to the Senate during the Budget session of Parliament. 
Finally,  Mr Deputy President,  I wish to extend our thanks to honourable senators who gave permission for this Committee to continue sitting at an urgent stage of its inquiry earlier this year, and to assure the retiring members of the Senate that we will carry through to conclusion the important task with which we have been charged under our terms of reference. 
 I wish to make the observation that no demonstrations such as occurred at  the  conclusion of  Senator Greenwood's  speech are allowed in the public gallery of the Senate. The public seated in the gallery must remain quiet while the proceedings of the Senate take place. 
 I was about to ask whether you would be agreeable to that. Is it the wish of the Committee that the Bill now be taken as a whole? There being no objection, it is so ordered. The question now is: 'That the Bill stand as printed'. 
 The Bill before the Committee is an amending Bill. Should the Committee proceed to carry the amendments as outlined and circulated they become requests to the House of Representatives. If they become requests to the House of Representatives they come into the constitutional area where the Senate may not amend proposed laws imposing taxation or proposed laws appropriating revenue or moneys for the ordinary annual services of the Government in such a way as to increase the proposed burden or charge on the people. I put the amendments as circulated to the Committee.  1  put the question: That the request be agreed to.  AH  those in favour say aye, those against say no. Is a division required? 
Is the Committee agreeable to that course being followed? There being no objection, we will proceed in that way. 
After Part X. of the Principal Act the following Part is inserted: - 
Part Xa.  -  Preservation of Rights of Certain Contributors and Former Contributors. 1l9w.  -  (1.) Where a person makes an election under section one hundred and nineteen u of this Act and - 
he becomes employed in public employment within the period that is the prescribed period in relation to him but a transfer value is not payable in respect of him under the last preceding section; or 
he does not become employed in public employment within that period but at the time when he ceased to be a contributor to the Fund or to the Provident Account he had completed twenty years' eligible employment, deferred benefits are, subject to this Division, applicable in respect of the person.  (2.)  Subject to section one hundred and nineteen zb of this Act, deferred benefits that are applicablein respect of a person become payable on the day immediately following the earliest of the following dates: - 
where the Board is satisfied that the person has, by reason of invalidity or of physical or mental incapacity, become incapable (otherwise than temporarily) of performing duties of a kind suitable to be performed by him having regard to the duties performed by him in the employment in which he was employed immediately before he ceased to be a contributor to the Fund or to the Provident Account and the duties performed by him in employment (if any)  in which he was employed after he ceased to be such a contributor - 
if, at the date that the Board is satisfied was the date on which he became so incapable, he was not employed in public employment - that date; or 
if, at that date, he was employed in public employment - the date on which that public employment terminates; 
if- 
at the date of his death he was employed in public employment or had completed twenty years' elibible employment; or 
at that date he was over the age of sixty years and, at the date when he attained that age, he was employed in public employment, the date of his death; 
if the person, by notice in writing given to the Board, selects a date for the commencement of the payment of the deferred benefits, being a date not earlier than the date on which he attains the age of sixty years or the date on which the notice is given - the date so selected; and 
the date on which the person attains the age of sixty-five years. (3.) Paragraph (a) of the last preceding subsection does not apply in relation to a person unless - 
at the date that the Board is satisfied was the date on which he became incapable of performing the duties referred to in that paragraph, he was employed in public employment or had completed twenty years' eligible employment; or 
at that date he was over the age of sixty years and, at the date when he attained that age, he was employed in public employment. (4.) For the purposes of the last two preceding sub-sections, a period of public employment in which a person became employed after he ceased to be a contributor to the Fund or to the Provident Account shall be deemed to be a period of eligible employment of the person. (5.) Deferred benefits are not payable unless - 
an application in writing has been made to the Board requesting payment of the benefits; and 
the applicant has furnished to the Board any information that is necessary to enable the Board to determine whether the benefits are payable. (6.) Subject to the next two succeeding subsections, where a person in relation to whom paragraph (a) of sub-section (1.) of this section applies and who, at the time when he ceased to be a contributor to the Fund or to the Provident Account, had not completed twenty years' eligible employment ceases to be employed in public employment before he attains the age of sixty years and the deferred benefits applicable in respect of him have not become payable under subsection (2.) of this section, then - 
if a deferred benefit by way of a pension has previously been paid to him by reason of paragraph (a) of sub-section (2.) of this section - the deferred benefits that were applicable in respect of him cease to be so applicable; or 
in any other case - those deferred benefits cease to be applicable in respect of him but this Act has effect in relation to him as if the election by him under section one hundred and nineteen  v  of this Act had not been made. (7.) The last preceding sub-section does not apply in relation to a person if the sum of the periods of eligible employment in which the person has been employed and the period of the public employment in which he was employed after he ceased to be a contributor to the Fund or to the Provident Account, as the case may be, is not less than twenty years. (8.) In the aplication of section eighty-five of this Act to a person to whom paragraph (b) of subsection (6.) of this section applies, the period in respect of which the compound interest referred to in that section is payable includes the period that commenced on the day after the person ceased to be employed in public employment. 119x. - (1.) Subject to paragraph (b) of subsection (6.) of the last preceding section, where either of the last two preceding sections applies in relation to a person, any benefit that, but for this Division, would be payable to or in respect of the person under this Act by reason of his resignation or discharge is not payable except where that benefit is payable by virtue of the operation of this Division. 
Where- 
a payment has been made under section eighty-five of this Act to a person who has ceased to be a contributor to the Fund or to the Provident Account; and 
after the payment was made, the person makes an election under section one hundred and nineteen u of this Act, the election does not have any effect unless an amount equal to the amount of the payment is paid to the Fund or to the Provident Account, as the case may be, within seven days after the date of the election or within such further period as the Board in special circumstances allows. 119y.  -  (1.) Where a person (other than a person who, at the time when he ceased to be a contri- butor to the Fund or to the Provident Account, had completed twenty years' eligible employment) who has made an election under section one hundred and nineteen u of this Act (not being an election that the person became entitled to make by reason of the operation of sub-paragraph (ii) of paragraph (b) of sub-section (1.) of that section) is not employed in public employment at the expiration of the period that is the prescribed period in relation to him, then, unless - 
the sum of the periods of eligible employment in which he has been employed and the period of public employment (if any) in which he was employed during that prescribed period was not less than twenty years; 
I move: 
That the House of Representatives be requested to make the following amendments: 
In proposed section119w (1.) (b), leave out twenty', insert 'ten'. 
In proposed section 119w (2.) (b), leave out twenty', insert 'ten'. 
In proposed section119w (3.) (a), leave out twenty', insert 'ten'. 
In proposed section 119w (6.), leave out twenty', insert 'ten'. 
In proposed section119w (7.), leave out twenty', insert 'ten'. 
In proposed section 119Y (1.), leave out twenty', insert 'ten'. 
In proposed section 119y (1.) (a), leave out twenty', insert 'ten'. 
I want to make some comments on the motion, because the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  devoted a good deal of time during his reply at the second reading stage to the 20-year period of eligibility. What we are proposing is that a request be made for an amendment. The Senate cannot move an amendment because sums of money would be involved in any reduction of the eligibility period to 10 years, as many more people would be entitled to benefits. 
I took it that one of  Senator Wright's  principal objections to any freeing up of this provision was that it could lead to a loss of valuable people from the Commonwealth Public Service. Surely portability cuts both ways. Surely it is a question of a person going to the position where his talents can command the best return to him. If the Commonwealth Public Service provides these sorts of conditions, surely with the portability that will be provided by this measure people will move from other areas of employment into the Commonwealth service to fill any gap that might occur. I think that the Minister's objection lacks any real substance, and I ask honourable senators to dismiss it from their consideration. I turn to what was said on behalf of the Australian Democratic Labor Party by  Senator Little,  who supported this reduction. 
My amendment relates to the Superannuation Bill. The arguments I have put forward in respect of this Bill apply equally to the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Bill. I do not propose to speak on that Bill. I shall merely submit my amendment to the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Bill to a vote in due course. 
-I ask the Attorney-General a question supplementary to that asked by  Senator Gietzelt  and answered by the Attorney-General. Were the students of the Australian National University in physical possession of the Vice-Chancellor's office? Did they refuse to move when the proper authorities of the University asked them to move and did their further defiance cause the Vice-Chancellor of the University to call in the police to remove the students from their illegal possession? Is this not on all fours with the activities of students at the Flinders University in Adelaide where the Governor himself, as the Official Visitor, attempted to have them removed? Is it not on all fours with the actual taking of possession of the Vice-Chancellor's quarters at the University of Melbourne where the Victorian police had to be called in to remove the students? 
I am bound to state to honourable senators that I am not an adjournment  speaker.  I learned this lesson many years ago when the Ministry kept us here until about 3.30 in the morning pushing some of its legislation through the Senate. The adjournment was then moved and I thought that I would have some amusement by keeping the Ministry sitting for about 2 hours after that, and I did. 
-I am quite sure that  Senator Cavanagh  will remember the incident. I merely make this preliminary explanation and state that I have no intention of keeping honourable senators for another 2 hours tonight.  Senator Cavanagh  will be very relieved to hear that. 

 Mr President, the reason I address myself to the motion for the adjournment of the Senate involves a matter that has caused me a great deal of disturbance. What causes my disturbance is to read in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' today where the 'Sydney Morning Herald ' transmits an historical method of communication which is a variant of the court circular in London. It comes under the heading in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' of 'Vice-regal'. I think honourable senators will find a similar section in the Melbourne Age'. But this morning, the 'Sydney Morning Herald' conveys under the heading of 'Viceregal' the following information. With the permission of honourable senators and you,  Mr President,  I would like to read what is stated to the Senate: 
The Governor-General and his daughter,  Mrs Kibble,  held a dinner at Government House, Canberra, last night, in honour of  His  Royal Highness The Prince Charles. Guests at dinner were the Honourable the Prime Minister and  Mrs Whitlam,  the Honourable the  Speaker  of the House of Representatives and  Mrs Cope,  the Honourable the  President  of the Senate and  Mrs O'Byrne,  - 
The notice then goes on to state who were the other guests. I raise this matter because it involves a question of constitutional priority. The constitutional priority involved in this situation is that the Constitution of Australia states that the 
Parliament of Australia shall be composed of a Parliament of the Senate and the House of Representatives. I point out to honourable senators that I am not quoting the exact words in the Constitution. Traditionally, in these terms, the  President  of the Senate takes precedence of  Mr Speaker,  who is the presiding officer of the House of Representatives. Some 10 years ago the Prime Minister of the day, the Right Honourable Harold Holt, in an administrative sense changed the order of precedence. I want honourable senators to observe this phrase: Administratively he changed the order of precedence. I think it is proper that I should advise honourable senators that the table of precedence is not a matter for any Prime Minister. It is a matter for the GovernorGeneral in the terms that we understood up to, say, 4 or 5 years ago. Of course, in present day terms, the Governor-General is the Viceroy. In other words, he occupies the position of Queen of Australia in the absence of the Queen from Australia. 
How is the table of precedence established? The table of precedence is a table of precedence as established by the sovereign who lays down what is the order of precedence in Australia. It is the sovereign- the Head of State- who lays down the table of precedence. The Prime Minister of Australia administratively is seeking to change the table of precedence. As far as I know, there has been no consent to the change of precedence.  Mr President  and honourable senators, I go back to indicate to you that this question was raised by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers)  some time ago. Why does a court circular or, if you like, a vice-regal notice suddenly appear in the 'Sydney Morning Herald'- I have not looked at the 'Age' newspaper but I assume it would be in it also- showing that the  Speaker  of the House of Representatives has taken precedence of the  President  of the Senate in the area of the vice-royalty? This is what I wish to know. How has this been achieved? Has there been a change in the table of precedence, bearing in mind that the table of precedence cannot be altered except by the sovereign or her viceroy? The table of precedence cannot be altered by a fiat of the Prime Minister of the day. 
The present table of precedence was established by the consent of the sovereign and by the Right Honourable Robert Gordon Menzies when he was Prime Minister. My information indicates that the table of precedence that he submitted to the sovereign was accepted by the sovereign. There is no evidence to indicate that the sovereign has consented to any change of precedence since that time, except that there has been an attempt- I think a successful attempt- to change administratively the table of precedence.  Mr President,  I have no worries about myself as your predecessor. But,  Sir, I  have a great deal of worry about you as the representative of the Senate, the elected leader of the Senate and the  President  of the Senate. You should not be put below  Mr Speaker  in the table of precedenceput below  Mr Speaker  not by any consent of the sovereign but by administrative practice. 
Honourable senators will recall that when  His  Imperial Majesty, the Shah of Iran, was entertained in Parliament House by the Prime Minister, not by the Parliament, it was assumed that the table of precedence would be issued by the Prime Minister's Department to put you,  Sir, below  the salt, as it were. I know that those people who convey messages to the media of one sort or another will make sneering remarks that the senators are preoccupied by a miserable matter of who should be on the right or the left. That is not involved here. What is involved is the constitutional proprieties of the Senate versus the House of Representatives. The Constitution laid down quite clearly and unequivocably that the Senate takes precedence of the House of Representatives. My worry is that the circumstances commenced by the late Prime Minister of Australia,  Mr Harold  Holt, are now being continued by the present Prime Minister to usurp the prerogative of" the sovereign or, in this case, the viceroy- the Governor-General of Australia. I wish to know by what right a Vice-Regal notice can be sent to the newspapers of Australia putting below the  Speaker  of the House of Representatives the  President  of the the Senate, who traditionally for 70 years has been acknowledged constitutionally and without qualification as being senior to the  Speaker  of the House of Representatives on these ceremonial occasions. 
-I do not accept that for one single solitary moment. It is not the first time that this has happened. I merely mention for example that when his Imperial Majesty the Shah of Iran was in Parliament House only a fortnight ago the  President  of the Senate was put below the salt. By what means is the Presiding Officer of the Senate put below the salt? It is true that the host on this occasion was the Prime Minister of Australia, and he was occupying Parliament House by permission of the Presiding Officers. The Prime Minister of Australia does not hold court in Parliament House except by consent of the Presiding 
Officers. He cannot have luncheons or dinners in Parliament House except by consent of the Presiding Officers. Undoubtedly you,  Mr President,  gave your consent that the Prime Minister should hold a luncheon here in Parliament House. But how can he ask the host, who is you,  Sir, to  hold a luncheon or a dinner or whatever it is in Parliament House and then put you, the senior host, below the salt? That is what happened. 
A constitutional matter is involved in this. It is the propriety of subverting the constitutional system of administrative processes. I want to say in most categorical terms that if this method of administrative subjugation of you,  Sir, as President  of the Senate, is continued, there is only one course left for the Senate; that is for the Senate in its parliamentary sense, not subjugated to any temporary Prime Minister or any Prime Minister who passes through the corridors like a shadeGod knows, we have seen a few of them in the last few years- to sustain the parliamentary propriety and authority. This simple administrative act to which I have referred involves an attempt, firstly, to subvert the proprieties of parliamentary authority and, second, to subjugate the parliamentary authority of a Prime Minister who is temporarily embedded in this place. I say no more at this stage, except to draw honourable senators' attention to the unfortunate position in which you,  Mr President,  find yourself and to assure you that the Senate will support you in any endeavour you may make to support and sustain the authority of the Senate. 
I am not happy about the way in which these Bills have been presented to the Senate. My unease developed when I heard  Senator Cotton  address himself to the second reading stage of the debate. He asked for specific information to be made available to the Senate which is being asked to pass these Bills. If there were any sense of parliamentary propriety the matters that were raised by  Senator Cotton  should have been advanced in the second reading speech. It has been the habit, as most honourable senators know, when these sums of money are asked to be authorised by Parliament, to attach to the Bills a schedule setting forth what Parliament in fact is being asked to do. I refer, for example, to clause 7 which states: 
Australia may, on such terms and conditions as the Treasurer determines, for the purpose of the purchase . . . 
The clause goes on to outline the aircraft and related spare parts and equipment to be purchased. The clause continues: 
Moneys required for the purpose of sub-section (1) are paid out of the Loan Fund, which is appropriated accordingly. 
The Senate is being asked to give a mandate to the approval of a matter which, I suggest, does not appear on the surface to be very satisfactory. 
The Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  who represents the Treasurer in this place, under probing from  Senator Cotton,  has indicated that 50 million Swiss francs will be raised at 9.75 per cent. Perhaps that is the best that is available. Why is that not outlined in the Bill? Similar matters always have been outlined when we have been authorising the purchase of aircraft and equipment. There are references to the ExportImport Bank of the United States of America. My recollection is that that bank requires a determination by Parliament that it will guarantee that the loans will be repaid. I should like the Minister to state quite clearly and unequivocally to the Committee why there has been this departure from parliamentary propriety and parliamentary practice, and also why the constitutional responsibilities have been eroded by the executive government when Parliament seeks money. 
I rise merely to defend the  Chairman  of Committees.  Mr President,  the 

 Chairman of Committees is your  deputy  when you are not present. On the occasion which has caused this adjournment debate I understand that the Senate was in Committee. Whether that is so or not, the facts are that you,  Sir, are  responsible for the conduct, the decorum, the behaviour, the style and the quality of this chamber. When you are not in the chair your  Chairman  of Committees or your  deputy  is equally responsible. I am sure that  Senator Webster  must be defended.  Senator McLaren,  following upon action taken by his leader in South Australia,  Mr Dunstan,  who is the world of fashion and the ball of style there, decided that that should be conveyed into this Parliament. Honourable senators will recollect the matter very clearly. The decision was taken that the honourable senator should return to the normal style that is accepted in the Senate until such time as the House Committee had examined the matter and reported back to the Senate. The House Committee examined the matter. I was the  Chairman  of the Committee. I do not intend to disclose to honourable senators the discussion that took place. All I will say to honourable senators is that the report was a unanimous report and it required that all honourable senators should conform to the accepted dress and pattern that had distinguished the Senate over many years. The matter was subsequently put to the vote and was carried on the voices.  Senator Webster  was completely within his rights in being obedient to that ruling of the Senate that was accepted and carried on the voices as to the style and quality of dress that was required. 
Public servants who come into this place do not have any more privilege by being public servants than has any honourable senator. Public servants must conform to the style and quality which is required of honourable senators in this place. Any public servant who comes in here and attempts to set his own pattern should be thrown out by whoever is in the chair. Public servants must conform to the Senate patterns of behaviour and not their own. Therefore I will say no more about shorts, stockings, bikinis, bathing gowns or whatever it is that  Senator McLaren  and his colleagues in this place may elect to invest themselves in and appear in the Senate. 
-That is right. We have to wait and wait. Sometimes the cave is cold and draughty. Because of our long experience in the Senate we can raise all sorts of points. We can raise a point in reply to  Senator Young.  When he advocated his support for  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson, as I listened to him, I made the note: 'Well, when will the question be answered?' Perhaps the Senate would like to pursue that a little further. I think that we have to take the situation as it exists at the present moment, give it an opportunity of 6 month's trial which is the basis of the ultimate paragraph in the report of the Standing Orders Committee, see whether it does work and then, if necessary, take up  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson's argument or the argument adduced by  Senator Cavanagh.  At a later stage the Senate will have an opportunity of either introducing a new standing order or amending the standing order in a way which will find agreement among all honourable senators. While admitting some substance to the arguments of the honourable senators who have spoken against the proposed amendment, in net balance I suggest that,after nearly 10 years of struggling to try to get some sort of an analysis made of the Standing Orders, which are a hangover from an earlier time when the problem confronted the Senate, and which were not anything of the order and nature they are today, we give these proposed standing orders a go. If necessary we can cancel them later. 
asked the Minister for ' Nation Review ' upon notice: 
In view of  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack 's Question asked without notice on 30 July 1974 (vide Senate Hansard, page S30), relating to the publication in 'Nation Review' of a dispatch from the Australian Ambassador to Vietnam, will the Minister reply to the question as he promised. 
Will the Minister, in view of the general unease and suspicion lying upon Department of Foreign Affairs officers, as a result of an apparent breach of security, inform the Senate of the circumstances of the breach. 
asked the Min  ister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
With reference to a reply provided on 1 1 February 1975 by the Minister for Foreign Affairs to a Question asked on 30 July 1974 by  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack concerning the publication in a newspaper of a telegraphed dispatch of the Australian Ambassador to the Republic of Vietnam: 
was the unauthorised publication obtained by a journalist; 
was the dispatch obtained from the Prime Minister's Office; 
who provided the dispatch; 
if a journalist obtained the dispatch, is the journalist currently a member of the Parliamentary Press Gallery; and 
who in the Prime Minister's Office supplied the dispatch. 
I wish to ask your instructions,  Mr President.  I have a motion to move on behalf of one of the joint committees of this Parliament but I am subject to your direction as to when I may speak. 
I do not intend to detain the Committee for very long, but I should like to get back into the minds of the members of the Committee of the Whole the statement which  Senator Cotton  made last week. He said that the Senate Opposition would not combine to reject Supply and that all that the Opposition required- it was conceded by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Wriedt)-  was a statement for the information of the Committee about how the Government arrived at the quantum of the Advance to the Treasurer. That has not become clear either from  Senator McAuliffe  or from  Senator Cavanagh  who responded on the Government side. At this stage I address myself momentarily to the statement concerning the Advance to the Treasurer that has been brought down. In one paragraph it states: 
While we do not acknowledge any automatic relationship between the level of Government expenditure and the appropriate size of the Treasurer's Advance provisions, it is reasonable to expect that larger Advances will be required as the level of expenditure rises. 
I emphasise- the members of the Committee should note this- the words 'we do not acknowledge any automatic relationship'. But there is an automatic relationship, and this is the essence of the problem; this is what really concerns the Opposition at present. In 1973-74 there was an appropriation of $30m in the Advance to the Treasurer against a total vote of $ 1,556m in the Supply Bill (No. 1). In 1974-75 the appropriation in the Advance to the Treasurer doubled from $30m to $60m against a total vote of $ 1,840m in the Supply Bill (No. 1). For the financial year 1975-76 there is an appropriation of $120m in the Advance to the Treasurer against a total vote of $2,692m in the Supply Bill (No. 1 ). There is an automatic movement in the appropriation provided in the Advance to the Treasurer, yet the statement says that the Government does not acknowledge any automatic relationship. There is no automatic relationship between the total votes, but there is an automatic relationship between the appropriations provided in the Advance to the Treasurer. 
-I thank  Senator Baume  for the interjection. It is indexation in the Treasury. All we want to know is how that figure of $ 120m has been arrived at. It could have been arrived at only by snatching a figure out of the air- by indexation, as  Senator Baume  suggests. The appropriation in the Advance to the Treasurer has increased from $30m to $60m to $120m. Are we to anticipate that next year the appropriation in the Advance to the Treasurer will be $240m? I do not know. When we move through the Supply Bills item by item I shall endeavour, as I am sure other honourable senators on this side of the chamber will endeavour, to ascertain how the Government and the Treasury have arrived at this figure of $ 120m- whether it is just a piece of indexation, as  Senator Baume  suggests, or whether there are definite discernible matters. At this stage I can only agree with  Senator Guilfoyle  when she says that there is bad estimating. I mention in passing, for example, that surely the Government knows how much it will pay the State of Tasmania for that State's broken down railway system. It must know that, yet that is claimed as one of the mysteries in the Advance to the Treasurer. With those opening remarks I will subside. I repeat: There is an automatic indexing of the appropriation provided in the Advance to the Treasurer and no attempt has been made to make it clear to the Parliament, which has to approve of these appropriations, how the Government arrived at the figure in the Advance to the Treasurer. 
-Yes, that is what it amounts to. That is an example of the dimensions of the overheads that have to be cut down. It would be far better to abandon the Department of Aboriginal Affairs and give every 
Aborigine that $4,500 to do with what he wants to. 
The claim that the Government constantly makes, though it is weakening on this point, that we have imported our inflation is nonsense. A manufacturer whose name it would be improper of me to mention as to do so would be to embarrass him but who would be known to nearly every honourable senator who sits in this place was in my office last week. He is a man who has to find a payroll for thousands and thousands of workers. I said to him: 'How do you see things?' He said: 'Apparently the Government cannot get it into its skull that I cannot make any prognosis about what the employment position is going to be in my industry unless I can calculate at least 9 months ahead what my sales should be, because it takes 9 months to get stock moving and raw materials coming in'. 
-That is the gestation period- I suggest that it is a reasonable one- required by him to obtain raw materials, to get sub-contractors working, to start to fill out inventories and to get the flow going if he is to increase his production. He went on to say: 'But there is no sign anywhere by which we can make a forecast as to what our sales situation will be in 9 months ahead '. That is the essence of the situation. He went on to say: 'It is a most extraordinary thing that we have a country that possesses the 2 basic ingredients for a successful and profitable economy- massive supplies of protein and of raw materials in practically every dimension that is required in the private sectoryet in a period of 18 months the Government has brought the economy almost to its knees '. 
It is not a question of debating whether we spend too much money here or not enough money there. What has to be seen and has to be seen clearly is that we have to bring about a psychological change in the thinking of the Government that you support,  Sir, and  support for proper reasons, so that it accepts that we cannot advance our social structure any faster than the wealth is created in the community and that once the demand in the form of welfare upon the productive resources of the community exceeds a given point- I suggest that it is reaching that stage now if it has not already reached it- the economy begins to sag. It is not for the Opposition to overcome the problem, but every man and woman in the other place and in this chamber who supports the Government has the responsibility to try to change the Government's attitude towards the economy of this country, because all the Government's aspirations in relation to social welfare will be meaningless unless we can get the economy back on to its feet again. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Where is Pollock's picture, 'Blue Poles', now hanging and where has it been hanging for the past six or so months. 
Speaking for myself and, I hope, on behalf of other members of the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence I think it proper that we should acknowledge the competence, the capacity and the fairness with which  Senator Primmer  chaired the Committee of the Senate in the area in which we are involved. I agree with the last observation made by  Senator Primmer  that it is important that this report should have come down at this stage because honourable senators will be aware that on 10 September  Senator Douglas  McClelland, the Special Minister of State under whose aegis these islands now rest, put down a statement to the Senate. The report that  Senator Primmer  has presented on behalf of the Committee I think will go a long way towards enlarging the collective minds of honourable senators when they come to discuss  Senator Douglas  McClelland 's statement. 
The second matter to which I wish to refer is this: Honourable senators reading the report will come across a paragraph in which one of the witnesses advised- honourable senators sitting on the 
Committee not to regard the United Nations as a moral temple. I never have regarded the United Nations as a moral temple, but I am bound to make the observation that more than a double standard exists inside the United Nations. It has turned its attention to what is known from time to time as the salt water theory and any island that is either governed by or possessed by a western European or a western-European derived nation becomes the subject of contention and examination by this self-appointed or even self annointed Committee of Twenty-four in the General Assembly of the United Nations. 
The interesting thing about all this is that it is well within the knowledge of most honourable senators who sat on that Committee that there are a number of areas in other parts of the world that have plantation economies which, in fact, is the economy of the Cocos (Keeling) Islands. This plantation economy has been in existence for well over 100 years. As  Senator Primmer  mentioned it is an economy and a society of delicate fabric. One thing about which  Senator Douglas  McClelland, as the Special Minister of State administering these territories, must be careful is that he does not disrupt and tear the fabric apart. Anyone who is fortunate enough to have been to these islands has seen how delicate is the relationship between the various families, their ecological background, their social structure-- 
What is more, zero population growth is practised by them.  Mr John  Clunies-Ross is not and should not be held to public obloquy in Australia. The man is part of his environment. 1 think he has done a job which is far beyond the capacity of anyone that I know of in being able to hold this community together. It is not a down-trodden community. Its economic circumstances at the present moment are probably much less than they were some years ago, but ever since 1968 when the cyclone blew down 70 per cent or 80 per cent of the palm trees on Cocos (Keeling) Islands, the society and the economic structure of this island has been maintained out of the private purse of John Clunies-Ross. With those few remarks I leave the matter at this juncture. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Primmer)  adjourned. 
-That is so, but the Opposition demonstrated subsequently that it was not to be borrowed for temporary purposes but for other purposes. How could any Opposition, having undergone the traumatic experience of seeing the constitutional processes distorted for one reason or another, approach the problem of the defence Loan Bill? What was this money going to be used for? The Opposition was entitled therefore to probe as much as it possibly could to discover why this money was going to be raised. It is known and quite obviously manifest that the reason the Government is anxious to raise money under this procedure is that it failed on the temporary purposes side of the equation and has to go to the defence side of the equation. Under section 105A of the Constitution it can seek to obtain money without the permission of the Loan Council to finance a deficit. But why was it financing a deficit? The reason it was financing a deficit was that for over 2 years it had been spending money at a reckless rate far in advance of the capacity of the revenues of the Government to sustain the public purse, known as the Consolidated Revenue Fund. I remember that during the 1972 election campaign when the then Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Whitlam,  was asked how he was going to finance a number of promises obviously involving vast sums of money he replied that he was going to finance them out of inflation. He proceeded to finance them out of inflation, and he financed them out of inflation to such a degree that after a year of that form of financing he began to blame the inflation rate on external circumstances when in fact, as all honourable senators know, the inflation rate in Australia was obtained and forced as a result of the forced draft spending of government money far in excess of the money it was returning into the Consolidated Revenue Fund through receipts from taxation and other forms of government income. 
We have arrived at the accumulated situation where even a government as reckless as this one has to start funding deficits, and part of the funding of deficits, of course, is borrowing on the public credit. There are 3 ways in which one can borrow on the public credit. One way is to ask for a loan which has to be funded finally, and that is the purpose of the defence Loan Bill which I shall examine in more detail in a moment. There are 2 other forms of government financing under the prerogative, and they are by issuing Treasury Bills, or by Treasury's borrowing cash balances from the Reserve Bank. I do not intend to canvass the general theory of how a government financies itself, except to say that Parliament has a responsibility when it is asked actually and specifically to fund certain loans. One of the methods of government financing, of course, is a loan Bill by which any government can seek the approval of Parliament to borrow money for defence purposes. In reality it is for temporary purposes because what happens is that the ordinary annual services of the government under defence are financed out of loans, and this takes the pressure off the Consolidated Revenue Fund. It is also true to say that the government, having borrowed money for defence purposes, may not expend money in excess of the appropriation which Parliament authorises in order to allow the Bill to go through. That is a very general description of how the Government proposes to doit. 
What honourable senators must understand is that this device, which has been used since 1953 to my knowledge, when it first came to my attention, has been used for a short time and for smallish amounts of money. Notwithstanding anything that has been said today in this chamber, the facts are that, to the maximum of my knowledge and researches, previous governments have always informed the Senate of the amounts of money they intended to borrow for loan defence purposes.  Senator Douglas  McClelland made great play of the fact that since the Bill was entered into the Senate by message on 27 August- and I accept his word for thatthe Opposition has been probing the reasons for it, but the thing that has stuck in the gullet of the 
Opposition is that this is a defence Loan Bill that does not specify any quantity of money. It is an open-ended amount. 
-I will explain that to you in a moment, but it is not explained clearly to Parliament. I turn to the 1971 Loan (Defence) Bill, of which  Senator Douglas  McClelland, in an oratorical and rhetorical way, says this 1975 Bill is a copy. I have referred to the Records office, and the only loan Bill of that description passed in 1971 became the Loan (Defence) Act 1971, Act No. 103 of 1 97 1 , which was cited as an Act to approve the raising by way of loan of moneys in the currency of the United States of America and to authorise the expending of those moneys for defence purposes and for purposes connected therewith. It then goes on to state how that will be done and how it will be funded. So by no stretch of the imagination can that Loan (Defence) Act 1971 be described as being the same as the Bill that we have in front of us at the present time. Every Bill that I have come across in the context of authorising the raising and spending of money for defence purposes has carried within it a clause stating what is the amount of money to be raised. Section 3 of the 1 973 Loan Act to authorise the raising and expending of money for defence purposesby this present Government- states: 
The Treasurer may, not later than 30th June, 1973, in accordance with the provisions of the Commonwealth Inscribed Stock Act 1911-1966 or in accordance with the provisions of an Act authorising an issue of Treasury Bills, borrow moneys not exceeding in the whole Three hundred million dollars. 
Let us turn to the current Bill. Clause 3 of the current Loan Bill states: 
The Treasurer may, from time to time during the financial year ending on 30 June 1976, in accordance with the provisions of the Commonwealth Inscribed Stock Act 1911-1973- 
That is what I have just quoted from the 1973 Act or in accordance with the provisions of an Act authorising the issue of Treasury Bills - 
That is common - borrow moneys that, together with any moneys previously borrowed under this section, do not exceed the amount that, at the time of the borrowing, he considers to be the greatest amount by which the moneys lawfully available for expenditure from the Consolidated Revenue Fund in that financial year are likely to be less than the amount of expenditure authorised to be made from that Fund in that financial year. 
Well, if ever there was some drafting gobbledegook, that is it. 
-In my opinion it is contrary to the Audit Act. It asks Parliament to agree to the raising of an openended loan with no money spent. 
There is a curious element in the second reading speech of the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Senator Wriedt,  who is reported at page 320 of Hansard of 27 August 1975 as saying: 
The Bill does not authorise additional defence expenditures. It will simply allow us to re-allocate from the Consolidated Revenue Fund to the Loan Fund part of the expenditures of the Department of Defence already authorised in the Supply Act (No. 1) 1975T76- which has not been authorised- and which are subsequently authorised in the 197S-76 Appropriation Acts. which have not been authorised. The Minister then went on to say: 
When this Bill is enacted I shall move an amendment to Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1975-76, to permit the defence expenditure specified in that Bill to be charged to the Loan Fund. 
So by some backtracking process we come to the position that what the Government is attempting to borrow is something not in excess of approximately $1,1 50m as I recollect from the ordinary annual services of the Government that relate to defence and can be properly applied to it. This seems to me a most curious device, because as I sat here and listened to some of the florid phrases of the 2 Senators Mcclellands my mind went back first to 1953 when  Senator Wright  drew the attention of the then Senate to the problems of financing under section 53 of the Constitution and to my own entry into the debate in 1963 in another context but relating to the method by which governments attempt to obtain money. I mentioned in 1963 that at that time the Bills were being presented in the Senate in the form of a tack. There will be some honourable members sitting here in their places who do not know what is meant by 'tacking'. 
-For the information of honourable senators I should like to quote from page 335 of the fourth edition of  Mr Odgers'  Australian Senate Practice  which contains a definition of the word. I admit that maybe I could have found the definition much more difficultly in the Parliamentary Library. But  Mr Odgers  had this to say: 
The term 'tacking' is defined in the following extract from a joint opinion by  Sir Robert  Garran,  Sir George  Knowles, Professor K.. H. Bailey, and MrG. B. Castieau, given in 1943  on the question of whether clause 2 of the Income Tax Bill 1943 contravened section 55 of the Constitution: 
I am now relating the problem of tacking to this loan defence Bill. I shall read out the opinion and I hope honourable senators will bear it in mind. The opinion is as follows: 
In setting out the question referred to us we have deliberately refrained from the use of the word 'tacking', which is a term with a long Parliamentary history but with no fixed meaning. Strictly employed, it denotes the inclusion in a money Bill of an extraneous clause to secure its passage through an Upper House which cannot amend money Bills. 
I hope that honourable senators will mark that, because the loan defence Bill is brought into the Senate first, it has an implied tack on it, the Senate cannot amend it but if the Senate does pass it the Government will then amend the Appropriation Bill (No. 1 ). To me this is a legislative device which no Parliament should tolerate. I go on to add that the distinguished lawyers also said in their opinion: 
More loosely used, it is said to include any Parliamentary procedure as a result of which the adoption of a money Bill is linked with the fate of any other measure. 
That is what this Government is attempting to do. There is every reason therefore that the Senate Opposition, charged with some of the responsibilities that relate to the management of money and the management of legislative process, should pay attention to what has been happening. All  Senator Wriedt  says is: 'We are tacking. If you will pass this loan defence Bill we will undertake to move an amendment to Supply Bill No. 1 '. Should that be done? Should the Senate accept this form of tacking? I am not going to argue that at the present moment. 
But I go on to say this: Whoever remains, whenever an election takes place and whatever the composition of the Senate may be in future - 
-Well, whenever it is,  Senator Cavanagh.  You are a prophet not without honours, save in your own country. That Senate will then have to take cognisance of the greatly extended use of a device by which governments are raising money to take care of shortfalls in the public purse. But when the device was first used as I recollect in 1953 I do not think any honourable senator then sitting in his place nor in the years that have passed since then, could ever have contemplated that the Senate would be presented with a situation of enormous deficits such as of the nature that this Government has produced through its own misgovernment. It is almost a maddened form of expenditure to ask that somewhere in the vicinity of $ 1 , 1 50m should be borrowed as a partial funding of the deficit. 
Notwithstanding all the rhetoric of  Senator James  McClelland or all the rhetoric of  Senator Douglas  McClelland, who have spoken in this debate, this Bill is in fact a benchmark to indicate the incapacity of the Government to manage the finances of this country. I have nothing more to add at this stage except to say this: If it is my lot on some future occasion when Supply Bills of one nature or another come before this House I shall as a man of Parliament invite honourable senators wherever they are to support me to see that Parliament exerts a greater degree of control over the public money than is being exhibited at the present moment. 
-My parliamentary curiosity has been aroused by the important and interesting question that  Senator Gietzelt  asked the Leader of the Government in the Senate in relation to matters that took place in November last year. Am I to understand from  Senator Gietzelt  's question, which was addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, that  Senator Withers  is of the opinion that neither the former  President  of the Senate nor the former Leader of the Government in the Senate had been informed by the former Prime Minister that his commission had been withdrawn by the Governor-General and that this situation had existed for an hour before  Senator Withers  rose in his place?  Senator Withers  was called upon by the then  President,  in accordance with the notice paper, to address himself to the Appropriation Bill. He moved that the Bill be passed forthwith. This is a matter of historical record which will inevitably be the cause of some debate in this chamber. I would be grateful if the Leader of the Government in the Senate would inform the Senate of the true situation. 

 - Mr President, may I address myself to the point of order? 
-Oron publications and so on. Those committees might be described as housekeeping committees. They are joint committees. On policy committees the Senate has a separate constitutional role when compared with the House of Representatives. The Senate must maintain its own committee system. Apart from all the other reasons of time, and the difficulty of getting members from the House of Representatives, an honourable senator, because he has a longer term in Parliament, is able to take a tougher line when a difficult situation arises, without being responsive to pressure of one sort or another from the electors. Therefore I say without any hesitation that I will have nothing to do with joint committees. It is not proper for me even to hint at what the draft report will contain, but I think it can be said that if the draft report does not contain a strong recommendation that the Senate retain its own committees, there will be a substantial dissenting report in my name. 
-I am not going to divulge committee business. I said that if the Committee does not bring down a report that the Senate retain its own committee system I shall submit a strong dissenting report. 
I agree that we should get the committees reestablished. So keen am I to have them reestablished that I have written to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  about the matter. I have received a letter from him in reply. But the Senate has to be occupied in the meantime. There are references which were cut off at root level when both Houses were dissolved. Those reports have to be completed. For example, there is a report to come from the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence in relation to Vietnamese refugees which has not been completed. I imagine that it will be a pretty devastating document when it is produced. Other references to committees must be completed. I suggest that the Senate should give no credence at all to the arguments propounded by  Senator Douglas  McClelland. They have no substance. I support the motion and reject the amendment. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Keeffe)  adjourned. 

 - Mr President, I seek leave of the Senate to make a short statement in relation to the notices of motion that have just been dealt with. 
-By usage he claims to hold a position. By usage he is transferring a position which he had no right to occupy under the previous Government, and he has no right to put himself forward as a manager of Opposition business. I refuse to recognise nlm as such. He does not represent the Opposition. If  Senator Douglas  McClelland claims that he occupies a special position over and above any other honourable senator I shall take the first opportunity to put him back in his place. 
-No? They are going to vote against it. 
-No one. 
-Senator Primmer wants to get his superphosphate at a concessional rate but not the Prime Minister. 

 -No. Senator Primmer wants the concession- the bounty- but not the Prime Minister. That is what it all amounts to. I reject any suggestion that this amendment should be carried in the Senate and I support the Bill. 
-I present the following petition from 22 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned members of Diamond Creek and District Environment Action Group, c/o 33 Deering Street, Diamond Creek 3089 Victoria, respectfully showeth that 
There is a growing interest and concern in all sections of Australian society for the conservation of the environment, natural and man-made. 
That there are also rapidly growing pressures by powerful forces tending towards the destruction of the Australian heritage. 
That it is therefore urgent to appoint the Australian Heritage Commission, which was approved by both sides of this Parliament and to give the Commission sufficient independent staff, resources and funds. 
That Technical Assistance Grants and Administrative Support Grants to community organizations are needed to partially redress the gross imbalance in technical expertise and resources suffered by community groups in pressing the community's case against the exploiter. 
That a proper balance between the Governments' programme of public austerity and the need for action in conservation would be a modest increase in the budget allocations in these areas over that of 1 975-76. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Minister aware of the apparently Australia-wide shortage of 1976 Influenza Vaccine. 
Does the Minister realise that the people who are currently most affected by this shortage are young children, old people, and people suffering from heart and respiratory conditions. 
What action has the Government been taking to rectify this desperate situation. 
Is the Department of Health aware of an expected influenza epidemic in North America caused by another new mutation. 
-I would be grateful if you would permit me to address this question without notice to you,  Mr President.  It deals with a domestic and housekeeping matter. In order to make my question clear I preface it with the observation that in the country from which I come there is a well known story of an old Victorian bullock driver who, it was alleged, would put his bullocks in your bedroom if he thought there was any grass there. As generations change it seems that Canberra motor car drivers would put their cars in the Committee rooms of this Parliament House if they could get them through the windows. I know that  Senator Keeffe  is interested in this matter. I therefore ask you,  Sir, whether  you are willing to see if it is possible to enforce the parking restrictions around the environs of Parliament House to enable Government drivers and the drivers of commercial vehicles who have to service Parliament House to park their cars in the designated areas without finding these parking places occupied by the modern day bullock drivers. 

 - Mr President, I am grateful for the opportunity that you have provided to me to address myself to the motion moved by  Senator Withers  and supported by  Senator Wriedt.  I think it is proper that I should do this because I am the oldest senator from Victoria. My association with  Senator Greenwood  was longer than that of perhaps any other honourable senator sitting in this place at this time. I knew  Senator Greenwood  first as a young man in the University of Melbourne in the late 1940s when the schisms that divided the Australian society were perhaps even deeper and stronger than they are at the moment. He eventually became a member of the Liberal Party of Australia when I was its  President.  I had many quarrels with him but without any animosity. I once said to him at a meeting when he was a member of the executive of the Liberal Party that however much I appreciated and understood the arguments he was advancing I thought they would have wider acknowledgment and recognition in the future which I thought awaited him, when he would adorn the bench of the High Court of Australia. I think that had he lived he probably would have done so because he was a great lawyer who believed in the law and in the rule of law. It is not often that I feel impelled to speak to condolence motions. Only twice before on the occasion of the death of a senator have I felt that I should rise to my feet and address the Senate. When one is as old as I am one is constantly attentive to what one knows is going to happen. One knows that one will hear the grating of the ferryman's keel upon the beach. I had thought in a whimsical sort of way that one day the time would come in the Senate when Ivor Greenwood would be passing some valediction on me, but I find myself in the extraordinary and sad situation of marking the death of a man who has died far too young. 
Twice in his speech to this motion of condolence  Senator Withers  mentioned the word intensity'. There was a tremendous intensity in the late  Senator. He  felt deeply what he believed. It is often said about lawyers that they espouse a cause because they are paid to espouse it and therefore put the best possible tone on the cause they are espousing. That was not true at any stage with Greenwood. Greenwood felt intensely about everything he embraced in the context of political and parliamentary life. I think it was his sheer intensity which ultimately destroyed him, but this intensity was allied to that very important character and quality- honesty. He not only had intensity and honesty but with total and absolute courage he also embraced causes in which he devoutly believed. I was glad that  Senator Withers  mentioned the 1951 Communist Party Dissolution Act, also adverted to by  Senator Wheeldon,  because I was present in my Party executive at the time when Greenwood took his courage and his future political life in his hands by opposing a cause which had been embraced by the then Prime Minister and leader of the Liberal Party,  Sir Robert  Menzies. 
I have a sense of enormous sadness. It is as though I had seen a bright and flaming meteorite pass across our skies, suddenly sink into the darkness and then disappear. The sadness I feel is not only personal, it is also because such a bright light has been extinguished from the Australian parliamentary and political life. So strongly did I believe in Greenwood's capacity that I found myself in a curious position when he first came into the Senate to fill a casual vacancy, as has been mentioned. During the week in which he arrived I was able to persuade my Party not only that he should be appointed to a committee- committees were very hard to reach in those days- but also that the committee should have the sense to elect him as its  chairman.  As was mentioned by  Senator Wriedt,  this was the Senate Select Committee on Off-Shore Petroleum Resources. It is unquestionable that that Committee whose report which was finally presented by other members who succeeded  Senator Greenwood,  found its case resting in the High Court of Australia. The High Court of Australia upheld the thesis that that Committee had projected- projected to a substantial degree by  Senator Greenwood. 
I remember his future wife, Lola, coming to me one day and saying: 'I want to tell you something,  Senator. '  I asked: 'What is that?' She said: I want to tell you more than most people that Ivor Greenwood and I have become engaged to be married'. My reply was: 'Well, thank God for that, because no man is worth two penn'orth of gin unless he has a good woman beside him and now he has decided to marry, and to marry you, there is no limit to the future to which he can aspire and you, as his wife, will accompany him. ' 
Therefore this morning I had an enormous sense of sadness when I was told that he had died. I had a sense of intellectual sadness- really of gratefulness- that in fact he had died. That was an intellectual observation which I had made to the Government Whip when he told me of  Senator Greenwood's  death. I went on then to say to the Government Whip that I had a sense of overpressive sadness in an emotional sense that this man had gone from among us. I think that if the younger members who sit in this Senate have the opportunity that should have been accorded to Greenwood- of living their life out to the fullest extent- they will see in their time something that I always imagined Greenwood would finally achieve. I listened to the observations and comments by honourable senators about this quite remarkable man. He came from the most humble circumstances and espoused the political causes which are alleged, without truth, to come only from the privileged. He was a member of an Australian society that is highly mobile, and may it long continue that men of his quality can aspire to and reach the positions of power, authority and prestige which Greenwood reached through sheer ability. 
I am glad that  Senator Wriedt  mentioned that Greenwood had a sense of humour. One of his problems as a parliamentarian was that he believed that humour had no place in the Parliament. But in his latter days in this Parliament he began to allow his charming, delightful sense of humour to seep through when he was a Minister sitting where  Senator Carrick  and  Senator 
Cotton are now sitting. He had a delightful sense of humour. It is a pity that in his earlier years in this Parliament he did not allow it full scope. As I listened I began to paraphrase the last lines of  The Idylls of The King  on the death of King Arthur 
The barge with oar and sail has moved from the brink Like some full breasted swan 
Until the hull looks one black dot against the verge of dawn 
And the memory will remain with those members of the Senate who sit now in their places until all of us have gone. 
I want to associate myself in a most fundamental way with the sadness that must have overtaken his wife, who was the great support and authority in his life in his later years. I hope that she will at least be solaced by the genuine expressions of sympathy which honourable senators have accorded this afternoon on the death of her husband. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1 ) Will the Attorney-General confirm whether or not the Justice Department in Washington and  Senator Church,  in his role as  Chairman  of a United States Senate Committee, have decided that no names will be released to the public of any people involved in the allegations concerning what is called the Lockheed bribe business? 
Will the Attorney-General confirm or deny that the Justice Department and the Senate Committee will divulge information only to the governments of the countries in which it is alleged the bribes have taken place? 
Will the Attorney-General confirm or deny that the Government of Australia has already instructed its Ambassador in Washington to try to procure this information, if it is available, for the Australian Government? 
Will the Attorney-General confirm or deny that the reason the Church Committee and the Justice Department have imposed these restrictions is to prevent the scandalous use of names by citizens in other countries including Australia? 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the cost of removing the portraits of  Her  Majesty the Queen from Government Offices and buildings and replacing them with photographs of the then Prime Minister, the HonourableE. G. Whitlam. 
What was the cost associated with having the photographs taken and framed of  Mr Whitlam. 
What was the cost of removing  Mr Whitlam  's portrait from Government Offices and buildings and replacing the portraits of  Her  Majesty the Queen. 
-No, but we are going to stop it. The only way to stop it is to reach an understanding in this country that the people who exist here can no longer enjoy the standard of living which they are justly entitled to expect unless we start to produce something that will enable us to maintain that standard of living.  Senator Gietzelt  conveniently forgets that I have lived in a time when people were very lucky even to have a job. If they had a job they probably got 30s, 45s or something of that order a week. We then had a population of about 7.3 million people. When the election of 1949 took place- it was equally as climacteric as the election of December last year- we set out as a Liberal Party and Country Party coalition to raise the standard of living in Australia by increasing to the maximum the wealth that this country was capable of producing. During our term of office- I make no apologies for repeating this- the population of Australia doubled and the standard of living increased about ten fold. However in21/2 years it was reduced almost to half of what it was when we began our efforts in 1951. 
-I am not complaining about workers getting too much money; all I am saying is that suddenly in pursuit of a besotted concept which had no reality in economic terms this country was encouraged to believe it was a lucky country and that out in the 
Brindabella mountains there was a cave filled with gold and anything else that was wanted and all that was necessary was to send a Treasury truck out to that cave to gather what was needed. The basic factors concerning the wealth that is created have been totally overlooked, destroyed or disregarded by the Labor Party. 
Having rebutted in part in general terms the theories of  Senator Gietzelt,  I now turn my attention to the matters raised by  Senator Wright.  He said- it was proper he should say it- that when this country was brought into being as a national entity in a federal structure it was granted to the Parliament of this country under the Constitution the means by which money could be provided for the conduct of government- that is, through taxation. It was laid down in the Constitution how that money should be obtained. If  Senator Gietzelt  looks at section 53 of the Constitution he will find out how it is to be obtained. However, with certain restrictions the grant of money for the conduct of government services in this country is equally the responsibility of the Senate. It is not a single grant by the House of Representatives. It is a grant equally provided by the Senate. It is proper that I should remind honourable senators that the Senate cannot appropriate money. It cannot increase the taxation burden on the people; it cannot initiate an Appropriation Bill. Apart from those 2 simple restrictions the Senate has a co-equal right in the granting of money as has the House of Representatives. 
-Senator Murphy, of course, agreed with it. However  Senator Wright  tonight raised another interesting matter. A large part of the money that is granted is granted in terms that maintain the constitutional requirement. The Senate cannot amend measures that relate to the ordinary annual services of government. All that  Senator Wright  was suggesting was that there had been so much misapplication of resources inside the ordinary services of the government that the Senate was approaching a situation in which it now has to begin to consider very seriously whether it should not start to make requests of the House of Representatives to look at the application of moneys that have been raised under Appropriation Bills for the ordinary annual services of the government. I cannot recall an occasion when the Senate has requested the House of Representatives to make a change in the ordinary annual services of the government so as not to increase the taxation burden on people but perhaps to reduce the burden that rests upon the backs of the taxpayers of Australia. The ordinary annual services of the government account for the largest portion of government expenditure. 
Inside the parliamentary system we have created various methods by which Parliament should exercise and maintain control over the expenditure of public money. The Government has no right to public moneys. A government can have money for public purposes only if it applies to the Parliament for money. It is the Parliament that grants money from the Consolidated Revenue Fund for the conduct of government. Yet the largest portion of the expenditure of government relates to the area of the ordinary annual services of the government. There is an officer of the Parliament who is known as the Auditor-General who reports to the Parliament each year on matters in respect of which he considers the Government either has expended money not in accordance with law or has misapplied the resources which Parliament has voted to the Government. That is the function of the Auditor-General in very broad terms. Tonight  Senator Wright  quoted from the AuditorGeneral's report to illustrate that the AuditorGeneral has pointed out to the Parliament areas in which he considers moneys appropriated for the ordinary annual services of the government have been inappropriately expended. I do not wish to involve myself in the hyperbole which  Senator Wright  applies to certain of these matters. In the context of the Auditor-General the Parliament has set up the Public Accounts Committee on which honourable senators as well as members of the House of Representatives sit. The interesting thing about the Public Accounts Committee is that it looks at the question of how money which has been appropriated by Parliament has been spent. In 1910 the total appropriation of the Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia was approximately 10m, whereas today this Parliament is asked by the government of the day to appropriate thousands of millions of dollars for the conduct of government. That money is spread all around the place. We give money to Papua New Guinea. Millions of dollars are given to the Papua New Guineans. The sum of $20m is given to the Fijians or to other South Pacific Islanders, and the sum of $20m is thrown away somewhere to support and sustain some weakening economy in some other part of the world. These sums of money are being expended today without any scrutiny by Parliament as to how they are to be spent. The Auditor-General and the Public Accounts Committee deal with the matter of how money was spent. The problem which faces the Parliament today is that it has to look at government and find out how government intends to spend money. 
For this reason some few years ago the Senate embarked upon the tentative exercise of setting up Estimates Committees to look at the question of how government intends to spend the money. In other words, the Senate has taken another step. The Estimates Committees have been finding their way slowly through this murk of government financing, to discover accurately the intentions of government departments about how money is to be spent. This is meeting resistance. It is not meeting so much resistance from Ministers of State who always begin as earnest parliamentarians to their boot heels- a phrase which I once heard a Prime Minister apply to himself. They continue this way until the holy oil is put on their heads at Government House. Then they change from being parliamentarians to their boot heels to being Ministers of State to their boot heels, which is another matter altogether. I see one Minister of State smiling at me, and well may he smile. I see another Minister of State looking rather sour. 
We have now reached the stage where the Senate is becoming very dissatisfied with the way in which the money provided for the ordinary annual services of the government is being spent. As I understand  Senator Wright  and other honourable senators on this side of the chamber, they are becoming concerned to look at some of the moneys that have been embedded year after year in the ordinary annual services of the government, which the Senate may not amend but in respect of which constitutionally it may request the House of Representatives to consider whether in fact the money should be authorised. 
If I may be permitted I will tell a short story. I remember having dinner in a foreign capital one day with an ex-Minister of State who by any standard would be regarded as a very tough administrator. I asked him what was his experience as a Minister of State in controlling his departmental estimates. He replied that when an incoming Minister is discerned in the Commonwealth  Gazette,  having been sworn in by His Excellency the Governor-General of the day, the officers in the government department want to know what sort of a character he is. When they come to the conclusion that he is a tough administrator they then begin to shovel up to him at the first opportunity the departmental estimates. When the unfortunate Minister first sees the departmental estimates there has been an enormous increase in them, so he attempts to control this. He calls in his departmental officer who calls in his assistants, and they argue vehemently. The Minister says to his officers: 'You must reduce those estimates by 10 per cent'. He had had only 3 days or 5 days to look at them. They argue about a reduction of 10 per cent. If one listens to what is said by the commissioners of the Australian Broadcasting Commission one knows that this sort of thing happened here in 1975 and 1976. Yet the new chairman of the Australian Broadcasting Commission has said that this is a good idea, because suddenly there is a spirit of efficiency in the Commission which has not been experienced previously. But that is by the way. The ex-Minister of State, a man of great experience, told me that finally the Minister says: 'We will reduce the estimates by 10 per cent'. He having overborne his departmental officer, the officer disappears out of the room. The exMinister said that one always thinks one can see a smirk on the officer's face as he disappears through the door, because in fact he has successfully increased the estimates for the department by 5 per cent. 
That story means that there is embedded in the Public Service a vested interest in maintaining rates of expenditure in areas which it considers proper for its own particular purposes, whereas Parliament, which is the source of the money, is unable in any way to provide a scrutiny of those ordinary annual services of the government. So because there is an inability on the part of a Minister of State to police effectively his own departmental estimates, the Parliament itself now has to start to look at the ordinary annual services of the government. I regret to say that such is the pressure of business upon the members of the other place that they have almost abandoned any scrutiny of the ordinary annual services of the government, which are the greatest element in the expenditure of money which Parliament appropriates for government purposes. So, as I have mentioned, the Senate in a very tentative way some years ago- mainly at the instigation of  Senator Withers  who is now the Leader of the Government in the Senate- began to look at this matter to see whether it was possible to exert some sort of control over the ordinary annual services of the government. 
The Estimates Committees have worked very hard and are beginning to have an impact on the departments of State, because at least the officers who produce these estimates realise that finally an element of the Parliament, which is the source of the money, is beginning to scrutinise the ordinary annual estimates. It has to go further than that. The ex-Prime Minister, the Honourable E. 
Whitlam, moved to set up the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System. It was an all-Party committee comprised of members of the Australian Labor Party, the Country Party and the Liberal Party. It was comprised of members of the House of Representatives and of the Senate. What did this Committee report when it came to look at this question of financial control? The report has been tabled in both Houses. This report stated that the Senate should carry out a continuous scrutiny of the estimates. I suppose that was what  Senator Wright  was forecasting. If that was what he was forecasting, I agree with him. At some subsequent stage this Senate has to grapple in a more intense way with a control of the ordinary annual services of the Government. 
I add this note: Unless Parliament controls money Parliament is nothing. Parliament never was anything until Parliament took control of money. Parliament was nothing until it took control of the imposition of taxation. Parliament was nothing until it began to control the outgoings derived from taxation. Unless Parliament has that control Parliament is nothing, and the Executive Government is all. If the Executive Government of any nation is all, there is no democracy, there is a dictatorship. Therefore, in the latter part of the 20th century, the parliaments of the Western world or the derived Western world, such as North America and the western European countries, are beginning to realise that parliaments in the Anglo-Saxon concept anyway must begin to take a tight control of the expenditure of money- how it is derived and how it is spent. In Australia we are moving into that situation at present. Having said that Parliament is nothing without its control of the public purse, I add that the Senate is nothing unless it has an equal control of the public purse. The Constitution grants to this chamber an equal right with the House of Representatives with respect to money. The House of Representatives may originate a money Bill. It has the right to do so under the Constitution. Taxation, the supply of money or the appropriation for the Consolidated Revenue Fund is not lawful unless the Senate agrees to it. 
The events of last year were of such a nature that finally the great club which has been in existence for 74 or 75 years had to be taken out, and the Senate had to use this weapon in order to bring sanity into the control of money in this country. I do not care what is said by jejune professors from various parts of the world who ensconce themselves like crows on the bough of some university branch. The facts of life are that this country knows that it needs a Senate. It knows it needs a Senate in order to control the extravagances of adventitious majorities from time to time in the House of Representatives. As long as I am a senator- for how long heaven only knows- the power and authority of this Senate will be exerted for good order and management of this country. That is the reason I sought your acknowledgement,  Mr President,  when I rose in my place tonight to defend the rights, powers, authority and integrity of this chamber of which I am a member. 
-I ask a question of the Leader of the Government. He may or may not know of the existence of a  Mr Brian  Toohey. If not, I inform him that  Mr Toohey  writes under that name in the  Australian Financial Review,  and I quote from one of his episodic articles this morning: 
As has been shown by lengthy extracts published ... in this newspaper from documents prepared from the Government's top professional advisers . . . 
I ask: Was  Mr Toohey  a Press officer for  Mr Barnard  when he was Minister for Defence? When did  Mr Toohey  obtain the documents on defence matters from which he quotes? Did  Mr Toohey  take documents with security notations when he left  Mr Barnard's  office? Are the documents from which he quotes security documents? 
-We have problems with other ethnic groups in Australia besides the Aboriginal people and we also have to solve social problems. On the concluding stages of this Bill I beg that honourable senators do not now draw distinctions between Australian citizens in an objectionable way. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 2 1 April 1977: 
1 ) Is a Palestine Liberation Organisation super-frank appearing on letters originating in Saudi Arabia. If so, is this a revenue raising device by Saudi Arabia and apparently by the Palestine Liberation Organisation. 
Is the Palestine Liberation Organisation a beneficiary under the International Postal Union. 
Has the Palestine Liberation Organisation been admitted as a member of the International Postal Union. 
-This interim report is tabled now because the Committee feels that the issues it raises should be brought before the Parliament at the earliest opportunity. Each of its chapters is self contained and embraces conclusions and recommendations related to the chapters now tabled. The balance of the report dealing primarily with the important electronics industry will be presented to the Parliament in the Budget sittings of Parliament in August. It is not proposed to move that the interim report be printed at this time as it is intended that the printing motion will be moved when all sections of the report are complete. Meanwhile copies of the interim report in its present form will be available for study by interested parties. 
In conclusion, I commend  Mr David  Harrier. D.S.C., M.P., and  Senator Bishop- Chairman  and  Deputy Chairman  respectively of the Subcommitteeand their fellows for their efforts in bringing this report to the whole Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence and, through that Committee, to the Parliament. To that statement I should like to add some observations for the interest of honourable senators that has been aroused by  Senator Georges'  question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  this morning. I have noted a general misunderstanding of this interim report in the newspapers. The conclusions are based upon 2 criteria which must be borne in mind. The first criterion is what we have described as a low level scenario defence of the situation and the second is a high level scenario of the defence situation. In other words, and more plainly, the Government must make strategic decisions in advance on defence preparations based upon those assessments. As a further explanation, because of the pressing business in the Senate yesterday I withheld this report. It was tabled in the House of Representatives. That explains why articles on the report appeared in the newspapers this morning. 
-My question is directed- appropriately, I think- to the Minister for Education who is the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs and who also represents the Minister for Transport. Will the Minister investigate and following his investigation inform the Senate of the number of men and women who are not attending universities or colleges of advanced education and who have been issued with student travel concessions on Qantas Airways Ltd by the Australian Union of Students travel service? Will the Minister undertake to investigate the men and women engaged upon ministerial and departmental staffs who hold student concessional tickets on Qantas issued by the AUS Travel Service Pty Ltd? 

 - Mr President, I rise to my feet for one reason and one reason only, and that is to ask that you might provide the Senate with the answer to the question I propose to ask, or perhaps the Leader of the Government in the Senate should assume the responsibility of answering or responding to the matters that I now propose to raise. The sessional orders lay down when the Senate shall meet. A great number of senators, including myself, who were engaged in other business returned to the Parliament in order to attend upon our duties as senators sitting in this place in accordance with sessional orders. We discovered when we arrived here that in fact the business of the Senate was not to proceed as scheduled because of other arrangements that apparently had been made. I therefore ask whether an explanation should be given of how the sessional orders of the Senate were suspended to enable this to be carried out. 

 -Mr President, with your permission and with the permission of honourable senators, may I say that I do not wish in any way to cast any aspersions on the decision which, in the circumstances in which you found yourself, you were forced to make. However, I point out, and I do so with the greatest of respect, that the Senate is master of its own business and produces its own sessional orders by which it can conduct its own business. I suggest with great humbleness, as a man who once occupied your chair, that no Presiding Officer can suspend the business of the Senate simply because of the reasons and requirements of Ministers of State who are involved inside the parliamentary area in offering hospitality, which I have not the slightest doubt was quite appropriate but which interferes with the business of the Parliament. The business of the Parliament is paramount, and I suggest with great respect that no action of the nature you found yourself forced to accede to should take place without the consent of honourable senators sitting in their places. 
by leave-  Mr President,  may I address myself to the motion? 
I seek leave to make a further statement in order to allay some of the apprehensions of honourable senators. 
-For the benefit of honourable senators I recall to their minds how this situation arose. This was touched on in part by  Senator Missen  who referred to a deputation that attended upon the Parliament. What happened was that a petition of many thousands of signatories was presented in the House of Representatives. The House of Representatives discussed the matter. In an unusual device in that place- I think it was in accordance with Standing Order 192 -the House ordered by a unanimous vote that the petition be printed. There was no dissent whatsoever; the motion was carried on voices. Honourable senators will recall that one of the patterns which has evolved in the Senate is that petitioners have the right to have their petitions at least acknowledged. The Senate refers all its petitions to standing committees of the Senate to examine them and, if necessary, report back to the Senate. 
In this context the resolution of the other place was conveyed to the Joint Committee on Foreign 
Affairs and Defence. The Committee consists of 21 members, 14 of whom are members of the House of Representatives and seven of whom are honourable senators. The Committee took this into consideration as I explained in the statement I put down by leave of the Senate. Because of the scope of the whole matter the Committee decided that it should be related specifically to the problems of Soviet Jewry. In other words, it decided to narrow the terms of reference in reply to the petitioners. That is what it amounts to. However, for many reasons which are proper to the Committee's consideration and which it has debated from time to time it came to the conclusion that this was an exclusive area of analysis and examination which should not be confined to the area of Soviet Jewry alone but should relate to the question of minorities inside the Soviet Union in the context of both the Declaration on Human Rights and the Helsinki Accord. In the Helsinki Accord it was expressly agreed by the Soviet Union and other participants that matters relating to the freedom of individuals and minorities in countries which accorded in the signing of the Helsinki Agreement could be examined. There is no question as to whether the sovereign Parliament of Australia has a right to examine matters which concern a large number of people inside the society in which we live. 

 Senator Mulvihill remarked earlier today that 40 per cent of the people in this country came from other countries. I say in terms of a soft impeachment that I have never heard as many queries made about the categorisation of Australians as have been made by the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics in various public bodies and in other parts of the world. It has been a constant critic of Australia's administration of Papua New Guinea, including the Trustee Council, the No. 4 Committee and the General Assembly. Members of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee, which is a joint committee composed of members drawn from all parties of both Houses of Parliament, have considered this matter. They have given it very grave and deep thought. They anticipated all the arguments that had been put forward. They anticipated the apprehensions that have been expressed in the Parliament this evening. I assure honourable senators that there is no intention of exacerbating the relations that properly should exist between sovereign nations. I merely remark that if the Soviet Union has something to hide- it may have something to hide- it should offer no objection. 
In order to satisfy  Senator O  'Byrne I say simply that the Sub-committee which has been authorised by the Joint Committee to examine this matter is chaired by a distinguished member of the House of Representatives,  Mr Beazley.  He is a member of the Opposition and he was a Minister of State in the last Administration. I do not think anyone could doubt the Honourable Kim Beazley 's attitude of fairness and objectivity. 
-I am not here to anticipate events which may occur. I have known  Mr Beazley  far longer in parliamentary life than any member of the Opposition with the possible exception of  Senator O  'Byrne. He is a man of the highest and utmost integrity. I will not hear him adjured in this place or any other place.  Mr Beazley  has informed me as  Chairman  of the Sub-committee that as a result of discussions which he and I have had, he has approached the Ambassador to the USSR who is accredited to this Government in Canberra.  His Excellency  had informed  Mr Beazley  that he would be happy to see him.  Mr Beazley  and his Sub-committee intend to call upon  His Excellency  and discuss things in an amicable and, I hope, amiable way. Therefore the apprehensions felt by honourable senators at least at this stage are unjustified. I suggest that their apprehensions are false. As long as I am the  Chairman  of the Committee and  Mr Beazley  is the  Chairman  of the Sub-committee I am sure that the rights and proprieties which exist between governments will be protected. In the final analysis this Committee, in the terms of the resolution under which it operates, can determine its own business and proceed in its own way. Until such time as the Parliament sees fit to change the terms under which the Committee operates or to change the constituents of the Committee it intends to proceed in that manner. 
I present a report from the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence on an inquiry into industrial support for defence needs and allied matters, together with the transcript of evidence. This report deals with the electronics industry and is tabled as the remaining chapter of the interim report tabled by me in the Senate on 3 June 1977.I also table with this report a list of proposed amendments to the Committee's interim report, which the Committee considers necessary before the complete report is printed. These proposed amendments arise from information given to the Committee after the interim report was tabled.  Mr President, 
I seek leave to make a short statement relating to the amendments to the interim report. 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. Has  Senator Carrick  noted the arrival in Australia of Professor Mellanby, who is lecturing upon environmental matters in relation to the use of national reserves and parks? Has he noted the Professor's observations on those who adopt extreme views about national parks? Will the Minister discuss with his colleague in another place the possibility of inviting Professor Mellanby to Parliament House in order that senators and members may obtain some relief from the monotonous drum beat of  Dr Mosely  and other extremists? Will the Minister consult his colleague in another place and  Senator Mulvihill  and use his good offices to get Professor Mellanby to Parliament House in order to enlighten our minds further? 
