It will not have escaped your notice,  Mr Chairman,  that the Opposition is opposing this measure. We believe that it is unnecessary. We believe that it is unwise. We believe that it is motivated by an approach to the problem that is based not upon rational, reasonable thought but upon prejudice, a certain amount of blind hate and a fair amount of lack of knowledge. I do not intend to speak at great length tonight. On our side we have a great surplus of people who know something about this subject, while on the Government side there is a great deficiency in this respect. I will be endeavouring to be as brief as I can in order to give some of my colleagues a chance to participate in this debate. 
We have a different approach to this matter from that which the Government has laid down. Our approach will be illuminated as I proceed in my brief remarks. We do not operate on the basis of prejudice, dislike or a degree of hate of people or groups. We operate on the basis of what is the best action to take for the country, given the country's range of problems, its range of resources and the range of opportunities available at a point of time in its history. Unlike a number of those who have participated in this debate, I came from a mining town. I am a boy from a mining town. I married a girl from a mining town. Our fathers worked on the mines. My grandfather worked on a British mine. I say to the assembled gathering that there are many more people on my side of this Joint Sitting who have worked with their hands than there are on the Government side. We are far more practical. Many of us- far more than on the Government side- have worked with our hands. 
Let me look at the state of Australia as it was when it was handed over to the present Government after what those on the Government describe as a period of 20-odd years in which the job of government was not well done. Australia at the time of the change of government was a most powerful country- strong in reserves, strong in resources, strong in its export position and great in its balance of payments situation. In a little over 18 months the Government has knocked off one-third of the reserves. That is not a bad effort. 
I want to refer to a statement by the Treasury which has some relevance to the mining industry. In its bulletin of October 1973, referring to the Australian balance of payments position- a subject that the Government has forgotten about but which will loom large in its life and in that of the Opposition- it says: 
Over the past decade Australia's balance of payments has been transformed. In the early 1960s there was much pessimism about our ability to finance the imports of goods and services we needed for continued economic growth and to maintain adequate foreign currency reserves. Since then the balance of payments has strengthened remarkably. The rapid development of the mining industry has played a big role in this strengthening. 
That is a fact of life. The people whom the Government abuses and condemns and the situation which the Government thinks is no good at all is a situation that gave many honourable gentlemen opposite their chance for growth and opportunity for better living standards and resource accumulation. It ill behoves the Parliament of Australia to condemn the mining industry and those people who risked their arms, chanced their opportunities and made something useful out of the resources of this country. 
I believe there is trouble ahead. I do not like having to say these things, but the Government has embarked on a range of economic policies that are bringing this country close to a point which most of us consider very alarming. I believe that in Australia at the present time there is a crisis of confidence amongst decent, Godfearing, hard-working people- trade unionists, small business people and people in rural industries. The Government has brought on a crisis of confidence by incompetence. There is no doubt about that. It is talking about doing all kinds of things with imports. Today imports are 73 per cent above the figure of 12 months ago and a great flood of imports is moving towards this country because the Government cannot stop them. They are committed under irrevocable letters of credit. The country is faced with problems of employment and the danger of unemployment, all brought about quite unnecessarily. 
In this particular measure the Government has a policy which is based largely upon a combination of vanity and some stupidity. It is taking economic nationalism to absurd limits. I suggest that the country is rapidly reaching the stage where the Government will have to abandon a lot of its extravagant ideas and become much more practical. It will have to revive Australia's growth and activity. People will be wanting to encourage the mining industry to get back on its feet and do something positive about creating employment, about further processing and about further development. These are the real things that will concern this country far more than a Joint Sitting which is debating things that have been debated 3 times already. The real issue this country faces is some willingness and preparedness by members of the national Parliament to talk together about their country's accumulating range of problems and to try to find some sensible solution to those problems. The problems are growing. They are becoming more acute. The Government has contributed to them. 
Let us look at some solutions and stop taking absurd positions such as the Government has taken in this measure. I suggest that this is what the Government will have to consider most seriously. The Opposition of this Parliament will play its part in any constructive measure designed to put the country back on its feet, to solve its problems and to help people to achieve a better standard of living and better opportunities. We have heard all kinds of remarks about overseas capital. It is no secret that the Government has condemned the use of overseas capital. Its own people have made it abundantly clear that over the next decade Australia will require $ 12,000m of overseas capital to maintain the investment rate. It has been admitted freely by Government speakers and by anybody else who knows about this, that our saving rate is high. It is not the highest in the world. It is very high, but that saving rate comes from a combination of people buying homes, superannuation funds, life insurance and things of that kind. We are probably at the top of our investment capacity to finance our development growth if we take it from some other section where it is now. We need overseas capital. We will continue to need it and we should get it on regulated and satisfactory terms, but we cannot do without it. I think this is demonstrated by the fact the Government has had to announce tonight that it has reduced to 5 per cent the restrictions on overseas capital coming into Australia. It was 33 per cent. That was a mistake in judgment, so the Government brought it back to 25 per cent. It is now 5 per cent. 
Once again the Government has had to pick up the Opposition's economic policy that was laid down quite a while ago. Steadily and progressively the Government is being forced to pick up the Opposition's economic policy, section by section. This is a further example of it. I think it is admitted by you all through another body engaged in this exercise that there is some doubt about the constitutional base. That is for testing in another place at another time. We believe an approach to this problem could be generated at a different level. That could be the approach that we ourselves will be seeking to establish when, without any doubt, we are ca lied upon once again at a certain point of time to take over the operating of a country that should never have been economically destroyed but will be. Let me suggest what you could do constructively. It would be an alternative approach. You would expand the Australian Minerals Council conceived and brought into being by the honourable David Fairbairn. You would seek to do that progressively and capably. You would join the Commonwealth arm, the State arms and industry in a state of co-operative action in the style of operating a federal system by getting the people to work together and not in hostility. 
Without any doubt you would expand the Bureau of Mineral Resources on a search and find operation totally and you would encourage it to operate. You would encourage industry to come to Australia to process further, to search further and to find under proper conditions of regulation and examination. You would restrict the activities of government as far as possible to the following areas: supervision, regulation and protecting the public interest. That I think would be an approach that would work. I think the Government will adopt it in the end anyway. I recommend it to the Government because it is picking up our policies piece by piece as it goes along. It is useful for the Government to know that it has another one it can gather in. 
There has been some virtue in these 2 long, interminable days of debate because senators have had an opportunity to see their colleagues in the House of Representatives at work in this chamber. Members of the House of Representatives perhaps have had a chance to see some of us more closely than they otherwise would. If I were to criticise the Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia it would be on the ground of the remoteness of the 2 chambers from each other and a failure to understand what is happening. There has been talk in this chamber in the last 2 days about Senate obstruction. This is just not true in the mind of any responsible senator on either side. The Senate is a House of review. It has its own mandate. It has its own job to do in the Australian national Parliament. It should concern itself with the welfare of the country and be as bipartisan as possible, which it is in its committees. It should deliberate and take time to deliberate. It should change where it can and believes it should, and where it believes things are wrong it should refuse. That is what it ought to do and, as a senator, I hope it continues to do so. It has concern for the States which founded the Australian Parliament and to which it belongs, and it has concern for the nation. It operates in a different style but with just as much responsibility, and that is why it refused the Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill and will continue, in my view, to do so. Somebody made a comment about which I was really quite put out. He said that the Senate is not elected democratically. 
I quite agree,  Senator Wood.  As usual, you come up with the most pertinent observations. Not democratically elected?  Senator Murphy  and I have a million people voting for each of us. That is acknowledgment of popular will, surely, is it not?  Senator Murphy  will be upset about being accused of not being elected democratically. I am, too. I just want to say one more thing before I sit down. Parliament is in danger of becoming a high class debating society when it will be a place of decision if it is properly handled. If I may say so, gentlemen, with respect, the best place of decision in this Parliament in Canberra is the Senate. 
